                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00003036



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H6280)



                                      ON A

                                   IDA GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.32MILLION
                       (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             KINGDOM OF TONGA

                                      FOR A

             TONGA POST TSUNAMI RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT



                                   June 27, 2014




Timor Leste, Papua New Guinea and Pacific Islands Country Department
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2014)

                     Currency Unit = Tongan Pa’anga (TOP)
                               1.85 TOP = US$ 1
                             1.54384 US$ = SDR 1

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1 – June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Climate Change Adaptation                                              CCA
Country Assistance Strategy                                            CAS
Disaster Risk Management                                               DRM
Emergency Project Paper                                                EPP
Environmental and Social Screening Assessment Framework                ESSAF
Environmental Impact Assessment                                        EIA
Environmental Management Plans                                         EMPs
Exclusive Economic Zone                                                EEZ
Financial Management                                                   FM
Financing Agreement                                                    FA
Government of Tonga                                                    GoT
Implementation Completion and Results Report                           ICR
Implementation Status Reports                                          ISRs
International Development Association                                  IDA
Ministry of Finance and National Planning                              MOFNP
Ministry of Infrastructure                                             MoI
Ministry of Lands, Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources   MLECCNR
Ministry of Lands, Survey and Natural Resources                        MLSNR
Ministry of Works                                                      MoW
Monitoring and Evaluation                                              M&E
National Emergency Management Office                                   NEMO
Niua Development Committee                                             NDC
Niuatoputapu island                                                    NTT
Operational Risk Assessment Framework                                  ORAF
Project Coordination Committee                                         PCC
Project Development Objectives                                         PDO
Project Management Unit                                                PMU
Tonga Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project                               TCERP
Tonga Strategic Development Framework                                  TSDF
Transport Sector Consolidation Project                                 TSCP

                         Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                       Country Director: Franz Drees-Gross
                        Sector Manager: Michel Kerf
                   Project Team Leader: Michael Bonte-Grapentin
                      ICR Team Leader: Olivia Warrick
                                               TONGA
                               Tonga Post Tsunami Reconstruction Project

                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 29
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
  MAP IBRD 33498 ........................................................................................................ 40
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Tonga Post Tsunami
Country:                 Tonga                   Project Name:
                                                                           Reconstruction
Project ID:              P120595                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H6280
ICR Date:                06/27/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:      ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                           TONGA
Original Total
                         XDR 3.32M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.32M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 3.32M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Works
 Ministry of Infrastructure
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process                  Date         Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:         06/07/2010    Effectiveness:          01/14/2011           11/09/2010
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):                            11/18/2013
Approval:               10/19/2010    Mid-term Review:        03/15/2012           09/10/2012
                                      Closing:                03/31/2013           12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Housing construction                                                  81                   81
Information technology                                                 2                    2
 Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
                                                                      17                   17
protection


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Franz R. Drees-Gross                 Ferid Belhaj
Sector Manager:            Michel Kerf                          Charles M. Feinstein
Project Team Leader:       Michael Bonte-Grapentin              Demetrios Papathanasiou
ICR Team Leader:           Olivia Warrick
ICR Primary Author:        Olivia Warrick


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To assist the Government of Tonga to implement its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami
Recovery Program aimed at recovering the living standard of the population living in the
island affected by the Tsunami of September 30, 2009, through the reconstruction of
residential houses with auxiliary water facilities in Niuatoputapu, and strengthening
Tonga's capacity to address future natural disasters.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To assist the Government of Tonga to implement its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami
Recovery Program aimed at recovering the living standard of the population living in the
island affected by the Tsunami of September 30, 2009, through the reconstruction of
residential houses with auxiliary infrastructure facilities in Niuatoputapu, and
strengthening Tonga's capacity to address future natural disasters

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target        Formally         Actual Value
                                          Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                             approval           Target         Completion or
                                           documents)           Values          Target Years
                Restored housing, community facilities and small enterprises for affected
Indicator 1 :
                families
Value
quantitative or 0                           85                 73             73
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/05/2010                    12/31/2013         12/31/2013     12/31/2013
                At appraisal it was expected that 85 new, cyclone-resilient houses would be
Comments
                constructed at a site further inland with upgraded water and sanitation facilities.
(incl. %
                This number was later modified to 73 to account for 12 housing units provided
achievement)
                by other donors.
Indicator 2 : Provision of auxiliary water and sanitation facilities
Value
quantitative or No                          Yes                               Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/05/2010                    12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Establishment of community risk management plans
Value
quantitative or No                          Yes                               Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/05/2010                    12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                                Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Housing materials for families affected by the tsunami
Value           0                        100%                               100%
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/05/2010                12/31/2011                        12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Supply of materials to Niuatoputapu
Value
(quantitative     0                         100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/05/2010                12/31/2011                        12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Construction and supervision of housing, rainwater harvesting and sanitation
Indicator 3 :
                  facilities
Value
(quantitative     0                         100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/05/2010                12/31/2011                        12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Kilometers of rural roads resealed
Value
(quantitative     0                         8                                 13
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/05/2013                12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments
                  This indicator was added as part of a level 2 Board Restructure, approved on 18
(incl. %
                  November 2013.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     09/21/2011       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                0.70
  2     10/12/2012       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                3.95
  3     06/12/2013           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                4.85
  4     12/29/2013       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                5.10
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The initial PDO was narrowly
                                                     focused on housing
                                                     reconstruction and did not
                                                     explicitly include transport.
                                                     Therefore, the PDO was
                                                     changed slightly to cover
                                                     "auxiliary infrastructure" rather
                                                     than only "auxiliary water and
                                                     sanitation." In addition to
                                                     slightly expanding the scope of
                                                     the PDO, the restructuring
                                                     included associated minor
 11/18/2013       Y       S     MS            5.10   modifications to component
                                                     descriptions, a reallocation of
                                                     funds between disbursement
                                                     categories to enable financing
                                                     of proposed additional
                                                     activities, and the inclusion of
                                                     an additional intermediate
                                                     indicator on road works. The
                                                     restructure also allowed for
                                                     retroactive financing of road
                                                     works that were already
                                                     commenced by the Tongan
                                                     Government.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                              Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and sector background
1. The Kingdom of Tonga consists of 169 Islands with a total population estimated at
    120,000. The country lies in the South Pacific and stretches over a distance of about
    800 kilometers from north to south, covering a total land area of 748 square
    kilometers with an Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of about 700,000 square
    kilometers. The population is primarily Polynesian, with a literacy rate close to 99 per
    cent and a relatively low incidence of poverty.

2. On September 30 2009, Niuatoputapu island (NTT) in the Niua’s group was struck by
   an earthquake of 8.3 magnitudes whose epicenter was 190km to the north east of the
   island. This was quickly followed by three tsunami waves with a maximum flow
   height of 16.9 meters and penetration of over one kilometer inland. As much as 46
   percent of the island was inundated resulting in the deaths of 9 people and damages
   estimated at about US$10 million. Of a total of about 255 private houses on the
   island, 85 were totally destroyed and about 40 partially damaged by the tsunami.
   Meanwhile, most of the public utilities and government buildings were completely
   destroyed, along with the water and sanitation system. NTT is located in the northern-
   most part of Tonga. The island is remote and relatively isolated from the rest of
   Tonga.

3. The Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery Program was developed following
   assessments conducted by a government team and endorsed by the National
   Emergency Recovery Committee on October 2009. The long term rehabilitation
   strategy of the Government for NTT aims to restore infrastructure, livelihoods and
   normalcy to the island at an estimated cost of about US$8-9million. The largest
   expense was expected to be the relocation and construction of 85 family housing units
   and rehabilitation of about 40 partially damaged houses estimated at about US$3.6
   million. The plan also called for an end-to-end review of the disaster risk
   management process.

Rationale for Bank Assistance
4. There was a clear rationale for the Bank to assist the Government of Tonga (GoT) in
   post-tsunami reconstruction. At the time of appraisal a number of donors had pledged
   support to the NTT Tsunami Recovery program in line with their traditional areas of
   engagement in the Kingdom. Residential housing was the sector with the largest
   remaining financing gap requiring external aid. The GoT had already decided that
   new residential houses would follow the cyclone-resilient design employed under the
   previous successful World Bank-supported Tonga Cyclone Emergency Recovery
   Project (TCERP) (PO75171) approved by the Board October 19, 2010. The World
   Bank was therefore a natural partner for housing recovery and disaster risk
   management in the GoT’s view.




                                             1
5. The project was consistent with the World Bank’s Pacific Regional Engagement
   Framework 2006-2009 (in effect at the time of appraisal) objective of helping Pacific
   member countries to manage natural disasters, where earthquakes and earthquake-
   incurred tsunamis remain potential threats. The aims of the project were aligned with
   the following eligible objectives under the OP/BP 8.0, according to which the Bank
   may provide a rapid response to a borrower’s request for urgent assistance: (i)
   rebuilding and restoring physical assets; (ii) restoring essential services; and (iii)
   supporting measures to mitigate or avert the potential effects of future emergencies in
   countries at high risk.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
6. The original Project objective was: “to assist the Government of Tonga to implement
    its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery Program aimed at recovering the living
    standard of the population living in the island affected by the Tsunami of September
    30, 2009, through the reconstruction of residential houses with auxiliary water and
    sanitation facilities in Niuatoputapu, and strengthening Tonga’s capacity to address
    future natural disasters”. At appraisal, key PDO-level outcome indicators were:
            1) Restored housing for affected families
            2) Provision of auxiliary water and sanitation facilities
            3) Establishment of community risk management plans

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
7. The original PDO was revised through a Level 1 restructuring approved by IDA’s
    Board of Executive Directors on 18 November 2013 to: “To assist the Government of
    Tonga to implement its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery Program aimed at
    recovering the living standard of the population living in the island affected by the
    Tsunami of September 30, 2009, through the reconstruction of residential houses with
    auxiliary infrastructure facilities in Niuatoputapu, and strengthening Tonga’s
    capacity to address future natural disasters”. A new intermediate indicator was added
    to reflect the above change: “Kilometers of rural roads resealed”. A change was made
    to the first PDO-level indicator as follows: “Restored housing, community facilities
    and small enterprises for affected families”, and the cumulative target value was
    altered to reflect the updated situation (see Annex 2)

8. This restructuring was carried out in response to a GoT’s request to include minor
   roads works and community facilities. In April 2012 it was noted by the GoT and the
   Bank during a project super vision mission that the sand seal of the main collector
   road on NTT – which had been constructed a year earlier by the GoT, outside of the
   Project – was showing signs of distress. Patching and resurfacing the road was
   fundamental to connecting the new villages constructed under this project with key
   economic and social services. This required broadening the scope of the PDO which
   was previously narrowly focused upon water and sanitation facilities only. During
   the course of project implementation the GoT and the Bank identified the need to
   costruct commercial and community buildings for the relocated village in addition to
   family houses and the first PDO level indicator was therefore adjusted accordingly.



                                            2
  1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
  9. The primary target group was the NTT community (total population approximately
      1100 people) all of whom were affected by the 2009 Tsunami and were generally
      vulnerable to natural hazards due to their coastal location and relative isolation. The
      main beneficiaries of the activities under Components 1 and 2 were households
      whose homes had been destroyed or damaged by the tsunami. The community
      benefitted from new, cyclone-resilient homes with upgraded water and sanitation
      facilities constructed at a less vulnerable site further inland, from improved roads and
      from disaster-resilient retrofitting of houses partially damaged but not totally
      destroyed. The total number of households benefitting from reconstruction and
      restoration activities was modified slightly from the number envisaged at appraisal
      (see Annex 2). The NTT community is also expected to benefit from updated
      community risk plans (Component 3).

  10. Secondary beneficiaries benefiting from project activities are listed in the table below,
      with details on outputs in Annex 2.

                                Table 1. Secondary Beneficiaries
Project activities              Beneficiaries                            Benefits
                     Ministry of Works                 Technical capacity in supervision of
                     (MoW)/Ministry of Infrastructure housing construction and road
                     (MoI) (MoW was restructured to    construction works increased
                     become MoI during
                     implementation)
Component 1
                     NTT residents (in addition to     Hired as labor and carpenters
                     those receiving new or upgraded   (particularly youth), providing
                     houses)                           employment opportunities post-
                                                       tsunami. Practical trade skills in
                                                       building construction were transferred
                     Local private contractors (also   Gained technical experience and
                     benefited through Component 1)    experience in preparation of proposal
                                                       documents and compliance with
 Component 2                                           Environmental Management Plans.
                     Local communities                 Employment opportunities and
                                                       technical skills increased through use of
                                                       local labor for road resealing.
                     Ministry of Lands, Survey and     Strengthened technical capacity in risk
                     Natural Resources                 mapping, land use planning, geospatial
                     (MLSNR)/Ministry of Lands,        data management and developing risk
                     Environment, Climate Change and information
                     Natural Resources (MLECCNR)
 Component 3
                     (MLSNR was restructured to
                     become MLECCNR during
                     implementation)
                     National Emergency Management Increased capacity to develop and
                     Office (NEMO)                     implement community risk plans


                                               3
1.5 Original Components
11. The project had four components. Components 1 and 2 were aimed at recovering the
    living standard of communities living in NTT, Component 3 was intended to
    strengthen Tonga’s capacity to deal with future natural disasters and Component 4
    supported project management:

       Component 1: Cyclone-Resistant Housing Construction (US$3.35m)
       including construction and supervision of about 85 units of low-cost cyclone-
       resistant housing in NTT to replace completely damaged houses, as well as
       associated consulting assignments and ancillary works (water and sanitation).
       These housing units will be built on land specifically allocated by the GOT for
       this purpose. The new residential houses will be built to cyclone category 4
       standards and located on higher ground in areas close to original sites following
       close community consultation.
       Component 2: Retrofitting of partially damaged housing and buildings
       (US$0.35): financing construction materials and small works for the retrofitting
       of about 40 partially damaged houses, small enterprises buildings and community
       halls. It will also include consulting services for assessment of needs, design and
       supervision of works.
       Component 3: Strengthening of Disaster Risk Management (US$0.5m):
       providing equipment for hazard and risk information assessment and institutional
       strengthening of the planning and GIS units of the Ministry of Land Survey and
       Natural Resources. It will also finance the preparation of community disaster risk
       management plans in Niuatoputapu.
       Component 4: Project Management (US$0.4m): financing the Project
       Management Unit, which will carry-out management and coordination of Project
       activities, financial management and accounting, provide engineering oversight,
       procurement, monitoring and reporting. It will also cover the costs of carrying out
       Project audits, including audits of Project Accounts, and agreed operational
       expenses. Given the considerable uncertainties and potential logistics challenges
       during Project implementation, an unallocated amount of US$0.3 million was
       included in the Project to cover contingencies and currently unforeseen needs.

1.6 Revised Components
12. The description of Component 2 was revised during the Level 1 project restructure as
    follows: Component 2: Retrofitting of partially damaged housing and buildings and
    infrastructure services. This component will finance construction materials and
    small works for the retrofitting and restoration of houses, small enterprises buildings
    and community halls, and auxiliary road infrastructure. It will also include
    construction materials, land preparation, road works and other small works and
    technical assistance for assessment of needs, construction design and supervision of
    works. The additions were made to explicitly include prioritized additional activities
    and improve originally planned infrastructure facilities utilizing all available grant
    funds (see Section 1.3).




                                            4
1.7 Other significant changes
13. Retroactive finance: The Board level 1 restructure included approval to finance
    preventative road maintenance works retroactively. The GoT decided to begin road
    works in parallel to the restructure approval process because equipment and personnel
    were present on remote NTT at the time.                Waiting may have increased
    implementation time and cost.

14. Funding reallocation: Reallocations between expenditure categories approved by the
    Board are listed in Table 2 below:
                             Table 2. Funding reallocation
   Expenditure Category                 Allocations (SDR)               Reason
                                    Original        Revised
   (1) Works under Component 1        1,180,000    1,3300,00   To allow for
   and 2 of the Project, goods,                                implementation of
   consultants’ services,                                      additional roadwork
   Operating Costs and Training                                activities
   (2) Resettlement                      60,000       70,000   To cover final
   Compensation                                                approved
                                                               compensation to
                                                               households
   (3) Works under Part A.2 of        1,880,000      1,920,000 Reflects actual
   the Project                                                 expenditure of the
                                                               combined
                                                               construction (lot1)
                                                               and retrofitting (lot 2)
                                                               contracts
   (4) Unallocated                      200,000         0      Unallocated funds
                                                               were used
         TOTAL AMOUNT                 3,320,000     3,320,000

15. Extensions: The project timeframe was extended by a cumulative total of 9 months to
    a) enable time for the additional roadwork activities to be completed, and b) allow for
    outstanding activities to be completed under Component 3. This was done by way of
    two level two extensions approved by the Country Director on January 17, 2012 and
    by the Board on November 18, 2013 respectively.

16. Force Account: The financing agreement was amended on January 13, 2012 via
    approval by the Country Director to include force account as a procurement method.
    Due to the remoteness of NTT, the GoT and Bank team agreed that it would be too
    costly and time-consuming to procure a contract for land clearing works under
    Component 1 through private contracting.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry




                                            5
17. Soundness of the background analysis: Project preparation and design took place in
    the context of the GoT’s emergency response to the disaster. Background analysis
    was limited by time constraints and the remoteness of the island; transport links to
    NTT were sporadic. Lessons learned from previous post-disaster reconstruction
    projects, specifically the Tonga Cyclone Emergency Recovery Project (TCERP) as
    well as best practices in project implementation arrangements in a remote location,
    informed the design of this operation, most significantly: reconstructed housing units
    followed a simple hazard resilient design successfully previously used in Tonga;
    experienced local consultants were employed to complement official government
    activities in project management and works supervision, and; capacity building
    activities under Component 3 reflected recommendations produced by TCERP.

18. Assessment of project design: The number and complexity of components and their
    geographic concentration was generally appropriate for the available implementation
    and management capacity in Tonga. However, physical works under Component 1
    could not proceed until land negotiations had been finalized. A guiding principle of
    the design of the physical components was GOT’s requirement after consultation that
    the new houses replacing those destroyed should be relocated on land further from the
    sea and on higher ground to provide increased resilience against future events. This
    resulted in the need for land acquisition. This land had to be identified, surveyed, and
    replacement cost studies completed before negotiations with land owners could
    commence. These negotiations were time consuming due to limited land availability
    and complex landholding arrangements. Only after completion of these negotiations
    and necessary legal transfer activities, could land allocation and clearing commence.
    This process involved a number of sequential activities, each with their own
    complexities; as a result, the overall process took two years to complete. It is
    understandable however that in an emergency operation, the team did not want to
    delay effectiveness by making finalization of land negotiations a condition of
    effectiveness.

19. Capacity building activities to strengthen disaster-risk management in Component 3
    were an essential feature of the project but were designed in such a way that they
    operated in parallel to emergency reconstruction activities in Components 1 and 2
    identified as priority in the NTT Priority Tsunami Recovery Plan. Unlike
    Components 1 and 2, activities were not thoroughly conceived at appraisal and
    involved a separate ministry whose capacity to implement the component might have
    been better assessed. The PDO was overly ambitious with regards to Component 3:
    “…strengthening Tonga’s capacity to address future natural disasters”. A more
    targeted specification of who’s capacity was intended to be built and in what way
    would have enabled a better analysis of outcomes

20. Adequacy of Participatory Processes and Government Commitment: The nature
    of an emergency operation constrained extensive community participation in project
    design; however consultation and participation commenced as part of the initial
    damage assessment, which was the first available opportunity. This consultation
    focused on the needs of those people affected by the tsunami to assess impacts and



                                             6
   identify ways the World Bank could appropriately mobilize resources to assist in the
   recovery. The Emergency Project Paper (EPP) refers to “close community
   consultation” in locating new houses on higher ground, and “a rapid community
   consultation conducted by local government officials to ascertain the community’s
   concerns …”. “Consultations with affected households have resulted in the majority
   of people agreeing to relocate away from the coast.” Because the land on which the
   new housing was going to be constructed had not been identified at that time, it was
   not possible to consult with the owners of this land. The Government proactively
   negotiated with the land owners to identify appropriate land and to avail this land to
   host the relocated houses. Although this process was protracted, this is not uncommon
   where land owners are being requested to avail land for a project where they are not
   direct beneficiaries. However, completion reports and Implementation Status Reports
   (ISRs) indicate that the NTT community is highly satisfied with their new village
   indicating that their involvement in the initial design of housing and infrastructure
   was satisfactory. The GoT was highly committed to hazard-resilient reconstruction at
   appraisal and continued to be so throughout the project as evidenced by the securing
   of US$4 million parallel financing from other donors to support programs to
   complement the IDA financed project under the NTT tsunami reconstruction
   program.

21. Assessment of project risks and mitigation measures: An Operational Risk
    Assessment Framework (ORAF) was not compulsory for this operation and none was
    developed. The risk analysis at project preparation noted five substantial risks
    (limited procurement experience, logistics / transportation, financial cost and time
    overruns, financial management, land acquisition) which were all reduced to
    ‘moderate’ after mitigation. Three of these risks materialized but the project mitigated
    them effectively. However, the land acquisition risk may have been underrated and
    perhaps should have retained a rating of substantial after mitigation, given knowledge
    of local land politics in the Pacific islands. Further, although institutional risks
    relating to the high workload of the PMU were identified, low capacity in
    implementing agencies to implement activities was not thoroughly assessed. Low
    implementation capacity of MLSNR and NEMO contributed to significant delays in
    procurement of goods and services under Component 3 and should have been
    explicitly identified as a risk.
2.2 Implementation
22. Mid-term review and restructuring: As part of the mid-term review process,
    discussions focused on required amendments to the financing agreement to
    accommodate potential additional activities, which would include changes outlined in
    sections 1.3, 1.6 and 1.7 above to allow for road and small works to be completed in
    time. It was agreed to restructure the project to accommodate these changes.

23. Implementation problems and actions taken:
     Problem: Implementation delays. Despite initial consultations by the MLSNR, not all
     land owners identified agreed to the GoT’s compensation. The protracted land
     acquisition process for new houses delayed physical implementation of Components
     1 and 2 by several months, which limited the time available for completion. Low


                                             7
    implementation capacity within MLSNR delayed procurement of consultants to
    undertake technical capacity assessment and strengthening in mapping and risk
    information generation. The PMU and the Bank team concentrated resources on
    coordinating physical investments, compounding the issue.
    Actions: Additional land from the GoT reserve was made available and MLSNR
    moved forward discussions with other willing land owners eventually resolving the
    issue. The project extensions allowed sufficient time for the completion of
    Component 3 activities and a DRM staff member was added to the Bank team to
    facilitate implementation of this component. Despite initial delays all activities in
    Components 1 and 2 were completed by the original closing date.

24. Problem: Project Management limitations. The overall management and coordination
    of this project and those related but funded by other donors, relied on the efforts and
    expertise of an individual consultant, who was appointed on the strength of having
    previously managed the TCERMP. Although supported by other individual technical
    consultants, the management and coordination tasks were particularly onerous for one
    individual and required some specific skills to ensure political pressure was applied to
    clear bottlenecks, which was not always forthcoming. The project manager’s contract
    was not extended to cover the project extensions and so the project overall was not
    directly managed (apart from remaining road maintenance activities which were
    managed by a different PMU, which worked well) for the final 9 months.
    Action: Alternative management introduced for restructured project. MOI decided to
    co-opt the management resources under the Ministry’s Transport Consolidation
    Project (TSCP) project to coordinate and manage the remaining implementation
    under Component 1. This reflected the nature of the remaining works, and was a
    natural fit for both the mandate and the expertise of the TSCP PMU. TSCP PMU
    performed highly satisfactorily in managing the final stages of the project works
    under execution, but overall project management and in particular project completion
    activities had been impacted by the lack of a dedicated project manager for the project
    and were facing delays.

25. Problem: Poor contract management. Works contract cost variations were agreed to
    on Component 1 without authorization, causing cost-overruns of about US$90,000 on
    one contract. On two further contracts material changes have been undertaken without
    Bank prior approval altering the terms of references and extending the contract end
    dates.
     Action: Closer monitoring of supervisory staff by PMU. It was recognized that very
     limited and slow communications between the project site and the PMU has
     contributed to the difficulty of contract administration. . The PMU agreed to exercise
     much closer monitoring and management of its supervisory staff, and further contract
     management issue was avoided.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design
26. The primary tool for M&E was the results framework and monitoring arrangements
    as set out in the FA and EPP. The first two of the three project outcome indicators in
    the results framework adequately reflect the original and revised PDO since the PDO


                                             8
   identifies provision of housing and auxiliary infrastructure as the intended primary
   outcome. Intermediate results indicators are directly linked to these and include
   appropriate measures. However, the third outcome indicator has limited utility as it
   reflects completion of a key output (completion of community risk plans) rather than
   achievement of the intended outcome (strengthened capacity to address future natural
   disasters). Success in this regard would have been better measured by the degree of
   uptake or awareness of community risk plans. Similarly, intermediate indicators for
   Component 3 are broad and do little to measure the impact of equipment, training and
   awareness activities on capacity at ministry and community levels. For example,
   taken alone, the mere delivery of equipment and training to the GIS unit of MLSNR,
   does not necessarily indicate improved capacity; the application of acquired risk
   mapping expertise in other geographic areas would be a more appropriate
   demonstration of capacity strengthening.     The EPP lays out arrangements (target
   values and data collection methods) for monitoring progress towards achieving
   outputs and outcomes. However, there was an unfortunate disconnect between the
   results framework and the monitoring arrangements. The three outcome indicators
   were not included in the monitoring arrangements and target values were not
   ascribed, so these could not be evaluated during implementation. Similarly, only six
   of the eight intermediate outcome indicators were reflected in the monitoring
   arrangements.
M&E Implementation
27. Due to the emergency nature and relatively short duration of the project the
    disconnect between the results framework and the monitoring arrangements did not
    have a serious effect on monitoring of the results during implementation. Actual
    progress of PDO and intermediate outcome indicators were monitored in the ISRs and
    A-Ms during implementation. This was mainly undertaken by the Bank team and the
    PMU did not regularly collect data as they should have. However, a comprehensive
    survey of households in the reconstructed village was completed at the end of the
    project and this provides a useful evaluation of the impact of the project (Annex 5).
M&E Utilization
28. Because of limited data collection, the results framework was not utilized in most
    project progress reports which, although generally submitted, were not forward
    looking and results-orientated. From the Bank side, the continuous supervision and
    mission reports, including detailed Action Plans for PMU follow-up, provided input
    to the M&E efforts. This monitoring highlighted a number of required modifications
    to initial project design, including incorporating preventative road maintenance work,
    connecting new houses to the reticulated water supply, increasing the number of
    structures receiving retrofitting work and altering the design of community risk plans.
    Although the official results framework received little attention, monitoring by the
    Bank and PMU was effective in enabling the project to respond to evolving needs.
    For example, new houses were initially supplied with rainwater capture and storage
    facilities only but it became evident during the course of the project that drought
    conditions required houses to also be connected to the reticulated water system.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


                                            9
Environment
29. The Project was Category B for environment as the reconstruction of the housing was
    expected to create only minor and manageable environmental impacts due to their
    construction from predominantly imported materials and requirement for only light
    civil works. An Environmental and Social Screening Assessment Framework
    (ESSAF) was prepared. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report was
    prepared by the Ministry of Works in May 2011 and was subsequently disclosed. This
    EIA assessed impacts associated with the housing reconstruction, new road
    construction, and land clearing for the new housing. Particular focus was placed on
    the potential impacts of quarrying of coral construction materials (such as aquatic
    ecology, sedimentation and coral bleaching) for construction of the new roads.

30. Works contracts required the preparation of Environmental Management Plans
    (EMPs), and these EMPs were reviewed for compliance prior to disbursement of
    funds. During the September 2012 supervision mission and the December 2013 ICR
    mission, the overall status of EMP implementation was found to be good. Some
    outstanding issues (such as rehabilitation of the sand quarries) were identified in the
    September 2012 mission. However, these issues had been remedied in the period
    prior to the December 2013 mission. Other important activities such as the study of
    the impact of the water supply sub-project on the water lens of the island had also
    been completed to a high standard and found that the proposed draw down of water
    will not have any lasting impacts on the lens, or the water table. The additional work
    carried out as a result of the project restructuring, was also carried out in accordance
    with the ESSAF and the EIA. EMPs were prepared and implemented during project
    delivery.

31. The ICR mission found that the impact mitigation and management activities required
    had been implemented and that the environmental conditions in the project areas,
    including material source areas, were acceptable. The two areas of concern were (i)
    The Environmental Compliance Report detailing issues encountered and compliance
    with safeguard requirements had not been prepared; and (ii) training and capacity
    building activities relating to the management and maintenance of the septic systems
    has not been completed.
Social Safeguards
32. OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement was triggered as land was required for the
    construction of the new houses. Road rehabilitation works were completed within
    existing rights of way. A Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework was
    incorporated into the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment
    Framework (Appendix 5) which established the minimum criteria for land acquisition
    activities. A detailed due diligence report was prepared in May 2011 which clearly
    defined the process used for acquisition of a proportion of land held by a local Noble
    and existing leases held by 5 individuals over Crown Land which could be
    subdivided, allocated and registered for the relocated houses. The Minister for Lands
    travelled twice to the project site to undertake consultation and discussions with both
    the beneficiary households and the Noble whose land was being acquired to facilitate
    the project. All beneficiary households have received legal title to the land upon


                                            10
   which their new house sits. Consultations with individuals and the Village head
   during the ICR mission confirm that no outstanding grievances remain in relation to
   land acquisition, compensation or land titling.
Financial Management
33. The FM performance rating was consistently satisfactory until the last review when it
    was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory due to inadequate arrangements being in
    place for the final 6 months of the project and the period after the closing of the
    project. The project audits for the periods ending 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2012
    were both unqualified and the Tonga Audit Office raised no material issues. The
    2012/13 project financial statements were submitted to the Tongan Audit Report in
    December 2013 but the Audit Report has not been received by the Bank at the time of
    the writing of the ICR. A final audit covering the period from July 1 2013 to the end
    of the disbursement deadline on April 30 2014 is also required and should be
    furnished to the Bank no later than 31 December 2014. Interim Financial reports
    have been received up to and including 31 December 2013. TOP 66,787.05 (US$
    38,227 equivalent) was previously paid by the project for bitumen that was ultimately
    not received. The prepayment of this amount prior to receipt of or evidence of the
    shipment of the bitumen indicated a breakdown in controls procedures. The
    Government of Tonga had to refund this amount back to the Designated Account.
Procurement
34. Procurement performance rating began at moderately satisfactory due to initial delays
    in preparation of necessary procurement documents by the PMU. The rating
    increased to satisfactory, recognizing improved procurement processing. However,
    the rating was downgraded to moderately satisfactory at the last review due to
    instances of poor records management and some contract variations being made
    without the required prior review from the Bank. The scope of repair work at a
    number of houses and community halls was increased without any formal written site
    instructions or contract variations having been issued. It should be noted that very
    slow communications ability between the PMU and the project site contributed to
    this. These issues were addressed by the MOI providing a report detailing the
    additional works to the Bank. The costs associated with the additional works were
    deemed to be eligible on an exceptional basis by the task team after due diligence on
    the report and site visit were carried out.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
35. For Components 1 and 2, each completed new or retrofitted building was formally
    handed over to its owner who will be responsible for operation and maintenance of
    the property. Due to the simple and durable design of the homes and the adaptive
    skills of the remote NTT community this transition arrangement is appropriate.
    Support for septic tank maintenance will be provided by Local Government through
    regular monitoring and maintenance training when required. The only public assets
    funded by the project that will require operation and maintenance are the reticulated
    water supply extensions in each of the three villages, and the new access roads and
    repaired main roads.




                                           11
36. The water supply in each village is the responsibility of the village water committee.
    Each committee is expected to take over responsibility for the extended and upgraded
    supply system of pumps, overhead tanks and underground pipework in its village,
    having undergone initial training by Tonga Water Board, who designed the upgrading
    and supervised construction. The routine and periodic maintenance of all roads on the
    island fall under the responsibility of MOI, which during the resealing program has
    taken the opportunity to train a number local individuals in the application of sand
    seal repairs using manual methods, and has left bitumen, sealing materials and
    equipment (brooms, barrows etc.) on the island for surface repairs as the need arises.

37. The Policy Framework of the Integration of Risk Information in Land-Use Planning,
    completed towards the end of the project, provides the groundwork for sustaining
    data sharing arrangements within MLECCNR. It is recommended that the Bank
    continue to build upon DRM capacity-building efforts started in this project through
    future targeted operations in Tonga. A capacity and needs assessment of MLSNR
    (and previous assessments undertaken during the TCERP) revealed multiple
    opportunities for capacity strengthening, only some of which can be addressed
    through an emergency operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
38. Objectives: The objectives remain highly relevant to key Outcome Objectives stated
    in The 2011-2014 Tonga Strategic Development Framework (TSDF) and the 2009-
    2014 National Strategic Planning Framework , in particular: “Appropriate, well
    planned and maintained infrastructure that improves the everyday lives of people…”
    and “…disaster risk management and climate change adaptation, integrated into all
    planning and implementation of programmes...”. The objectives directly address
    Tonga’s CAS which aims to build resilience against shocks and are in line with the
    Pacific Engagement Note for DRR and CCA which emphasises resilient
    reconstruction, or ‘building back better’ as a key pillar.

39. Design: Project activities under all components were highly relevant as they were
    aligned with long-term priorities outlined in the NTT Priority Tsunami Recovery
    Program. In addition to physical recovery needs the plan called for an end-to-end
    review of the DRM process, which Component 3 directly responded to. The
    restructure further increased the relevance of the project design by addressing
    evolving needs, in particular by re-sealing roads necessary for the sustainability of the
    new villages and by the addition of community and commercial buildings in addition
    to residential buildings. At appraisal it was expected that 40 partially damaged
    houses would be retrofitted. This number was later increased to 54 to reflect actual
    needs: 38 residential houses, 7 community halls, 9 commercial buildings. These
    changes increased the relevance of project design to Tonga’s development objectives
    by improving the quality of infrastructure supported under the project.




                                             12
40. Implementation: The project was coordinated through the PMU under the guidance
    of the Niua Development Committee (NDC) 1, which acted as Project Coordination
    Committee and was responsible for coordinating all donor-supported programs under
    the Tsunami Recovery Plan of the GoT. This arrangement was highly relevant to the
    enabling theme of “Ensuring a more coordinated…approach in Tonga’s partnership
    with development partners” specified in the current TSDF.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
41. The first key objective within the PDO was recovering the living standard of the
    population living in the island affected by the Tsunami of September 30, 2009,
    through the reconstruction of residential houses with auxiliary water and
    sanitation [modified to ‘infrastructure’] facilities in Niuatoputapu. The former
    part of the objective is higher level and could be deemed to be also dependent on
    factors beyond the project scope (completion of the new clinic etc.). However the
    latter part of the objective was successfully achieved through the completion and
    handing over of the 127 new and repaired buildings to their owners. Prior to the
    project, the standard of houses that were completely destroyed or partly damaged was
    low and not build to cyclone resilient standards. As such the immediate living
    standards of the beneficiaries were improved significantly as a result of the project
    with improved water and sanitation facilities and more resilient design and location.

42. The cyclone-resilient housing design was a particular success. The new housing
    design was a modified version of cyclone-resilient houses built in Tonga following
    Cyclone Issac in 1982. These 30 year-old houses remained essentially undamaged in
    the Ha’apai group following the recent Cyclone Ian (category 5), despite being
    surrounded by completely destroyed (albeit newer) houses. A recent social survey of
    households on NTT indicates a high level of beneficiary satisfaction with new
    housing, in particular: i) the majority of beneficiaries believe that the conditions of
    the rebuilt/retrofitted houses are better than pre-tsunami; ii) clean drinking water is
    readily available; iii) rebuilt housing is more hazard resilient (see Annex 5).

43. The second part of the PDO was strengthening Tonga’s capacity to address future
    natural disasters, and while the building blocks for this were achieved in principle
    through the Component 3 initiatives to procure mapping equipment and software,
    undertaking hazard and risk assessment, and completing community risk management
    plans for NTT, a full objective assessment of such a higher level objective can only
    be made when the capacity is called upon. The capacity inevitably relies upon more
    than just the items delivered under the project, and is particularly dependent on the
    management and coordination capacity to respond to natural disasters. Significant


1
 This responsibility rested originally with the Niutoputapu Tsunami Committee, a task force
established by cabinet following the tsunami. Subsequently the Niutoputapu Tsunami Committee
was dissolved and its functions were transferred to the NDC through a cabinet decision on April
28, 2011.




                                              13
   delays in implementation of hazard and risk assessment and community risk planning
   compromised the ability to fully achieve this objective since technical capacity built
   through the provision of equipment and training could not be fully reinforced and
   embedded in national risk management planning processes. In particular, due to
   delays, risk information generated was not available in time to use in community
   consultation and preparedness planning.             Nonetheless, solid groundwork for
   institutional capacity strengthening was achieved (see section 3.5b and Annex 2)
   evidenced in particular by the highly sophisticated and good-quality damage maps
   recently produced by MLECCNR following Cyclone Ian, using equipment and skills
   built during the project. It is likely that in the instance of future disasters, Tonga will
   have stronger capacity to respond effectively, although this is impossible to measure
   at present.
3.3 Efficiency
44. A conventional economic analysis was not applied to the project due to the
    difficulties of quantifying the value of damage inflicted by the tsunami and the
    project benefits associated with relocation and construction on higher ground, and
    repair of existing buildings in various stages of dilapidation. Further, the small
    population, extreme remoteness and inaccessibility of the island render a
    conventional cost / benefit analysis of any investments irrelevant. The project
    responded to a catastrophe, and was primarily aimed at meeting basic human needs
    (shelter and water) that had been destroyed by the tsunami. Decisions on whether to
    include investments could therefore not be driven by an assessment of cost / benefit,
    but rather by whether the investment would best meet the long-term needs of the
    population. Hence the decision to add rainwater harvesting facilities to the new
    houses, albeit at additional cost, thereby reducing demand on the vulnerable fresh
    water supplies on the island and reducing vulnerability to drought and climate
    change.

45. The major part (3/4) of the project cost was for the construction of new houses, and
    the project design carefully considered options for using the most appropriate house
    type and size, materials and construction methods that would be most easily shipped
    to and/or assembled in such a remote location with very limited resources, yet be
    resilient to extreme climatic conditions and long lasting with little or no regular
    maintenance. Hence the selection of cyclone-resistant timber frame structures on
    piled foundations.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
46. The overall rating is based on the relevance of the objectives, the extent to which they
    were achieved, and the efficiency in doing so. Project objectives remained highly
    relevant to the current strategic priorities of Tonga and the World Bank. Outputs
    delivered were largely highly satisfactory although implementation delays reduced
    potential capacity building outcomes under Component 3 and M&E reporting was
    poor, thus reducing achievement of objectives to moderately satisfactory.
    Restructuring of the PDO was to take advantage of emerging development priorities
    rather than to amend unsatisfactory performance. Based upon the above analysis the


                                             14
   outcome rating both before and after the Board level restructure is moderately
   satisfactory.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
47. The overall well-being has improved in the locality, especially for the beneficiaries as
    the new land is fertile and house gardens are growing a variety of plants. The
    beneficiaries are still able to use their previously occupied land for livestock. The
    addition of a reliable water supply has also resulted in improved well-being. The
    Island’s Health Officer advised during the ICR Mission that health has improved
    notably with far fewer vector borne diseases. Although anecdotal, he attributed much
    of this to the improved access to potable water and improved hygiene and sanitation
    practices. Improved roads on the island have also improved access, particularly for
    the elderly and infirm, to the health clinic.

48. 91 local people helped to rehabilitate the island’s key road between the port and the
    airport which provided substantial injection of cash into the island. In consultations
    held during the ICR mission, beneficiaries advised that this money has been largely
    spent on improving their homes, solar systems, water supply systems and on their
    home gardens. Apart from the short term benefits, this can also be expected to have a
    number of ongoing benefits stemming from the level of ownership of the roads by the
    people and the residual skills in the community to undertake ongoing maintenance
    activities.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
49. Despite the shortened timeframe available to reinforce capacity development,
    Component 3 strengthened institutional capacity for DRM in three ways:
         1. Technical capability and skills for hazard assessment and mapping were
            increased in the LGIS unit of MLECCR by replacing and upgrading
            previously outdated and missing equipment and provision of formal and on-
            the-job training of staff in the use of geospatial technologies, hazard
            mapping and risk assessments.
         2. The availability and accessibility of improved hazard and risk information
            was increased. Information was generated for NTT and the whole of Tonga
            and integrated into land-use recommendations as part of village-level risk
            plans which previously did not include advanced technical risk information.
            A policy to guide greater data sharing was established by the end of the
            project.
         3. Community-level awareness of and preparedness for disasters was increased
            on NTT by the technical improvement and social reinforcement of three
            community risk plans and by the installation of international-standard
            tsunami warning signage. Community ownership of these plans was
            reinforced by outreach and operational drills. NEMO staff received
            upskilling in participatory community planning processes by on-the-job
            training.




                                            15
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
50. Compliance with environmental and social safeguard requirements has provided
    opportunities for the project to provide on-going, unanticipated benefits such as
    improved environmental awareness and education. In particular the benefits and
    methods of coastal planting could be developed as a part of the school curriculum so
    that the role of vegetation in coastal rehabilitation can be understood by the school
    students on NTT.

51. Although sorting out the land issues caused significant delays, the MLECCNR
    learned important lessons through the process. Following recent Cyclone Ian, the
    Minister of Lands and survey teams were immediately dispatched to affected areas to
    document leaseholders for inclusion on damage maps and facilitate land titles for the
    fast majority of affected properties.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
52. Technical risks to the sustainability of development outcomes are sufficiently
    mitigated by the design of investments and by actions already completed during the
    implementation period. The reconstructed houses are designed to have at least a 20
    year lifespan 2 without needing significant maintenance. The design built upon the
    design of cyclone-resilient houses previously piloted in Tonga, thus addressing some
    previous shortcomings. Through community involvement during the design and
    construction phase knowledge and skills have been transferred to the community, as
    evidenced by some resilient building techniques being replicated by individuals in
    their own constructions.

53. Some social risks remain, although these do not pose a significant risk to the overall
    development outcome. Culturally appropriate training in the operation and
    maintenance of sanitation systems in the new village could not be undertaken by the
    extended project closing dates due to earlier implementation delays. This may pose a
    potential sustainability risk to the sanitation arrangements at some houses where the
    occupants misuse the facilities (for example, using inappropriate cleaning materials
    and failing to empty septic tanks). However, it is considered to be a mild, medium- to
    long-term risk since the island community is innovative and self-supporting, and will
    most likely devise strategies to address any problems that arise in this area. Although
    this may pose a threat to the output (improved sanitation systems), this risk is unlikely
    to impact the overall intended outcome, which is a socially appropriate village in a
    less hazard-prone location.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance



2
 Recent experience following Cyclone Ian indicates that the design is able to easily withstand a
Category 5 tropical cyclone after 30 years.




                                               16
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
54. The Bank performance was focused on directly responding to the GoT’s request for
    assistance in reconstruction of destroyed and damaged assets on the affected island
    and the scope of the project reflects this priority. The Bank drew important lessons
    from the previous emergency-response project in Tonga and accurately assessed the
    capacity of the local public and private sectors to implement the project. Although in
    retrospect the Bank team clearly under-estimated the risk to implementation that the
    protracted land acquisition process would represent, at the time of appraisal it had
    received assurances that the process was well under way, and since some land had
    already been acquired it was reasonable to believe these assurances. In addition,
    capacity building activities complementing the reconstruction investments were not
    fully aligned with the reconstruction activities and had parallel implementation
    arrangements adding complexity and delays.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
55. The quality of Bank supervision has to be viewed in the context of the extreme
    remoteness and inaccessibility of the island. Flights to and from the island are
    infrequent and weather-dependent, and communication is very slow and difficult. As
    a result, supervision missions were not carried out at regular 6-monthly intervals
    throughout the first two years of the implementation period. Since land issues
    (beyond the control of the Bank team) were being resolved during this time, this did
    not have a significant impact on implementation. However, more regular supervision
    missions might have reduced delays that occurred during early stages of
    implementation through closer monitoring of the project and contract management.

56. The Board-level restructure was delayed by staffing changes in the Sydney office.
    Shortly following the decision to apply for a Board-level restructure, the task team
    leader, Sector Manager, and Country Director changed. Delays were compounded by
    Cyclone Evan (December 2012) which stretched the Bank team’s limited human
    resources. Delays were compounded by the failure of the GoT to rapidly prepare
    necessary environmental safeguards instruments and demonstrate satisfactory
    implementation arrangements for the new road activities. The delay had little impact
    on development outcome however, since the GoT agreed to begin preventative road
    maintenance works and to cover the costs if the restructure was not approved. Works
    were retroactively financed when the restructure was approved by the Board.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
57. With ratings of moderately satisfactory for both Quality at Entry and Quality of
    Supervision, the overall Bank performance rating is also moderately satisfactory. The
    Bank achieved its design and implementation objectives. The completion date was
    nine months behind the original schedule although this is not a significant extension
    period given the emergency nature of the project and highly remote location in which



                                           17
   it was implemented. Both the GoT and islanders are understood to be very satisfied
   with the outcome of the project.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
58. The GoT established a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) for the post-tsunami
    recovery program, chaired by the Minister of Finance and comprising representatives
    of all agencies involved in implementation of the program namely: MOFNP, Ministry
    of Works (MOW), MLSNR, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport and
    Ministry of Education, Women Affairs and Culture, including NGOs, and the
    National Emergency Management Office (NEMO). The PCC was nominally
    responsible for the overall coordination of the Project implementation and
    achievement of the Project objectives, including all performance indicators not only
    for this project but also for all other long-term relief and reconstruction projects in
    NTT. In reality, however, the day-to-day coordination and oversight of the programs
    was carried out by the NTT Development Committee (NDC) chaired by the
    Honourable Member for NTT. This committee was very active throughout the
    implementation period and coordinated well with the PMU. Although shifting
    management of the additional road activities to the TSCP PMU was a rational and
    effective arrangement, the GoT was slow in changing the implementation
    arrangements and proposing a work plan and budget for the final works satisfactory
    to the Bank, which held up the restructure process.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory
59. During the course of the project, the Ministry of Works (MOW) was restructured and
    became the Land Transport Division of the Ministry of Infrastructure (MOI). The
    MOW/MOI was responsible for carrying out all the civil works (land clearing, access
    roads, resealing main roads etc.) on the island by force account methods, and while
    the quality of land clearing was good, the quality of the access road construction was
    unsatisfactory and needed to be resurfaced. TOP 66,787.05 (US$38,227 equivalent)
    was paid by the project for bitumen that was ultimately not received. The
    prepayment of this amount prior to receipt of or evidence of the shipment of the
    bitumen indicated a breakdown in controls procedures. Two instances of poor
    contract management were noted where the necessary ‘no objection’ was not sought
    for contract variations. There were also some minor shortcomings regarding the
    timely provision of project documentation. Very limited and slow communications
    between NTT and the PMU were contributing factors to this.

60. The MLECCNR was responsible for preparing the technical specifications and TORs
    for the procurement of mapping equipment and engagement of consulting services to
    implement hazard and risk assessment training as part of Component 3. Delays in
    procurement of appropriate goods and expertise resulted in this subcomponent being
    implemented far behind schedule, thus risk information produced under this
    component could not be used for the development of the community risk management
    plans.


                                            18
61. It is on the basis of these factors that implementing agency performance is rated
    moderately unsatisfactory.
 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
62. Implementation delays, project management limitations and instances of poor
     contract management reduced the overall Borrower’s performance. However, the
     government displayed strong commitment to achieving the development objectives,
     evidenced by significant parallel funding from other donors secured to complement
     activities financed by the IDA grant with other activities outlined in the NTT Priority
     Tsunami Recovery Plan. The outcome rating given above is in the satisfactory range,
     justifying the rating of moderately satisfactory given here for overall borrower
     performance.

6. Lessons Learned
63. General lessons
    The time required for satisfactory land acquisition arrangements to be devised should
    not be underestimated. Project implementation periods should allow for possible
    delays. Even though land acquisition arrangements seemed relatively straightforward
    at appraisal, unforeseen local political issues that are common in a Pacific island
    context stalled implementation of physical investments. Adequate time should be
    allowed for land issues to be negotiated in an appropriate way. In some projects it
    may be appropriate to make completion of land negotiations a condition of
    effectiveness although in an emergency operation this should be decided on a case-
    by-case basis since it could hold up implementation of other pressing recovery
    activities.

64. Implementation period should allow for the logistical challenges of reconstruction in
    a remote location. Transport impediments (particularly following a major natural
    disaster such as the 2009 Tsunami) can delay travel of project staff to beneficiary
    communities and can hold up implementation support missions.

65. Lessons specific to an emergency operation
    Where a project includes uncommitted funds, the wording of the PDO and the
    activities specified in the EPP should be carefully considered at appraisal so as not to
    later preclude the addition of new activities. Priorities in a post-disaster situation can
    change quickly and the activities agreed upon at the time of appraisal (recorded in the
    EPP and FA) need to be flexible enough to account for this. In this project, outcomes
    for C1 and 2 were defined very specifically in the PDO (reconstruction of houses with
    auxiliary water facilities). This later reduced flexibility to allocate previously
    uncommitted funds to respond to emerging local priorities (preventative maintenance
    of a major road) and required a Board level project restructure.

66. Direct linking of all project activities is especially important in an emergency
    operation. Capacity building activities under component 3 were only loosely linked to
    reconstruction and recovery activities under the other components and were


                                             19
   implemented by a different ministry. Implementation delays resulted as (stretched)
   project management staff concentrated their time and efforts on facilitating physical
   investments that met urgent recovery needs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
67. The main conclusions of the Borrower’s ICR (see Annex 7) are generally in
    agreement with the World Bank’s ICR, especially: i) residents of new and retrofitted
    buildings are highly satisfied with the quality of accommodation and services; ii)
    reconstructed and retrofitted buildings are highly disaster resilient; and iii) capacity to
    address future disasters at a government and community level is increased.

68. There are some instances of less-than-satisfactory implementation and supervision of
    project activities and project management that are not reflected in the Borrower’s
    ICR, in particular: i) unsatisfactory supervision of initial access road construction
    completed under force account by the MOI leading to unsatisfactory quality of works
    that later required resurfacing; ii) instances of poor contract management where the
    required procurement procedures were not followed; and iii) lack of implementation
    of the results framework.         However, initial delays in land surveying and
    compensation are well analyzed.

69. The Borrower’s ICR cites a ‘small and lean PMU’ as a model to replicate for future
    reconstruction projects. At times however, high demands on the PMU from multiple
    projects resulted in implementation delays (particularly with capacity building
    activities under Component 3) and contract management issues, as the necessary
    procurement support from the PMU to implementing agencies was not forthcoming.
    The lesson “small and lean PMU” is perhaps only advisable when a country has
    considerable experience implementing World Bank financed projects.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                              20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                    Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                     Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)

Cyclone-Resistant Housing              3.35               3.729         111%
Building Retrofitting                  0.35               0.464         133%
Risk Management Capacity               0.50               0.395          79%
Project Management                     0.40               0.533         133%
Unallocated                            0.40               0.00            0%
         Total Baseline Cost           5.00               5.121         102%
Physical Contingencies
                                       0.00               0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                       0.00               0.00           0.00
          Total Project Costs          5.00               5.12          102%
Front-end fee PPF                      0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                     0.00               0.00            .00
   Total Financing Required            5.00               5.12          102%


(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal     Actual/Late
                                  Type of     Estimate      st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                Cofinancing     (USD           (USD     of Appraisal
                                              millions)      millions)
Borrower                                    0.00           0.00         .00
IDA Grant                                   5.00           0.00         .00
Total




                                        21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

ID   Project Component /     Major outputs                    Comments
No   Subcomponent
Component A: Cyclone Resistant Housing Construction
1.1  Land Surveying,         Surveyed planning layouts with
     Planning and Allotment allocated plots for beneficiaries

1.2   Resettlement             Design report, bid documents,
      Compensation             completion report
1.3   Land preparation         Land cleared in preparation for
                               house and access road
                               construction
1.4   Housing Material and     Completed houses (73 No)          At appraisal it was
      Construction             handed over to beneficiaries      expected that 85
                                                                 new, cyclone-
                                                                 resilient houses
                                                                 would be
                                                                 constructed at a site
                                                                 further inland with
                                                                 upgraded water and
                                                                 sanitation facilities.
                                                                 This number was
                                                                 later modified to 73
                                                                 to account for 12
                                                                 housing units
                                                                 provided by other
                                                                 donors.
1.5   Sanitation               Completed toilet / shower units   No beneficiary
                               (73 No) handed over to            training in use of
                               beneficiaries                     waterborne
                                                                 sanitation
1.6   Rainwater Collection     Rainwater harvesting and          Piped connection
      and Tanks                storage provided for each new     from tank to toilet,
                               house                             shower and basin
                                                                 provided in addition
                                                                 to tap
1.7   Roads for Relocation     New sealed access roads to        Done by MOI under
      Areas                    new houses                        force account. Initial
                                                                 seal cracked,
                                                                 resealed under
                                                                 additional works
1.8   Supervision of Civil     Construction supervision by
      Works                    architect and inspector
1.9   Reticulated water supply Reticulated water supply          Required due to


                                       22
ID     Project Component /       Major outputs                   Comments
No     Subcomponent
                                 connection to new houses        drought conditions
                                                                 resulting in little or
                                                                 no harvested
                                                                 rainwater
1.10   Maintenance of main       Reseal of main roads            Additional activity
       collector roads                                           added by project
                                                                 restructure. Project-
                                                                 managed by the
                                                                 PMU under the
                                                                 Tonga Sector
                                                                 Consolidated
                                                                 Program
Component B: Building Retrofitting
2.1  Works for Retrofitting   A total of 54 retrofitted and/or   At appraisal it was
     of Existing Buildings    completed buildings handed         expected that 40
                              over to beneficiaries              partially damaged
                                                                 houses would be
                                                                 retrofitted. This
                                                                 number was later
                                                                 increased to 54 to
                                                                 reflect actual needs;
                                                                 38 residential
                                                                 houses, 7
                                                                 community halls, 9
                                                                 commercial
                                                                 buildings.
2.2  Management and         Construction supervision by
     Supervision of         architect and inspector
     Retrofitting
     works
Component C: Risk Management Capacity Strengthening
3.1  Equipment and Software Mapping equipment and
                            software procured for
                            MLECCNR

                                 Training for upgraded mapping
                                 software completed
3.2    Hazard and Risk           Capacity and needs assessment
       Assessment                of MLECCNR completed
                                 including a review of the
                                 capacity of the
                                 MLECCNR in producing
                                 hazard and risk maps and
                                 detailed assessment of the


                                         23
ID   Project Component /   Major outputs                      Comments
No   Subcomponent
                           equipment, software and
                           training needs of MLECCNR
                           for improved geo-data and risk
                           information management.

                           Formal and on-the-job training
                           in the use of advance
                           geospatial technologies
                           (including GIS and GPS) and
                           in risk and vulnerability
                           assessments for staff of the
                           planning and GIS units of
                           MLECCNR.

                           Recommendations produced
                           for improving formal data
                           sharing arrangements and
                           better interagency collaboration
                           between Planning and GIS
                           units of MLECCNR.

                           MLECCNR supported to
                           procure required hardware and
                           software to improve ability to
                           gather, analyze and disseminate
                           risk information and maps.

                           Hazard and risk information for
                           NTT and the Kingdom of
                           Tonga compiled. Geospatial
                           products updated with regard to
                           land use changes and relocation
                           of affected regions.
                           Improvements to coastal
                           hazard mapping made
                           contributing to a more accurate
                           elevation map of NTT

                           GoT officials trained in
                           DisasterAWARE tool for
                           improved early warning
                           systems




                                   24
ID    Project Component /   Major outputs                     Comments
No    Subcomponent
                            Policy Framework for
                            Integration of Risk Information
                            into Land-Use Planning
                            developed identifying
                            synergies to incorporate
                            internationally recognized
                            land-use tools as an effective
                            way to mainstream disaster risk
                            reduction into land planning
                            and development processes

3.3   Community Risk        Capacity building of village      The execution of
      Management Plans      disaster committees               this component
                                                              varied slightly from
                            Review and strengthening of       the plan envisaged at
                            three existing village disaster   project preparation.
                            plans including by integrating    Due to the
                            risk information                  emergency nature of
                                                              the project, multiple
                            Testing disaster response         partners were active
                            arrangements through drills       in the space during
                                                              the early stages of
                            Public awareness campaign         the project
                                                              execution. The
                            Signage installed regarding       original formulation
                            tsunami evacuation routes         of community risk
                                                              management plans
                            Recommendations for               was undertaken by
                            improving plans and               an NGO during this
                            strengthening community           time. As such, the
                            preparedness and                  community DRM
                            understanding of the plans        plans were not based
                            provided to government            on the risk
                            On-the-job training of NEMO       information that was
                            staff by accompanying the         generated as a part
                            consultant on the above           of the mapping
                            activities                        exercise. However
                                                              the risk information
                                                              that was generated
                                                              was later used to
                                                              review the village
                                                              level DRM plans




                                     25
Component D: Project Management
4.1  Project Management     Technical and financial              A core team
     Unit                   management and accounting of         including an
                            project implementation.              experienced Project
                            Reporting. Procurement and           Manager, a Project
                            administration of sub-project        Accountant and an
                            contracts                            Office Assistant
                                                                 with additional
                                                                 support from a
                                                                 supervisory
                                                                 Engineer was put in
                                                                 place until March
                                                                 2013, when the
                                                                 original activities
                                                                 had been almost
                                                                 entirely completed.
                                                                 From May 2013, the
                                                                 oversight of the
                                                                 additional ongoing
                                                                 activities was
                                                                 transferred to the
                                                                 Tonga Transport
                                                                 Consolidation
                                                                 Project (TSCP)
                                                                 PMU, which
                                                                 reflected the nature
                                                                 of the remaining
                                                                 works, namely
                                                                 rehabilitation of the
                                                                 roads.
4.2   Monitoring and          Beneficiary survey of residents
      Evaluation              of new and retrofitted buildings
                              to evaluate impacts on
                              wellbeing of project activities
                              (undertaken by the borrower)

                              Aide Memoires and ISRs
                              captured progress on PDO and
                              intermediate results




                                      26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


An economic analysis of the operation is not applicable to an emergency response project
such as this. Nevertheless, as stated in the Emergency Project Paper, the provision of
housing with water and sanitation facilities is a basic necessity for the affected population
of Niuatoputatpu. The cyclone-resistant design and relocation away from the risk hazard
area will provide additional risk management and long-term benefits to the population.




                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
          Names                                   Title                           Unit

Demetrios Papathanasiou    Senior Infrastructure Specialist – TTL                EASNS
Amin Saskai Mohammad       Team Assistant                                        EACNF
Angela Nyawira Khaminwa    Social Development Specialist                         EASER
Carlos Ricardo Escudero    Lead Counsel, Consultant Legal                        LEGLA
Changkun Yang              Infrastructure Specialist                             EASNS
Colleen Butcher-Gollach    Consultant                                            EASIN
Edward Anderson            Disaster Risk Management Specialist                   EASIN
Josefo Tuyor               Senior Environmental Specialist                       EASPS
Glen D’Este                Consultant Transport Specialist                       EASNS
John Lowsby                Consultant Engineer                                   EASIN
Kylie Coulson              Senior Financial Management Specialist                EAPFM
Uzma Sadaf                 Senior Procurement Specialist                         SARPS

Supervision/ICR
Demetrios Papathanasiou    Senior Infrastructure Specialist – TTL                EASNS
Michael Bonte-Grapentin    Senior Disaster Risk Management Specialist - TTL      EASNS
Edward Anderson            Disaster Risk Management Specialist                   EASIN
John Lowsby                Consultant Engineer                                   EASIN
Scott Wilkinson            Infrastructure Specialist                             EASIN
Josefo Tuyor               Senior Environmental Specialist/Safeguards            EASPS
Victoria Lazaro            Social Development Specialist/Safeguards              EASPS
Sean Michaels              Operations Analyst                                    EASNS
Ross Butler                Senior Social Safeguards Specialist                   EASNS
Stephen Hartung            Financial Management Specialist                       EASFM
Cristopher Nunes           Senior Procurement Specialist                         EASPR
Olivia Warrick             Disaster Risk Management Specialist/ICR Author        EASNS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                            USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                            consultant costs)
Lending

                          Total:              11.37                      41.92
Supervision/ICR

                          Total:              16.55                    158.13




                                            28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The below is a summary of a beneficiary survey undertaken by the borrower. The survey
consisted of household census, and questions on water supply, drainage and sanitation,
land and housing, road conditions, and government responsiveness. A total of 98
households were surveyed, of which 59 had received new housing and 39 had received
retrofitted houses. Surveys appear to have been conducted with the household head, with
other family members present. The average number of occupants per household was 4.6
and male/female occupancy was even. The survey consisted of closed questions
regarding: the availability and quality of water supply, toilet and sanitation facilities;
quality of and satisfaction with project-assisted housing; road conditions; and satisfaction
with government responsiveness following the tsunami. Survey responses were
quantitatively analyzed and presented in a report.

On 21st March 2013 a survey was conducted of the main households living in the
reconstructed houses and the main households living in the repaired houses to ascertain
the impact of the reconstruction and recovery assistance to the affected peoples.

The main conclusions of the survey were:
   1. Although there was not much difference in the average number of occupants per
      household between beneficiary and retrofitting households, data suggests that
      there was a higher capacity for beneficiary households to accommodate more
      people thus suggesting that rebuilt houses were bigger or it was just better living
      conditions compared to pre tsunami houses.
   2. All respondents had piped water and are paying for the piped water but very few
      are getting water from this piped system which would have implications for toilet
      flushing and other hygienic concerns.
   3. Main water storage system is in plastic or concrete tanks which is good condition
      which suggests that guttering in beneficiary and retrofitting houses are in good
      order
   4. All households have at least 1 water tank
   5. Drinking water is readily accessible in both beneficiary and retrofitting
      households and people are not in the habit of boiling drinking water.
   6. Flooding during the rainy season is not a problem for both beneficiary and
      retrofitted households in the village of Vaipoa, however, it is a slight problem for
      retrofitted households in Falehau and a major problem for both beneficiary and
      retrofitted households in Hihifo.
   7. All beneficiary households have pedestal toilet with flush cisterns and majority of
      retrofitted households also have pedestal toilets with flushing cisterns. There are
      still pit and compost toilet alternatives in existence.
   8. Conditions of the houses whether rebuilt or repaired is good and majority of the
      people agree that it is better than their houses before the Tsunami.
   9. Majority are happy with the rebuilt houses and the retrofitted houses with the
      exception of the retrofitted houses of Falehau and the houses of Hihifo where
      water gets into the houses during heavy rain.




                                            29
   10. Rebuilt housing are more suited, positioned and conditioned for strong winds and
       other natural disasters.
   11. The village of Hihifo seems to be experiencing the most adverse conditions in the
       areas surveyed. This due to their being a low lying area and that the majority of
       them had to be relocated to higher ground.
   12. Road conditions in all three villages are in a poor state.
   13. Government assistance immediately after the Tsunami and in rebuilding and
       repairing of houses was good.

Overall the impact of the rebuilding and retrofitting of houses on Niuatoputapu has been
majorly positive. It stands to improve the lives of local inhabitants from the feel good
factor of new housing to the safety of their homes. An indication is the number of
occupants of the newly built houses. Improved family hygiene from pedestal toilets with
flushing cisterns are also high on people’s list of things they are happy about. People are
generally happy and pleased with the outcome of the post tsunami rebuilding project
despite a few that are not but the positive impact far outweighs the negative.




                                            30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                     31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The below is a summary of the Borrower’s ICR.

(i)    Assessment of the operation

       a. Objective - The project development objectives (PDO) constituted an
          appropriate and timely response to a devastating disaster. The objectives were
          clearly stated and appropriate given the magnitude and human impact of the
          disaster on the population of the affected island. They were also realistic, in
          light of the Bank’s previous experience in Tonga and elsewhere with similar
          disasters, and consistent with the CAS Progress Report. The changes to the
          PDO at the end of the project were minor and had no material effect on the
          project implementation

       b. Design - The design of this operation took into account the general lessons
          learned from other post-disaster reconstruction projects and specific lessons
          learned from the previous Tonga Cyclone Emergency Recovery ICR, all of
          which have evidently contributed positively to improving the final outcomes
          of this project.

       c. Implementation – One of the principal factors that affected the implementation
          of the project was the remoteness of the island which is situated some 600km
          from Nuku’alofa thus posing difficult logistic challenges to be overcome.
          Regular means of transport to and from the island was lacking and
          telecommunications are very basic. Despite these extremely difficult
          conditions the project outcomes were successfully achieved. The contract for
          construction of 73 new cyclone-resistant houses, water reticulation and
          retrofitting of damaged buildings was successfully completed with minimal
          delay or cost overrun. The Ministry of Infrastructure successfully completed
          access roads to the new villages and repaired the main island road. Although
          there was a delay in implementing the disaster risk management strengthening
          component, this also successfully delivered equipment, training and capacity
          building programs.

       d. Operational experience - GoT placed great emphasis placed on social
          cohesion and close consultation with the affected communities. Together with
          the lean structure of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and the
          Project Management Unit (PMU), these have contributed to the effective
          implementation of the Project. The PMU was not only responsible for the
          management, coordination and supervision of the IDA-funded PTRP
          activities, but also other components of the Tonga Priority Tsunami Recovery
          Program (TPTRP) funded by several other donor agencies.

(ii)   Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives
       a. Recovering the living standard of those affected – The project successfully
          assisted beneficiaries to restore normal economic and social activities through


                                           32
   the reconstruction of essential housing and basic infrastructure. New roads
   were also constructed to all the relocated housing areas. The project also
   improved the quality of life and standard of living for many of the poorest
   households. All affected parties have accommodation and services that are at
   least as good as - but generally significantly better than - before the tsunami.
   The three new weaving houses are being well used by the women for weaving
   mats as the main economic activity on the island. A significant impact was the
   large number of local people (over 100, including more than 20 women) who
   were employed on house and road construction works. It is understood that
   some of the earnings have been used to further improve the houses and living
   standards of the beneficiaries. The Health Officer advised that the level of
   health in the villages had improved notably with far fewer vector borne
   diseases, attributed to the improved access to potable water and improved
   hygiene and sanitation practices.

b. The reconstruction of residential houses – Individual householders of new
   houses received title to their land holding, and unencumbered access to their
   land, houses and assets. The houses were constructed on higher and safer
   ground thereby reducing vulnerabilities of the affected families to any future
   tsunami and storm surge hazards. The standard of construction and general
   workmanship in both new and existing buildings was very high, as was
   compliance with the specifications. The houses in the resettlement areas are
   all in very good condition and the level of sanitation and hygiene are of high
   standard. Some households continue to make some additions and
   improvements to the houses, including the construction of separate informal
   structures to provide additional living areas.

c. Auxiliary water / infrastructure facilities –the provision of rainwater
   harvesting system/tanks to all the 73 housing units built under the project have
   reduced the communities’ reliance on ground water resource, while the
   extended reticulated village water supplies, connected to all the new houses,
   not only provide a more reliable water supply but should also improve the
   health standards of the communities though the use of more hygienic
   sanitation facilities- flush toilets and septic tanks. Rehabilitation of the
   island’s main collector road has provided improved land transport for all
   residents, and specifically improved linkage between the reconstruction areas
   and social and economic facilities.

d. Strengthening Tonga's capacity to address future natural disasters – The
   delivery of mapping equipment and software for the MLECCNR, including
   training on the upgraded mapping software, has been completed. A capacity
   and needs assessment of the MLECCNR in geospatial data management and
   developing risk information, and technical assistance in strengthening the
   capacity of MLECCNR in developing hazard and risk information and
   incorporating it in land-use planning, have also been provided and completed
   successfully. Community awareness programs, disaster preparedness planning



                                    33
           and drills have been conducted in all the three communities on Niuatoputapu
           which now have enhanced community awareness and disaster preparedness.
           Signage has been installed along the main collector roads to guide/direct
           people to safer ground in the event of tsunami or storm surge warning. Early
           Warning Systems have also been installed on all the three villages of this
           island. There is clear evidence of increased community awareness and disaster
           preparedness amongst the island’s population.

(iii)   Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance
        a. During preparation – there were both positives and negatives: i) the National
           Emergency Management Committees, which include representation from
           Government, NGOs including churches and the Red Cross, contributed
           significantly to the more systematic and orderly actions and response by
           Government to this disaster; ii) the land surveying took longer than expected
           to be completed for land plots to be allocated and ownership registered in the
           beneficiaries names; iii) further delay was encountered over compensation
           demands by the landowners who had originally agreed to surrender their
           lands, requiring alternative land to be identified (this process, although
           expedited by Hon. Ma’afu, Minister for MLECCNR, took almost a year to be
           completed, which caused considerable delays to the start of project
           implementation).

        b. During implementation of the operation - positive factors which contributed to
           the effective implementation of the project included: i) the able leadership and
           commitment by the main contractor to effectively plan, coordinate and
           manage the overall housing reconstruction activities aimed at completion
           within the contract deadline and budget, ii) the simple and lean structure of the
           Project Management Unit and the early establishment of the PCC, facilitated
           smooth operations of project implementation, iii) the close cooperation and
           support rendered by the Tonga Defence Services and NEMO especially in
           making available the heavy plants and equipment already on the island to be
           used by the contractor as and when needed contributed significantly to
           expediting the implementation of the housing relocation, iv) the prompt
           response and commitment by the PMU to facilitate and expedite
           disbursements of funds for the project activities also contributed to
           minimizing delays on project implementation, v) the close cooperation and
           support from the local communities especially by the housing beneficiaries in
           the final clearing of the lands for relocation, and supplying food for the
           contractor.

        c. Lessons learned that may be helpful in the future - From this operation, the
           lessons learned include: i) the strategic use of local consultants to compliment
           official government activities to improve transparency and accountability in a
           cost-effective way should be strongly promoted - the use of local consultants
           has proven to work well given their local knowledge of the communities,
           customs and cultures, local networking at the community and government



                                            34
          levels; ii) for small Pacific Island countries such as Tonga, the establishment
          of a small and lean PMU to coordinate and manage reconstruction project in
          the event of natural disaster has proven to work well - this model can
          effectively be replicated in future intervention of similar nature; iii) the use of
          customary practices, where possible, as identified under the Tonga Cyclone
          Emergency and Recovery ICR. The use of local labour had major impacts on
          the local communities in economic terms and in improving skills and its
          impact on the population’s livelihood and potential development has been
          substantial; iv) Strong and neutral leadership is required to avoid any unfair
          influence and corrupt practices, particularly in allocation of land and housing;
          v) forestry and tree crops planting should be strongly promoted to stabilize
          and regenerate damaged areas following national disasters, more particularly
          in small and remote islands (restoration of the coral quarrying sites by
          planting mangroves was implemented under this project).

(iv)   Evaluation of the performance of the Bank
       The intervention of the World Bank in the execution of the Project went beyond
       just financing the recovery program. It also included its unconditional support in
       speeding up implementation, issuance of NOL, review and clearance of bid
       documents, and advices and guidance on both financial management and
       procurement. Further, the various Implementation Support and Supervision
       Missions which also made field visits to the project sites and follow up
       outstanding and/or any other issues to facilitate and speed up procurements and
       project implementation have been most helpful. The Bank’s prompt and positive
       response to the Tongan Government’s request for assistance and in identifying the
       appropriate financing gap for the Bank’s intervention is very much appreciated.
       Overall, in light of the above, the Bank’s performance is rated highly satisfactory.

(v)    Evaluation of the performance of co-financiers and other partners
       Although there was only one co-financier (other than in-kind contributions from
       beneficiaries); the Tsunami relief fund, which was administered by the Niuas
       Development Committee and co-financed the labour for main island collector
       road re-surfacing for approximately $100k, a total of ten other development
       partners and organizations have also pledged and/or provided support to the NTT
       Recovery Program as shown. The assistance and support by all the donor partners
       towards Niuatoputapu is gratefully acknowledged:

 DONOR                 AREA OF SUPPORT                   STATUS
 EU                    New hospital                      Design complete
 NZAID                 School rehabilitation &           Completed in 2012
                       community services
 NZ                    Early warning system              Completed in 2013
 GOVERNMENT
 JAPAN                 Upgrading of village water        Completed in 2014???
 GOVERNMENT            supplies
 UN FAO                Agricultural and fishing          Completed in 2012


                                            35
                       equipment & materials
      UNDP             Weaving houses                   Completed 2011
      WHO              Hospital equipment               Awaiting hospital completion
 AUS/TONGA             70 transition shelters + water   Completed 2010
 RED CROSS             & sanitation
 CARITAS               20 cyclone-resistant houses +    Completed 2010
                       water & sanitation
 ADB                   Solar electrification            Under review

(vi)   Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project

       As this project was an emergency response to a specific disaster there is little
       scope for future operations; i) all the building works have been handed over to
       their respective owners, who will be individually responsible for their
       maintenance along with the rainwater tank(s) and the on-site sanitation; ii) the
       extended water supply in each of the three villages will fall under the
       responsibility of the village water committee for operation and maintenance, with
       technical back-up as required from Tonga Water Board; iii) the roads will be
       responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure but local workers have been trained
       in routine maintenance, and materials and small plant has been left on the island
       for this purpose; iv) MLECCNR and NEMO will continue to develop the national
       disaster risk management strategy and operations through their own resources and
       applications for donor-funded program assistance.




                                           36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

.




                                      37
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank. 2010. Emergency Project Paper for a Tonga Post Tsunami Reconstruction
Project (TPTRP).

World Bank. 2010. Financing Agreement , TPTRP between the Kingdom of Tonga and
IDA

World Bank, TPTRP Implementation Status and Results Reports: January 2011;
November 2011; May 2013; December 2013

World Bank, TPTRP Aide Memoires: December 2010/January 2011; April 2012;
February 2013; November 2013

World Bank. 2011 TPTRP Restructuring Paper (force account)

World Bank. 2013a TPTRP Restructuring Paper (first project extension)

World Bank. 2013b TPTRP Restructuring Paper (second project extension)

World Bank. 2013c TPTRP Restructuring Paper (Board-level restructure)

World Bank. 2012 TPTRP Financial Management Implementation Review Report

World Bank. 2005. Regional Engagement Framework for Pacific Islands 2006-2009

World Bank. 2010. Tonga-Country Assistance Strategy 2011-2014

World Bank. 2014. Pacific Engagement Note for DRR and CCA

Fusitua, M. 2013. Impact Survey Report for the TPSRP (MoF/SSS/01) prepared on
behalf of the Ministry of Finance and National Planning, Tonga

Ministry of Finance and National Planning.2011. 2011-2014 Tonga Strategic
Development Framework

Ministry of Finance and National Planning. 2009. 2009-2014 National Strategic Planning
Framework

Government of Tonga. 2009. Tsunami Recovery Priority Plan, Niuatoputapu, Kingdom
of Tonga

University of Hawaii. 2013. Strengthening the Use of Risk Information in Land Use by
the MLECCNR, Final Report.




                                         38
University of Hawaii. 2013. Strengthening the Use of Risk Information in Land Use by
the MLECCNR, Policy Framework for Integration of Risk Information into Land-Use
Planning

Taki, M. 2013. Completion Report on Component B.3.1 Disaster and Risk Management
Planning

Beca 2012. Geospatial Capacity and Needs Assessment

P.Kava, 2012. Supervision Services for Contracts - A.1.1 Lot 1: Supply & Construction
of Cyclone Resistant Housing; A.2.1 Lot 2: Supply and Retrofitting of Residential
Buildings, Small Enterprise Buildings abd Community Buildings – Final Progress Report

Ministry of Finance & National Planning, 2012. Tonga Post-tsunami Reconstruction
Project. Quarterly Report for period October – December 2012
Tonga Water Board, 2013. Extension of Reticulated Water System at Niuatoputapu;
Hihifo, Vaipoa a& Falehau villages, Project Supervision Report January 2013




                                         39
MAP IBRD 33498




     40
