                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                          RESTRUCTURING STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 10/09/2013                                       Report No.: 82513
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Tonga                               Project ID: P120595
Project Name: Tonga Post Tsunami Reconstruction
Task Team Leader: Michael Bonte-Grapentin
Estimated Appraisal Date:                    Estimated Board Date: October 19, 2010
Managing Unit: EASNS                         Lending Instrument:
Sector: Housing construction (81%);Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
protection (17%);Information technology (2%)
Theme: Natural disaster management (100%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):             0
IDA Amount (US$m.):              5
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                            0.00
                                                                       0.00
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                        Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [X]      No [ ]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The Project Development Objective is to assist the Government of Tonga to implement
its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery Program aimed at recovering the living
standards of the population living in the island affected by the tsunami of September 30,
2009, through the reconstruction of residential houses with auxiliary infrastructure
facilities in Niuatoputapu, and strengthening Tonga's capacity to address future natural
disasters.

3. Project Description
Under this restructuring, the changes to component B are proposed to explicitly include
prioritized additional activities in the project to improve associated infrastructure
facilities utilizing all available Grant funds. This includes preventive maintenance of the
island's main collector road providing improved linkage between the reconstruction areas
and social and economic facilities. It is also proposed to delete from the component
description of part A and B the reference to the number of buildings constructed and
repaired, and instead capture this information in the results framework. Components C
and D remain unchanged.

 A) Cyclone Resistance Housing Construction
 1.     Land surveying, planning and allotment, through the provision of technical
assistance, as well as the payment of Resettlement Compensation.

 2.      Construction of residential low cost units at Category 4 cyclone standards with
auxiliary water and sanitation facilities in Niuatoputapu to replace damaged houses no
longer suitable for habitation as a result of the Tsunami of September 30, 2009, including
design of houses and water and sanitation facilities, supply of construction materials, as
well as water and sanitation facilities, transportation to and local assembly at the physical
sites, and provision of technical assistance for construction design and supervision of
works.


 B) Retrofitting of Partially Damaged Houses and Buildings and Infrastructure Services

 Retrofitting and restoration of partially damaged houses, small enterprise building and
community halls, and auxiliary road infrastructure in Niuatoputapu, including
construction materials, land preparation, roadworks and other small works, and technical
assistance for assessment of needs, construction design and supervision of works.

 C)    Strengthening of Disaster Risk Management:

 This component will provide equipment for hazard and risk information assessment and
institutional strengthening of the planning and GIS units of the Ministry of Land Survey
and Natural Resources. It will also finance the preparation of community disaster risk
management plans in Niuatoputapu.

 D)    Project Management:

 This component will finance the Project Management Unit, which will carry-out
management and coordination of Project activities, financial management and
accounting, procurement, monitoring and reporting. It will also cover the costs of
carrying out project audits, including audits of Project Accounts, and agreed operational
expenses.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project is located on the island of Niuatoputapu, in the Niuas at the north part of the
 Kingdom of Tonga.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro (EASPS)
   Mr Gerardo F. Parco (EASPS)
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                               Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                          X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                            X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                           X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
Similar to the original project, the restructured project is anticipated to have minor and
localized environmental impacts arising from additional activities on preventative
maintenance of the island's main collector road. There are no new safeguard policies
triggered by the additional activities and the ESSAF is deemed to provide an adequate
framework for the additional activities. An EIA has been prepared by the GOT to cover
the impacts of the additional activities in the restructuring as further outlined below.

 The types of environmental issues that may arise due to these activities are movement of
equipment, workers, and materials to and from project sites, and the need for proper
disposal of waste and debris. The use of sand and coral rubble from a coastal quarry has
also been identified as an impact of the project. This has been permitted by the Ministry
of Lands, Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources (MLECCNR) for cost
and practical reasons. The impact of this on the coastal areas has been assessed by the
MLECCNR and the Bank's environmental safeguard specialist, concluding that there will
be benign environmental impacts mostly during construction and similar to the original
project due to abstraction of sand and coral rubble. The area does not have intensive
mangrove stands due to the nutrient deficient nature of the area. The large holes in the
coastal areas have provided additional habitat for fish. A proposal detailing the
rehabilitation of these sand quarries was submitted by MLECCNR and was accepted by
the PMO. MLECCNR had started work on the sand quarries, and completed the fencing
of the area. A nursery had been established and had seedlings of species which were
recommended by their coastal biodiversity specialists. The Niuas Development
Committee has indicated that in the future, the schools in Niuatoputapu will be mobilized
in this coastal replanting activity. The rehabilitation of the sand quarries had been so far
satisfactorily.

 The reconstruction of the housing units took place within the existing village boundaries
and the units are designed to be low-cost but cyclone resistant. They have been
constructed mainly of legally imported timber and materials, requiring only light civil
works. Some construction of the housing did occur in newly prepared sites and involved
some clearance of bush and vegetation for foundation preparation. The land which had
been identified by MLECCNR was primarily a plantation land of mixed use.

 Compliance with the EMP was satisfactory with respect to the completed reconstruction
and retrofitting activities. The areas were construction was carried out, are free from
debris and generally cleared of waste material. It was also noted during informal
discussions with residents, that there have been no complaints against the contractor nor
the construction activities which were done.

 Resettlement and land acquisition complied with the OP/BP 4.12 and the project's own
environmental and social screening and assessment framework. Housing was located
close to the original sites, and community consultation helped ensure appropriate design
of housing and water facilities. High occupancy of the new cyclone proof houses by the
recipients was noted during the last supervision mission and there was general
satisfaction with the new dwellings.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
Negative environmental and social impacts are expected during construction. In the long
run, positive impacts, however, are envisaged with the retrofitting and construction of
houses and buildings in a cyclone-resistant manner. The preventative maintenance of the
main collector road will be carried out through labor-based methods, which will
contribute temporarily to local cash-income.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
The location of the new housing took into account the most appropriate and climate
resilient site.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
An EIA has been prepared by the GOT to cover the impacts of the additional activities in
the restructuring. Both the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment
Framework (ESSAF) and the Environmental Management Plans (EMP) had been deemed
adequate to prevent any negative impacts. Compliance with the relevant safeguard
instruments by the Borrower and contractor had been satisfactorily. The compliance with
environmental requirements for the additional activities will continue to be monitored as
part of regular supervision. The coastal quarries are being rehabilitated and enhanced
through a collaborative effort by MLECCNR and the local community.On the social side,
the project has strictly adhered to its Niuatoputapu Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Framework. Majority of the land used came from the Crown estate to minimize effect on
the 6 private family estates used as resettlement sites. Sixty eight family beneficiaries
received respective Deeds of Grants, 14 families received Deeds of Lease and 3 grants
for community halls/weaving houses were received by the affected community. A Due
Diligence Report dated May 2011 indicates compliance both with the Constitution and
Laws of the Kingdom of Tonga and the World Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders in this project are the residents of the three villages in Niuatoputapu
specifically the households affected by the tsunami. When this project was prepared right
after the tsunami, an initial consultation with communities took place following the
damage assessment, further consultations were undertaken as part of the Project
implementation. The consultation provided an opportunity for: (i) the Government of
Tonga (GOT) to obtain a socio-economic profile of the affected communities (including
the identification of vulnerable households), (ii) the GOT to provide information on the
relocation, and (iii) the communities to provide input into the relocation process and
express preferences related to relocation, patterns of settlement, etc. Prior to the
relocation of houses consultation with communities were undertaken to ensure effective
project design and socially sustainable results. Additional consultations will be carried
out once the design of the activities under the restructuring are finalized. The EMP will
also be included as part of the consultation.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                     Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     11/14/2012
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 11/23/2012
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  11/27/2012
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                     Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     05/31/2010
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 06/15/2010
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  09/30/2010
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                      N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                      N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?              Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)          Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the          Yes
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process              Yes
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector        Yes
Manager review the plan?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's       Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   Yes
cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           Yes
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             Yes
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
documents?
  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                              Name            Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr Michael Bonte-Grapentin      10/01/2013
Environmental Specialist:           Mr Gerardo F. Parco             10/03/2013
Social Development Specialist       Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro   10/03/2013
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Michel Kerf                  10/09/2013
  Comments: Approved
