                  E2554 v3
      ENVIRONEMNTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT




               PROJECT TITLE :

TONGA POST-TSUNAMI RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR

            NIUATOPUTAPU(TPTRP)




                November 2012




 1
    ENVIRONEMNTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT; PROJECT TITLE :
    TONGA POST-TSUNAMI RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR
                NIUATOPUTAPU(TPTRP)

A. Introduction/Background
As required by Regulation 16 of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation 2010
(“the Regulations?) and also by the World Bank Environmental and Social Safeguards
Policy Framework, this Environmental Impact Assessment focuses specifically on assessing
the potential environmental impacts relating to the following activities:


i. Extension and Connection of Village Reticulated Water Supply to all the newly built
cyclone-resistant houses for the new settlements at Hihifo, Vaipoa and Falehau
Villages in Niuatoputapu.
ii. Repairing of the Existing 6.7km sealed road from the wharf at Falehau to the
airport.
iii. Upgrading/Extension of Small Boat Jetty at Pasivulangi Wharf, Falehau


These additional activities are to be funded from the unallocated balance of the IDA Grant
for the Tsunami Reconstruction Project for NTT and are described in more details under
Section B of this Report.


Project Objective
The overall objective of the Tonga Post-Tsunami Reconstruction Project is to improve
infrastructure, livelihood and normality to the people of Niuatoputapu following the 2009
tsunami.
The main activities for the overall rehabilitation/recovery program for Niuatoputapu
include: relocation and reconstruction of residential buildings, small business building and
community buildings including rainwater harvesting and sanitation facilities,
reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads, construction of a new hospital, upgrading of
school facilities, telecommunication, government offices, airport and wharf facilities,
upgrading and extension of reticulated water system, solar electrifications, installation of
an early warning system as well as improvements of livelihood activities.




       2
B. Brief Description of the Additional Activities
More detail descriptions of the three specific activities covered under this EIA, are outlined
below.
i. Extension of Village Reticulated Water Supply to Newly Built-Replacement Housing
Units
The World Bank Implementation Support and Review Mission which visited Tonga from 1-
11 September 2012 agreed with Government to provide urgently needed permanent water
supply to all the new buildings being constructed under the Tsunami Reconstruction
Project which include: i) 73 residential buildings, ii) 3 community weaving houses and iii) 2
bakery buildings which upon completion of the construction works, permanent water
supply system should be connected to them. The detailed design, technical specifications,
cost estimates and the drawings for this activity has been completed and was undertaken
by the Tonga Water Board to be installed/constructed by the existing Contractor for the
Works Contract A.1.1- Construction of Replacement Housing Units under a variation to the
existing contract A.1.1.
The works will basically involve digging of trenches of about 2 ½ ft for the water mains
along the newly constructed roads leading up to the water pumps and tank stands for each
of the villages of Hihifo, Vaipoa and Falehau and then connecting to all the newly built
houses. The water pipes to connect the water supply from the individual houses to the
water main have already been installed. What remains to be done are the connections of
the individual water system to the water-mains as discussed above.
 Estimated Cost : The total estimated costs for the extension of the village water supply to
the newly built replacement housing units are as follows:
                                    TOP
       Hihifo        -              176,858.00
       Vaipoa        -               45,915.00
       Falehau       -              160,802.00
       Total Estimated Costs TS 383,575.00


Refer to the Pipeline Plans for Hihifo, Vaipoa and Falehau which are attached.


ii. Repairing of the Existing Sealed Roads
This additional activity will involve repairing and resealing of the existing sealed roads of
6.7km from the wharf at Falehau to the airport. These sealed roads were constructed in
2011 by the Ministry of Works and the Tonga Defense Services. An inspection of these
roads by the World Bank Implementation Support Mission and the PMU Project Engineer in
April 2012, revealed extensive reflection cracking in the sand seal and loss of bond
between surface and base, which could indicated i. scratches of the base due to excessive


       3
plasticity and ii. Insufficient thickness of the seal, mostly likely caused b insufficient
bitumen or iii. Possible over leaking of the bitumen before application causing buttleness.


Refer to the photo attached showing cracking on the existing roads to be repaired


The rehabilitation of existing main roads of 6.7km from Falehau wharf to the airport will
essentially involve i. repairing the existing base course by patching or reconstructing poor
areas and (ii). Resealing the surface over the full 6.7km with a nominal 5mm sand seal.
The total cost for this activity is estimated at TOP$294,280.00


iii. Upgrading/Extension of Small Boat Jetty at Pasivulangi Wharf, Falehau
This activity involves the upgrading and extension of the small and safe landing space for
small boats jetty to provide amble and safe landing space for small boats from Tafahi Island
and for fishermen when loading and off-loading agricultural produce and their fishing gear
and catches. The design and cost estimates for this activity has been prepared by the
Project Engineer at a total estimated costs of TOP$75,000. Implementation will await
pending availability of funds from the unallocated balance of the Project Fund.
(See photo of the Pasivulangi wharf showing the small boat jetty to be upgraded)


C. Environmental and Social Safeguards - Overview
The new settlements at Hihifo, Vaipoa and Falehau were inspected by the World Bank
Environmental and Social safeguards Specialist as a member of an Implementation
Support and Review Mission from the Bank which visited Tonga in April and September
2012. The materials for the construction of the houses and roads have been sourced locally
from an inland quarry and three coastal sites where sand and coral materials were taken.
There was no significant negative environmental impacts observed from the
implementation of these activities. The Contractor has complied with the Environmental
Management Plan as required under the Contract.
Summarized below are the findings and recommendations by the World Bank Mission in
relation to environmental and safeguards for the Project.
i. Cyclone Resistant Housing
Impacts related to construction of the houses such as dust and construction debris have
been minimal. The three sites for the replacement housing project, are at Hihifo, Vaipoa and
Falehau. Notable in the design of these houses are improved sanitation, disaster resistance
and adequate water supply. The use of Roto-Mould plastic septic tanks will provide leak
proof septic tank. A proper soak-pit with coral material providing enhanced filtration of the
over flow, provides adequate mitigation of the domestic waste water generated by the
occupants of the houses. The inland location of the houses and the use of tension
connectors for all elements of the house provide disaster resilience from tsunami, floods

       4
and cyclone force winds. The use of rainwater harvesting will have a positive impact on
the environment as large plastic tanks with a 5000 liter capacity have been installed and
should provide for most of the water requirements of each family. The addition of
reticulated water supply for all the families in the new settlements will augment the
harvested rainwater supply. No complaints from the communities have been reported.
There have also been no reports of injuries to workers. There is a general agreement in the
communities regarding the objectives of this project which is providing a very basic need –
housing.
ii. Quarries
There is one inland quarry which has provided limited materials as road base and
especially in filling the drainages. Excavation of the materials needed for the project has
been limited to the minimum amount. Vegetation of the sites will be carried out as required
under the EMP. As is usual in the tropics, vegetations has started to return naturally in
areas previously excavated. Aside from the inland quarry, there are 3 quarry sites which
provided sand and coral materials for the construction of the houses and the roads.


The Niua Development Committee, the PMU and the local communities have expressed a
strong interest in implementing a “coral-sand quarrying restoration activity? to restore
these areas. It has been observed, that despite the extraction of sand and coral materials
from these areas, fish life has been thriving in the deep in the pools created at the quarry
sites. The establishment of mangrove and other tree species will restore these areas as
habitat for marine life.
The proposal for the coral sand quarrying restoration activity has been prepared by the
MLECCNR at an estimated sot of T$30,000 to be implemented during November 2012-
February 2013.
Both the Contractors and the Construction Supervision team have been constantly
reminded about the provisions of the EMP to ensure continued compliance with EMP and
with good environmental practices, will ensure the good quality of the final infrastructures.
The Project overall can be gauged as having achieved its objective in close compliance with
the approved EMP.




       5
D. This Section will address the various issues required under the
Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation of 2010.


1. Description of the Purpose and Scope of the proposed development
activity

a. Purpose : What goal and objectives of the society are served? Why is the Project
needed.
The Project aims at improving the cultural, social and economic well-being of the people of
Niuatoputapu and to bring back normality following the tsunami in 2009.
b. Direct benefits expected, products, services, jobs return on investment
The improved water system will cater for an essential basic human needs essential for
good healthy living. The extension of the reticulated water system at a Contract Cost
variation of TOP$383,576 will provide employment and incomes for about 3 people from
Tongatapu and about 15 casual workers from Niuatoputapu during the construction phase
which runs from late October – mid December 2012 thereby providing income for the local
workers.
c. Location and Extent of Site boundaries and associated facilities at preferred sites
and other feasible sites (maps are attached)
The new water tank 5000gal with tank stand to provide water to the new settlement at
Hihifo will be located on higher ground on the site for the new hospital. For Vaipoa, the
new settlement will be serviced from the existing reticulated water system just across the
road. For Falehau, a new 5000gal water tank with stand will be located on community land
at the new settlement which is about 1km from the existing well and pumping stations. The
water for the new overhead tanks for Hihifo and Falehau will pumped from the existing
wells.


d. Technology to be used
No sophisticated technology is required for the implementation of the three activities
except a chain digger and other earth moving equipment, loader etc for clearing and
digging the trenches for the water mains. The upgrading of the wells and water pumps,
being funded under Japan’s aid, will involve the installation of solar pumps for all the 3
villages in order to reduce and/or maintain costs at low level.
e. Local Infrastructure required: roads, utilities etc
The key objective of the Project is to improve living standards of the island population
through the reconstruction/rehabilitation of much of the infrastructures on the island such
as housing, water and sanitation, roads, harbour and wharf, hospital, schools, banking,
telecommunications etc.


       6
f. Duration of Construction Period and Operating Life
 The extension of the community reticulated water system is planned to run from mid-
October to mid-December 2012 and for rehabilitation/resealing of the existing roads, this
is planned to be implemented from September 2012- January 2013. The expected life of the
new water tank and stand would be about 10-12 years and for the resealed roads, 7-10
years.


2. Justifications for the development activities in                             terms      of
environmental, economic, cultural and social considerations
      Environmental – The extension of the water mains and connecting to the newly
       built houses will involve basically, trenching for the main water pipes and the
       trenches will be refill and regrowth of           vegetation will be natural. The
       environmental impact of this activity will be minimal.
      Social and economic : the improve reticulated water system and roads when
       completed will have direct positive impact on improving the communities health
       and standard of living as well as their economic livelihood.


3. Identify, describe and analyze the potential direct and indirect
physical, biological, social, cultural and economic impacts of the
development activities for both construction and operational phases of
the development.
The potential environmental impacts of the proposed activities that may arise during both
the construction and operational phases are as follows:

a. Air Quality
Construction Phase

Possible air quality impacts during construction phase include:
      fugitive dust arising from excavation, demolition and construction of structures,
       movement of construction traffic over the site area, and wind erosion of open sites;
       and
      cumulative impact of fugitive dust resulting from any adjacent construction works.

   Air Sensitive Receivers (ASRs)
      such as residential premises, offices, shops, and active open spaces in the vicinity of
       the work sites may be impacted.

   Operation Phase
      Operation phase air quality impact arising would be vehicle emissions of nitrogen
       dioxide and respirable suspended particulates from traffic on the proposed roads.
       7
      Cumulative air quality impact taking into account emissions of dust from the
       existing road may have impact on the nearby ASRs.

   Noise
   Construction Phase
      During the construction phase, powered mechanical equipment which are expected
       to generate noise include: breakers (both portable and excavator-mounted), power
       units for various types of plant, including air compressors, excavators, trucks,
       graders and loders. Moreover, major noisy activities include breaking road surface,
       excavation, and road surfacing and handling of earth materials.
      Noise sensitive receivers (NSRs) such as residential premises and schools in the
       vicinity of the work sites may be impacted.

       Operation Phase
      During the operational phase, traffic noise from the new road may have impact to
       the NSRs.



b. Water Quality
   Construction Phase
      Excavation of road construction materials from reef may affect the quality of
       seawater around the vicinity.
      During the excavation for construction materials and the construction of the new
       marine boat landing place there could be temporary elevation in concentrations of
       suspended solids and generation of sediment plumes, leakage of concrete, possible
       release of organic and inorganic contaminants and nutrients as well as creation of
       potential embayment, which may affect the water quality.
      For the land-based construction works, site runoff from the bituminous road surface
       would be the major source of water quality impact.

   Operation Phase
      Water quality impact during the operation phase of the CBL is considered negligible,
       as the impact would be confined to the road surface runoff.

c. Ecological and Fisheries
    Construction Phase
      Excavation for road construction materials and the construction of marine landing
       facility works may impact isolated small colonies of corals and fisheries in the area.
       However, apart from an area of corals of significance close to the island, the marine
       ecology is considered to be of low conservation interest.



       8
   Operation Phase
      The potential impacts on marine ecology may include loss of seabed and its
       surrounding which have loss of potential fishing ground is considered to be of little
       effect on fisheries production in Niuatoputapu as a whole.

d. Waste Management
   Construction Phase
      Wastes generated by the construction works are likely to include excavated spoil,
       construction wastes, used products and dredged sediment. The possible presence of
       contaminated sediments that may require excavation and disposal will need to be
       assessed.

   Operation Phase
      There would be no waste during the operation phase.

e. Landscape and Visual
    Construction Phase
      Landscape and visual impacts are expected from construction works such as marine
       excavation and construction, road construction, construction plant, etc. The impacts
       would be temporary.

   Operation Phase
      The landscape character of Niuatoputapu will not be affected by this construction
       works.

f. Cultural Heritage
Vai-ko-Niutoua; Underground Water Stream
         Vai-ko-Niutoua is an underground water stream created by stalagtide and
   stalagmite has a cultural significance to the people of the island. It once supplied the
   island with fresh water for drinking and domestic hygiene. Its name also has a
   significant attachment to the island. The excavation from the reef was made sure that it
   would not affect the flow of water out from the stream.
   

g. Major Elements of the Surrounding Environment

      The major existing and planned sensitive receivers that may be affected by the
       proposed project are summarized as follows. The locations of these receivers are
       shown in the attached drawings.

4. Environmental Protection Measures and any Further Environmental
   Implications.

       9
Mitigating Measures to Minimize Environmental Impacts
a. Air Quality
      The following dust control measures to minimize the dust nuisance during the
       construction phase should be considered:
            vehicle wheel and body washing facilities at site are provided
            reduction of vehicle speed
            reduction of unpaved roads
            regular wetting of the site (using browsers, sprays or vapor mists) to reduce
              dust
            the earthmoving activities must be carefully and well planned. Such planning
              shall include the transportation routes as well as protective measures such as
              the employment of water-spraying and tarpaulin sheets to suppress the dust
              generated during and after excavation
      Dust, which is predominantly associated with construction, is not expected to be an
       issue during the operational phase. Exhaust gaseous emission by vehicles should be
       considered in the air quality assessment under the EIA Study.


b. Noise
      To mitigate the construction noise impacts, the following measures should be
       considered:
           o use of silenced equipment
           o use of mufflers, silencers and acoustic linings for noisy mechanical
             equipment
           o employment of alternative concrete breaking techniques
           o sitting of equipment
           o careful scheduling of work, especially near the educational institution where
             examination periods shall be taken into consideration
           o use of temporary acoustic barriers if required
           o proper maintenance of equipment
           o use of construction noise specification and clauses
           o adequate site supervision to ensure that every practical means is adopted to
             minimize the noise impacts
      To reduce traffic noise during the operational phase, the following measures should
       be considered:
           o low-noise road surfacing materials
           o noise enclosure and/or barrier

c. Water Quality
      Temporary drainage systems, with interceptor manholes and appropriate sediment
       settlement measures, will be required to trap oil pollutants and debris initiating
       from within the site, and to separate pollutants prior to discharging into the
       drainage system. The following mitigation measures should also be considered:


       10
            o before commencement of demolition works, sewer and drainage connections
              should be sealed to prevent debris entering the public sewers/drain
            o stockpiles should be covered to avoid erosion and washing of solid waste
              into the drainage system
            o for backfilling using public fill, the maximum fine content of fills should not
              exceed 5%
            o installation of silt curtain during bored piling works

      During the operation phase, the following mitigation measures should be
       considered to reduce impact on water quality:
          o provision of silt traps to reduce the concentration of silt/sediments in storm
             water runoff
          o regular inspection and maintenance of the drainage system to ensure that
             pollutant removal facilities are in good working order


d. Waste Management
      The main source of solid waste during the construction phase will be excavated
       spoil and sediment. Other materials including surplus construction materials, used
       products and municipal type waste will also be generated. To minimize impacts, the
       following mitigation measures should be taken into consideration:
           o waste management in the way of avoiding, minimizing, reusing, and recycling
              should be adopted to reduce waste generation
           o solid waste shall be removed from the site and taken to a designated disposal
              site
           o contaminated sediment will, subject to its detailed classification by a
              forthcoming site investigation, be properly disposed of to relevant
              designated dumping ground.

e. Landscape and Visual
    Mangrove enhancing replanting
      Mitigation measures to minimize the landscape and visual impacts may include but
       not limited to:
          o compensatory planting of mangrove, toa and feta’u trees around the vicinity
              of the area where the road construction materials were excavated and this
              would stop coastal erosion hence improve visual effects.

f. Cultural Heritage
      Impacts to sites of cultural heritage or archaeological resources that are affected by
       the project should be assessed and mitigation measures may include but not limited
       to:
           o preservation in whole or in part
           o temporarily fenced off buffer zone
           o monitoring of vibration impacts

       11
Note : The Environmental Impact Assessment and Management Plan including costs
estimates are summarised in Table A attached.


5. Evaluate and describe any feasible alternative activities, including
locations for achieving the objections of the development
Given that the reticulated water system – wells, water pumps, tanks and stands as well as
all the replacement houses have all been constructed on the approved sites, it is not
necessary to consider other alternative sites. Similarly, the limited volume of coral
materials and sand required for rehabilitation/resealing of the existing roads can best e
excavated from the existing sites for which materials for the original roads construction
were obtained from. Due to the existing conditions of the machineries currently on the
island only limited quantities of coral materials can be excavated from the existing quarry
for parts of the roads rehabilitation. Otherwise, much of the requirements for upgrading
the existing roads would be the sand for tar-sealing.


6. Evaluate and describe the implications and Consequences of not
undertaking the proposed development
If the reticulated water is not extended and connected to the newly built houses on the new
settlements, the modern septic toilets and shower facilities provided cannot be used
properly and this can become a serious health risk. The existing roads from Falehau to the
airport constructed in 2011, is already showing extensive reflective cracking and breaking
up in many sections of the road which obviously needs urgent upgrading. The dilapidated
conditions of the existing roads will only get worse if nothing is done to rehabilitate. The
fact that there are existing plants and equipment including man power resources present
on the island, provides an excellent opportunity for the rehabilitation of the existing roads.


7. Identifying, describe and analyze possible cumulative effects upon
components of the environment with other existing or likely future
development activities
It is recognized that the excavation of coral and sand materials for roads construction from
coral reef flats surroundings Niuatoputapu has potential for major environmental impacts
including coral erosion or loss of biodiversity that should be avoided.
The EMP for the construction of replacement housing units and construction of the new
roads and within the new settlements strongly support the additional activity for the
restorations of the sand-coral quarrying sites by planting mangrove trees and other tree
species (feta’u and toa) to restore the habitat of these sites. This activity has the strong
support of the local communities. On the positive site, it has been observed that despite the
negative impacts due to extraction of sand-coral materials from the three coastal sites at
Hihifo, fish life has been thriving in the deep in the pools created on the quarry sites.


       12
8. Public/Community Consultations
Public consultations were undertaken prior to commencement of the reconstruction with
communities of the 3 villages of Hihifo, Vaipoa and Falehau regarding the design and scope
of the replacement housing units including the provision of rain water harvesting and
sanitation facilities. In addition, community consultation were also conducted regarding
the excavation of coral materials and whilst there were strong views against the proposed
excavations of sand and coral materials from the flat coastal reef due to possible negative
environmental impacts, but given that there was no other feasible option for sourcing the
base materials for the construction of new roads, and the extension of the reticulated water
system, the majority of the communities agreed to allow the sand-coral excavations to be
implemented in order for the construction works to be completed as soon as possible.




       13
                                      Table A : Environmental Impact Assessment and Management Plan
     Key Activity              Potential           Negative   Minor    Reversible        Mitigating           Implementing            Cost         Timeline
                             Environmental            or       Or          Or            Measures                Agency            Estimates
                                Impact             Positive   Major   Irreversible
1. Clearing and digging of  Chain digger may      Negative   Minor    Reversible     Contractor     to      Contractor, Govt    To         be   Nov – Dec
trenches       for     the cause damage to                                             ensure that the        Representative       implemented     2012
reticulated water mains      existing    sealed                                        trenches for the           and the          by        the
                             roads                                                     pipelines are well      Communities         Contractor
                            Trenches if not                                           compacted.                                 Community
                             properly                                                 Communities are                             involvement
                             compacted                                                 encouraged     to                           to         be
                             especially on the                                         plant ornamental                            provided free
                             slope from new                                            plants along the
                             hospital site to                                          road     side  to
                             the           new                                         protect       soil
                             settlement       at                                       erosion
                             Hihifo can cause
                             soil erosion
2. Safe disposal of  Burning               can    Negative   Minor    Reversible     Left over unused       Contractor   and      As above        Nov- Dec
leftover plastic materials   cause           air                                       plastic materials      Tonga      water                       2012
following completion of      pollution                                                 should be buried       Board Supervisor
reticulated         water                                                             Apply        proper
Extension                                                                              waste
                                                                                       management
3. Quarrying of materials    Disruption      of   Negative   Minor    Reversible     Carefully     select         MOI             $30,000        Nov 12- Jan
for                           habitat can affect                                       area      to      be      PMU Roads                             13
rehabilitation/resealing      fish and other                                           excavated                  Engineer
of Existing Roads             marine                                                  Limit the quantity
                              organisms                                                of        excavated
                             Deep        water                                        materials only for
                              ponds     created                                        whats needed for
                              can pose risk to                                         the            road
                              children                                                 rehabilitation
                              swimming in the                                         Replanting        of
                              area                                                     mangrove        and
                             Can cause coastal                                        suitable        tree
                              erosion       and                                        species to restore
                              increase       the                                       the       excavated

             14
                               risks of damages                                         areas
                               by tsunami, tidal                                       Community
                               waves and sea-                                           involvement will
                               rising                                                   be encouraged
4. Grading and leveling of    Air      filtration    Negative   Minor   Reversible    Expedite laying of          MOI          To           be    Nov 12- Jan
existing     roads      in     cause by dust                                            coral materials to    Project Engineer   implemented as         13
preparation for coral          created during                                           minimize erosion            and          part of the
base laying and sand           construction                                             and sedimentation     Road Supervisor    construction
sealing                       Water pollution                                         Schedule     works                       phase
                               cause by dust                                            for coral material
                               sediments        on                                      laying to coincide
                               guttering        of                                      with low traffic
                               nearby                                                   flow time
                               residential                                             Retention ponds
                               houses                                                   may              be
                              Sedimentation                                            constructed      at
                               can affect other                                         critical      spots
                               organisms                                                during       roads
                                                                                        construction
                                                                                        phase
5.     Upgraded     and       The                   Negative    Minor   Reversible           Pouring of     MOI        Roads         To be         Dec 12 –
Extension of Small Boat        cement/concrete                                        any concrete mix        Engineer           implemented as       Jan 13
Jetty                          to be used for                                         should be scheduled                           part of the
                               the    upgrading                                       to be done during                             roads at no
                               works can cause                                        low tides                                   additional cost
                               minimal                                                        Avoid
                               pollution     and                                      spilage of any oil
                               may          have                                      cement at the wharf
                               pollution                                              during       working
                               impacts         on                                     hours
                               marine                                                         Close
                               organisms and                                          supervision of the
                               small fish living                                      works
                               in             the
                               surrounding
                               area
6.       Environmental        Failure to closely    Negative/   Minor   Reversible         MLECCNR          MLECCNR             TS$3500 for        Nov 12 –
Assessment Monitoring          monitor the EMP        Positive                        to ensure EMP is        MOI                 monitoring          Jan 13
                               can         cause                                      implemented             PMU                   visits by

             15
     negative impacts   effectively            MLECCNR
     on the EMP                 Project
     expected           Manger and Roads
     outcomes           Engineer          to
                        constantly follow up
                        to ensure effective
                        implementation of
                        the EMP




16
     Pipeline Plans for Hihifo, Vaipoa and Falehau




      Maps showing the Pipeline Plans for Hihifo, Vaipoa and Falehau




17
     Photo attached showing cracking on the existing roads to be repaired




               Existing roads showing extensive cracking and damages to the surface sealing




18
      Pasivulangi wharf showing the small boat jetty to be upgraded




     The small boat jetty to be upgraded is a adjacent to the buoy in black




19
