Document of
The World Bank                   tilE  CW'Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3256-UV
REPUBLIC OF THE UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 7, 1981
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US Dollar 1.00   =    CFAF 235
CFAF 1 million   =    US Dollar 4,255
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31
SYSTEM OF 1EIGHTS AND MEASURES:  METRIC
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                 =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 centimeter (cm)           =    0.39 inches (in)
1 square kilometer (km)    =    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                 =    0.22 imp. gallons
=    0.26 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)             =    2.205 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t)                         2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONMYS
adt  -  average daily traffic
voc  -  vehicle operating costs
vpd - vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY - GLOSSAIRE
BPP       Bureau of Planning and Programming       Bureau de Planification et de
Programmation
BP        Bureau of Programming                    Bureau de Programmation
CIDA      Canadian International Development       Agence Canadienne pour le
Agency                                  Developpement International
CFPTP     Center for Technical Training            Centre de Formation Professionelle
des Travaux Publics
DETN      Directorate for Design and New Work    Direction des Etudes et des
Travaux Neufs
DM        Directorate for Equipment                Direction du Materiel
DGT       General Directorate of Transport         Direction Generale des Transports
DGTP      General Directorate of Public Works    Direction Generale des Travaux
Publics
DR        Regional Directorates                    Direction Regionale
EDF       European Development Fund                Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FAC       French Aid Agency                        Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(France)
FRU       Feeder Roads Unit                        Division des Routes de Desserte
MTPTU     Ministry of Public Works, Trans-         Ministere des Travaux Publics,
port and Urbanism                       des Transports et de l'Urbanisme
ORD       Regional Development Organization        Organisme Regional de Developpement
RAN       Railways Authority                       Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-
Niger
SERN      Maintenance Department for               Service d-Entretien des Routes
National Roads                          Nationales
SERS      Maintenance Department for               Service d'Entretien des Routes
Secondary Roads                         Secondaires
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C
PI



UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       TRANSPORT   SECTOR   .............................................                                                                     1
A.   Geographic,  Social and Economic  Factors  ..................                                                                     1
B.     The   Transport   System   .....................................                                                               1
Railways   ................................................                                                                 2
Access   to   the   Sea   .......................................                                                            3
Air   Transport   ...........................................                                                                3
C.   Transport  Planning and Coordination  ......................                                                                     3
D.      Bank  Group   Assistance   to   the   Sector   ......................                                                         4
II.      THE   HIGHWAY   SUBSECTOR   ........................................                                                                   5
A.      The   Road   Network   .........................................                                                              5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic  ....                                                         ...........             6
C.   The Road Transport Industry and Regulation  ....                                                         ...........             7
D.     Administration   ...........................................                                                                   8
E.      Financing   ................................................                                                                  9
F.     Engineering   ..............................................                                                                 10
G.     Construction   .............................................                                                                 10
H.     Maintenance   ..............................................                                                                 11
I.     Training   .................................................                                                                 12
III.   THE   PROJECT   ..................................................                                                                     13
A.      Objectives   ...............................................                                                                13
B.     Description   ..............................................                                                                 13
C.      Cost   Estimates   ...........................................                                                              18
D.      Financing   ................................................                                                                22
E.      Implementation   ...........................................                                                                23
F.     Procurement   ..............................................                                                                 24
G.     Disbursements   ............................................                                                                 25
IV.      ECONOMIC   EVALUATION   ..........................................                                                                   25
A. Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program of Classified
Roads   ...................................................                                                               25
B. Selection Criteria for Earth and Gravel Roads to be
Included in First Priority Road Rehabilitation ....                                                        ......    27
C.   Feeder Roads  Construction  Program  ........................                                                                  28
D.   Overall Project Benefits and Risk Analysis  ....                                                          ...........          28
V.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..................                                                                         29



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
I. Tables
1.   Planned and Actual Expenditures on Roads and Railways,
1972-81
2.   Expenditures on Road Construction by Sources of Financing,
1977-80
3.   Ongoing and Planned Road Construction Projects
4.   IDA Investments in the Road Infrastructure, 1970-80
5.   Vehicle Registrations, 1975-79
6.   Principal Revenues and Expenditures on Roads, 1975-79
7.   Current Receipts and Expenditures in the DGTP Budget, 1975-79
8.   Geometric Design Standards by Road Type
9.   Road Maintenance Equipment to be Procured
10.   Long-Term Rehabilitation and Regravelling Program
11.   First Priority Program for Rehabilitation and Regravelling
12.   Bitumen-Surfaced Roads to be Resealed
13.   Monitoring Indicators of Maintenance Program
14.   Vehicle Operating Costs
II. List of the Technical Assistance Personnel by Type of Function
III. Feeder Roads
IV. Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
I.   Proposed Reorganization of Public Works Department
II.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
I.   Fourth Highway Project, Road Network (IBRD 15349)
II.   Feeder Roads (IBRD 15477)
This report was prepared by Peter Ludwig and Pierre Tessier-Viennois
(Engineers) and Iona Sebastian and Brigitta Mitchell (Economists) on the
basis of an appraisal mission in May 1980.



UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.        Geographic, Social and Economic Factors
1.01      Upper Volta is a landlocked, Sahelian country with an area of
274,000 km2. The country's geography is characterized by poor soils, lack
of mineral resources and an arid climate. The population of 6.4 million is
growing at about 2% per annum. Two-thirds of the people live on the central
plateau in the eastern part of the country; over 85% are engaged in sub-
sistence agriculture and livestock raising. Per capita gross domestic product
(GDP) was about US$128 in 1978, placing Upper Volta among the ten poorest
countries in the world. Seven percent of the total population work outside
the country, mostly in neighboring Ivory Coast, and their salary remittances
provided a steady income flow which amounted to about 8% of GDP in 1978. An
IMF economic mission of October 1979 estimated that real GDP has been declining
steadily, down 27% from 1970 to 1978. This decrease is due to a combination of
factors among which the most important are the long-lasting effects of the
drought and the decline in productivity following the emigration of young
male farmers to the Ivory Coast.
1.02      The modern sector of the economy registered a modest growth of
about 3% p.a. over 1974-78, especially marked in administrative services due
to increased government spending, in commerce due to increased imports, and in
hotels and restaurants. Since 1978 the performance of the agricultural sector
has improved and a growth rate of 3.1% has been attained. Following the
onchocerciasis eradication effort, a farmers resettlement program was started
in 1977 under the supervision and control of the Autorite pour lAmenagement
des Vallees des Voltas (AVV). It is expected that as a result of this program,
the more fertile soil of the Volta Valleys will be gradually brought back into
production.
B.        The Transport System
1.03      There are 16,500 km of roads and tracks (a density of about
60m/km2) radiating from the country-s two main cities: Ouagadougou, the
capital, in the center and Bobo-Dioulasso in the southwest (The details of
the road system and the road transport industry are discussed in Chapter 2).
The Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger (RAN) links the same main cities
with the port of Abidjan in the Ivory Coast. The latter is Upper Volta-s
main trading partner and the railroad carries about 75% of the country's
total import-export traffic. Other international access routes include paved
roads from Ouagadougou to the coast through Ghana and Togo and some partly
paved roads through Benin and Niger, via Fada N'Gourma, a newly emerging
center of economic activity. International airports are located at Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso. Some 10 additional airstrips are located at the country's
major townships, but carry little traffic.



- 2 -
1.04      The transport system promotes economic and political unification of
the country.  The food crops cultivated in the southwest are distributed via
the road network to the populations of the northern and northeastern Sahelian
regions. Cash crops are brought into the trading centers at Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso from the neighboring regions. Also, the Government regards the
road infrastructure as the necessary prerequisite for the implementation of
its education and health programs.
1.05      Roads and the railway absorbed 16.2% of total expenditure under
the 1972-76 development plan; 15% went to roads financed mostly by foreign
donors and multilateral aid agencies (Tables 1 and 2). 1/ The goals of
the development plan were not achieved in the road subsector. Of the 798 km
covered in the road paving program, only some 400 km were completed; road
maintenance activities slowed down from lack of adequately trained personnel,
fuel and spare parts. Uncompleted projects were shifted to the 1977-81
planning period (Table 3). In the railway subsector, expenditures on track
maintenance and equipment renewal were fully executed as planned.
1.06      The Government continues to give high priority to the upgrading of
its main road system, and the roads included for reconstruction to paved
standards in the 1977-81 development plan (Table 3) are economically justi-
fied. However, there has recently been a trend to pay more attention to the
maintenance of main roads and development of feeder roads (Table 2). This
trend is justified in light of regional development programs, and as a pre-
requisite it requires an efficient highway maintenance organization which the
proposed project will help to develop.
Railways
1.07      RAN, owned by the Governments of Ivory Coast and Upper Volta,
operates a 1,159 km single-track line from Abidjan to Ouagadougou of which
520 km are in Upper Volta. While it is financially autonomous, the two
Governments contribute to maintenance and capital renewal costs. Until 1978
RAN's financial performance was adequate, but in 1979, declining traffic and
increasing costs led to a deterioration of its financial position. Tariffs
have been increased, but the increases have been too late and too small to
keep up with rising prices and RAN's debt service requirements. Additional
increases may soon be necessary. The decline in traffic had resulted from
serious operational difficulties stemming in turn from a shortage of motive
power and rolling stock. With the delivery in mid-1979 of 19 new locomotives
and 210 additional freight cars financed under the First Regional Railway
Project (plus 216 freight cars under French financing), the quality of ser-
vice has improved, and in 1980 freight increased by 25% over the level of the
previous year. A second Regional Railway Project is under preparation and
scheduled for implementation over 1982-84. Total project cost is estimated at
about US$97.5 million including components executed in the Ivory Coast.
1/   All tables refer to Annex 1 unless otherwise indicated.



- 3 -
1.08      Freight on the RAN consists mainly of cotton seed, sugar, petroleum
products, cement and fertilizers.  In 1980, the RAN transported 579,000 tons.
While freight in ton-km has been fairly stable at about 550 million ton-km
from 1976 to 1979, passenger-km have increased considerably and the current
4 million annual passengers generate more than 50% of RAN's revenues.
1.09      The Government has been considering extending the railway line from
Ouagadougou to the northeast in conjunction with a potentially large-scale
manganese mining project at Tambao. Inasmuch as the construction of the rail-
way line and the purchase of the rolling stock amount to about two-thirds of
the total cost of the project, the project as a whole showed low rates of
return and foreign investors were discouraged. A new study is being carried
out to take into account other potential railway users in the Tambao area as
well as alternative lower track design standards for the line.
Access to the Sea
1.10      As a result of investments in the sector, Upper Volta is assured
of access to the Atlantic Ocean via the RAN to the port of Abidjan, and via
two paved roads to Tema in Ghana and to Lome in Togo. Although most of the
traffic continues to use the Abidjan facilities, tonnages shipped to Lome
reached about 30,000 tons in the first quarter of 1980, equal to the total
tonnage shipped through that port during the previous year. It is too early,
though, to assume that this trend represents a permanent shift in shippinig
patterns. Problems remain relating to different road transport policies in
Upper Volta, Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo and also to lack of information
regarding backhaul opportunities at the ports. Proposals for the standardiza-
tion of road transport regulations are being discussed during the sessions of
the Transport Commission of the Conseil de lEntente. 1/ When adopted, the
Session's resolutions would be implemented by the Governments represented.
Air Transport
1.11      International air service is provided by Air Afrique, UTA and
Air Ivoire, operating at the two international airports of Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso. These two airports are adequately managed by the Agence
pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne en Afrique (ASECNA). Domestic
services are provided by Air Volta, a mixed public/private company created
in 1967. It carries little traffic, mainly between Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso.
C.        Transport Planning and Coordination
1.12      The primary responsibility for transport planning and coordination
rests with the Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Urbanism (MTPTU). The
General Directorate of Public Works (DGTP) is responsible for the planning,
1/   This organization representing Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Upper Volta
and Togo promotes and coordinates political, social and economic policies
among its member countries.



- 4 -
construction and maintenance of roads, while the General Directorate of
Transport (DGT) is responsible for planning and supervision of the road
transport industry, railways, shipping, river transport and aviation. The
investment proposals made by the MTPTU are submitted to the Ministry of
Planning for selection and inclusion into five-year development plans. The
Ministry of Finance establishes road user taxes and specifies financial
ceilings for the sector.
1.13     Investments in the transport sector have been financed almost
exclusively by foreign donors, with Voltaic involvement limited until recently
to record-keeping.  In 1976, however, the Government began to become involved
in the planning of these investments through the Bureau of Planning and
Programming (BPP), which was established with UNDP financing and IDA technical
supervision. The technical assistants provided under the UNDP program have
been training Voltaic personnel in BPP to analyze transport investments and to
establish priorities. Their work has focussed so far on reviewing feasibility
studies prepared by consultants and on establishing feeder road construction
and rehabilitation programs. By the end of the technical assistance program,
the BPP will be staffed with two Voltaic engineers and one economist who have
worked closely with the foreign experts and who should be in a position to
continue the work program of the unit.
D.        Bank Group Assistance to the Sector
1.14      Since 1970 the Bank Group has been involved in one railway and three
highway projects to improve and develop Upper Volta-s transport infrastructure.
The First Regional Railway Project (Loan 1490-IVC, US$23.0 million, and
Cr. 744-UV, US$5.2 million, 1977) provided for track improvements, increased
capacity and technical assistance to RAN. The three highway projects were:
First Highway Project (Cr. 316-UV, US$2.8 million, 1972, supplemented by
US$1.35 million in 1974), Rural Roads Project (Cr. 579-UV, US$7.5 million,
1975) and the Third Highway Project (Cr. 653-UV, US$20.0 million, 1976, supple-
mented by US$3.5 million in 1979). The First Highway Project complemented the
West Volta Cotton Project (Credit 706-UV) by upgrading to gravel standards a
70 km road serving the project. The Second Project provided for the improve-
ment of 1,200 km of rural roads and maintenance of 2,100 km of existing rural
roads. The Third Project called for the paving of the Banfora-Bobo-Dioulasso-
Hounde road (183 km), equipment for axle weight control, technical assistance,
and a feasibility study and detailed engineering of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori
road (260 km). It also provided for a highway maintenance study carried out
by consultants BCEOM who drew up a four-year maintenance program which forms
the basis of the road maintenance provisions of this proposed project.
Besides these specific transport sector projects some of the agricultural
projects included road components (Table 4). Project Completion Reports were
issued for the West Volta Cotton Project and for the First Highway Project,
but the audit reports have not yet been issued. The Rural Roads Project is
proceeding satisfactorily while the Third Highway Project is nearing comple-
tion.



- 5 -
1.15      During the execution of these projects various issues have emerged
and are addressed either by subsequent projects or by the proposed project:
a)   Shortage of management personnel in the sector.  Investment projects
in the sector are phased into the development plans as funds become
available from international donors. Since the donors have con-
sistently favored capital formation, the Government's burden for
maintenance of such assets has steadily increased. An appropriate
management policy in the sector should: i) establish strict priori-
ties for investments in the sector; ii) limit such investments to
the availability of recurrent cost funds necessary to maintain the
capital assets acquired; and iii) use in a rational and efficient
manner the few funds allocated to cover the recurrent costs. The
BPP established in the MTPTU has the mandate to evaluate and program
investments in the sector. Under the proposed project technical
assistance will be provided to train administration and accounting
personnel to use more efficiently the funds allocated to the re-
current cost budget of the DGTP.
b)   Shortage of technical mid-level personnel to operate and maintain
road maintenance equipment. Long before the appraisal of the
proposed project, the need for mechanics and machine operators
was recognized both by Government and IDA. In anticipation of the
need to establish viable road maintenance institutions, the Second
Education Project (Credit 956-UV, US$14.0 million, 1980) includes
a component for upgrading the Center for Technical Training (CFPTP)
for the training of road maintenance personnel.
(c)  Lack of funds to maintain an extensive road network.  Whereas the
economy is based on subsistence agriculture and characterized by
slow overall growth, traffic is concentrated on a few main trunk and
secondary roads linking the few centers of economic and political
activity. Rural development projects covering hundreds of villages
throughout the country require access roads if significant changes
in agricultural production are to be brought about. Over the past
seven years the rural road network has been expanding but, again,
adequate provisions for maintenance have not been made. The pro-
posed project includes a component to evaluate the potential for
developing a system of cantonnage whereby rural populations which
benefit from the construction of low volume access roads in their
area do most of the maintenance. MTPTU would remain responsible
for the maintenance of higher volume roads.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.        The Road Network
2.01      Upper Volta's road network is estimated at about 16,500 km.  Although
about 8,700 km of the network are classified as national, departmental and
regional roads, half of these are no more than tracks or trails. The remaining



- 6 -
7,800 km are unclassified and are mostly rudimentary tracks, their length
arying from year to year as new villages are connected to the classified
etwork and others are abandoned. Under the Third Highway Project road
maintenance study, consultants BCEOM inventoried some 11,000 km of roads in
1979 and provided the following description of the system:
Road                               Improved  Improved
Condition            Paved   Gravel   Earth      Tracks      Trails    TOTAL
Administrative
Classification
National              857    1,563       560       1,401      225       4,606
Departmental           --      287       172         433      852       1,744
Regional               --      114       470         759    1,021       2,364
Total (Classified)   857    1,964    1,202         2,593    2,098       8,714
Non-Classified         --       --       452         627    1,358       2,437
TOTAL (inventoried
by consultants)       857    1,964    1,654       3,220    3,456       11,151
2.02      The extent of the network is adequate to serve the present level
of traffic. The Government, however, is also concerned with providing roads
necessary to bring health and education services to remote villages and
making accessible fertile lands of the Volta valleys recently opened for
resettlement. These goals will entail the building and maintenance of new
rural roads and the improvement of existing ones to a standard where they
can be kept open throughout the year by routine maintenance. The scope of
the project as proposed takes into account both the Government-s ability to
meet the recurrent cost burden of routine maintenance operations and the
need to keep open the connections with various scattered communities
for the supply of public services. The project will help the MTPTU to
establish the administrative structure and to provide the necessary equip-
ment and materials to assure lower cost transport on the most travelled
roads and open access throughout the year to the more heavily populated areas
of the country.
B.        Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.03      The vehicle fleet was estimated at about 28,000 units in 1979,
of which about 82% were light vehicles, i.e., private passenger cars, taxi-
buses, and passenger buses, and 18% were heavy vehicles including trucks and
trailer trucks (Table 5). Even the most heavily travelled roads, those
between Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the route to the Ivory Coast,



- 7 -
rarely register more than 250 vehicles per day and on 50% of the classi-
fied roads, the average daily traffic is no more than 20 vehicles per day.
Traffic growth rates over 1970-75 averaged about 8% p.a., a trend which
appears to have continued. There have been important variations in traffic
growth in different parts of the territory: on the Togo-Koupela-Niger axis,
traffic has grown about 30% p.a., and around the large towns (and on the
road to Ivory Coast) traffic growth is about 10%, while the rest of the
country has experienced a growth rate of about 7%.
2.04      DGTP is responsible for collecting traffic data.  Counts have been
made over the years by consultants in conjunction with road transport surveys
and feasibility studies for specific roads. In 1978 and 1979, only a few
manual counts were made sporadically by DGTP. Under the IDA-financed Third
Highway Project, however, the DGTP has purchased automatic traffic counting
equipment. The BPP is charged with deploying the equipment throughout the
network and collecting and analyzing the data. As a result of these programs
the DGTP will be able to establish road maintenance priorities based on
traffic volumes.
C.        The Road Transport Industry and Regulation
2.05      The road transport industry is dominated by one mixed public/private
firm, Societe Voltaique des Transports Routiers (SVTR), which handles most
of the traffic requiring specialized vehicles, or about one-fifth of total
freight traffic in the country. SVTR owns over 40 tractor-trailers and
tankers, has its own repair facilities and keeps spare parts inventories for
vehicle maintenance. The rest of the industry consists of about 190 owners of
some 290 trucks, and 400 owners of some 500 vehicles for passenger transport.
In addition, there are private entrepreneurs who carry other peoples goods
alongside their own. Other than those of SVTR which is run efficiently and at
a profit, tariffs fluctuate widely. During the nonagricultural season, they
barely cover the out-of-pocket costs of running the vehicles. A union of
small transporters helps small truckers to find shipments on a first-come,
first-served basis.
2.06      The DGT is responsible for registering, inspecting and licensing
vehicles for public transport and for other road safety measures. The First
Highway Project financed a technical assistance program to help DGT collect
vehicle registration data and to train administrative staff to analyze exist-
ing vehicle operating costs, road user taxes and the tariff structure in the
sector. Four high school graduates were successfully trained and are now
integrated into the DGT administration.
2.07      Road safety regulation and enforcement is the responsibility of
the DGT. This is exercised through regular vehicle inspection. Vehicles are
required to be inspected four times a year, but the inspection is quite lax
and proper vehicle maintenance is hard to enforce when spare parts needed
for repairs are not always available.
2.08      Axle load limit in Upper Volta is 13 tons.  To help enforce this
limit the Third Highway Project provided for the purchase and installation of



two weighing bridges. In addition, a dozen portable weighing scales are being
used throughout the network. It is expected that their deployment will help
control overloading and lower maintenance costs.
D.        Administration
2.09      MTPTU through DGTP is responsible for the classified road network
and for some of the important unclassified roads. Local authorities are in
charge of the remainder of the network.  At present DGTP is comprised of four
divisions: the Division for Maintenance of National Roads (SERN), Division
for Maintenance and Construction of Secondary Roads (SERS), Division of
Design and New Works (DETN), and the Mechanical Equipment Division.
2.10      Consultants BCEOM, after studying DGTP's structure, proposed a
gradual reorganization beginning in 1981. In a modified form this was accepted
by the Government and endorsed by the Association. The main change to the
present organization would be the decentralization of maintenance operations
as qualified personnel become available. A second change would reallocate
responsibilities between divisions which under the new organization would
become directorates (Chart 1). The modified organization, which should
formally come into existence in 1981 with the signing of a decree, would have,
under the General Directorate of Public Works, a Directorate for Design and
New Works (DETN), a Directorate for Equipment (DM) and, at first, four regional
directorates. DETN would continue to be responsible for the design and
supervision of construction. It would, in addition, through a Feeder Roads
Unit study section attached to DETN be responsible for the programming and
supervision of feeder roads to be improved under the present project. DM will
be responsible for the procurement, maintenance and distribution of neavy
equipment used by the regional directorates i.e., it would assume the respon-
sibilities of the Mechanical Equipment Division, but, in contrast to the
latter, would function as an equipment hire pool.
2.11      The decentralization of maintenance operations and force account
works would take place over the next ten years. Initially it is intended
to create four regional directorates which would correspond to the existing
subdivisions in Bobo-Dioulasso, Ouagadougou, Ouahigouya and Fada N Gourma.
Additional equipment, workshops and offices for these four regional direc-
torates would be financed under the proposed project (para. 3.03-3.04).  Each
regional directorate would have a unit for the maintenance of national roads
assuming the responsibilities of SERN and a unit for the construction and
maintenance of feeder roads assuming the responsibilities of SERS. Feeder
roads improved under this and the ongoing Rural Roads Project will be main-
tained by these regionalized Feeder Road Units. Accounts for feeder road
construction and maintenance will be kept separately from the maintenance
activities on national roads. It is expected that the Government will create
additional regional directorates as qualified personnel become available, so
that each of the country's 12 regions will have its own directorate by about
1990. In the meantime, the first four regional directorates would be respon-
sible for road construction and maintenance in neighboring regions.
2.12      The existing Bureau for Planning and Programming will be split
into its two functions. The planning function, which also covers the General



Directorate of Transport, will be attached to the Ministry's cabinet. The
programming function will be attached to the DETN where it would remiain
responsible for examining the economic feasibility of annual feeder road
programs and of other new road projects to be phased into thle investment
program. During negotiations, Government agreed, that the reorganization
as described in paras. 2.10-2.12 will take effect before the end of 1981.
E.   Financing
2.13      Total public expenditures on road construction and maintenance
amounted to about CFAF 20 billion from 1975 to 1980. Of the portion allo-
cated to current expenditures for the maintenance of national and secondary
roads, CFAF 4.2 billion, the Government contributed 3.5 billion or about 83%.
The remaining expenditures on maintenance and all construction was foreign
financed, mainly by the European Development Fund (EDF), Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC) and IDA (Table 6). Some 60 % of the Government's expendi-
tures went for salaries of administrative and operating personnel, with
insufficient allocations remaining for fuel and spare parts needed for effec-
tive maintenance (Table 7). To improve this situation, the Government has
agreed to budget separately allocations for salaries, fuels, spare parts and
materials. During negotiations, this arrangement was confirmed.
2.14      Road user charges consist of vehicle registration fees; taxes on
insurance; taxes and import duties on fuel, vehicles and spare parts. Vehicle
registration fees are collected by the municipalities and the revenues are
used by the local governments. Both insurance taxes and taxes and import
duties on fuel, vehicles and spare parts are collected by the Central Govern-
ment. Statistics are available only for the duties collected on petroleum
imports.  The retail price on transport fuels as of February 1980 was within
the range of prices of neighboring countries at CFAF 165/liter for gasoline
and CFAF 133/liter for diesel. Taxes on gasoline are 29% of the wholesale
price, while taxes on diesel fuel are 16%.
2.15      Total revenues from road user charges amounting to CFAF 19 billion
in the period from 1975 to 1979 represent almost 100% of total expenditures on
road construction and maintenance. By decree 59% of the taxes on fuel should
have been earmarked for a Road Fund and used for the maintenance, and rehabili-
tation of the road network. Had this decree been followed, in the same period
the Government would have collected some CFAF 7 billion, meeting more than
100% of road maintenance requirements. Instead, because of constraints in
the general budget the Parliament had curtailed the Road Fund by about 50%,
leaving insufficient funds for road maintenance (para. 2.23 and Table 7).
During negotiations Government gave assurances that starting in FY1982 the
full 59% of the taxes on fuel will be allocated to the Road Fund.
2.16      To facilitate the timely availability of funds for the execution
of routine maintenance and force account works, Government has proposed to
establish a special account in a private bank. This account would be under
the joint control of the Director of DGTP and the Chief Accountant of the
project. The Association will make an initial deposit of US$600,000 into
this account. Disbursements would be made in local currency only, and the



- 10 -
ssociation would reimburse for expenditures allowed under the project.
:-:ould Government make any disbursements from this account for expenditures
not covered by the Credit, it will redeposit the corresponding amount. The
opening of the account will be a condition of Credit effectiveness. During
negotiations, Government agreed to the above arrangements.
F.   Engineering
2.17      DETN will be responsible for road design.  Its staff will execute
minor projects, while consultants will be employed for major and complex
designs. Geometric and structural design standards follow accepted engineer-
ing practice and are adequate (Table 8).
2.18       For technical advice on pavement design and soils, the DETN can turn
to the National Laboratory (Laboratoire National des Batiments et des Travaux
Publics, LNBTP) an autonomous Government agency attached to the i4TPTU. It is
well equipped and assisted by the French Centre Experimentale de Recherches
d'Etudes du Batiment et des Travaux Publics (CEBTP). Its main task is to test
materials and soils for civil works, particularly for road construction.
G. Construction
2.19      Major road works are carried out by contract after competitive
bidding according to the procurement procedures of the financing agency.
Under the Third Highway Project a local firm participated for the first time
on a major road project as a subcontractor for the Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde
section (80 km) of the Banfora-Hounde road. Its performance was excellent.
The firm is now the main contractor on other bilaterally-financed road con-
struction projects. It is Upper Volta-s only major domestic construction
company; the shortage of qualified and trained personnel is still too acute
to permit the emergence of other civil engineering companies. Its key
personnel are still mainly expatriates, although they are slowly being
replaced by nationals.
2.20      There are, however, a fair number of small firms in the building
sector of the construction industry, which eventually might qualify for
civil works. In 1971, the Government created an office for the promotion of
domestic industries (Office de la Promotion de l Entreprise Voltaique, OPEV)
to provide assistance to Upper Volta-s small scale industry. The assistance
consists mainly of training and management assistance. Under the Third High-
way Project, IDA is financing a study to survey and analyze the construction
industry and to recommend a program to help small firms qualify for civil
works.  The study, awarded to consultants BCEOM, is expected to recommend
methods to train employees of existing firms to calculate contract prices,
prepare bidding documents and, generally, to improve their management and
construction techniques. The proposed project will provide funds for the
implementation of the assistance program after the Government and IDA agree
on the consultants- proposals. Furthermore, the gravel road rehabilitation
component of the proposed project will be divided into small lots to allow
small contractors to compete.



- 11 -
2.21      Besides construction by contractors, some work is carried out by
force account. Under the Rural Roads Project, IDA is financing the construc-
tion and initial maintenance of low-standard, low-cost feeder roads executed
by force account units under the responsibility of SERS. Construction is
progressing well and the proposed project will finance the continuation of
feeder road construction as well as a program of periodic regravelling for
national roads by force account.
2.22      DETN will be responsible for supervision of all construction.
Consulting firms assist DETN in supervising major road projects but DETN
has the capacity to supervise the construction and to carry out the
quality control of smaller projects with assistance, where necessary, from
the National Laboratory.
H. Maintenance
2.23      Maintenance of national roads has steadily and seriously deterio-
rated since 1972, mainly due to inadequate budget allocations. The Ministry
of Finance has cut MTPTUIs annual budget requests by as much as two-thirds
in recent years, due to financial constraints. Some 60% of the resulting
allocations have been needed to cover staff salaries, leaving relatively minor
sums for materials, fuel, spare parts and equipment renewal. The shortage
of funds is particularly acute where equipment is concerned; the fleet is
completely inadequate at present and badly in need of renewal. The following
table shows the decline both in the amount in real terms and in the percent-
age of the national budget allocated to road maintenance.
Expenditures for Routine and Periodic Maintenance of National Roads 1/
(US$ million)
Yearly         Expenditures      Government      % Allocated
in Current       in Constant       Recurrent         for Road
Year            $               1969 $            Budget       Maintenance
1972           2.5               2.1               41.3             6.1
1973           2.7               2.1              44.1              6.1
1974           3.0               2.2              48.8              6.0
1975           2.3               1.5              62.8              3.7
1976           2.3               1.3               76.9             3.0
1977           2.5               1.3               90.0             2.8
1978           2.7               1.3             105.1              2.6
1979           2.9               1.3             120.8              2.4
I/   Excluding overheads.
Source:  MTPTU.
Under the proposed project the regional directorates will assume respon-
sibility for maintenance of all classified roads as of 1982. The project
would finance the renewal of the equipment fleet and the incremental recurrent



- 12 -
cost of fuel, spare parts and materials in the context of the maintenance
program drawn up by consultants BCEOM. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed its endorsement of the program and agreed to update the program
annually following consultations with the Association. During negotiations,
the Government also agreed to a recurrent expenditure budget, to be reviewed
annually by the Government and IDA with respect to the estimated minimum
amounts (para. 3.06) and changes in prices and traffic patterns.
2.24      Maintenance of departmental and regional roads was started under
the Rural Roads Project. It has so far not experienced the same budgetary
and equipment difficulties as the maintenance of national roads, since new
equipment and some maintenance operating costs are being financed under that
project. The proposed project would continue to support the maintenance of
departmental and regional roads as well finance equipment renewal and some
operating costs.
2.25      Maintenance of most unclassified roads has normally been left to
the local communities served by the road. Since local communities have
neither the experience nor the means to organize an efficient road mainte-
nance operation, most of these roads have not been maintained at all. A
Rural Roads Impact Study financed under the Rural Roads Project has identi-
fied communities where villagers expressed a willingness to contribute labor
towards the maintenance of roads that were improved under the Rural Roads
Project. The proposed project would include financing of a pilot road mainte-
nance project based in a number of these communities. Under the direction of
an experienced consultant, a pilot scheme for labor-intensive road maintenance
will be set up in one sub-region to determine, through practical experience,
what type of organization is feasible and what level of remuneration is
necessary to generate local involvement in road maintenance. As a workable
system develops, a number of Voltaics could be trained to expand it to other
regions of the country.
2.26      Maintenance of DGTP equipment would be the responsibility of DM.
Currently, equipment availability is a low 35%, due to a combination of
factors: antiquated equipment and lack of qualified personnel, workshop
facilities, tools and spare parts--the final one exacerbated by insufficient
funds and uncoordinated ordering procedures.  The proposed project would
finance equipment modernization, spare parts, tools and workshop facilities.
It would also provide funds for technical assistance for designing and imple-
menting appropriate procurement and inventory procedures and training of
mechanics.
I.   Training
2.27      Engineers and higher-level technicians are trained abroad, mainly
with the help of fellowships. MTPTU's training center, CFPTP, trains lower-
level technicians, road overseers, accountants, administrative personnel, and
mechanics. The condition of CFPTP's facilities and the number of teachers
are inadequate to provide enough trained personnel for DGTP's needs (total
permanent staff of 1,000). The Second Education Project is therefore financing
the expansion and modernization of the existing training facilities, in



- 13 -
particular: (a) rehabilitation of the existing training center and construc-
tion of an auto mechanics workshop, (b) training material and equipment, (c)
vehicles for driver training, (d) nine man-years of technical assistance to
help develop and implement training and upgrading courses, and (e) eight man-
years of fellowships for the training of local staff to take over instructor
positions now occupied by expatriates. Furthermore, a study conducted under
the Second Education Project concluded that the establishment of a training
school for middle- and higher-level technicians should pove beneficial. The
proposed project would finance the detailed design of the school and the
preparation of bidding documents (para. 3.15).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The proposed project is the first phase of a long-term institution
building and maintenance program.  It would assist the Government to improve
its institutional capacity for the maintenance of the road network; to meet
the backlog of periodic maintenance on the most important sections of its
paved and unpaved road network; and to improve the accessibility of rural
areas for which agricultural development projects are being implemented or
planned. It would also help to develop the domestic construction industry.
B. Description
3.02      To meet these objectives, the project consists of:
(i) A four-year (1982-85) program of road maintenance. To implement
this program the proposed credit would finance the following:
(a) road maintenance equipment;
(b) constructing, equipping and furnishing office buildings and
stockrooms in four regions and equipping a central and
three regional workshops;
(c) incremental costs of routine maintenance for the classified
road network;
(d) operating costs for periodic maintenance of about 450 km of
gravel roads by force account;
(e) rehabilitation of about 280 km of gravel roads by contract -;
and
(f) resealing of about 320 km of paved roads by contractor.
(ii) A three-year program for the construction and initial maintenance
of about 1,640 km of feeder roads. This program requires the
financing of:



- 14 -
(a) equipment and spare parts to replace or complement existing
equipment of the Feeder Roads Units;
(b) provision of spare parts, materials and supplies; and
(c) construction of small drainage structures by local contractors.
(iii)  Consulting services for:
(a) technical assistance and training to DGTP;
(b) supervision of rehabilitation of gravel roads;
(c) design and preparation of tender documents for Public Works
Training School;
(d) continuation of the Rural Road Impact Study begun under the
Rural Roads Project (Credit 579-UV);
(e) implementation of a pilot community-based maintenance scheme;
and
(f) technical assistance for the domestic construction industry.
(iv) Scholarships for road maintenance managerial staff.
Maintenance Equipment
3.03      The  equipment to be procured (Table 9) would mainly replace worn-
out equipment and would not substantially expand the DGTP's equipment fleet.
It would be used to constitute the following maintenance units in each of the
four regional directorates:
No.       Maintenance Unit                 Task
1      Routine maintenance unit   fill potholes,
for gravel roads             clean ditches
1      Corrugation levelling         anti-corrugation
unit                         brushing
1      Grading unit                  reshaping of
formation
1      Bridge repair unit            repair bridges,
clean drainage
structures
1      Routine maintenance unit   fill potholes,
for paved roads              clean ditches



- 15 -
The above units cover the requirements for routine maintenance.  Their
equipment, with the exception of the grading unit is light and the tasks
are labor intensive. The bulk of the heavy equipment will be used to
form two regravelling brigades and one brigade for major repairs on paved
roads, which would operate on a country-wide basis.
Office Buildings and Workshops
3.04      BCEOM's study contains a detailed description of repairs and new
construction of office space and stockrooms to be executed for the four
regional directorates and for one central and three regional workshops. It
also gives details on furniture, office and workshop equipment, and small
tools to be procured. BCEOM'S proposals correspond to DGTP-s needs and are in
line with the proposed general maintenance program.
Routine Maintenance
3.05      Routine maintenance comprises patching paved roads, filling potholes
and grading gravel roads, cleaning ditches and drainage structures, repairing
bridges, and replacing or setting up road signals. The proposed maintenance
program distinguishes two categories of routine maintenance: (i) normal
routine maintenance including all of the above activities, which would be
applied to all roads with more than 30 vpd and (ii) reduced maintenance con-
sisting of grading and cleaning of drainage structures only, which would be
applied to roads with less than 30 vpd. Under the proposed project 1,750 km
would receive normal routine maintenance and about 5,900 km of roads would
receive reduced maintenance in 1982. It is intended that the length of road
receiving normal maintenance would gradually be increased as additional
regional directorates are established, but it would certainly take another
10 to 15 years before there is adequate institutional capacity and sufficient
economic justification to apply normal routine maintenance to all roads.
Incremental Cost of Routine Maintenance
3.06      The proposed project will finance, as set out below, part of the
incremental cost of routine maintenance corresponding to the highway mainte-
nance program:
----------1981 Constant US$ 000--------
1982        1983          1984        1985
1981 recurrent cost level           2,200        2,200         2,200       2,200
excluding overheads
Incremental cost                      550        1,320         1,320       1,320
Total recurrent cost
for routine maintenance          2,750        3,520         3,520      3,520
Government financing                2,250        2,600         2,600       2,600
IDA financing                         500          920           920         920



- 16 -
Periodic Maintenance of Gravel Roads
3.07      Periodic maintenance of Upper Volta's gravel roads has been
neglected to such a degree that a substantial backlog of maintenance work has
been created. It is estimated that a total of about 2,120 km of gravel roads
have to be rehabilitated or regravelled in the near future (Table 10). About
730 km of these are most urgently in need of attention if traffic interrup-
tions are to be avoided (Table 11), and of these about 450 km would be re-
gravelled by force account. Under the proposed project IDA would finance
equipment operating cost, and materials for these works, while salaries would
be financed by the Government.
Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads
3.08      The remaining 280 km of the 730 km of gravel roads requiring urgent
attention have already deteriorated to such a degree that a more substantial
effort, including drainage improvement and some earthworks, is needed to bring
the roads back into an acceptable condition before routine maintenance can be
carried out effectively. It is proposed that contractors be employed for
these works to avoid straining the Government's implementation capacity and
over-extending its equipment fleet.
Resealing of Paved Roads
3.09      Paved roads normally require resealing about every seven years to
protect the base course from water which seeps in through surface cracks of
an aged and worn out bituminous seal. No such work has been carried out in
Upper Volta since the pavement of its first road (from Bobo Dioulasso to the
Mali border) in 1969. Therefore, signs of acute pavement distress are showing
and a resealing program is urgently needed to prevent the roads from further
deterioration. There is a total of about 420 km of paved roads built between
1969 and 1972 which should be resealed (Table 12). EDF is financing the
resealing and partial rehabilitation of road sections totalling some 100 km,
on which the deterioration has progressed to an extent where it endangers and
impedes traffic. The proposed project would finance the resealing of the
remaining 320 km. Works are to be carried out by contractor.
Feeder Roads
3.10      Over the past five-to-seven year period, about 4,000 km of tracks
and trails have been upgraded or maintained under a large number of agricul-
tural and rural development projects and financed by international, regional
and bilateral donors. About 900 km were improved under the Association's
Rural Roads Project, which also established the institutional capacity within
MTPTU to program and coordinate the many feeder road construction activities
throughout the country.
3.11      The proposed project would continue the feeder road program started
under the Rural Roads Project by financing equipment to replace or complement
existing equipment (Table 4, Annex III); spare parts, materials and supplies,
and construction of small drainage structures by local contractors. Total



- 17 -
improvement over the three-year period is estimated to be about 1,640 km of
feeder roads to minimum all-weather standards (see Annex III). Of these,
1,200 km would form part of integrated development projects: 500 km will
support the proposed Koudougou Rural Development Project, 1/ 370 km the pro-
posed Second Bougouriba Rural Development Project, and 330 km the West Volta
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 706-IN). The remaining kilometrage
will serve communities in the North, Center, Yatenga and Sahel rural develop-
ment areas. In addition, the project will finance technical assistance, to
be employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
3.12      Particular emphasis will be put on developing the planning and
evaluation procedures for feeder road improvement and maintenance. Regular
consultation and close cooperation between the Feeder Roads Unit (FRU), the
Bureau of Programming, and the Rural Development Agencies (ORD) will ensure
that annual road improvement programs remain responsive to the needs of
agriculture and rural development. FRU will also be responsible for monitor-
ing all feeder road construction activities financed by other bilateral or
multilateral donors so as to ensure that these activities are coherently
coordinated. During negotiations Government agreed to a regular schedule of
consultations between the FRU, the ORDs and the donor agencies concerned. It
also agreed to submit to IDA for review road construction programs for the
second and third project year not later than October 31, 1982 and October 31,
1983 respectively.  The first project year would include construction of the
roads indicated in Annex III.
Consulting Services
3.13      Technical Assistance and Training.  The Government has recognized
some weaknesses in several sections of DGTP. To assist the Government
in eliminating them, the project will finance technical assistance to help
improve the Roads Department s performance and to train counterparts.
A detailed list of proposed positions is given in Annex II. Technical
Assistance to the FRU will be continued according to the detailed list in
Annex III.
3.14      Construction Supervision.  For the rehabilitation of gravel roads,
the Government will employ consultants to supervise works carried out by
contractors. The resealing of paved roads and the construction and repair
of office buildings and workshops, also carried out by contractors, will be
supervised by DGTP staff, who have adequate capacity to do so.
3.15      Design of Public Works Training School.  The Second Education
Project financed the feasibility study and the preliminary design of a
future Public Works Training School. The proposed project will finance
consultants services to carry out the detailed design and engineering for
the school and to prepare tender documents.
1/   In view of recently emerged uncertainties concerning the future of the
Koudougou Rural Development Project, the proposed feeder road program
for the Koudougou area is only tentative and might be subject to modi-
fications to be agreed between the Government and the Association.



- 18 -
.16      Rural Roads Impact Study.  A Rural Roads Impact Study was initiated
under the Rural Roads Project. Carried out by joint venture of Consultants
Halcrow Fox (UK) and SAED (UPV), the study undertook base-line and follow-up
surveys of traffic, markets, villages and agricultural households in a sample
of roads and their surrounding areas throughout Upper Volta. Although some
of the short-term impacts of these roads could be documented by the study,
monitoring of a number of key parameters will have to continue over the
project period, principally focused on trends in agricultural production and
migratory patterns. The details of the terms of reference for the continua-
tion of this monitoring will be established following a joint review by the
Government and the Association of the report on the findings of the earlier
study, due May 1981.
3.17      Pilot Community-Based Maintenance Scheme.  As described in para. 2.25,
a pilot scheme involving local communities in the routine maintenance of the
roads that serve them is to be carried out for a two to three year period in
one of the sub-regions. Thirty man-months of technical assistance would be
provided to set up and execute the scheme and to train Voltaics for expanding
it to other areas of the country.
3.18      Domestic Construction Industry.  As set out in para. 2.20 a study
financed under the Third Highway Project is presently analyzing the domestic
construction industry. The proposed project contains six man-years of tech-
nical assistance to help implement the study's recommendations which have to
be approved by IDA before going ahead with their implementation.
Scholarships
3.19      To obtain an engineering degree, Upper Volta's students must go
abroad. Since scholarships financed from bilateral sources are not avail-
able in sufficient quantity and the need for specialized technical personnel
becomes more acute as the Government decentralizes road maintenance opera-
tions, the project will finance scholarships for about 12 staff of the DGTP
to specialize in management and civil engineering.
C. Cost Estimates
3.20      The total capital cost of the project net of taxes and duties is
estimated at US$56.7 million, with foreign cost of US$45.0 million (79%);
local costs are estimated at US$11.7 million; taxes and duties total about
US$16.2 million. Detailed costs are as follows:



- 19 -
COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
---------     US$'000---------------    as % of
Local     Taxes      Foreign    Total       Total
I. Procurement of Equipment:
(i) Road Maintenance                         1,190      3,440      7,250    11,880        61
(ii) Feeder Roads                                365     1,070      2,250      3,685       61
Subtotal I                               1,555      4,510      9,500    15,565
II. Construction, Equipping and
Furnishing of:
(i) Central and Regional Workshops             420        760      1,570      2,750       57
(ii) Regional Office Buildings                   100       230        440        770       57
Subtotal II                                520        990      2,010      3,520
III. Incremental Cost of Routine Maintenance           450      1,350      2,710      4,510       60
IV. Periodic Maintenance of 450 km of
Gravel Roads by Force Account                   1,500        900      2,900     5,300       55
V. Rehabilitation of 280 km of Gravel
Roads by Contractor                               760      1,520      3,420     5,700        60
VI. Resealing of about 320 km of Paved
Roads by Contractor                               710      1,990      5,020      7,720       65
VII. Construction and Maintenance of Feeder
Roads                                           2,030      1,275      4,220      7,525       56
VIII. Consultant Services and Training:
(i) Technical Assistance and Training
to Roads Department and Local
Communities                                975        195      2,730      3,900       70
(ii) Supervision of V                             60        -          240        300      80
(iii) Technical Assistance to Feeder
Roads Unit                                  80         60        580        720       80
(iv) Design and Preparation of Tender
Documents for Public Works Training
School                                     130        -          530        660       80
(v) Technical Assistance for Domestic
Contractors                                260        -          620        880       70
(vi) Audits                                       45          5       150        200       75
Subtotal VIII                            1,550        260      4,850      6,660
IX. Scholarships                                       75        -          475        550       86
Base Cost: Subtotal I - IX               9,150    12,795    35,105    57,050
X. Contingencies
(i) Quantity                                    354         476     1,530      2,360
(ii) Price                                     2,240      2,954      8,357    13,551
Subtotal X                                2,594      3,430      9,887    15,911
TOTAL                                    11,744    16,225    44,992    72,961          61
NET OF TAXES                             11,744        -       44,992    56,736        79



ANNUlAL EXPENDITI'RES 1982-1985
(US $000)
---------___1982----138--9---  ------------1983a-------_----    -----------1984_________                  ------------1985      -----  -_____              Total---------------
LocAl  Taxes  Foreign  lotal   Local  Taxes  Foreign   Total  Local  Taxes  Foreign, Total   Local  Taxes  Foreign  Total   Local   Taxes  Foreign  Total
I. Equipment Procurement          1,100  3,190   6,710   11,000    455  1,320   2,790            4,565     -       -        -          -       -       -        -        -      1,555    4,510   9,500    15,565
*   II. Workshops and Office
Buildings                        100     185      375       660     320    620   1,260       2,200      100     185      375       660     -       -         -        -        520      990   2,010       3,520
III. Incremental Maintenance
Cost                              60     150      340       550    130    400         790    1,320      130    400       790     1,320     130     400       790   1,320       450   1,350    2,710       4,510
IV. Periodic Maintenance by
Force Account                    225     135      440       800    425    255        820      1,500     425     255      820     1,500    425       255      820   1,500    1,500       900   2,900       5,300
*    V. Rehabilitation of Gravel
Roads                             65     135      300       500    385      775   1,740    2,900        220    420       960     1,600      90      190      420      700      760   1,520    3,420       5,700
*   VI. Resealing of Paved Roads          110     315      795    1,220    425  1,185   2,990    4,600           175    490   1,235       1,900      -       -         -        -      '710   1,990    5,020       7,720
VIl Feeder Roads                      810      S05   1,685      3,000    675    425    1,400       2,500     545     345   1,135       2,025      -       -         -        -    2,030    1,275    4,220       7,525
* VIII. Consultant Services               530      90   1,680      2,300     465      80    1,455     2,000      550      60   1,090      1,500     205      30      625       860   1,550       260   4,850       6,660
IX. Scholarships                      15      -        90        105      15      -   (   90        105      20      -       140       160       25      -       155      180        75      -        475        550
Subtotal I - IX               3,015  4,705   12,415   20,135  3,295  5,060  13, 335   21690  1,965  2,155   6,545   10,665    875    875   2,810   4,560   9,150   12,795  35,105    57,050
Quantity Contingency              80      73      315       468     160    266       744    1,170        85     115      366       566      29      22       105      156      354      476    1,530      2,360
Price Contingency                423    651   1,735    2,809        785  1,207   3,197    5_189    655         722   2,206       3,583    377      374   1,219    1 970   2,240    2.954   8,357    13,551
TOTAL                           ,       ,        ,      23,412  4,240  6 533  17,276   28,049  2 705  2 992   9,117   14 814  1281   1 271   4 134   6 686  11_744  16.225  44,992    72,961
* Note: A 10% quantitY contingency is applied to the following elements only: workshops, offices,rehabilitation
of gravel roads; resealing of paved roads; and consultant services. The other elements are hased on an
open-end guideline program subject to modification.  Therefore no quantity co,ntingencies have been
allowed for them.
For the calculation of the price rontingency,the following average percentages were applied to all com-
ponents:
1981     1982    1983      1984    1985
9%      8.5%    7.5'!.    7.5%    7.55%



- 21 -
3.21      The base costs are estimated as of early 1981 and have been derived
as follows:
(i) Equipment
Estimates for equipment, vehicles and spare parts are based on bid
prices received under the Rural Roads Projects and a survey of local
suppliers carried out by consultants BCEOM;
(ii)  Buildings and Workshops
Estimates for the repair and construction of office space and work-
shops are based on preliminary engineering and per m2 prices for
similar work carried out recently;
(iii) Incremental Cost of Routine Maintenance
BCEOM's study contains a detailed reasonable cost breakdown of all
maintenance activities contained in the maintenance program;
(iv) Periodic Maintenance
The cost estimates of periodic maintenance of gravel roads by force
account (which do not include equipment depreciation) are based
on a detailed analysis of operating cost for the two proposed
regravelling brigades carried out by BCEOM and on the actual cost of
the regravelling brigades operating under the Rural Roads Project;
(v) Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads
Estimates are based on BCEOMs study of average gravel quantities
and length of drainage structures needed per km and unit prices from
recent bids;
(vi) Resealing of Paved Roads
Estimates are again based on average per km quantities of surface
dressing and minor repairs, and unit prices of similar work carried
out under ongoing contracts;
(vii) Feeder Roads
Cost estimates for road improvements and maintenance are based on
the experience of the ongoing Rural Roads Project; per km cost in-
cluding equipment operating costs, materials and technical assist.ince
vary between US$6,000 and US$8,000 depending on the width of forma-
tion;



- 22 -
(viii) Consultant Services and Training
Consultant Services are based on an average man-month rate includ-
ing salary and fees, as well as reimbursable expenses such as
international travel, local allowances and consultant overheads
expected to be about US$9,000 to US$13,000, depending on the
level of expertise required. The man-month rate is consistent
with currently applied rates in Upper Volta for similar services.
For the supervision of gravel road rehabilitation the consultant fee
will amount to about 7% of construction cost.  The fee for the
design of the Public Works Training School is estimated at 6% of
construction cost estimates based on preliminary engineering.
3.22      The percentages of foreign exchange cost and the amount of taxes
and duties in total expenditures are based on detailed analysis of equip-
ment, construction and maintenance costs carried out by consultants BCEOM.
D. Financing
3.23      The proposed IDA credit of US$46 million would cover 81% of project
costs net of taxes. The Kingdom of the Netherlands proposes to co-finance, on
a parallel basis, equipment costs totalling US$8 million or 14% of total
project cost. The remaining US$2.7 million or 5% of total project cost would
be Upper Volta's contribution. IDA would thus finance 82% of all foreign
exchange cost and 77% of local costs; the Kingdom of the Netherlands would
finance 18% of foreign exchange cost; and the Government of Upper Volta 23% of
the local costs.
3.24      Total Government participation in the project between 1982 and 1985
would require the amounts stated in the following table:.



- 23 -
-US$ 000 1/
1982      1983        1984      1985   Total
I. About 3% of capital cost
excluding the cost of
incremental routine
maintenance, periodic
maintenance, and con-
sultant services             400        400         170        20    1,070
II. Salary cost of periodic
maintenance                  220        450         480       520    1,670
III.  Routine maintenance
(see para. 3.06)           2,580      3,190       3,430    3,690   12,890
Sub-total I-III            3,200      4,120       4,080    4,230   15,630
Taxes                      5,430      6,540       2,990    1,270   16,230
TOTAL                      8,630    10,660        7,070    5,500   31,860
1/ Including price and quantity contingencies.
E. Implementation
3.25      MTPTU would have overall responsibility for project implementa-
tion. It would be assisted by consultants employed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association. The individual responsibilities for project
implementation are spread over MTPTU's directorates as follows:
Project Element                           Responsible Directorate
Equipment procurement                     DM
Construction and equipping of             DM, DETN, Regional Directorates
regional office and workshops
Routine and periodic maintenance          Regional Directorates
Rehabilitation of gravel roads            DETN, Regional Directorates
Resealing of paved roads                  DETN, Regional Directorates
Feeder roads                              DETN, Regional Directorates
Consultant services                       DM, DETN
3.26      Since several of the project elements are the responsibility of
more than one directorate, a project coordinator must be appointed within
DGTP. The project coordinator would maintain contact with the various
services in the DGTP, report regularly on the progress of the various project
components, and be responsible for the preparation of a Project Completion
Report within six months of the final disbursement. During negotiations
Government confirmed this arrangement.



- 24 -
3.27      The expected schedule of project implementation was also dis-
cussed and confirmed with the Government at negotiations; details are
given in Chart II.
3.28      The detailed program for routine and periodic maintenance is set out
in the BCEOM study. To permit the monitoring of its execution, target indices
as set out in Table 13 were discussed and agreed with the Government during
negotiations. To permit the monitoring of the physical progress and socio-
economic impact of feeder road construction, the parameters outlined in
Annex III, para. 9 were also discussed and agreed during negotiations.
F. Procurement
3.29      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The following procedures would apply:
Project Element                           Procurement Procedure
Equipment                                 International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
(US$15.6 million)                         for all equipment financed by the Asso-
ciation. Equipment financed by the
Kingdom of the Netherlands will follow
procurement procedures to be agreed
upon between the Government of Upper
Volta and the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Construction of workshops and offices   ICB
(US$3.5 million)
Materials and spare parts for rural       Government's local shopping procedures,
road construction and routine and         which require quotations from at least
periodic maintenance (US$3.5 million)   three suppliers.
Fuel lubricants (US$4.5 million)          Local competitive bidding.
Rehabilitation of gravel roads            ICB; in small lots to enable domestic
(US$5.7 million)                          contractors to compete. Domestic con-
tractors will have a 7-1/2% preference.
Resealing of paved roads                  ICB, with a 7-1/2% preference for
(US$7.7 million)                          domestic contractors.
Consultant services                       Selection and terms and conditions of
contract to be approved by the
Association.
Contracts for civil works and the procurement of equipment will be let free
of taxes and duties. These procedures were discussed and agreed during
negotiations.



- 25 -
G.   Disbursements
3.30       The IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
Equipment, spare parts                100% of foreign expenditures or 50%
and materials                         of local expenditures if procured
locally (US$12,600,000)
Civil works by contractor             90% of total cost (US$12,500,000)
Fuel and lubricants for               90% of total cost (US$4,000,000)
road maintenance and feeder
road construction under
force account
Consultant services; audits           100% of total cost (US$7,500,000)
Scholarships                          100% of total cost (US$550,000)
Initial deposit in Special            (US$600,000)
Account
An amount of US$8,250,000 would remain unallocated.  Disbursements for equip-
ment, civil works, consultants' services and scholarships will be fully
documented. In addition, disbursements for materials and spare parts costing
more than US$1,000 will also be fully documented. Items costing less than
US$1,000 would be against statements of expenditures; this procedure will be
stipulated in the Controllers' letter to the borrower explaining the proce-
dures to be followed for withdrawal applications. Supporting documentation,
which would not be submitted with the withdrawal applications, would be
retained and made available for review by Bank supervision missions. Proper
audit arrangements will be provided for expenditures financed against certi-
ficates of expenditures.
3.31       Cumulative disbursement of the Credit would be as follows:
IDA         Disbursement    Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year   ----------------US$000--------
1982             2,000                  2,000
1983           10,000                  12,000
1984           12,000                  24,000
1985           12,000                  36,000
1986           10,000                  46,000
3.32       At negotiations the Government confirmed that a qualified auditor
will be selected and given the necessary authority to analyze annually the
financial statements produced by the MTPTU to account for the use of funds
under the proposed IDA Credit. The audits will be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit.



- 26 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program of Classified Roads
4.01      The economic evaluation of the maintenance component including
the rehabilitation of the paved and gravel roads has shown that the overall
economic rate of return on the investment is in the order of 70%. The
analysis covers only the project implementation period 1982-85, allowing for
residual values of the investment, and compares the annual economic costs and
benefits of maintenance operations without and with the project in terms
of: (a) investments in equipment, workshops, training, related operating
costs and cost of rehabilitation by contractor; (b) vehicle operating costs;
and (c) preservation of capital assets in infrastructure exclusive of the
roads to be rehabilitated.
4.02      In 1979, 70% of the SERN equipment was worn out.  Instead of the
CFAF 3,300 million needed to replace it, only CFAF 50 million was allo-
cated. As a result, SERN carried out only 25% of the works needed for the
maintenance of the most travelled national roads. The "without project" case
assumes that this situation will persist and that the surface condition of
earth roads will deteriorate rapidly. Surface conditions are expressed in
levels of serviceability. Level 1 corresponds to a road in good condition,
level 4 is hardly passable. As a result of the road inventory carried out in
1978, the consultants determined the length of paved roads below level 1,
earth and gravel below level 2.5, and tracks below level 3 of serviceability.
The "with project" case proposes to bring all roads with significant traffic
flow to an adequate level of service: 1 for paved and 2.5 for gravel and earth
roads and subsequently to keep up the network through routine maintenance.
4.03      The proposed maintenance program includes renewal of existing
equipment for maintenance brigades; upgrading of regional facilities and
administrative offices; building of facilities for training maintenance
personnel; and, the related annual operating costs. The residual values
beyond 1985 are also estimated for each investment component. The difference
in annual investment and operating costs between the without and with project
cases constitutes the maintenance program's costs stream.
4.04      Vehicle operating cost savings.  Road user benefits are expressed as
voc savings accruing to normal traffic. Operating cost savings are calculated
on the assumption that roads are maintained at acceptable standards rather
th-an at levels 3 and 4. Voc for six vehicle categories on each road surface
type and condition are weighted by average traffic composition (Table 14).
The traffic growth rate is estimated at 10% per year on the heavily travelled
international axes, Niger-Ivory Coast and Togo-Niger, and 7% p.a. on the rest
of the network.
4.05      Preservation of capital assets in infrastructure.  For the
evaluation of this benefit the consultants estimated the length of each type
of road which, in the absence of the project, would deteriorate further and
would require reconstruction between 1982-85 in order to bring it back to
the 1979 rolling surface characteristics. This evaluation is estimated as a
function of the average life of a road without maintenance. The total annual
benefit is calculated by multiplying average annual reconstruction costs by



- 27 -
the road length identified, excluding the roads covered by the 1980-85 up-
grading and rehabilitation program.
B. Selection Criteria for Earth and Gravel Roads to be Included in
First Priority of Road Rehabilitation
4.06      Presently a large proportion of the earth and gravel roads in
Upper Volta are in very poor condition from lack of maintenance over recent
years. In order to design a rehabilitation program which would be feasible
within the limitations of resources and economically justified, the consultants
established thresholds of traffic for each type of road. Taking into account
the length of road deteriorated, they established the following thresholds,
above which the net present value of discounted benefits (at 12%) justifies
the investment needed to bring that road to level 2 of surface serviceability.
Traffic Category (ADT) and Net Present Value
Percentage of
Road   Road Length       Traffic
Type  Deteriorated       Threshold
Gravel     25               153
50               84
75               67
100               60
Improved   25                94
Earth      50                53
75               43
100               39
Earth      25                42
50               22
75               17
100               15
4.07      Net benefits on each type of road to be rehabilitated are calcu-
lated by subtracting investment and maintenance costs from voc savings over
*         the life of the investment.  Investment costs, net of taxes, are estimated
on the basis of unit costs quoted in latest contract awards on similar works
in the area. The life of the investment is estimated at ten years. The
cost of minimum maintenance necessary to keep the road in its initial
condition is calculated on the basis of the volume of work and materials
required by specified tasks.
4.08      In evaluating the investment in road rehabilitation, user benefits
include, in addition to normal traffic operating savings, benefits to
induced traffic calculated on the assumption of an elasticity of demand for
transport of 0.5.



- 28 -
4.09      On the basis of the above analysis, the Government has drawn up
the list of roads to be included in the rehabilitation program (Table 10).
Only part of these will be financed under the proposed project over 1982-85
(Table 11). Some of the roads included in the rehabilitation or regravelling
program show rates of return of less than 12% based on vehicle operating
cost benefit calculations. These roads serve the Second Bougouriba and the
Koudougou Agricultural Development Projects and their rehabilitation is a
necessary input to the agricultural development program financed by these
projects. The road rehabilitation has been accounted for as a cost in the
economic evaluation of the two agricultural projects.
C.   Feeder Roads Construction Program
4.10      The project includes two categories of feeder roads.  These are
treated differently as regards their economic evaluation. The first cate-
gory includes construction of new or improvement of existing roads with
little or no existing traffic which form part of an integrated agricultural
development project. Some 1,200 km of roads included in the project belong
to this category. A joint return to the agriculture and rural roads package
is established and implementation priorities are guided by the needs of the
agricultural project. The economic rates of return for the project packages
are 17% (500 km); 20% (370 km); and 30% (330 km) respectively (for details see
Annex III).
4.11      For an additional 440 km of roads, that are not part of an inte-
grated project, two benefit components are distinguished, either or both of
which may apply: (i) value added of incremental output resulting from the
road construction or from assured road/agricultural investment; this component
is the only one to be taken into consideration in the case of new roads and is
of particular importance for projects involving improvement of tracks with
insignificant existing traffic volumes; (ii) road user savings for traffic not
directly related to agricultural production and which have not been included
in the calculation of the value added in accordance with (i) above. The
second category includes the improvement of already existing roads, which
serve areas with established agricultural activities and for which the road
investment is not likely to result in benefits other than a reduction in
transport costs. As there would not be any other quantifiable developmental
impact, the benefits are in this case calculated as road user savings.
4.12      These roads would be evaluated individually and road user savings
and producer surplus benefits established as described in paras. 4.09-4.10
above. Only roads which would have an economic rate of return of 10% or more
would be improved under the project.
D.   Overall Project Benefits and Risk Analysis
4.13      The overall economic rate of return of the project including
rehabilitation of paved and gravel roads, routine maintenance and feeder
roads construction is about 60%. Beneficiaries of the investments are



- 29 -
primarily the rural populations since a major part of the proposed project
constitutes a complementary investment to regional development projects
currently financed by IDA and USAID. Owing to the strong competition in
the road transport industry consumers should also benefit from an expected
reduction in transport cost in the form of lower transport rates for goods
and passengers, following the upgrading and improved maintenance of roads.
4.14      The project presents financial and institutional risks.  If the
Government resources are strained to the point where it fails to provide
adequate funds in the recurrent cost budget for maintenance, the program
envisaged under the project could fail and the economic return on the invest-
ment and road rehabilitation would not materialize. To reduce this risk the
Bank and the French Government are currently providing technical assistance to
the Voltaic Government to improve its overall resource management capability.
The Government agreed during negotiations to allocate minimum amounts for road
maintenance, which will be reviewed annually by the Government and IDA. The
proposed project requires a substantial amount of coordination between pro-
gramming and execution of the operations, including timely provisions of
manpower and materials for the adequate operation and maintenance of equipment.
If the organization is inefficient, productivity targets and the volume of
works to be financed under the project will not be achieved. In order to
minimize this risk the project includes a strong technical assistance com-
ponent. This project represents the first phase of a long-term maintenance
program. In order to sustain the institution-building effort, follow-up
projects will be needed.
V. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations the following agreements were reached with
the Government and incorporated as covenants in the Credit Agreement:
(i) Reorganization of MTPTU to take effect before December 31, 1981
with separate budget allocations and accounts to be set up for
feeder road construction and maintenance (para. 2.10-2.12);
(ii)  Feeder roads improved under this and the ongoing Rural Roads Project
to be maintained by regionalized Feeder Road Units (para. 2.11);
(iii)  Budget allocations for road maintenance to be made under separate
headings for salaries, fuels, spare parts and materials starting
FY 1982 (para. 2.13);
(iv)  Minimum amounts for road maintenance budget allocations to be
reviewed annually between the Government and IDA (para. 2.23);
(v) The maintenance program outlined in the BCEOM maintenance study to
be basis for road maintenance. Program to be updated annually
following consultations between the Government and IDA (para. 2.23);



- 30 -
(vi)  Regular consultations to be held between Feeder Road Unit, i3PP
and Rural Development and Donor Agencies with second- and third-
year feeder road construction programs to be submitted to IDA for
review by October 31, 1982 and October 31, 1983 respectively
(para. 3.12);
(vii)  Consultants to be appointed under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association (para. 3.25 and 3.29);
(viii)  Project coordinator to be designated (para 3.26); and
(ix)  Accounts to be audited annually (para 3.32).
5.02      During negotiations the following were discussed and agreed with the
Government:
(i) the allocation of 59% of fuel taxes to the Road Fund (para. 2.15);
(ii)  the implementation schedule for the project (para 3.27); and
(iii) target indices for maintenance operation and monitoring indices
for feeder road construction (para 3.28).
5.03      The following are conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(i) Opening of a Special Account (para. 2.16); and
(ii)  Notification by the Kingdom of the Netherlands, that all condi-
tions precedent to the first disbursement of the Dutch Loan except
for the effectiveness of the IDA agreement have been fulfilled.
5.04      With these agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a credit
of US$46 million equivalent on standard IDA terms to the Government of the
Republic of Upper Volta.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Planned and Actual Expenditures on Roads and Railways, 1972-81
(CFAF billions)
All Sectors          Roads                Rail-
Amount  Percent    Amount  Percent
1972-76 Development Plan
Planned                               75.1          14.0      19.0       1.2      1.6
Actual                               104.5          16.0      15.0       1.3       1.2
Sources of Financing (percent of actual expenditures)
Own Budget:                          29.8
Foreign:                             70.2
of which - France:                 26.5
- EDF:                   11.5
- IDA:                    6.0
1977-81 Development Plan
Planned                              228.5          39.9      17.0       5.8      2.5
Actual, 1977-78                       50.4           8.8      17.0        .6      1.2
Financing (CFAF billions)
Acquired:                           162
Being Negotiated:                    57
To Be Found:                         10
/   Represents mainly maintenance of track and existing facilities and purchase
of equipment.
Source: Draft Five Year Plan 1977-81.
Readjustment of Draft Plan December 1979.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Expenditures on Road Construction by Sources of Financing, 1977-1980
(CFAF millions)
1977-78       1979        1980
Road Paving                                     7,793       3,267       3,700"/
Sources of Financing:
IDA 2/                                    4,545      1,421        --
FED                                       3,014          60       --
Holland                                     234         286        --
KfW and AfDB                               --         1,500       3,700
Agricultural Road Construction
(including SERS program)                      1,000       1,182      2,528_
Sources of Financing:
Own budget                                   64          48         106
FAC                                         134          90       --
IDA                                         506         227        631
UNDP                                         96         175        159
USAID                                       --           25        462
CIDA                                        200         617      1,170
Total Road Construction            8,793       4,449       6,228
1/   Estimated for 1980.
2/   Includes OPEC contributions.
3/   Estimates for 1980.
Source: Bureau of Planning and Programming
Mission estimates, April 1980.



UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ongoing and Planned Road Construction Projects
1977-81 Development Plan
Type of      Length   Cost      Financing   Amount
Project Road                Works          km    US  Mil.    Agency    US$ Mil.                   Status
N   1  Hounde - Sakoinsg              Paving           190    35         KFW          20       Under construction by contractor
OPEC
AfDB
N   4  Koupela-Fada N'Gourma           Paving            80    17         EDF         15       Invitation for bids
N   4  Fada N'Gourma-Niger Border    Paving             169    32         EDF           1/     Detailed engineering completed
Kuwait
70
N   7  Banfora-Ivory Coast Border    Paving              70    11        KfW           1/      Detailed engineering completed
N   3  Ouagadougou-Kaya                Paving            98    30         IDA          1/      Detailed engineering completed
N   3  Kaya-Dori                       Spot             162     8         IDA          1/      Detailed engineering completed
Improvement
R   1  Barsalogo-Kaya-Tougan          Regravelling    335    23          CIDA         16       Under construction by force account (DGTP)
R   3  Djibo-Baraboule                Regravelling       27     1        UNSO          1       Engineering completed
CTA
D  12  Ouhigouya-Djibo                 Regravelling    109      5         UNSO          4      Under construction by force account
GTA                     (Army)
D  12  Dori-Djibo                      Regravelling    188    20          AfDB         70      Additional financing being sought
Dori-Falagountou               Regravelling      44      2        UNSO          1       Engineering completed
CTA
Feeder Roads I                 Regravelling   1200    10          IDA          75       Under construction by force account (DGTP)
"rIrliration of 1veeler 1;0a9'g Nv-rp-vln I I} In,..... 1. T  Z  I  Tv grtrCn
1/  7inancing not yet confirmed.
N   -  Nationial Roads
R   -  Regional Roacs
D   -  Departmental Roads



UPPER VOLTA
FOURTII HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IDA Investments in the Road Infrastructure, 1970-80
Amount of
Credit for
Transport   Project   Closing
Project Name                       Transport Components                              Components   Year        Date
(US$ million)
West Volta Cotton Project  - Purchase of equipment for a mechanized road mainte-               2          1970      12/31/77
(Cr. 225-UWV, US$6.2 mil.)    nance unit to be applied on some 820 km of roads.
- Detailed engineering studies of 100 km of roads to
be upgraded.
Rural Development Fund       - Improvement of 270 km of feeder roads                           0.25                 06/30/801/
(Cr. 316-UV, US$2.2 mil.)
Cotton Road Project          - Reconstruction of 70 km of secondary earth roads                2.8        1973     09/30/76
(First Highway Project,        (Solenzo-Koundougou)
Cr. 317-UV, US$2.8 mil.    - Feasibility studies for 400 km of primary roads
increased to US$4.15 mil.)
Drought Relief Fund          - Construction of small earth dams and spot repairs               2          1973      12/31/77
(Cr. 442-WA, US$14 mil.)      of some 800 km of feeder roads
Bougouriba Agricultural    - Improvement of 200 km of secondary roads                          0.96       1975      06/30/81
Development (Cr. 496-UV,   - Feasibility studies
US$8 mil.)                   - Improvement of 500 km of rural tracks
- Survey of roads to be improved in the area
Rural Roads (Second          - Improvement and maintenance of 1,200 km of rural roads          7.5        1975      06/30/81
Highway Project,             - Maintenance of another 2,100 km of roads
Cr. 579-UV, US$7.5 mil.)   - Purchase of maintenance equipment
- Rural roads impact evaluation study
Third Highway Project        - Paving of 183 km of roads (Banfora-Bobo Dioulasso-Hounde)    20            1976     12/31/81
(Cr. 653-UV, US$20 mil.    - Vehicle weight control and traffic counting equipment
and Special Action Cr.38UV
US$.  milon)                                                                                                                     x



UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Vehicle Registrations, 1975-79
(Units)
Passenger                                         Tractor/Trucks       Special
Year              Cars             Buses            Trucks           Trailers          Vehicles           Total
1975             15,980             208             2,870                733             298             20,089
1976             16,965             220             2,995                789             332             21,301
1977             18,493             256             3,183                882             366             23,180         1
1978             20,544             292             3,434             1,010              399             25,679         W
1979             22,851             343             3,669             1,164              407             28,434
Note: These figures are probably over-estimated since withdrawals from the vehicle fleet are not recorded
or otherwise taken into account.
Source: Ministere des Travaux Publics
Direction des Transports
Bureau de la Programmation et Planification
April 17, 1980,
a z
Ln 



UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Principal kevenues and Expenditures on Roads 1975-79
(CFAF millions)
Road Expenditures
Road User Taxes                         Foreign Financing                     Receipts
Fuel     Vehicle                    DGTP         of New Road                      as a % of
Year              Taxes      Taxesl'   Total         Budgeti'      Const.ruction3/    Total        Expenditures
1975              2,310       990      3,300          670              2,530        3,20                103
1976              2,860     1,060      3,920          948             2,252         3,2004/             123           w
1977              2,350     1,390      3,740          971             3,966         4,937                 76
1978              1,840     1,830     3,670           873             3,026         3,889                94
1979              2,490     2,020     4,510           887             4,078         4,965                91
1/  Appro%imate values based on import duties on vehicles and vehicle registration fees,
excluding imports of tires and spare parts or taxes on insurance but including value
of taxes on private vehicles.
2/ Including foreign donors' contribution.
3/ Including studies and feeder road construction.
4/ Average annual expenditure 1972-76.
Source: Mission estimates, April 1979.                            .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            >4



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Table 7
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Current Receipts and Expenditures in the DGTP Budget 1975-79
(CFAF millions)
Receipts
Road Fund
Actual             FAC
National    Estimated      Allocation         Equipment
Year      Budget    Receipts 2/   to DPW Budget         Renewal         Other 3/    TOTAL
1975 1       93         1,363            415                50            110         668
1976 !     105          1,688            640                50            153         948
1977       117          1,388            650                50            154         971
1978 1     123          1,086            700                50             -         873
1979       132          1,471             700               50              5         887
Expenditures
Highway Maintenance                Headquarters   Maintenance
Operating       Equipment      Salaries and        by
Year     Salaries       Costs          Renewal        Overheads      Contractors   TOTAL
1975              323 ---------            0.8              337             7         6b8
1976       134             214            54                434           113         949
1977 1     171            177                               569            54         971
1978 1     251            206                               362            54         873
1979       325            188            56                 318            -          887
1/  Excludes SERS activity financed by foreign aid.
2/ Based on 59% taxes on fuel.
31 Including FAC and USAID.
Source: Direction des Travaux Publics
Mission Estimates, April 1980.



ANNEX 1
- 38 -                                 Table 8
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Geometric Design Standards by Road Type
R.B.*  R.T.M.*  R.T.O.*  P.A.*   P.A.B.*   P.O.*
Design speed (km/h)                      100    100       60-80    '60    ^'50 540
Formation width (m)                      10      10       8-10      6-8     6          any
Road base (m)                             ).7   >7        6         5-6     5          none
Pavement thickness (cm)                  20-25  20-25    15-20    15        10         none
Prime coat: width (m)                    6,40      -      none      none    none       none
Double surface treatment: width (m)    6,00        -      none      none    none       none
Minimum radius horizontal curve (m)    500    500         200       100     any        any
Minimum vertical radius: concave (m)   3000   3000        1000      any     any        any
convex (m)    6000   6000       500      any      any       any
Maximum gradient %                          6       6     10        10-12   12         any
* R.B. = Paved road; R.T.M. = Modern Earth Road; R.T.O. = Ordinary Earth Road;
P.A. = Improved Track; Category A; P.A.B. = Improved Track Category B
(Feeder Road Standards); P.O. = Ordinary Track.
Source: BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study, June 1980.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Maintenance Equipment to be Procured
US$ '000
Item                                  Quantity      Unit Price        Total
Bulldozers 140-160 HP                           2             200            400
Motor Graders 120-135 HP                       12             155          1,860
Wheel Loaders 100-120 HP                        2             135            270
Excavators 0.9 - 1.1 m3                         5              45            225
Dumpers    1.0 m3                               5              25            125
Agricultural Tractors                           9              35            315
Dump Trucks 10-12 t                            11              65            715
Dump Trucks 3-4 t                              14              35            490
Dump Trucks 7-8 t with crane                    4              85            340
Water Tankers 10,000 lt                         8              75            600
Water Tankers  6,000 lt                         8              50            400
Pneumatic Rollers 12/22 t                       3             110            330
Manual Vibrating Rollers                       11              15            165
Patching Trucks 2,500 It                        2             110            220
Bitumen Melters 1,000 lt                        2              40             80
Mobile Mixers (4 t/h)                           2              15             30
Tank Trailer 10,000 lt                          3              45            135
Tank Trailer 2,000 lt                           4              15             60
Mobile Workshops                                6              90            540
Workshop-Store- Trailers                        2             125            250
Office and Camping Caravans                     2              80            160
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                      11              28            308
Vans                                           11              14            154
Station Wagons                                  8              16            128
Sedans                                          4              15             60
Concrete Mixers                                 5              13             65
Water Pumps 60 m3/h                            11               3             33
Radio Transceivers                              7               5             35
Workshop cranes                                 4              80            320
Low Loaders                                    2              100            200
Tow Trucks incl. mobile workshop                3             155            465
Truck with 10 t crane                           1             165            165
Tools                                                                        257
Sub-total                                   9,900
Spares    20%                                                              1,980
TOTAL                                 11,880



ANNEX 1
Table lO
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Long-Term Rehabilitation and Regravelling Program
Type                         1/              .-                                         E     2/
of                 SECTIONS                                      X Length (Km)            ERR
road                                         o                                         -c  (%)
00                   ~~~~~Re-
m   Regravelling   habilitation
"RT01!  RN.02-Yako-Ouahigouya                 179   15       73               -             12
RN.10-Bobo-Dedougou                   277   23      179              -           > 30
(Gra-  RN.08-Bobo-Orodara                    125   53       76               -             30
vel   RN.14-Koudougou-Dedougou              272   62      151               -          > 30
Road)  RN.10-Dedougou-Tougan                 126   30       98               -             12
Tougan-Oauhigouya               88   43       94               -             12
RR.14-Koudougou-Sapala                 95   40       63              -             12
Total RTO                                    734               _
"PAA"   RN.06-Y6gueresso-Klesso               260   37       33               _           ? 30
(Im-          Klesso-Diebougou                100   37       89              -              30
proved  RN.13-Sabou-Koudougou                 140   35       -               25          > 30
Track   RD.09-Garango-Tenkodogo                58   32       21               -          < 12
A)      RN.08-Orodara-Brd.Mali                 17   72       54               -          < 12 3/
NC.37-Ratie-Kpuere                     15   75       -              54           < 12 -
Total PAA                                    197             79
"PAB"   RN.06-Diebougou-Leo                    70-  55                     135            > 30
(Im-    RN.13-Koudougou-Yako                  204   64       - _            92            > 30
proved         Sabou-Leo                       63   45       -             112            2 30
Track   RN.14-Dedougou-Mali                    99   55  1  140               -            > 30
B)      RR.14-Sapala-Sara                      95   37       44              -            230
RN.1l-Banfora-Kouere                   61   25       -              98             30
RN.12-Diebougou-Gaoua                 108   31       73              -           >30
RN.13-Leo-Ghana                        38   52       -              13           >30
RD.18-Sanaba-Nouna                     59   31       38              -           > 30
RN.02-Ouahigouya-Brd. Mali           < 30   24       66                          < < 12
RN.Il-Kouere-Gaoua-Batie             < 30   24      162              -           < 12
RN.18-Fada-Pama                      < 30   22                     138           < 12
Benin border
Total PAB                                    523        |  588
GRAND TOTAL
Regravelling: 734+ 197+ 523 = 1,454    2 121 Km
Rehabilitation 79+ 588        =   667 )   '
1/ Each sectiln is identified by its administrative classification,and the names
of the places at either end.
2/ The rates of return are computed on the assumption that the work will be
done by private contractors.
3/ The internal rates of return shown do not take into account development
programs which would enhance the return through the higher added values
resulting from the road.
Source: BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study, June 1980.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
First Priority Program for Rehabilitation and Regravelling
SECTIONS                 Length           Comments
(Km)
Regravelling
RN.10-1)edougou-Tougan               98           Dedougou ORD
RN.14-Koudougou-D6dougou            151           Koudougou ORD
RN.06-Yegueresso-Diebougou          122           Bougouriba ORD
RN.12-Diebougou-Gaoua                73           Bougouriba ORD
TOTAL regravelling                  444
Rehabilitation
RN.13-Sabou-Koudougou                25           Koudougou ORD
NC.37-Batie-Kpuere                   54           Bougouriba ORD
RN.13-Koudougou-Yako                 92           Koudougou ORD
Sabou-Leo                     112           Koudougou ORD
TOTAL rehabilitation                283
Source: BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study, June 1980.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
'i~tunen-Surfaced Poads to he Resealed
Administrative                                 Length
Classification             Section              (km)                Year Built
RN  09                 Bobo-Mali            122                   1969
RN  05                 Ouagadougou-         163                   1971
Ghana
RN  04                 Ouagadougou-         137                   1972
Koupela
TOTAL                                       422
Source: BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study, June 1980.



- 43 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 13
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAT REPORT
Monitoring Indicators of Maintenance Program
1979     1982      1983      1984     1985
I. Maintenance Works Indicators
2
Patching of Paved Roads (m )    N.A.        12,000   14,400   14,400   14,400
Light grading (km)                 5,400    8,000   11,000   11,000   11,000
Corrugation levelling (km)        18,000   30,000   40,000   40,000   40,000
3
Regravelling (m )                 80,000  190,000  310,000  310,000  310,000
Culvert cleaning, bridge
repair (Number)                 N.A.      1,800    2,100    2,100    2,100
II. Equipment Indicators
Availability (% of 220
annual working days)                  35        60       70        80        80
Utilization
Bulldozers (hours)              N.A.         650      700       800      800
Loaders (hours)                 N.A.         650      700       800       800
Graders (hours)                 N.A.         700      800       900       900
Rollers (hours)                 N.A.         400      450       500       500
Trucks (km)                     N.A.     25,000   30,000   35,000   35,000
Source:  BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study, June 1980.



-44 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 14
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGEWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(CFAF, net of Taxes)
Road Surface
Vehicle Type              Condition       R.B.*        R.T.M.*       P.T.O.*      P.A.*     P.O.*
Private Passenger             1           31,27        34,62        41,08        47,53      63,12
2          35,96        39,12         46,89        54,66     71,32
3          50,03        52,63         74,41        76,06     95,94
4          73,48        75,13         93,41       111,69    136,97
Taxi                          1           38,94       47,43         50,48        53,52      67,23
2          44,78        53,60         57,58        61,55     75,97
3          62,30        72,09         78,86       85,63    102,19
4          91,51       102,92        114,35       125,78    145,89
Bus                           1           46,92       60,11         64,32        68,53      90,83
2          54,43        65,53         71,49        77,44     99s0l
3          76,95        81,76         92,97      104,17    123,53
4         114,48       108,81        128,76       148,71    164,40
Medium Truck                  1           74,44        98,88       109,21       119,54    160,76
2          83,37       106,79        120,34      133,88    173,62
3         110,17       130,52        153,72      176,92    212,20
4         154,84       170,07        209,36      248,64    276,50
Heavy Truck                   1           89,20      100,21        115,80       131,38    188,12
2          99,90       119,03        133,09      147,15    203,17
3         132,02       145,48        169,97      194,45    248,32
4         185,54       189,56        231,42      273,28    323,57
Trailer Truck                 1          137,85      180,63        201,38       222,13    288,95
2         154,39       195,08        220,82      246,56    312,07
3         204,02       238,44        279,15      319,86    381,42
4         286,73       310,69        376,36      442,03    497,00
* R.B. = Paved road; R.T.M. = Modern Earth Road; R.T.O. = Ordinary Earth Road; P.A.
Improved Track; Category A; P.O. = Ordinary Track.
Source: BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study
June 1980



- 45 -
ANN2X II
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance required by DGTP and Regional
Directorates for Program Implementation
No.       Function or Specialty                  Qualifications          No. of Months
1    Expert in organizing the             Technical Assistant with a good       20
accounting of road maintenance      grasp of the organization of cost
in the regional directorates.       and financial accounting for works.
1    Expert in programming road main-   Highway technician with experience  20
tenance (current and periodic),    in road maintenance and the perti-
to work in DGTP and in the          nent programming of equipment and
regional directorates.              personnel and budgeting.
1    Adviser/crew leader to work         Highway technician with experience  30
with the periodic maintenance       in regravelling able to organize
regravelling crews.                 work on the spot and to train his
counterparts.
l    Adviser to chief mechanics of       Work site chief mechanic with         30
the regravelling crews.             experience in the on-site
maintenance and repair of public
works equipment.
1    Adviser to local Government for    Highway technician with experience  30
the maintenance of unclassified    in labor intensive road maintenance
roads.                              methods.
man-months        130
Source: BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study, June 19807



- 46 -                             ANNEXII
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance Required by the Directorate for
Equipment (DM) for Program Implementation
No. of
No.        Function or specialty               Qualifications                         Months
1   Technical adviser to Director,    Mechanical engineer with appropri-               40
DM.                                 ate formal qualifications plus long
experience in the directing and
managing of public works, contrac-
tors' or government equipment fleets
1    Technical adviser to Chief,         Mechanical engineer with at least 5            20
Central Operations Subdivision    years' experience or highly qualified
senior technician familiar with the
organization of on-site equipment
maintenance and repair and equipment
management.
1    Equipment inspector                 Technician specialized in equipment            30
maintenance, fully familiar with the
use of machinery and with a flair for
detecting the causes of equipment and
vehicle breakdowns.
1    Technical adviser to the            Mechanical engineer specialized in the         30
Chief of the Central                organizing of repair workshops, with
Workshops Subdivision               at least 5 years' experience in run-
ning a public works equipment repair
shop, or a highly experienced senior
technician.
1    Adviser to Chief of DM              Accountant with solid experience in            20
Administration and                  the managing of an industrial and
Accounts Department                 commercial undertaking and familiar
with cost accounting for equipment
operating costs.
1    Instructor in public works          Workshop chief specialized in civil            30
equipment repair                    engineering equipment, with at least
10 years' experience in running a
shop and equally familiar with
steelwork and engines
1    Instructor in light and             Workshop chief specialized in light            30
heavy vehicle repair               and heavy vehicles, with at least 10
years' practical experience and
familiar with electrical and
machine tools.
1    Chief, engines and assemblies      This post is presently held by a French
shop                               technical assistance officer, who will have
to be retained during implementation
of the program.
1    Chief, Central Supplies and         This post is presently held by a French
Stores Subdivision                 technical assistance officer, who will have
to be retained during implementation of
the program.
man-months       200
Source: BCEOM, Road Maintenance Study, June 1980.



-47-                              ANNEX II
UPPER VOLTA                            Table 3
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance Schedule
Total
Component                         1982       1983       1984        1985   (months)
Technical assistance to DGTP
and Regional Directorates
organization expert                                                              20
Programming expert                                                               20
Highway technician                                                               30
Technician (mechanic)                                                            30
Adviser to Local Government                                                      30
Technical assistance to DM
Adviser to Director DM                                                           40
EquiDment operation expert                                                       20
Eauipment inspector                                                              30
Technical Adviser                                                                30
Accountant                                                                       20
Instructor, equipment repair
Instructor, vehicle repair                                                       30
TOTAL          330



- 48 -
ANNEX III
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feeder Roads
A. General Description
1.        This project component consists of a three-year program for the
construction and initial maintenance of about 1,640 km of feeder roads.
It includes:
(i) purchase of equipment and spare parts;
(ii)  provision of materials and supplies;
(iii) construction of small drainage structures by local contractors;
(iv) technical assistance (about 48 man-months) comprising:
(a) about 32 man-months of training specialists in civil
works;
(b) about 10 man-months of training specialists for training
mechanics; and
(c) about 6 man-months of cost accountant to establish a
Cost Accounting Unit.
(v) continuation of feeder road impact study begun under the
First Rural Roads Project (579 UV).
B. Feeder Roads Program
2.        The approximately 1,640 km of feeder roads to be constructed and
initially maintained are located in areas where agricultural development
projects are planned or underway. DGTP, through its regional Feeder Road
Units (FRU), will be re-equipped to improve and maintain about 60 km of the
higher Standard A feeder roads and about 1,580 km of the lower Standard B
feeder roads identified from approximately 4,000 km located in important
agricultural areas.  The FRU will use equipment from the ongoing Rural Road
Project and the equipment financed under the proposed project plus equipment
financed under the First Bougouriba Agricultural Project, transferred from the
Regional Development Agency (ORD) to DGTP's Feeder Road Units. Five construc-
tion brigades, four maintenance brigades and four brigades for the construc-
tion of small structures will be created from this equipment.  The proposed
improvements will consist of (a) clearing brush,, (b) shaping the formation,
(c) spot gravelling and (d) building simple drainage structures. Design
standards foresee two levels of improvement depending on estimated traffic
flows and topographical and soil conditions.



- 49 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2
Design Standards
Type A            Type B
Clearing                    12 m             10 m
Roadway                      7 m              6 m
Gravelling 1/
width                      5.6 E            4.5-5 m
thickness                 0.15m             0.10 m
Gradient                    10%              12%
Traffic levels          6,000/            1,000/
in tons per year       12,000             6,000
1/   Spot improvements.
3.        Of the 1,640 km of feeder roads included in the proposed project,
500 km will be constructed to support the Koudougou Rural Development Project
and 370 km to support the Second Bougouriba Rural Development Project. An
additional 330 km will be improved as a continuation of the road program of
387 km included in the West Volta Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 706-UV)
of which 67 km have been constructed under the ongoing Rural Roads Project.
The selection was carried out in consultation with the relevant ORDs. The
remaining feeder roads (450 km) to be improved are located in North, Center,
Yatenga and Sahel ORDs. As the majority of works under the proposed project
will support agricultural development projects, the selection of roads for
upgrading is based on the requirements of these agricultural projects. The
1982 work program has been established in consultation between DGTP and the
ORDs and accepted by the Association (Table 1). Subsequent years programs
are indicative only (Table 2), and route changes can be introduced in the
process of preparing and confirming annual construction schedules between the
FRU and the ORDs. Proposed annual programs will be established in accordance
with agreed selection and evaluation criteria and submitted to the Association
for approval three months prior to the start of each new construction season.
4.        The project includes initial maintenance of roads improved under the
proposed project. Some 3,700 km of feeder roads will have been financed by
IDA and other donors by the end of the ongoing Rural Road Project. The
regional directorates will take over the responsibility for the maintenance of
1,700 km of feeder roads with the highest traffic levels under the proposed
maintenance project. A pilot scheme under this project will test the scope
for involving local communities in the maintenance of roads serving them.
C.   Equipment and Materials Procurement
5.        Equipment for the improvement and maintenance of feeder roads
has been financed under the ongoing Rural Roads Project. The proposed
program will require the renewal of used equipment and the transfer of
the Bougouriba brigade to the FRU (Table 3). The project provides for the
procurement, or in a few cases, the rental of necessary equipment as listed



- 50 -                       ANNEX III
Page 3
fn Table 4. The project also provides for the purchase of spare parts,
tools, fuel, lubricants, tires, materials and supplies. Bidding documents
for equipment to be supplied under the project will be prepared by the FRU,
using bidding documents and specifications prepared under the first project
in order to permit delivery by the end of 1981.
D.   Technical Assistance
6.        Due to the limited availability of local qualified staff, parti-
cularly with field experience, about 48 man-months of technical assistance
will be provided under the project by four experts to continue to assist DGPT
to:
(a) execute the work program;
(b) improve performance of the work brigades staff at all levels but
particularly senior civil works technicians, foremen, mechanics
and plant operators, through practical training; and
(c) establish a cost accounting unit to analyze construction and
maintenance costs and methods.
It is expected that technical assistance will be phased out during the
second year, so that in the third-year's operations would be run entirely by
Voltaic staff. The total staff required to carry out the proposed work-
program is listed in Table 5. The Government has agreed to recruit local
staff; a consulting firm is to provide the technical assistance. French
technical assistance will continue to provide one expatriate as deputy chief
of FRU.
7.        While the ongoing Rural Roads Project concentrated on building
up the administrative, organizational and technical capability to construct
and maintain feeder roads, the proposed project will put equal emphasis on
developing the planning and evaluation capacities of the FRU. This involves
first and foremost the establishment of procedures for efficient consulta-
tion and cooperation between ORDs, the Bureau of Programming (BP) and the
regional directorates at the planning stage. The BP will carry on with the
preparation of the annual work programs in coordination with the FRU Studies
Section and ORDs. Except where roads specified by an ORD have already been
evaluated and economically justified as part of an integrated rural develop-
ment project, the ORD must furnish basic data for each proposed road so as to
allow the BP to carry out a rate of return analysis. The FRU Studies Section
must at the same time, provide BP with technical basic data on road standards,
investment and recurrent cost. This programming excercise will be undertaken
annually in order to ensure reasonable responsiveness of the BP, FRU Studies
Section and FRU works brigades if the ORDs- indicative priorities change in
later years.
E.   Training
8.        Some new equipment operators will be trained by the suppliers
of equipment purchased under the project; the bidding documents will include
a provision to this effect. However, the main training of brigade chiefs,



- 51 -                       ANNEX III
Page 4
equipment operators, mechanics and foremen, will be carried out in the five
construction brigades by the technical assistance during the first-year's
program.
F.   Project Monitoring
9.        The proposed project includes the monitoring functions described
below. These will be undertaken by the FRU Studies Section and BP and will
be in addition to the monitoring indices set out in Annex 1, Table 13.
(a)  the analysis of productivity and cost data on the FRU force
account brigades and of civil works carried out by small local
contractors;
(b)  collecting data on the quality of road construction, improvement
and maintenance works, and on the rate of road deterioration
in relation to standards, materials, rainfall, maintenance and
traffic;
(c)  traffic counts on a sample of feeder roads to establish traffic
levels, composition and growth; and
(d)  periodic measurements of:
(i) population;
(ii) agricultural production and marketing;
(iii) import of foodstuff and agricultural inputs;
(iv) changes in farmgate prices for marketed produce, imported
food crops and agricultural inputs;
(v) use of educational, health and farm extension services;
(vi) household budgets in a small sample.
In carrying out these functions the FRU and BP will work closely with
interested Government agencies and other institutions, particularly with the
ORDs, keeping primary data collection to the minimum necessary for project
performance and impact monitoring.
G.   Cost Estimates
10.       The total cost of the project component is estimated at US$11.4
million net of taxes with a foreign exchange cost of US$8.4 million (60%).
Taxes and duties are estimated at US$2.9 million. Table 6 shows the compo-
nent-s costs.
11.       Estimates of the cost of equipment have heen based on early 1980
prices in Upper Volta. Operating costs of equipment are based on 200
working days per annum with an average of 6 hours operation per day, at the



- 52 -                       ANNEX III
Page 5
current cost in Upper Volta. The estimated average costs per km net of
taxes for road construction and improvement including technical assistance
are as follows:
Road Type                   Cost per km
7 m formation and 5-6 m gravelled width
where necessary (Type A)                       US$8,000
6 m formation and 4.6-6 m gravelled width
where necessary (Type B)                       US$6,000
12.     The cost of consultants has been estimated at US$12,700 per man-
month. Of this about US$8,800 is to cover salary, overheads, social security
charges and overseas allowances. Reimbursable expenses (housing, travel
etc.) are costed at US$3,900 per man-month. These figures are based on
recent consultants proposals in the Western Africa Region.
13.       Provision for future price increase on all items has been esti-
mated in line with recent Bank Group Guidelines as follows: 9.0% in 1981;
8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% thereafter on all items.
H.   Execution
14.       Physical execution of the feeder road component is expected to
start by early 1982, and to take about three years to complete (Table 7). The
Ministry of Public Works will have overall administrative responsibility for
its execution. The Feeder Road Units will be incorporated into the Regional
Directorates with a FRU studies section attached to DETN. FRU will be staffed
by Voltaic personnel from the former SERS and will be assisted by about 48
man-months of technical assistance in the initial stage of the project. For
planning works execution, the studies section will submit to the General
Directorate of Public Works annual work programs prepared in cooperation with
the BP and in coordination with the ORDs. The ORDs, in the light of their
regions development priorities, will indicate roads that need improvement to
the FRU Studies Section who will be responsible for engineering and detailed
planning aspects of the works. Once FRUIs work program for each fiscal year
is adopted by an annual meeting between ORDs and FRU, it will be submitted to
the Association for approval three months before the scheduled start of work
to be undertaken in that year's program.
15.      Road improvement and maintenance works will be carried out by
FRU brigades, with some support from small domestic contractors particularly
in the construction of drainage structures, and in the haulage of road
surfacing materials. Although experience has demonstrated the difficulties
of using labor intensive methods for road maintenance in Upper Volta, such



- 53 -                        ANNEX III
Page 6
methods can be applied to a limited range of routine repairs, cleaning of
ditches and culverts and minor earthworks, but only in areas where the
population is numerous and sufficiently motivated.
16.       Particular emphasis will be put on developing the planning and
evaluation procedures for feeder road improvement and maintenance. Regular
consultation and close cooperation between the Feeder Roads Units, BP and the
Rural Development Agencies (ORD) will ensure that annual road improvement
programs remain responsive to the needs of agriculture and rural development.
The FRU studies section will also be responsible for monitoring all feeder
road construction activities financed by other bilateral or multilateral
donors so as to ensure that these activities are coherently coordinated.
During negotiations Government should agree to a regular schedule of con-
sultations between the FRU, the ORDs and the donor agencies concerned.
I.   Procurement
17.       Equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies amounting to US$7.5
million (including taxes) will be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for
materials and supplies purchased locally may be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding following local procedures acceptable to the Association.
Consultants will be employed in agreement with and under terms of reference
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
J.   Selection Criteria and Economic Evaluation
I.   Roads Evaluated as Part of Agricultural Development Package
(i) Selection Criteria
18.       The selection and scheduling of feeder roads for upgrading would be
guided by the requirements of the agricultural projects they serve. Feeder
roads would provide all-weather access to larger villages which are centers
for the distribution of inputs and of surplus food crops. After detailed
inventory of the routes proposed, FRU will decide on the least cost construc-
tion alternative compatible with terrain conditions and expected levels of
traffic.
(ii)  Economic Evaluation
19.       Roads that support IDA-financed agriculture and rural development
projects are an integral part of a multi-faceted investment package, and the
overall economic rate of return thus will be based on expected net incre-
mental value added in agriculture for the project area. If the Governmnwnt's
objectives of raising domestic food production and increasing agricultural
exports are to be attained, project area farmers must be assured that inputs



- 54 -                        ANNEX III
Page 7
,nd services required for improving crop and livestock production will reach
them at the right time, and that their surplus production can move to markets
at a reasonable cost. Existing road infrastructure in the proposed project
areas does not provide year-round accessibility. The expected incremental
production is unlikely to materialize unless feeder road improvements are
carried out along with reliable maintenance of the main road network since
these feeder road improvements are an indispensable ingredient for realizing
projected agricultural production targets. The costs of feeder road construc-
tion and subsequent maintenance have been-included fully in the economic
calculations for each agricultural development project (see (iii) below) and
are based on producer surplus benefits which represent a joint return to
agriculture and road investments. In the absence of reliable information
on nonagriculture-related traffic, no attempt has been made to quantify the
likely associated vehicle operating cost savings, which would be additional to
producer surplus benefits.
(iii) Projects Served
20.       The agriculture projects being served by the feeder road project
are located in the Koudougou, Bougouriba and West Volta ORDs. The Koudougou
project is the first phase of a development program aimed at improving the
agricultural production and the farm incomes in the Koudougou ORD on the
Mossi plateau. It also aims to protect and improve the areas agricultural
resources by erosion control, tree planting and adaptive research. The
project is expected to be implemented over 5 1/2 years (five full crop
seasons), focussing on increasing the effectiveness of the existing extension
service, introducing in-service training, and increasing the availability of
farm inputs and credit through a network of farm service centers. It is of
great importance that extension efforts and agricultural inputs be appro-
priately timed. To ensure timeliness, the rural road construction program
in the Koudougou ORD will precede implementation of the agriculture project by
one year: some 160 km of priority road improvements have been included in the
1980/81 construction program of the on-going Rural Roads Project. Under the
present project, an additional 500 km are expected to be constructed in the
Koudougou project area.
21.       The Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project is designed
to consolidate the results obtained during the first phase. It aims to reach
a greater number of farmers, thus further increasing agricultural and live-
stock production in the Bougouriba ORD. The focus would be on improving
the technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved organization of
training and extension activities and of input distribution and credit.
Successful animal health activities would be continued and improved animal
husbandry practices and increased use of animal traction promoted with modest
adoption goals which would recognize the relative novelty of these tech-
nologies in the area. The agricultural extension program would reach 22,000
of the 33,000 farm families in the area, an increase of 13,000 from present
levels. Emphasis will be given to increasing yields of the main foodcrops



- 55 -                        ANNEX III
Page 8
millet and sorghum by improved husbandry techniques. Efforts to improve crops
grown by farmers in the various sub-region (principally yams in the south,
groundnuts in the east, and cotton in the north and south), will also continue.
Small programs would encourage more fruit and firewood tree planting and
erosion control. A total of 670 km of rural roads in the project area were
constructed or improved under the first agriculture development project.  The
second agriculture project foresees up-grading to all-weather standards of an
additional 675 km of rural roads over a five-year period; 370 km of these are
expected to be completed as part of the three-year construction program
financed under the present project. The joint return (producer surplus)
established for the road and agricu:Lture investments in Bougouriba ORD is 20%.
The main risk mentioned in the appraisal report was delays in the roads
program which would effect marketing of surplus production and distribution
of imports.
22.       The West Volta Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 706-UPV)
included a road component of 387 km, of which 250 km will have been con-
structed under the Rural Roads Project (Cr. 579-UPV). Another 330 km are
scheduled for improvement under the proposed project. The joint return to
agriculture and road investment for the West Volta Agricultural Project had
been estimated at 31.6%.
II. Other Roads in the Three Year Construction Program
23.       There will be an additional 440 km of roads included in the three-
year upgrading program, which are not part of an integrated agricultural
development package. Roads of this type will be evaluated on a case-by-case
basis by the BP, whose capacity to undertake such evaluations has been
developed under the Rural Roads Project.
24.        As a rule, the roads submitted by regional authorities for inclu-
sion in the up-grading program are to serve areas with good agricultural
potential and to which immigration from over-populated central areas of the
Mossi Plateau is encouraged. The economic evaluation is carried out by
comparing the "with and without" road agricultural activity level in the area
of influence and establishing an economic rate of return for the road and
eventual complementary agriculture investments that may be planned for the
region in terms of net incremental value added in agriculture. Only roads
that have an economic rate of return of 10% or more will be included in the
program.



- 56 -
ANNEX III
Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feeder Roads: First Year Road Improvement Program
1/
Map Reference      Centre Est - Koudougou               Length (km)      Standard
2           Sigle - Manoro                          55                 B
3           Samba - Pella                           10                 B
4           Toesse - Kaba                           25                 B
5           Kaba - Arbolle                          22                 B
6           Fara - Niabori                          30                 B
Volta Noire - Dedougou
20           Boromo - Safane                         14 (59)            A
Comoe - Banfora
25           Toumousseni - Louimana                  61 (85)            B
Bougouriba - Diebougou
28           Zinkakora-Legmoin-Dankana               14                 B
29           Batie-Boussoukoula-Kosso-               46                 B
Bobora
30           Boussoukoula-Danofora                   22                 B
31           Gaoua-Midebdo                           42                 B
Hauts Bassins - Bobo Dioulasso
.39           Satiri - Bassora - Basse                56                B
40           Hounde - Bereba - Sara                  46                A
TOTAL                                 443
1/  In view of recently emerged uncertainties concerning the future of the
Koudougou Agricultural Development Project, the proposed feeder road
program for the Koudougou area is only tentative and might be subject
to modifications to be agreed between Government and the Association.



- 57 -
ANNEX III
Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feeder Roads: Indicative Road Improvement Program for
the Second and Third Year
Map Reference       Centre - Ouagadougou                  Length (km)       Standard
I             Ziniare - Ziga - Boulsa                  80                 B
1/
Centre-Ouesa - Koudouggu
7             Laba - Silly   Tiessourou -             106                 B
Leo
8             Daboue - Taga - Diona                    32                 B
9             Diona - Kabaro - Massema -               40                 B
Dakoya
10             Leo - Yelbouga - Biela - Prata           44                 B
11             Sissily - Yelbouga                       13                 B
12             Sapouy - Kialiero - Bougouga -           31                 B
Bagata
13             Bagata - Wayou                           18                 B
14             Kassou - Wayou - Bouyounou               35                 B
15             Kassou - Tekourou                        13                 B
16             Mebo - Koumbo - ORJ's boundary           34                 B
Ouahigouya
17             Ouahigouya - Bai - Bani                  72                 B
18             Niessega - Berenga - Seguenega           83                 B
Volta Noire - Dedougou
21             Ouarkoye - Fakena                         8                 B
Centre - Nord - Kaya
22             Pissila - Pibaore                        30                 B
23             Yilou - Kouko                            22                 B
24             Tikare - Rouko - Sabre                   25                 B
Comod - Banfora
26             Sindou - Kankalaba - Touroy              34                 B
27             Sinieua - Anka                            7                 B
Bougouriba - Diebougou
32             Legmoin-Tobo-Poualetion-Kampieui         24                 B
33             Yeregaue - Fitiuaoe - Memer - Koper  42                     B
34             Indini-Haba-Kayo-Zaughoni-Faro-          52                 B
Sorkon
35             I'akar - Intiedougou                     25                 B
36             Dano - Bielgane - Tampour                21                 B
4                                 37              MoulEpo - Djigoue - Kampti               60                 B
38             Boussera - Betie Nord                    22                 B
Rauts Bassins - Bobo Dioulasso
41             N'Dorola - Morolaba                       35                B
42             Bauzon - Samorogoan - Sindou              57                 B
Sahel - Dori
43             Dori - Markoye                            79                B
44             Gaigou - Goromgorom - Salnossi            53                 B
1,197
1/  Tn view of recentiv emerged uncertainties concerninp t:c   i -sc  5  -.e You: -
Agricultural Development Project, the proposed feeder road program for the
Koudougou area is only tentative and might be subject to modifications to be
agreed between Government and the Association.



- 58 -                         L       III
Table 3
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feeder Roads: Highway Equipment Purchased Under Previous Projects
A. West Volta Cotton Project (Credit 225 UV)
Bulldozer D7                    Caterpillar              I
Motorgrader 112F                Caterpillar              3
Front Loader 920                Caterpillar              I
Front Loader Mf44               Nancy Ferguson           1
Dump Trucks 262                 Berliet                  6
Tanker Trucks 262               Berliet                  2
Agricultural Tractor            Nancy Ferguson           1
Compactor Towed                 Ridrier                  1
Service Truck SG4               Renault                  1
Pick-up 404                     Peugeot                  1
Station Wagon 404               Peugeot                  1
Total Cost CFAF 75 million (US$330,000)  (1973)
B. Bouriba Agricultural Development Project (Credit 496 UV)
Bulldozer D7                    Caterpillar              1
Motorgrader                     Caterpillar              2
Front Loader                    Caterpillar              1
Dump Trucks                     Berliet                  6
Water Tankers                   Berliet                  3
Tanker Truck                    Berliet                  1
Agricultural Tractor            Fiat                     1
Compactor Towed lOT             Albaret                  1
Concrete Mixer                  2
Pick-ups                        Peugeot                  3
Water Pump 50m3/h                                        I
Compressor 7 kg                                          1
Vibrating Compactor                                      1
Welding Machine                                          1
Total Cost CFAF 135 million (US$600,000) (1976)
C. Rural Development (Credit 317 UV) and Drought Relief Fund
Credit 442 UV)
Bulldozer D50                   Komatsu                  1
Motorgrader MJ 21C              Ridrier                  2
Front Loader MF5O               Nancy Ferguson           1
Dump Truck GLR160               Berliet                  4
Tanker Trucks GLR160            Berliet                  1
Agricultural Tractor            Nancy Ferguson           1
Compactor Towed                 Albaret                  1
Service Truck 262               Berliet                  1
Concrete Mixer B942C            Ridrier                  1
Water Pump P487                 Ridrier                  1
Vibrating Rarmer SV1500         Delmag                   1
Total Cost CFAF 65 million (US$290,000) (1973)
D. First Rural Roads Project (Credit 579 UV)
Bulldozer D79                   Caterpillar              3
Motorgrader 120B                Caterpillar             14
Front end Loader 950            Caterpillar              2
Front end Loader 930            Caterpillar              2
Back hoe Loader 780             Fiat                     1
Dump Trucks TXD50               Isuzu                   29
Water Tanker Truck 8000L        Isuzu                    6
Fuel Tanker Truck 8000L         Isuzu                    5
Service Truck GL750             Berliet                  5
Agricultural Tractor 750        Fiat                     5
Compactor 15T                   Albaret                  2
Store/Repair Trailer            SAFI                     2
Concrete Mixer 400L                                      4
Water Pump 50m/h                                         8
Pick-up                         Peugeot                 11
Light vehicle                   Peugeot                  7
Four wheel Drive Vehicle        Toyota                   1
Radio Equipment                                          9
Vibrating Compactor 910 kg                               4
Total cost CFAF 631 million (US$2,800,000) (1977)



- 59 -
ANNEX III
Table 4
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
It
Feeder Roads: Equipment to be Purchased to Re-equip Existing
Feeder Roads Improvement and Maintenance Brigades
1/
(US' 000)
Quantity     Unit Cost      Total Cost
Bulldozer 180-200 HP                    1            210             210
Motor-Grader 120-130 HP                 3            155             465
Wheel Loader 9--110 HP                  1            120             120
Agricultural Tractor 65-80 HP           2             30              60
Dump Truck 6/7 T                       36             46           1,656
Water Truck 8,000 L                     2             55             110
Fuel Truck 8,000 L                      3             65             195
Backhoe Loader                          1             90              90
Store/Repair Trailer                    2             55             110
Water Tank 2,000 L                      1              15              15
Van                                    15              14             210
Light Vehicle                           4              15              60
Vibrating Compactor 700 kg               2             15              30
Compressor                              4              20             80
Radio Equipment                         1               5               5
Water Pump 50 m3/h                      2               3               6
Electro Unit                            3              22             66
Welding Unit                            3               3               9
Jumping Frog                            4              11              44
Tools and Spares                                                     144
TOTAL                                                              3,685
Source: Mission Estimate -  February 1981.



- 60 -
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                  ANNEX III
Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feeder Roads: Project Staff
A. Local Key Personnel
(a) Feeder Road Central Unit
1/
Chief of Feeder Road Unit - Civil Engineer preferably, with at least
two years;experience in road works
2/
Deputy Chief of Feeder Road Unit   - Engineer preferably, with at
least one year of experience or if senior technician, at least three
years' experience in road-works.
Administrative Assistant
Accountant Chief - with two years' practical experience
(b) Feeder Road Mechanic Unit
Chief Mechanic - with two years' practical experience
Two Trained Mechanics
(c) Local Work Brigade Personnel
For each work brigade:
1 Chief of Brigade - Technical
1 Trained Mechanic
2 Mechanics
1/ The Chief of the FRU should be employed full time for the project.
2/ Under the First Project the Deputy Chief of Feeder Road Unit was an
expatriate provided by the FAC; this arrangement is expected to continue.
The local work brigade personnel should possess basic educational background
similar to the Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle (CAP) and preferably
some practical field experience. However, most of their training will take
place within the proposed project.
B. Technical Assistance
2 Road Technicians -32 man-months: minimum of 5 years'experience of
managing low cost road construction and maintenance work and 2 years of
training road foremen and technicians in developing countries.
1 Chief Mechanic -10 man-months: minimum of 5 years' experience
of which 2 years spent training vehicles and equipment mechanics in deve-
loping countries.
1 Accountant -6 man-months: minimum of 5 years' experience in cost account-
ing methods and in civil works in developing countries.



- 61 -
ANNEX III
Table 6
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feeder Roads: Cost Estimates
 ------- US$ Million -------------
Foreign
Local                                        Exchange
Net of                           Total       Compo-
Tax      Taxes    Foreign    With Tax    nent %
Equipment Purchase           0.37       1.03        2.29        3.69          62
Equipment Hire                0.005     0.005       0.03        0.04          80
Spare Parts                  0.22       0.52        1.45        2.19          66
Fuel and Lubricants           0.19      0.21        1.02        1.42          72
Local Staff                  1.43       0.08         -          1.51           0
Materials                     0.07      0.19        0.58        0.84          69
Civil Works Contracted        0.02      0.10        0.32        0.44          72
Technical Assistance          0.08      0.06        0.58        0.72          80
Road Ma ntenance Opera-
ting cost                  0.06       0.18        0.52        0.76          68
Studies                       0.03      0.03        0.28        0.34          82
Base Cost                  2.475      2.405       7.07       11.95          59
Price Contingency             0.48      0.46        1.36        2.30          59
GRAND TOTAL                 2.955     2.865       8.43       14.25          59
Source: Mission Estimate - February 1981.



UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feeder Roads: Implementation Schedule
1980         1981          1982          1983          1984
Procurement of Equipment
Prepare Bidding Documents
Call for Bids                                                  *
Evaluate Bids                                                   *
Select Suppliers                                                 *
Approve Contracts                                                 *
Deliver Equipment                                                           *
Technical Assistance
Prepare TOR for Technical Assistance
Invite Consultants to submit Proposal                          *                                                          2
Proposal                                                          *
Review Consultants' Proposals                                      *
Select Consultant and Award Contract                                *
Consultant Services                                                              -            l
Program Preparation
Preparation of Yearly Program                                          32/83         83/84
Presentation of Program to IDA                                            *             *
Program Execution
Improvement Brigades                                                              -        ,---I-l-.
Maintenance Brigades
Impact Study
Survey                                                           _____                        --------
Report                                                                        *            *             * 
-I-
IDA Supervision
Engineer                                                           *      *     *       *     *     *        *
Economist                                                                 *             *           *



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Etude de l'Entretien Routier en Haute Volta.  Rapport Final.
Consultants BCEOM - June 1980.
2.    Etude de la Route Ouagadougou - Kaya - Dori.
Consultants Europrogetti - Marchl980.
3.    Etude d'Evaluation de l'Impact des Routes Rurales.
Consultants Halerow Fox and Associates.
Progress Reports through February 1980
4.    Situation-Position-Valeur du Parc de Materiel d'Entretien des
Routes Nationales. MTPTU, Division Outillage Mecanique.
January 1980.
5.    Etude Pr6liminaire pour la Creation d'une Ecole des Travaux Publics
en Haute Volta.
Consultants BCEOM - January 1978.
6.    Projet de Plan Quinquennal 1977-1981.
Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation 1979.
7.    Reajustement du Projet de Plan Quinquennal 1977-1981.
Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation - December 1979.
8.    Projets de Budget Annexe Fonds Routier 1979 et 1980.
MTPTU - DGTP.
9.    Budget 1980 - Ministere des Finances.
10.    Computer runs for economic analysis.
World Bank, November 1980.



r



CHART I
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED REORGANIZATION OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Transport nad Urbanism                     Cabne                        Plnnn
Z                                                   |          I~~~~~ ~~~             ~ ~            ~         ~    ~ ~~~~~MTPTUJ)   l ll l Pann
Secretr 
.1                                                                                   Gene,
Autonomous
Agencies
G eneral D irecto rate                                                                                General Directorate
of Urbanism                                                                                            of Transport                                    RAN
DGT                                         Air Volta
ASECNA
LNBTP
Admin. Sen-vces:                                    Voltelec
-Office of the Analysis
General Directorate                  of Prices and Contracts
of Public Works                   -Central Office
DGTP                         -Central Accounting Office
-Central Personnel Office
-Center for Technical Training
Directorate for                   Bureau of                                                                                         Directorate for
Design and New Works                Programming                                                                                           Equipment
DETN                             BP                                                                                                   DM
Regional Directorates                                                       l
L                       - -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  _  of Public lorks       -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
to be Established
Ouagadougou
Bobo Dioulasso        in
Quahigouya           1981
Feda N'Gourma
D6dougou               in
Dori                 1985
Gaoua
Kou dou gou
Kaya                 after
Tenkodcogo           1985
World Bank - 22804



CHART II
UPPER VOLTA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Responsible
Main Activities                                    Authority        1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
Credit Agreement Signed
Date of Credit Effectiveness                                                             *
I.   Equipment Procurement
-    Preparation of Tender Documents (TD)                       DM/BPM            _
-    IDA Approval of TD                                         IDA
-    Bidding Period
-    Evaluation of Bids                                         DM
-    IDA Approval                                               IDA
-    Award of Contract                                          DM                       *
-    Equipment Delivery                                        DM
II.  Workshop and Office Construction
-    Preparation of TD                                       DM/DR/BPM
-    IDA Approval of TD                                         IDA
-    Bidding Period
-    Evaluation of Bids                                      DM/DR/BPM
-    IDA Approval                                               IDA
-    Award of Contract                                      DM/ BPM
-    Construction                                             DM/DR
III. Periodic Maintenance by Force Account
-    Equipment Procurement (see I)                             DM/BPM
-    Regravelling                                                DR                             _
IV. Rehabilitation of Gravel canaci by Coutractor
-    Selection of Consultants f-r supervisien
of construction                                           DGTP
-    Preparation of TD                                          DETN/BPM
-    IDA Approval of TD                                          IDA
-    Bidding Period
-    Evaluation of Bids                                         DETN/BPM
-    IDA Approval                                                IDA                     0
-    Award of Contract                                          DETN/BPM
-    Rehabilitation                                              DETN
V.  Resealing of Paved Roads
-    Preparation of TD                                          DETN/BPM
-    IDA Approval of TD                                           IDA
-    Bidding Period
-    Evaluation of Bids                                         DETN/BPM
-    IDA Approval                                                 IDA
-    Award of Contract                                          DETN/BPM
-    Resealing                                                    DETN
VI.  Feeder Roads (see Annex III, Table 7)                           DETN/DR          -
VII. Technical Assistance to MTPTU
-    Selection of Consultants                                    DGTP                                                                      J
or Recruitment of Individuals
-    Consultant Services (see Annex II,Table 3)                DGTP/DM               _
VIII. Design of Public Works Training School                          DGTP
IX.  Technical Assistance to Domestic Contractors                    DGTP
BPM: Bureau des Prix et Marchgs.
DR: Directions Regionales.



NA I IONAL ROADS Pi,/3 id                                                                                                      '                                                                       -
NATION3AL ROAD' G-,O
DEPARI[MENTAL RVADS, F;/tH, Or_ 0
RESLAL NC OF PAVD ROADS                                                     
RFHABIL11ATION OF GRAVEL ROADS
*                  ROADS CONSTRUC1 LL UNDER PrFviou[0  PROJIrc
. -      ROADS UNDLR STUDY FOR PAVINCJ             _c, 6                                                                 Arb,d By
PAVED ROADSUNDERCONS3U0N1 0                    ,               ,*  - S   h                                                              I*IG
( NATIONALCAPi IAL                                               J                                                                                             o  N-ey
+ A3h ELOS /, I I LD
INTERNATIONAL W)UNDARSIS
Os        5D        0               *t              I    i        OUAHIG                                          BARSALOGO ,0
KILOM.ETERS                   >             X     j/A_ S                                                     (-t 
D      I   b,  Ol1/3
/1/4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
V 0t ~~~~~~LohirossO                   -  RdBond                _          --  )                          \ ir0NBISSR                                      ON5300U33,f/IA.
-eaO   NT                                            - t  /'-Pft49tAFew \S    X    A.~*AA
I;                                                  _                                                                                                                                  _2 _|  '- 
A    <                              - %t,_ ' ...E  FOURTH HGHWY PoROJECTi
ROA  N  WOe r                                                    RK ;I
G4                                                  J



I



3.                                                                                T.                             2" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15477
REPUBLIC   OF  UPPER  VOLTA                                                                                                ..                              TAMBAO -
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT*8 
Feeder Roads Component/
*                            "1DB47,VOO'                                                                                                                                                                                                                14'-
10  To',.         7000DB                                       o00NEEVB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.B                                                                                 NII
/                                                                                                                                 'K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~                             T~~~~~~~GHd A   NAo~E   -MSR                                    RAS P-IK
o-xo{  EELS                                                                                                                          K~~~-
CO                                                                                                                                                                      GO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  1~1U ~   T D
N 0  BOO
gARBO?   M970VEB~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   *          A~P- U-1-1  OS~C 
70T71.ANT  ,0L .       B~I.RVLOUSUA~AS~JC
70MB VVI 7UN- VERAM
ID*00*010                                                      EB                                                                                                                                                                       000' 
NXoSI,,                    TLBVOVROA                                                                           700
EATI        UAVEl R.A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
4                                                                                                               000070~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BU.RE
Vo,A0O ~~~'~ZSEBE"                           t~~~~~4BENIN
I V R   1C0 , ASS   5 T             EKLO WERSB: I-
1.                                             T~~~~~~~0    L9oOB8               -011      ~      0                         00    o,..



