Docu=t of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12636
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1710-SE)
DECEMBER 27, 1993
Industry and Energy Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C(URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US $1.0              =            276.625
CFAF 1 million       =            US $3,615
SDR 1.0              -            US $1.371
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCT         Agence Culturelle et de Cooperation Technique
AfDB         African Development Bank
BOAD         Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFD          Caisse Francaise de D6veloppement
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DE           Department of Energy
EdF          Electricite de France
ESIE         Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricite
ESMAP        Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FNE          Fonds National de I'Energie
GOS          Government of Senegal
MDIA         Ministere du Developpment Industriel et de I'Artisanat
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR          Soci&t6 Africaine de Raffinage
SENELEC      Societe Nationale d'Electricite
TEP          Tonne Equivalent Petrole
UNDP         United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
ffice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 27, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Senegal
Energy Sector Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1710-SE)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Senegal - Energy Sector
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1710-SE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
It also reflects the comments and data contained in a detailed report which the
Borrower submitted to IDA instead of Part II. Comments by the co-financiers were
not sought by the Region or the Borrower. The Borrower's report provides details
on the execution of the project components, its procurement and cost, but does
not elaborate on the extent of achievement of project objectives.
IDA financed about 22% and Societe Nationale d' Electricite 28% of
the US$ 110 million project cost. Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, the
largest co-financier, financed 34Z of the project cost, and the African
Development Bank and the Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement financed 10% and
6% respectively. The project had no cost overrun but its completion took one
year longer than the five years estimated originally.
The overall outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. The
physical investments were made and the studies and training components completed.
However, the important project objectives of optimizing the use of energy
resources, reducing the cost of power generation, improving power supply
reliability and increasing power sales were not met and covenants were not
complied  with.    Institutional  development  is  rated  as  partial  and  the
sustainability of benefits as unlikely because of the lack of comitment by the
Government to make policy reforms in the energy sector.
The Project Completion Report is comprehensive and contains a frank
and informative account of the project implementation, its results and lessons.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1710-SE)
1. PROJECT  REVIEW   FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....................                                                   1
1. Project Description  .....................................                                              1
Project Identity   ....................................                                           1
Background .......................................   1
Project Objectives ...................................                                           2
Project Beneficiary Institutions  ...........................                                    2
Project Components ..................................                                             3
Project Finances  ....................................                                           6
2. Project Results .......................................   8
Overall Summary  ...................................                                             8
Evaluation of Results by Specific IDA  Credit Components ....                        ......   11
Generation Component .................................    11
Distribution and Transport Component ......................    12
Engineering Component ...............................    14
Technical Assistance Component ..........................   15
Training Component  .................................    17
Energy Conservation and Studies   .........................    17
3. Project Design and Implementation Review    ......................   22
Design of institutional arrangements ........................   22
Environmental Aspects ................................    22
Identification and evaluation of risks   .......................   23
Project Ownership ...................................   23
Project Sustainability  .................................    23
Time Table ........................................  24
Disbursement .......                                                                            24
Procurement .......  26
Monitoring and Supervision  .............................   26
Conclusion: Summary of Lessons Learned ....................   26
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                                ....... 30
m.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ................................    31
Related Bank Loan or Credits   ................................    31
Project Timetable . ........................................ 31
Credit Disbursement  ............                        ..........................    32
Project Results .          .........................................    33
Project Costs and Financing   .................................    34
Status of Covenants ..............                        .........................    36
Use of Bank Resources   ..........                       ..........................    39
Tis  document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1710-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Energy Sector
Rehabilitation project in Senegal, for which Credit 1710-SE in the amount of
US$20.0 million was approved in June 1986. The credit was closed in December
1992, one and a half years behind schedule.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Africa
Region (Preface, Parts I and III). On May 17, 1993, the Bank sent the Borrower
Parts I and III for co ments. Later, the Borrower prepared a detailed completion
report in French and submitted it to IDA. The report is kept in OED files.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
it is also based on the findings of additional studies carried out in the context
of preparing a new operation in the sector. These studies identify shortcomings
not apparent to supervision missions.






- ii -
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1710-SE)
PROJECT CONIPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMtARY
1.    Obiectives. The Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project was designed to assist Senegal to:
(i) optimnize its use of energy resources through the elimination of price distortions and through
the implementation of energy conservation measures; (ii) reduce the cost of generation through the
inprovement of the efficiency and reliability of existing plants, and through the construction of
more fuel-efficient facilities; (iii) strengthen and expand the existing transmission and distribution
system to improve reliabilitv, reduce losses and generate sales (mainly in the Dakar area); and
(iv) strengthen SENELEC's management and restore its financial viability through a
comprehensive rehabilitation program (para. 1.4).
2.    Imnlementation expenence. Credit 1710-SE was essentially prepared by SENELEC and
MDIA based on several donor funded studies and with assistance from IDA's Power Engineering
Project (Credit S-26-SE) and Second Parapublic Project (Credit 1398). Negotiations took place in
Januarv 1986. and the Credit was submitted for Board approval on May 20, 1986. The date of
effectiveness originally scheduled for September 1986 was pushed back six months because of a
delay in the effectiveness of cross-conditional financing agreements between GOS and the African
Development Bank (AfDB) and GOS and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, CCCE
(now Caisse Francaise de Developpement) . In March 1987, IDA waived the pending cross-
conditionalitv and Credit 1710-SE became effective.
3.    A series of preparatory studies and works for the implementation of Credit 1710-SE were
funded prior to March 1987 by the project preparation facility, whereby the negative impact of
the delay in effectiveness was somewhat minimized. Actual implementation of the Credit began
very slowly, all components were launched between one and two years behind schedule.
Nonetheless. all investment components were satisfactorily completed by December 1990.
Although the majority of the non-investment components of the Credit were completed by
December 1991, two closing extensions were necessary for the borrower to complete outstanding
studies and training activities. Project closing was originally expected by June 30, 1991. Actual
project closing was first extended to June 30, 1992 and then to December 31, 1992 (para. 2.5 and
2.6).
4.    Results. The evaluation of the achievements of the Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project
and of Credit 1710-SE needs to be carried out at two separate levels. One, from the point of
view of the development objectives the evaluation results are clearly less than satisfactory. At this
point in time it is difficult to ascertain whether energy resource allocation in Senegal was
improved. or to what extent power generation costs were effectively reduced. Power supply
reliabilitv appears to have been only marginally improved and power losses, instead of
decreasing, continued to be high at 16% in 1989 and compared to 8% in 1973. Power sales in
the Dakar area, which at appraisal were expected to grow at 5 % per year, increased by only



2.4% per year. SENELEC's management still remains weak and in need of a comprehensive
retorrn co%ering. in particular. overall management. financial management and accounting.
accounts receivable. and deliverv of consumer services. The technical assistance component. bv
far the xweakest of the project. was fullv implemented but was unable to secure the success ot
SENELEC's rehabilitation program (para. 2.2 and 2.3).
5.     On the other hand. the principal hardware investment elements of the Project. namely. the
generaticn. transmission and the distribution components, were almost entirelv and satisfactonlv
completed (the exception being the Low Voltage part of the Distribution Component). At the
samne tinme. the specific investment components of the Credit (civil works. material and equipment
for the generation. transmission and distribution components) were also mostly completed as
planned. The engineering component of the Credit provided critical and timely technical
assistance support for the implementation of the generation, transmission and distribution
components of the overall Project. The energy conservation and studies component included the
implemertation of a most successful industrial energy audits and conservation program and the
completion of several key energy sector studies. Finally, on top of achieving its original training
targets. tne MDIA training and studies component undertook a series of additional studies and
support activities (para. 2.3).
6.     Concerning both Credit 1710-SE and the overall Project, the principal factors responsible
for their achievement shortcomings were the poor state of the economy and the lack of
commitment of the borrower to undertake the institutional and policy reforms that were necessary
for the success of the operation and the sustainable rehabilitation of the energy sector (para. 2.4).
7.     Sustainabilitv. The sustainability of the investment components is fairly good. In spite of
the demonstrated lack of commitment, it is expected that SENELEC has the technical expertise
necessarv to guarantee the sustainability of the investment components through timelv and
^ffective maintenance. That notwidstanding, and unless it is promptly resolved, some hardware
sustainabliity may be jeopardized by the existing fuel quality problem (para. 3. 10 and 3. 11).
8.     The sustainability of the policy reform components of the Credit is at best fragile for two
basic reasons. First, because the policy impact of the Credit was limited as neither the initially
agreed policv reforms were implemented as proposed, nor the policy recommendations that
resulted from the studies funded by the Credit have been implemented. Second, because there is
verv little evidence at this point in time that the GOS or SENELEC are prepared to address the
serious policy and institutional problems of the energy sector.
9.     Lessons learned. The principal lessons learned from the evaluation of the project can be
summarized as follows (para. 3.20):
(i) more realistic implementation time schedules, and better implementation schedule
management systems and corrective mechanisms need to be incorporated to projects in
countries with weak institutional framework;
(ii) special attention needs to be given to the inclusion of adequate operating standards and
procedures within the implementation of investment components (hardware) in order to
guarantee their efficient performance and avoid their premature deterioration:



- iv -
i iii) the implementation of projects with large procurement sub-components in countries
with weak instirutional framework requires preparatory technical assistance and traininz in
procurement issues in order to avoid costly delays and possible budget complications:
I iv) supervision of project implementation bv IDA plays a critical role in the successful
completion of project components in countries with weak institutional framework. Thus.
supervision missions need to prepare better and more consistent project supe-vision
reports in order to improve project implementation follow-up and evaluation. A
standardized and more carefull use of the mandatory ratings is also required within the
supervision of projects:
(v) strict enforcement of agreed project implementation procedures (terms of reference.
conditionalities. covenants. etc) is more conducive to borrower's performance discipline in
countnes with weak institutional framework and lack of implementation commitment;
(vi) unless there is a strong commitment of the borrower to accept the TA inputs and to
implement proposed recommendations. there is little chance for TA components to
succeed.
(vii) the adoption of performance contracts between the central government and public
utilities is not a satisfactory vehicle to promote utility performance discipline and
efficiency unless there is a strong and verifiable commitment on the part of the
government and the utility in complying with the contract; and.
(viii) the execution of financial audits should be executed, in accordance to established
procedures, through a certified independent auditor and not through alternative
arrangements subject to potential interference such as a government appointed
"Comniissaire aux Comptes".






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1710-SE')
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Description
Project Identity
Project Name                     Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.                        1710-SE
Date of Board Approval           05/20/86
Date of Credit Effectiveness     04/24/87
Completion Date                  06/30/93
Closing Date                      12/31/92
Original Project Cost            SDR 77.0 million (US$84.1 million
equivalent)
Foreign Exchange Component
(Appraisal Estimate)             SDR 55.8 million (US$61.0 million
equivalent)
IDA Credit                       SDR 18.3 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent)
IDA Credit, Total Disbursed      SDR 17.0 million (US$18.6 million
equivalent)
IDA Credit, Total Canceled       ....
RVP Unit                         Africa
Sector                           IE
Subsector                        Energy
Background
1.1    As of March 31, 1986, the Bank Group had approved 60 operations in Senegal for a
total of US$ 642.8 million, consisting of 36 IDA credits, 11 Bank loans, five IFC operations,
and eight mixed Bank-IDA and/or IFC operations. Physical execution of ongoing projects at
the time was progressing well, although some operations were affected by shortages of
counterpart funds due to Government of Senegal's (GOS) difficult public finance situation.
Until the early 1980's the Bank Group's assistance strategy to Senegal was mostly project-
oriented with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement and
expansion of physical infrastructure. On February 1986 the Board approved the first in a
series of structural adjustment operations to promote economic policy reforms and improved
economic management objectives over the medium-term. Complementary to the SAL



2
strategy, the Bank Group was to pursue project lending and sectorial operations oriented
towards sectoral strategies, investment programs and institutional reforms.
1.2    At the time of Board Approval (May 1986), IDA's involvement in the energy sector
in Senegal included the satisfactory completion of the Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project (Credit S-26-SE), the Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1398) and, the Industrial Energy Conservation Project (ESMAP, ACR No. 037/85).
Credit S-26-SE assisted GOS to develop an overall energy plan and to reorganize the sector.
Credit S-26-SE also included technical assistance to the Ministere du De'veloppement Industriel
et de I'Arrisanat (MDIA) for power sector planning and funding for overseas training for
Senegalese officials responsible for energy planning. Specific studies (e.g., generation and
transmission master plan, tariffs) undertaken within that project identified the need for the
institutional, technical and financial improvements envisaged by Credit 1710-SE. Among
other things, the Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project funded the execution of a
diagnostic study of Societe Sene'galaise Narionale d'Electrcitce (SENELEC) and the
preparation of the rehabilitation program for it. Credit 1710-SE was partly designed to assist
SENELEC in the implementation of the proposed rehabilitation prograrn.
1.3    The rationale for IDA's involvement in the Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project was
based on: (i) the need to support the SAL strategy with relevant sectorial operations; (ii) the
urgent need to improve the efficiency and reliability of the existing generation plant at Cap
des Biches power plant near Dakar; (iii) the need to improve the reliability of and reduce
losses in the power transmission and distribution systems; and (iv) the lack of other
technically feasible alternatives for the proposed rehabilitation components of the Project.
Project Objectives
1.4    The Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project was designed to assist Senegal to:
(i)    optimize its use of energv resources through the elimination of price
distortions and through the implementation of energy conservation measures;
(ii)   reduce the cost of generation through the improvement of the efficiency and
reliability of existing plants, and through the construction of more fuel-
efficient facilities;
(iii)   strengthen and expand the existing transmission and distribution system to
improve reliability, reduce losses and generate sales (mainly in the Dakar
area); and
(iv)   strengthen SENELEC's management and restore its financial viability through
a comprehensive rehabilitation program.
Project Beneficiary Institutions
- Societt Nationale d'Electricite (SENELEC);
- Ministere du Developpement Industriel et de l 'Artisanat (MDIA).



3
Project Components
1.5    At appraisal, the total cost estimated for the Project, including provision for physical
and price contingencies but excluding interest during implementation, was of SDR 74 million
(USS81 million equivalent). The foreign exchange cost of the project was estimated at SDR
55.8  million, equivalent to 75% of total project cost. IDA's total financing of 18.3 million
SDR (USS20.0 million equivalent) was allocated among the following project components:
generation (civil works for new diesel plant) SDR 3.2 million (19.0%); distribution
(rehabilitation materials) SDR 7.9 million (42.5%); engineering SDR 1.44 million (8.0%);
energy conservation SDR 1.8 million (9.5%); technical assistance SDR 1.1 million (7.0%);
training SDR 0.6 million (4.0%); refunding of project preparation facility SDR 0.36 million;
and unallocated SDR 1.9 million (10.0%). The principal activities and items that were
supposed to be financed under the different components of the project are listed below,
including a cost breakdown by component indicating IDA's participation (components & sub-
components numbered in accordance to Legal Agreement Document):
Part A:      Generation
1.    Installation of 2 x 20 MW of low (or medium) speed diesel units at Cap des
Biches.
2.    Completion of the rehabilitation (ongoing at the time) of the existing steam
units at Cap des Biches (condenser retubing, sea water intake modification, and spare
parts).
Total cost:         SDR 37.7 million (US$41.2 million)
IDA financing:             SDR 3.2 million
IDA Credit category: (1) Civil works for diesel plant.
Part B:      Transmission
1.    Rehabilitation of the existing 90 kV transmission line and substations, Bel
Air/Hann and Bel Air/Cap des Biches.
2.    Construction of a new 50 kin, 220 kV line, Cap des Biches/Thies (operated at
90 kV initially) and a 90 kV substation at Tobene.
3.    Construction of a new 18 Kmn, 90 kV line, Hann/Cap des Biches.
Total cost:         SDR 11.5 million (US$12.6 million)
IDA financing:             no IDA investment component.
IDA Credit category: see PartD (below).
Part C:      Distribution and Transport
1.    Rehabilitation and strengthening of the Dakar network (75 km of 6.6 kV line
and 34 substations).
2.    Rehabilitation of about 100 km of 30 kV line outside Dakar and construction
of 25 km of 30 kv line to connect 2 secondary centers to the main grid.



4
Total cost:          SDR 18.4 million (US$20.1 million)
IDA financing:              SDR 7.9 million
IDA Credit category:  (2) materials and equipment under part C. I including
installation.
Part D:       Engineering
Consultant services for the generation (Part A), transmission (Part B) and
distribution (Part C) components (135 man/months).
Total cost:          SDR 1.8 million (US$2.0 million)
IDA financing:              SDR 1.4 million
IDA Credit category:  (3) Engineering of the facilities included in Parts A, B
and C (above) of the project.
Part E:       Energy Conservation and Studies
1.    Consultant services, training and equipment for the Industrial Sector Energy
Conservation Program (1986-88).
2.     A study of petroleum products supply, refining and distribution arrangements.
3.     A study to identify possible improvements in the organization and operation of
the 'Fonds National de 1'Energie".
4.     A study of household energy consumption and possible substitutes for
fuelwood.
Total cost:          SDR 2.1 million (US$2.3 million)
IDA financing:              SDR 1.8 million
IDA Credit category: (6) Energy conservation.
ParlF:       Technical Assistance
125 man/months of TA to SENELEC for the rehabilitation program.
Total cost:          SDR 1.55 million (US$1.7 million)
IDA financing:              SDR 1.1 million
IDA Credit category: (4) TA and project audits.
Part G:      Training
1.    Continuation of the program of scholarships to Ecole Superieure Interafricaine
d' Electricitd (ESIE) of 7 students annually for the three-year period 1987-89.
2.    Provision of about 40 man/month training for SENELEC staff in key
rehabilitation program areas.
Total cost:          SDR 0.6 million (US$0.65 million)
IDA financing:              SDR 0.6 million



5
IDA Credit category: (5) Training cost under Parts G I and 2.
1.6     Table 1.1 presents a summary of Project objectives, strategies and instruments
(components), indicating the national agencies responsible for their respective implementation.
Table 1.1: CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Objectives, Strategies and Instruments
OBJECTIVES          PROPOSED STRATEGIES   ||PRINCIPAL INSTRUMENTS                            AGENCY
Optinuze use of    elimination of price        1 implementation of new power tariff          MDIA
cnergy resources    distortions on energy         structure (condition of Credit
(power, biomass &             effectiveness)
petrolcum fuels)
implementation of forestry tax             GOS
incrcase
study of petroleum supply, refuiing &      MDIA
distribution
study on household energy consumption &    MDIA
fuelwood substitutes
study on National Energy Fund
l____________________          (NEF)  irnprovements                                   l
implementation of energy       execution of industrial energy use audits   MDIA
conservation measures         (1986-88)
l Reduce the cost    improving efficiency and     completion of rehabilitation of existing    SENELEC
of power            availability of existing plants    steam units at Cap des Biches (condenser,
generation       l                                retubing, sea water intake and spare part)
construction of morm fuel-    installation of 2x20 MW of low(or
efficient facilities          medium) speed diesel units at Cap des
Biches
Improve power      strengthening/expansion of     rehabilitation of existing 90 kV            SENELEC
supply             transmission and               transmission Line and substations (Bel
reliability        distribution systems           Air/Hann & Bel Air/Cap des Biches)
Reduce power                                      construction of new 50 km, 220 kV line
losses                                            (Cap des Biches) & 90 kV substation
(Tobene)
Generate power                                    Construction of new 18 km, 90 kV line
sales (Dakar area                                 (Hann/Cap des Biches)
mainly)                                                                                                   l
rehabilitation/strengthening of Dakar
network (75 km & 34 substations)
rehabilitation of about 100 km of lines
outside Dakar & construction of 45 km of
lines to connect 2 secondary center to the
main grid
135 man/month of consultant services for
generation, transmission & distribution
____________ __   components



6
Table 1.1: CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Objectives, Strategies and Instruments
(Continuation)
|OBJECTIVES    | PROPOSED STRATEGES             PRINCIPAL INSTRUMENTS                   AGENCY
Stmngthen         implementation of           125 man/month of TA to SENELEC for      SENELEC
SENELEC's         rehabilitation program      implementation of rehabilitation program
managemcnt
Scholarships program to ESIE (7
students/3 years) & 40 man/month training
for SENELEC staff
Restore          implementation of financial    implementation of new tariff structure  SENELEC
SENELEC's        rehabilitation progam
l reduction of consumer receivables to 3
months billing
execution of annual independent audits
within a 6 months period from the end of
each year (6 audit reports)
implementation of improved fimancial
management system
TA for implementation of rehabilitation
l________________  ____________________________  program              l
Project Finances
1.7     An advance of US$400,000 was made from the project preparation facility to accelerate
the engineering and technical components of the project prior to its date of effectiveness.
1.8    In 1988, a subsidiary Trust Fund agreement for US$ 3.034 million was signed between
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the Government of Senegal and IDA -
- as the executing agency. This grant was earmarked for the funding of the energy conservation
program, and was intended to replace the use of loan proceeds. ESMAP was assigned to
coordinate the implementation of the energy conservation program on behalf of IDA.
1.9    Table 1.2 presents a break-down of the Project's financing plan by donor and project
component. For the sake of simplicity all funds were converted to SDR.



7
TABLE 1.2: Project Financing Plan
(SDR Equivalent)
Project Components            Jj IDA            CCCE       AfDB       BOAD       SENELEC    TOTA.L
A
GeneraLion                             3.2      25.6                   1.1        7.0          36.9
B
Tmrnsnrussion & Transport                                   5.9        2.6        3.0          11.5
C
Distribution                           7.9                  1.4        0.9        7.4          17.6
D
Engincenng                             1.4                                        0.4           1.8
E
Energy Conservation & Studies
(1)                   1.8                                       0.2           2.0
F
Technical Assistance                    1.1                                       0.2           1.3
G
Trmining                               0.6                                                      0.6
Unarlocated       (2)                  2.3                                                      2.3
IDC               (3)                                                             3.0           3.0
TOTAL (SDR| Jf   18.3                           25.6        7.3     J 4.6        21.2          77.0
|TOTAL (SDR)l                         l        lllll
Notes:          (1) includes SDR  0.2  under the SENELEC  column  that came from  local
industries.
(2) includes SDR 0.4 for PPF refunding.
(3) interest during construction.



8
2. Project Results
Overall Summary
2.1    General Context. The Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project and Credit 1710-SE were
prepared and approved in the mid-80's when Senegal's outlook called for a continued
strengthening of the economy under the Barnk-supported structural adjustment programs (SAL
1,11,III and IV).   Under the aegis of the various SALs the economy was expected to be
substantially liberalized and revitalized through, inter alia, the removal of restrictions on internal
and external trade, the restructuring and rehabilitation of the banking sector, and the
implementation of an active program of civil service and public enterprise reforms. Within that
context, the design of the project was based upon fairly optimistic economic and energy sector
growth assumptions. That economic outlook, however, fell short during the second half of the
80's and early 90's as a result of the poor implementation of the structural adjustment programs
and the continuation of the international economic recession. Economic performance was uneven
and far lower than expected, most productive sectors became stagnant or declined, and fiscal and
external balances remained fragile through-out the period.  As a consequence of the poor
economic performance and high energy costs and prices, the energy sector experienced a sharp
growth decline. Electricitv consumption growth rates fell from 7% per year in 1973-80 to 3.2%
in 1980-85 and 2.4% in 1985-89, and petroleum demand stabilized at the 1980's level of about
600,000 tons per year.
2.2    Evaluation of Achievements. The evaluation of the achievements of the Energy Sector
Rehabilitation Project and of Credit 1710-SE needs to be carried out at two separate levels. One,
in terms of the accomplishment of the intended overall developmental objectives, and the other,
in terms of the achievement of their specific objectives and targets.  From the point of view of
the developmental objectives the evaluation is clearly less than satisfactory. At this point in time
it is difficult to ascertain whether energy resource allocation in Senegal was improved, or to what
extent power generation costs were effectively reduced. Power supply reliability appears to have
been only marginally improved and power losses, instead of decreasing, continued to be high at
16% in 1989 and compared to 8% in 1973. Power sales in the Dakar area, which at appraisal
were expected to grow at 5% per year, increased by only 2.4% per year. SENELEC's
management still remains weak and in need of a comprehensive reform covering, in particular,
overall management, financial management and accounting, accounts receivable, and delivery of
consumer services.
2.3    On the other hand, the evaluation of the Project and of Credit 1710-SE indicates that a
substantive part of their intended specific objectives and targets were satisfactorily achieved.
The principal hardware investment elements of the Project, namely, the generation, transmission
and the distribution components, were almost entirely and satisfactorily completed (the exception
being the Low Voltage part of the Distribution Component). At the same time, the specific
investment components of the Credit (civil works, material and equipment for the generation,
transmission and distribution components) were also mostly completed as planned.  The
engineering component of the Credit provided critical and timely technical assistance support for
the implementation of the generation, transmission and distribution components of the overall
Project. The energy conservation and studies component included the implementation of a most
successful industrial energy audits and conservation program and the completion of several key
energy sector studies. The technical assistance component, by far the weakest of the project, was
fully implemented but was unable to secure the success of SENELEC's rehabilitation program.



9
Finally, on top of achieving its original training targets, the MDIA training and studies
component undertook a series of additional studies and support activities.
2.4    Concerning both Credit 1710-SE and the overall Project, the principal factors responsible
for their achievement shortcomings were the poor state of the economy and the lack of
commitment of the borrower to undertake the institutional and policy reforms that were necessary
for the success of the operation and the sustainable rehabilitation of the energy sector.
2.5    Credit 1710-SE Implementation Process. Credit 1710-SE was essentially prepared by
SENELEC and MDIA based on several donor funded studies and with assistance from IDA's
Power Engineering Project (Credit S-26-SE) and Second Parapublic Project (Credit 1398).
Negotiations took place in January 1986, and the Credit was submitted for Board approval on
May 20, 1986. The date of effectiveness originally scheduled for September 1986 was pushed
back six months because of a delay in the effectiveness of cross-conditional financing agreements
between GOS and the African Development Bank (AfDB) and GOS and the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique, CCCE (now Caisse Francaise de Dgveloppement) . In March 1987,
IDA waived the pending cross-conditionality and Credit 1710-SE became effective.
2.6    A series of preparatory studies and works for the implementation of Credit 1710-SE were
funded prior to March 1987 by the project preparation facility, whereby the negative impact of
the delay in effectiveness was somewhat minimized. Actual implementation of the Credit began
very slowly, all components were launched between one and two years behind schedule.
Nonetheless, all investment components were satisfactorily completed by December 1990.
Although the majority of the non-investment components of the Credit were completed by
December 1991, two closing extensions were necessary for the borrower to complete outstanding
studies and training activities. Project closing was originally expected by June 30, 1991. Actual
project closing was first extended to June 30, 1992 and then to December 31, 1992.
2.7    The implementation process of Credit 1710-SE can also be considered as mostly
satisfactory. But three significant implementation problems were observed: (i) the delay in credit
effectiveness and the slow start-up of all Credit components; (ii) a slow and incomplete
compliance with covenants on auditing and reporting requirements; and (iii) critical delays in the
implementation of petroleum pricing reforms.
2.8    Budget Summary. Credit 1710-SE closed with a positive balance of SDR 1,267,100.80.
On an individual basis several categories resulted on a cost overrun, namely civil works (55.2%),
engineering (26.7%) and technical assistance (22.4%). The remainder categories closed with
undisbursed funds, namely, distribution (10.7%), training (4.9%), energy conservation (61.5%)
and PPF refund (26%). As of the date of closing, a total of SDR 311,165.03 disbursed remained
to be allocated to specific disbursement categories. Table 2.1 presents a summary of the state
of accounts of Credit 1710-SE as of February 9, 1993.
2.9   It is important to note that although the civil works, engineering and technical assistance
components of Credit 1710-SE closed with significant cost overruns, the cost of the Energy
Sector Rehabilitation Project as a whole suffered only marginal changes.



10
TABLE 2.1: Credit 1710-SE Budget Summary Statement (February 1993)
Original
Budget        Disbursed         Disbursed       Balance
Budget Category         code     (SDR)          (SDR)             p/Cart.(%)      (SDR)
Civil Works               1     3 200,000       4,965,727.80        155.2      -1,765,727.80
Diaribution              2      7,900,000       7,055,046.16        89.3         844,953.84
Engneer                   3     1.440,000       1,824,704.88        126.7       -384,704.88
Technical Assistance     4      1,100,000       1,346,398.29        122.4       -246,398.29
Training                  5      600,000         570,723.40          95.1         29,276.60
Energy Conservation      6      1,300,000        692,750.20         38.5        1,107,249.80
PPF Refunding             7      360,000         266,383.44         74.0          93,616.56
UnaLLocaLed              a      1,900,000              0             0.0        1,900.,00.00
FUND (1)                 1-5         0           311,165.03                      -311,165.03
Totals/Balanoc               | 18,300,000    | 17,032,899.20        93.1        1,267,100.80    l
Note: (I) Disbursemenns pending allocarion by category.
2.10    Credit Follow-up. Since 1988, the need to follow-up the Energy Sector Rehabilitation
Project with a second multi-donor sectorial rehabilitation operation was identified and proposed.
In that context, several additional studies were commissioned under the financing of the Credit
1710-SE and other donor programs for the preparation of such follow-up operation. It is these
studies that identified shortcomings not apparent to supervision missions. However, the serious
problems and shortcomings experienced ir the first project as a result of the borrower's lack of
commitnent to undertake the necessary institutional and policy reforms in the energy sector, the
Bank has decided to delay the proposed second operation until GOS provides the necessary
further and tangible proof of its commitment to reform.



11
Evaluation of Results by Specific IDA Credit Components
2.11   This section presents a brief evaluation of the results of each of the IDA financed sub-
components of the Project. For the sake of simplicity all budget figures (donor and GOS) were
converted to SDR and US$ equivalents.
Generation Component
2.12   From the total cost at appraisal of the generation component (SDR 36.9 millionfUS$ 41.2
million) the French Caisse Centrale de Coope&rarion Economique (CCCE) provided SDR 25.6
million (USS28 million), IDA, SDR 3.2 million (US$4.4 million), SENELEC, SDR 7 million
(US$7.6 million), and the Banque Ouest-Africaine de D&veloppement (BOAD), SDR I . I million
(US$1.2 million). Within this component. which included the installation ot 2 x 20 MW of
low/medium speed diesel units at Cap des Biches and the completion of the rehabilitation of the
existing steam units at Cap des Biches, IDA only financed civil works for the installation of the
diesel units. The principal generation component contract (diesel generation groups) was awarded
to ALSTHOM (France). The IDA financed civil works sub-component was primarily awarded
to SAGECOMI (Senegal).
2.13   Implementation.  The implementation of the two generation components was initiated
with a delay of close to one year because of the delay of the GOS and SENELEC in complying
with credit effectiveness conditionalities and slow processing of bidding documents. After the
slow start the diesel units component was implemented mostly on schedule, having faced only
minor problems due to an unexpected period of strong rain and a malfunction in one of the
turbines (Group 1) in March 1991.   IDA's civil works sub-component was satisfactorily
completed on time and the construction and testing of the diesel units was completed by
December 1991.
2.14   Conversely, the steam  units rehabilitation component (non-IDA) suffered serious
implementation problems which, compounded by incorrect operating practices and insufficient
maintenance, resulted in the rapid and premature deterioration of the units. The hasic problem
here was that at the request of the borrower, the technical supervision of the rehabilitation
operations of this component was assigned to SENELEC, Ahich lacked the necessary technical
and management implementation expertise.
2.15   Results.  The implementation of IDA's civil works sub-component was satisfactorily
completed within the revised time schedule but with a cost overrun of SDR 1,765,727.8 (55.2%)
with respect to the original budget. Although this is a large cost overrun with respect t) the
specific IDA component, it is actually a minor amount vis-a-vis the cost of the overall generation
component. The basic reasons for the IDA component overrun were price changes between the
time the project was budgeted and the time procurement took place, small technical design
changes that became necessary, and with Bank approval, expansion of the civil works component
to include the preparation of the foundations of a proposed future third generation unit at Caps
des Biches.
2.16   An important technical issue that remains to he addressed by SENELEC related to the
generation component is the state of the water channel for the cooling of the Cap des Biches
plants. The flow capacity of the water channel that feeds into the Cap des Biches plants cooling
system (3 steam plants of CII and 2 diesel generators of CIV) has been significantly reduced and



12
is already limiting the operation of the plants. The reduction in the flow capacity of the channel
has resulted from inadequate maintenance in the intake segment of the channel, premature
sedimentation from a sand bank in the channel's feeding area and excessive pollution of the
waters (excessive solid debris). The recent channel rehabilitation work done by SENELEC did
not include the channel's water intake segment. At this point in time the actions required include:
(i) the completion of the previously initiated rehabilitation works; (ii) the design and
implementation of routine maintenance procedures; and (iii) the re-evaluation of the cooling water
capacity of the existing channel vis-a-vis the increased requirements that resulted from the
expansion of the Cap des Biches complex. Depending on the findings of that re-evaluation it is
possible that a second channel might need to be built in the near future.
2.17   Another serious technical issue that needs to be addressed rapidly is the change of the fuel
being used for the steam generators. The fuel being delivered to SENELEC by the SociNtF
Africaine de Raffinage (SAR) does not meet the generators standards.  In October 1991,
SENELEC conducted a study P, which concluded that an undue and significant degradation
(clogging and sedimentation of the burners and valves due to sulfur vitrification) had taken place
between 1984 and 1991 because of low quality of the fuel being burned. Apparently, the
generators were designed with the fuel specifications provided by SAR, whereby SENIELEC
expects SAR to comply with its product delivery agreements. A recent study has identified a
number of technical interventions that should be implemented while the issue of fuel specification
is fully resolved.
2.18   Lessons learned.  Within the implementation of the IDA financed civil works sub-
components there are three lessons that need to be drawn: (i) either more realistic implementation
time schedules or better implementation schedule management systems and corrective mechanisms
need to be built-in to energy sector projects in Senegal; and (ii) when projects include the
purchase and/or rehabilitation of large hardware components, special attention has to be given
to designing and implementing adequate operating standards and procedures in order to avoid
their premature deterioration.
2.19   The implementation of the non-IDA  funded steam  units rehabilitation component
underscores the need to better assess trade-offs between technical supervision by the implementing
agency versus by an engineering external firm, as well as the need to reduce risks in all critical
implementation areas.
Distribution and Transport Component
2.20   The design of the distribution and transport component of the project was mostly based
on the findings of a power sector review done by Shawinigan Inc., consulting firm, with
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) funding in 1984. From the total cost at
appraisal of the distribution component (SDR '17.6 millionIUS$20. 1 million), IDA provided SDR
7.9 million (US$9.5 million), SENELEC SDR 7.4 million (US$8.1 million), the AfDB, SDR 1.4
million (US$1.5 million), and the BOAD, SDR 0.9 million (US$1.0 million). The distribution
component included: (1) rehabilitation and strengthening of the Dakar network (75 km of 6.6 kV
line and 34 substations); and (2) rehabilitation of about 100 km of 30 kV line outside Dakar and
1/    SENELEC. "Examen des Problimes de Combustion a la Centrale IIX de Cap des
Biches', Dakar 1991.



13
construction of 25 km of 30 kv line to connect 2 secondary centers to the main grid. Within the
distribution component IDA onlv financed materials and equipment for the rehabilitation and
strengthening of the Dakar network.
2.21   The IDA  financed  materials and  equipment sub-component was awarded  to
TREFICABLE PIRELLI (France), CGE SENEGAL (Senegal), and FRANCE TRANSFO
(France). The construction works were awarded to eight (8) local electric contractor firms
(E.C.B., E.E.R.I., Senegalaise, SOCERE, COSELEC, HERLICO, C.S.E., and C.D.E.).
2.22   Implementation.  The engineering works for the implementation of the distribution
component were initiated before the date of effectiveness with IDA PPF funding and support from
Credit S-26-SE. The actual implementation of the distribution component, however, was delayed
for several months because of SENELEC's slowness in opening the necessary letters of credit for
the procurement of materials and equipment. All procurement was satisfactorily completed by
June 1990.
2.23   According to the original procurement plan 350 transformers were to be purchased with
IDA funding within this component. These transformers were to be used for low voltage
conversion in Dakar area. However, because of other operational demands, not all of them were
used for this purpose.
2.24   As of December 1992, total IDA disbursements and commitments against this component
had reached SDR 7.05 million, equivalent to 89.3% of the original budget of SDR 7.9 million.
2.25   Results. The objective of strengthening the Dakar network, however, was only partially
met. While the proposed medium tension works were undertaken, the low tension sub-component
was not fully implemented. The voltage conversion was only carried out in two sectors (Pikine
and Rufisque) because of the lack of the necessary inventory on low-tension connections and
other related technical data for the other sectors, and because of excessive costs increases.
2.26   An original plan to install two new transformers at the Thiaroye sub-station was canceled
in consultation with IDA because the output requirements in that sector dropped far below the
already existing capacity after the closure of several industries operating in the area.
2.27   A review of the Dakar network recently carried out in the context of the preparation of
a new operation indicated that the high and medium tension systems were sufficiently reinforced
and up-dated to attend demand requirements until the year 2005, but that much work remained
to be done in the low tension system. While some part of that situation can be attributed to
shortcomings in the execution of the low tension sub-component of Credit 1710-SE, it is
important to note that incremental works became necessary between the time the scope of the low
tension activities was originally
identified (1984) and their actual implementation through Credit 1710-SE.
2.28   Lessons learned.  The principal lesson to be derived from this IDA sub-component is
that the implementation of projects with large procurement sub-components in the energy sector
in Senegal require preparatory technical assistance and training in procurement issues in order
to avoid costly delays and possible budget complications. Additionally, an observation needs to
be made as to the need for Task Mlanagers and/or Supervision Missions to provide full and more
consistent reporting through out the project cycle. This would not only improve the effectiveness



14
of periodic project follow-up and reduce the emergence of implementation problems, but would
as well facilitate project evaluation.
2.29   Anuther issue with a potential lesson for future project design is SENELEC's bias
towards the large investment and operation components. As it turns out, while the generation,
transmission, and the high and mediium tension distribution sub-components of the project were
satisfactorily implemented, the low tension sub-component was not. The importance of this
cannot he overlooked because of its impact on consumer service, and thereto, on actual revenues.
In designing future projects, this bias -- which has also been observed in other utilities in other
countries -- needs to be taken into conisideratiorn in order to ensure that low voltage sub-
components are also properly implemented.
2.30   Finally, the outcome of the low tension sub-component suggests that there was a critical
gap between the technical requirements and pricing information produced in 1984 and the
situation that existed in 1986 (project appraisal) and beyond.  At this point in time, it is
impossible to determine if that situation resulted from shortcomings in the 1984 study, from
inLsufficient Credit pre-appraisaliappraisal work -- in view of the long period that had transpired
between the original study and appraisal -- or tr m a combination of these aggravated by a rapid
and unanticipated deterioration of the low voltage network.
Engineerinig Conmponeiit
2.31   From the total cost at appraisal uf the engineering component (SDR 1.81 million/US$2.0
million) IDA provided SDR 1.44 million (US$1.6 million) and SENELEC SDR 0.37 million
(US$0.4 million).  Within this comnponent IDA  financed 135 man/months of engineering
consultant services for the generation (Part A), transmission (Part B) and distribution (Part C)
components of the Project.
2 .32   The engineering .onsultant services contracts were awarded to EDF International (France)
tor the implementationi of the generation component and to Shawinigan Inc., (Canada) for the
transmission and distribution components.
2.33   Implementation. No major problems were reported within the IDA financed engineering
component of the project. All engineering studies and works that were commissioned constituted
supporting technical inputs to the investment components of the project and were satisfactorily
completed with some delays but within the project's revised implementation schedule. The full
implementation of the engineering component resulted on a cost overrun of close to SDR 384,700
(26.7 %). This cost overrun was mostly due to price changes that accrued over the one year of
delays in initiating the lProject's implementation, and to the extensions of the consultant contracts
tu complete the supervision of delayed activities.
2.34   Results.  The actual results of the engineering component were the different technical
assistance inputs -- implementation management and supervision and specialized 'on-the-job'
training - for the generation, transmission and distribution components of the project.



15
2.35   Lesson learned.  The principal lesson that emerged from this component was that the
original project design should have included a technical assistance for the non-IDA steam plant
rehabilitation sub-component (generation component - see para. 2.14).
Technical Assistance (T.A.) Component
2.36   A diagnostic study financed under the Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project
identified major weaknesses in SENELEC's organization, management and staffing, the principal
of which were: an unsuitable internal structure; poor financial, customer, accounting and
collection standards and practices; lack of adequate management information procedures and
systems; poor internal communication between staff and management; archaic methods of work
and decision making; resistance to change; over staffing; and chaotic recruitment practices.
2.37   Based on that study a comprehensive institutional rehabilitation program proposal was
prepared for SENELEC by Electricite de France (EdF). In the context of the Energy Sector
Rehabilitation Project, SENELEC agreed to implement the proposed rehabilitation program over
a period of four years (1986-89), and to prepare and implement an IDA approved performance
contract (contrat plan). The TA component of the Credit was designed to assist SENELEC in
the implementation of the rehabilitation program and the monitoring of the performance contract.
2.38   From the total cost at appraisal of the TA component (SDR 1.28 million/US$ 1.7 million)
IDA provided SDR 1.1 million (US$1.5 million) and SENELEC, SDR 0.18 million (USS0.2
million). Within this component IDA financed 125 man/months of TA to SENELEC for the
implementation of its rehabilitation programn.
2.39   Implementation. The implementation of the TA component was based on the deployment
of resident expatriates experts at SENELEC, including a financial expert, an operations expert
and a costumer management expert.
2.40   The operations and consumers management experts were well received and were able to
carry out their respective terms of reference satisfactorily. The financial expert however, was
recalled by his firm in 1988 at the request of SENELEC. Since then, the format of the financial
sector TA was changed to cover short-term in-country visits by experts rather than the original
resident arrangement. The financial specialist was recalled because of SENELEC's apparent
dissatisfaction with his performance.  It is not clear to what degree the issue was one of
performance or rather one of conflict of interests because of the lack of commitment on the part
of SENELEC's management to undertake the financial reforms being proposed by the expert.
2.41   As of December 1991, total disbursements and commitments against this IDA financed
component reached SDR 1.346 million, totalling a SDR 246,398 overrun (22.4%) of the original
budget of SDR 1.1 million. The overrun in this component was due to the extension of the
project's implementation time-table.
2.42   Results. In spite of the completion of all proposed TA activities and the achievement of
some improvements, the evaluation of the TA component indicates that the borrower did not
implement all the recommendations of the technical assistance and, as a result, both the
rehabilitation program and the Performance Contract had marginal results.



16
2.43   On the positive side, procurement, settlement of accounts payable were improved. In
addition, SENELEC's cash flow position was improved with the implementation of tariff
adjustments, and the various settlements of cross-debts between GOS and SENELEC that were
undertaken, have reduced the large backlog of receivables. The last such operation covered
obligations until mid-1991.
2.44   On the negative side, SENELEC's overall and financial management remain weak and
ineffective, and more seriously, conspicuously engaged in covering the existing problems and
irregularities rather than trying to correct them. The operation of power system facilities remains
deficient; power losses continue to be high at 16% in 1989 compared to 8% in 1973; consumer
services management is almost non-existent. No permanent solution has been found to prevent
a new accumulation of receivables, and political pressures still interfere on a daily basis with
SENELEC's management and personnel matters.
2.45   In addition to that, reports for FY90 and FY91 from the special external audit that was
commissioned during 1992, which resulted in a "disclaimer of opinion", and other audits confirm
the poor state of SENELEC's accounting and financial management, and that its overall
management is seriously deficient and deteriorating.
2.46   Lessons learned. The TA component proved to be the least successful of the Project and
as such has some important lessons to be observed:
(i) lack of GOS/SENELEC commitment:  Unless there is a solid commitment of the
recipient institution/government to accept the TA inputs and to implement proposed
recommendations there is little probability of success.  The existence of lack of
commitment of the Government should be a key factor for IDA participation.
(ii) Performance contract: SENELEC provides one more example of what has been the
experience elsewhere with the adoption of performance contracts between the central
goverrrnent and public utilities, namely, that these contracts have proven to be a less than
satisfactory vehicle to promote utility performance discipline and efficiency. At the time
of the project appraisal, this was a quite novel instrument for power sector regulation,
but it turned out not to be very effective. This is so because of the dynamics of that
relationship, and the lack of discipline by Government in respecting the necessary
operational autonomy of the utility. Unless the government and the utility are committed
to the full implementation of a performance contract, and can arrive at an adequate
balance between external supervision and operational autonomy, the usefulness of such
contracts is limited to their preparation process, which, hopefully, serves to increase
government and utility officials awareness of the existing problems and their potential
solutions.
(iii) project supervision oversights: The information provided in most project supervision
reports reveals that the institutional and financial state of SENELEC was always critical.
Since 1990, the progress of the TA activities was rated as 2 in the supervision reports
(prior to 1990 that rating was not requested). In spite of that, only four reports indicate
problems with the TA component or call for the need to re-design any of its elements.
(iv) lack of enforcement of project conditionalities/covenants: In accordance to the legal
agreement between the Republic of Senegal and IDA, GOS was comnmitted inter alia to:
(a) provide all necessary conditions to SENELEC for the adequate implementation of the



17
proposed rehabilitation program, including provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources; and (b) pay SENELEC all public power bills within a maximum of three
months. In accordance to the agreement between IDA and SENELEC, the latter was
obliged inter alia to: (a) carry out the "contrat plan" and the rehabilitation program in
a manner and in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the association; and (b)
maintain and provide to IDA adequate separate records and accounts of SENELEC's
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses,
fund flow statements and related statements) and the special account for each fiscal year,
and audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the IDA.
2.47 The issues listed above are just some examples of the conditions that GOS and SENELEC
were supposed to meet yet consistently failed to comply with.  If project implementation
flexibility is required it should be built into the project's design and not provided for by
covenants default.
Training Component
2.48   From the total cost at appraisal of the training component (SDR 600,000/US$ 900,000
million) IDA provided all the funding. Within this component IDA financed the continuation of
the program of scholarships to Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'ElectriciM (ESIE) of 7 students
annually for the three-year period 1987-89, and provision of about 40 person/month training for
SENELEC staff in key rehabilitation program areas.
2.49   The training proposed under the two sub-components did take place but a one year delay
with respect to the original calendar.
2.50   As of December 1992, total training component disbursements reached SDR 570,723.4,
equivalent to 95. 1% of the original budget of SDR 600,000.
EneraY Conservation and Studies
2.51   A  1982 study funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
identified substantial potential for savings through energy conservation in the industrial sector.
An Office of Energy Conservation was established at the Department of Energy (DE) of the
Minis?re du D&veloppement Industriel er de I'Artisanat (MDIA), and in 1985, ESMAP t'
defined an approach to energy conservation consisting of energy audits of major industrial energy
users. At the time of appraisal of the Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project, UNDP agreed to fund
the first three years of the program and CIDA was considering financing part of the energy
audits. From the total cost at appraisal of the energy conservation and studies component (SDR
1.98 millionlUS$2.3 million) IDA provided SDR 1.8 million (US$2.1 million) and local industry
provided SDR 0.18 million (USS0.2 million). Within this component IDA was to finance
consultant services, training and equipment for a second three-year stage of the industrial sector
enerzv conservation program (1986-88), and the execution of three specific studies:
2/     ESMAP. Senegal: [ndustnal Energy Conservation Project, Washington D.C., June 1985, (Activity
Completion Report No. 037'S5)



18
a study of petroleum products supply, refining and distribution arrangements.
a study to identify possible improvements in the organization and operation of the
"Fonds National de l'Energie".
-     a study of household energy consumption and possible substitutes for fuelwood.
2.52   At the request of GOS, and in the context of the preparation of the proposed Second
Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project, the following activities and studies were added to this
component after 1988:
technical assistance to the MDIA for the preparation of an energy sector donors
meeting on December 1992 (US$300,000).
a study to up-date the distribution master plan of Dakar.
a study of the rehabilitation and reinforcement of SENELEC's plants.
a study on possible new  institutional and management arrangements for
SENELEC (not financed by IDA).
-     a complete audit of SENELEC (FY90 and 1st. semester FY91).
2.53   Implementation.  The energy conservation and studies component of the Project was
implemented by the Ministere du Developpement Industriel et de I'Arnisanat (MDIA).
2.54   The largest portion of this component was destined to the implementation of the Energy
Conservation program (SDR 1.5 million). However, in 1988, the original arrangements for this
sub-component were changed in order to utilize a US$ 3.034 million grant (Trust Fund) from
CIDA (NMarch 14,1988) instead of the original loan proceeds. Within that context, ESMAP was
assigned to coordinate the implementation of the energy conservation program on behalf of IDA.
The energy conservation program was fully and satisfactorily implemented under the new
arrangements.
2.55  In contrast to the success of the energy conservation program, the studies and training
activities included in this project component suffered from persistent delays in execution. In
effect the two project's closing extensions were primarily granted in order to be able to complete
- and initiate in some cases -  studies and training activities.  In addition to these delays, a
particular problem occurred with the execution of the study of the rehabilitation and
reinforcement of SENELEC's plants. Because of the non-compliance with IDA's approved terms
of reference and the complete disregard to IDA's efforts to find an acceptable working
compromise, IDA could not finance the study of the rehabilitation and reinforcement of
SENELEC's plants.
2.56   As of December 1992, total disbursements and commitments against this IDA financed
component had only reached SDR 653,500 from the originally budgeted SDR 1.8 million.
2.57   The two most significant implementation issues of this component were: (i) IDA's
impossibility to finance the study of the rehabilitation and reinforcement of SENELEC's plants
because of the non-compliance with IDA's approved terms of reference and the complete



19
disregard to IDA's efforts to find and acceptable working compromise; and (ii) the consistent
delay in the execution of programmed studies and, particularly, the delay in the completion and
forwarding to IDA of the full report on the study on petroleum products pricing, the last version
of which was received only in March 1993 and is still missing the comments from the borrower.
Because of its potentiai impact in terms of the rationalization of energy prices and costs of power
generation this later study should play a critical role in the re-orientation of the energy sector and
in the implementation of sound sectorial planning and policy making.
2.58   Results.  The evaluation of results of this comnponent is mixed. On the one hand the
energy conservation program, the study of household energy consumption and possible fuelwood
substitutes, and the assistance to MDIA for the preparation of the energy sector donors meeting
(December 1992) were satisfactorily completed. The Dakar distribution master plan up-date
study was completed but was not considered by IDA as fully satisfactory. The remaining studies
and activities were either not completed, their recommendations were only partially or not
implemented, or there is no clear information available as to their outcome.
2.59   Energy conservation program: A total of 47 industrial enterprises were audited as part
of the energy conservation program.  These enterprises were only 10%  of the industrial
enterprises of Senegal but accounted for more than 70%, of the sector's total energy consumption.
A total of 24,380 TEP (Tonne Equivalent Petrole) of savings were identified through the
program, corresponding to close to 15 % of the total initial energy consumption. Out of this total,
actual implemented energy savings investments totaling FCFA 2,426 million (US$ 9.7 million)
had resulted by early 1993 in annual total cost savings of FCFA 1,927 million (US$7.7 million).
Audited enterprises were primarily distributed among the following industrial sub-sectors: agro-
industry, fisheries, textiles, chemicals, construction, paper, and mining. A separate Activity
Completion Report produced by ESMAP in November 1992 fully documents the implementation
of the energy conservation program. 3'
2.60 Petroleum products supply. refining and distribution arrangements studv: This study was
timely executed and completed in May 1988. In spite of this, and that the implementation of its
recommendations was made a conditionality of SAL IV in 1989, little action was taken by the
borrower. By late 1989 an additional study on ex-refinery petroleum fuels pricing was carried
out to provide an up-dated basis upon which to take action on the sector, and subsequently, yet
another study was commissioned on distribution margins.  The ex-refinery petroleum pricing
study was completed with a delay of more than a year, and a draft report on the distribution
margins study was only forwarded to IDA by the borrower on February 1993. As of the date
of closing of Credit 1710-SE, the approval of that report by the borrower was still pending, none
of its recommendations had been adopted, and IDA had no information as to the borrower's view
on the report nor on it pricing policy outlook.
2.61   Organization and operation of the "Fonds National de l'Energie" (FNE) study: The
purpose of this study was to review the state of the FNE and to propose improvements in its
organization and operation.
2.62   The FNE was created in December 1989 with the dual purpose of providing a mechanism
for stabilizing internal petroleum product prices and for financing priority studies and
3/     ESMAP. Senegal: Programme dEconomies d'Energie Dans l'Industrie, (Industrial Energy Efficiency
Program) Washington D.C. February 1993 (GC).



20
undertakings in the enerny sector. Until January 1990, the funding for FNE's came from the
surplus of the Societe Africaine de Raffinage (SAR) and the balance from the petroleum prices
stabilization.  After January 1990, the funding system was changed to the sole use of the
stabilization funds. From the analysis of the financial flows between the government and the
energy sector, the study concluded that net transfers to the energy sector totalled some FCFA 176
billion between 1988 and 1990. In essence, such large net transferences have resulted from the
growing spread between the fixed internal prices and the gradually falling international prices for
petroleum products. While the availability of FNE moneys has been of use to the energy sector,
the down side is that internal prices have remained too high, inter alia, reducing the
competitiveness of the industrial sector, increasing transportation and power generation costs, and
limiting energy demand growth. The principal conclusion of the study in this regard was that the
reduction of the stabilization fund mark-up in price formation would result in lower consumer
petroleum prices, would boost industrial and transport activities, would reduce power generation
costs and, in doing so, would not have an adverse effect on government revenues and investment
resources.  While direct revenues to the government from the stabilization fund would be
reduced, revenues from export and sales taxes and increased activity through out the economy
would more than compensate for it. As of the date of closing of Credit 1710-SE, there was no
clear indication as to the position of the government on this issue.
2.63   Household ener2v consumption and fuelwood substitutes study: An Urban Household
Energy Strategy study was completed by ESMAP in 1989. Originally this study was called for
within Credit 1710-SE and funding for it was included in the loan proceeds. However, like in
the case of the energy conservation program, ESMAP obtained funding from the Government of
Norway for its execution and the work proceeded independently from Credit 1710-SE. The
findings from that study are documented in a separate report produced by ESMAP on March
1989.4'
2.64   Technical assistance to the MDIA for the preparation of an energy sector donors' meeting
on July 1992: In 1990/91 the GOS proposed to the donor community the realization of a second
energy sector project, and requested IDA to assist in the organization of an energy donors'
meeting on July 1992. In that context, ESMAP was requested to provide technical assistance to
MDIA for preparing a series of technical documents for the proposed donors' meeting. The
actual preparation of the technical documents for the meeting was done under ESMAP's
supervisionf'. The donors' meeting took place in Dakar on July 1992.
2.65   Dakar distribution master plan up-date study: This study was initiated with a minor delay
of 6 months. The first phase was completed on September 1992. The findings of the study are
now being reviewed by the borrower and IDA. The principal conclusion of the study was that
as the growth in electricitv demand during the period 1985-91 was lower than expected, part of
the investments undertaken in the high and medium voltage network should have been postponed,
and that more attention should have been given to the execution of the low voltage network
improvements that were included in the project. In that context, and because of the implications
in terms of quality of service to consumers, the study recommended that SENELEC should
continue to pursue the originally proposed improvements in the low tension network.
4/     ESMAP. Senegal: Urban Household Energy Strategy, Washington D.C., March 1989 (Activity
Completion Report No.096/89).
5/     MDIA. Docwnent Priparazoire a la Riunion Sectorielle Sur I'Energie (Energy Sector Meeting Working
Document). October 1991, Dakar, Senegal.



21
2.66   SENELEC's plant rehabilitation and reinforcement study: The purpose of this study was
to review the state of the existing power plants and propose alternative least-cost scenarios for
the rehabilitation of existing facilities and/or the commissioning of new facilities. As stated
above. the way in which this study was executed was not acceptable to IDA, and a consequence,
IDA did not finance it. From IDA's point of view, the study deliberately avoided focussing on
one of the principal issues that had to be addressed, which was the identification of the optimal
investment mix comprising rehabilitation of old units and investment in new plants.
2.67   SENELEC institutional and manazement arrangements study: This study concluded that
the failure of SENELEC's rehabilitation program and of the performance contract was due to the
organizational and managerial weaknesses of SENELEC, and that those weaknesses are structural
and cannot be addressed unless there is a solid commitment on the part of the GOS and
SENELEC to reform the sectoral institutional framework.
2.68   Audit of SENELEC (FY90 and 1st. semester FY91): Within the context of Credit
1710-SE SENELEC had to have its financial statements audited every year by an external
independent auditor. For reasons that are not clear, we accepted the audit made by the GOS
appointed 'Commissaire aux Comptes' as fulfilling this condition. The experience proved that
this was not a good solution.  A partial audit of FY89 accounts, customer management. and
information systems prepared by an audit firm, identified the existence of severe financial
reporting problems and resulted in a disclaimer of opinion. Moreover for FY90/91, a third audit
was carried out to review the financial situation and management of SENELEC in FY90 and first
half of FY91. Based on this auditors report two conclusions are to be drawn: (i) the auditors
disclaim to give any opinion due to the large number of uncertainties and missing documentation;
(ii) the Commissaire aux Comptes report's reliabiiity, which gave an unqualified opinion for the
same fiscal year financial statements, is questionable.
2.69   On the side of the training activities, the lack of a manpower development and/or training
master plan at MDIA and the little information that is available on the subject within the Project
files makes it very difficult to assess both the rationale for the training activities that were
undertaken and their respective outcomes.
2.70   Lessons learned. The revision of the implementation of this component provides two
principal lessons.  Firstly, although the situation with the study on the rehabilitation and
reinforcement of SENELEC's plants seems to carry a lesson more readily applicable to the
borrower, IDA needs to observe from that experience that a pattern of undue leniency in the
enforcement of proj ect implementation procedures (terms of reference, conditionalities, covenants,
etc) does not necessarily produce an environment conducive to borrower's performance discipline.
Evidence suggests that this problem affected not only the rehabilitation and reinforcement study
but also other components of the Project, such as SENELEC's rehabilitation program (see
Technical Assistance Component. below).
2.71   Secondly, and most importantly, a mistake was done in accepting to utilize a GOS
appointed "Commissaire aux Comptes" to review and report on SENELEC's financial statements.
Although at this point in time it can not be fully proved, it is reasonable to assume that the early
identification of financial management problems at SENELEC could have substantially and
positively altered the outcome of the project. This is a lesson that cannot be overlooked by IDA
in future project design in Senegal.



22
3. Project Design and Implementation Review
3.1    The third part of this report briefly reviews the key design and implementation issues that
determined the final outcome of Credit 1710-SE, and summarizes the principal lessons learned.
Design of institutional arrangements
3.2    The institutional arrangements of the Credit were limited to SENELEC and MDIA, which
were the only local executing agencies. As SENELEC was known to suffer from considerable
internal organizational and managerial weaknesses and, among others, a precarious financial
position, the institutional aspects related to SENELEC were considered critical to the Credit's
implementation and success. At the time of appraisal, the risk of having institutional problem
within SENELEC were expected to be reduced by requiring SENELEC to prepare and implement
an TIJA approved "conrrat plan" (which theoretically included performance parameters and
supervision and monitoring procedures and mechanisms) and by including continued technical
assistance.
3.3    Potential institutional problems with MDIA  were assumed to be limited to its
responsibility for the implementation of the energy conservation and studies component of the
Credit, and as such no specific provision measures were adopted to reduce institutional failure
risks other than the provision of technical assistance resources. The critical role of MDIA with
respect to the proposed energy sector policy reforms was clearly overlooked.
3.4    As it turns out, the design of the institutional arrangements did not correctly sized the
existing institutional problems and barriers. The lack of commitment and of institutional response
capabilities at SENELEC and MDIA were indeed the principal reasons for the Credit - as well
as the overall project -- shortcomings. As Credit implementation proceeded and institutional
problems continued to surface it became clear that the problems with the institutional
arrangements were not limited to their original design but were extended to the lack of flexibility
to introduce mid-stream support and/or corrective measures, such as additional technical
assistance. training, supervision, and/or monitoring.
Environmental Aspects
3.5    At the time of appraisal no major adverse environmental effects were identified. As per
the original plan, the diesel 2x20 MW plant was constructed adjacent to the Cap des Biches
power plant, more than 20 km away from Dakar, and its design incorporated adequate noise and
pollution mitigation measures and devices. By Credit closing no particular problems had been
identified with respect to noise or pollution resulting from the new generation units. Further,
provided that the units are properly run and maintained, no particular environmental problems
are expected to surface.
3.6   In 1989, an unanticipated problem appeared in the new Caps des Biches - Tobene power
transport corridor, where an illegal settlement of low income sub-urban housing started
developing directly underneath the power lines. As soon as the problem was detected SENELEC
and the local government agencies were supposed to work with the community of settlers to
prepare an action plan to relocate them. However, as of Credit closing date, nothing had been
done. From a technical point of view, the proximity of the high voltage lines constitutes a



23
potential health hazard to the community. Additionally, the proximity of the settlers to the lines
and towers poses a maintenance and security risk to SENELEC. Although the settlers have no
rights to the land, which was attributed to SENELEC in full compliance with the law, the human,
economic, and political problems (environmental conflict) remain unchanged.
Identification and evaluation of risks
3.7    The main risk factor identified at appraisal was the pace of implementation of
SENELEC's recovery program due to the considerable political and managerial will that would
be necessary to resolve the existing problems. As discussed above, this risk proved to be more
substantial than expected and resulted in the partial failure of the proposed rehabilitation program.
3.8    At the time of appraisal, the project was believed to present no unusual technical risks.
Financial risks were considered minor as it was anticipated that the cost of the principal project
component (new diesel generation plant comprising about 50% of the total project cost) could be
lower that estimated. As it turns out, the steam plants rehabilitation sub-component (generation)
run into serious technical problems as a result of poor component implementation and supervision
management.
Project Ownership
3.9   In complex projects like this, with many participants, obtaining project ownership (i.e.
a high level of identification between projects and the recipient country) is a difficult and
challenging task. This is so, in part because of the difference in perspectives between donors and
recipients.  The degree of participation by donors and borrowers in project design and
implementation is normally the most tangible way of measuring project ownership. While limited
borrower participation in project design and implementation management often results in a lack
of commitment and cooperation on the part of the national counterpart agencies, lack of donor
design and implementation supervision can result in serious technical and financial problems. As
evidenced bv the outcome of SENELEC's rehabilitation program and of the steam plants
rehabilitation sub-component (generation), and the problems with SENELEC's financial audits,
the design of Credit 1710-SE failed to strike an adequate balance between project ownership and
necessary donor project management and supervision.
Project Sustainability
3.10   The sustainability of the investment components is fairly good.  In spite of the
demonstrated lack of commitment, it is expected that SENELEC has the technical expertise
necessary to guarantee the sustainability of the investment components through timely and
effective maintenance. That notwidstanding, and unless it is promptly resolved, some hardware
sustainability may be jeopardized by the existing fuel quality problem.
3.11   The sustainability of the TA and studies components of the Credit (including, technical
assistance, studies, training and SENELEC's rehabilitation program) is very limited. This is so
because the will and the capability of the borrower to absorb the non-investment components is
not strong enough. Until that situation is redressed, neither the non-investment components of



24
Credit 1710-SE nor those of any subsequent projects will have much room for success or
sustainability beyond the short-term interests of the direct counterpart agencies (scholarships,
computers, vehicles, temporary additional budget, office supplies, etc.).
3.12   The sustainability of the policy reform components of the Credit is at best fragile for two
basic reasons. First, because the policy impact of the Credit was limited as neither the initially
agreed policy reforms were implemented as proposed, nor the policy recommendations that
resulted from the studies funded by the Credit have been implemented. Second, because there
is very little evidence at this point in time that the GOS or SENELEC are prepared to address
the serious policy and institutional problems of the energy sector.
Time Table
3.13   The implementation of Credit 1710-SE was supposed to take a total of 51 months, from
September 1986 to December 1990. Actual implementation and completion took a total of 69
months, from March 1987 (Credit Effectiveness) to December 1992 (Closing). Figure 3.1
presents a comparison betveen the original and actual implementation time table of Credit 1710-
SE. The implementation of the principal investment components had a slow start due to delay
of almost a year in the preparation and processing of bids and initiation of procurement. Once
activities got underway, works progressed relatively well within the revised schedule, and all the
investment components were completed within the original closing date of the project. On the
other hand the implementation of some of the non-investment components of the Credit, was
delayed by nearly two years, and the financial commitment and initiation of some studies and
training activities required the granting of two closing date extensions, from December 1991 to
June 1992, and then to December 1992.
3.14   As depicted in Figure 3.1, the Credit suffered an across-the-board delay in the initiation
of activities, and a consistent delay in the completion of all the non-investment components. This
outcome is not surprising, as the successful implementation and completion of investment
components is more frequent than that of policy and TA components.
Disbursement
3.15   Completion of disbursements was delayed from late 1990 (expected) to December 1992.
In spite of that, no major disbursement problems occurred during the implementation of the
Credit, other than a consistent delay on the part of SENELEC to make payments to local
suppliers. That situation lasted until 1990 when SENELEC finally acted under pressure from
IDA to expedite the processing of payment of its outstanding accounts through the effective
utilization of the Credit's Special Account.



25
FIGURE 3.1: CREDIT 1710-SE -IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE REVIEW
Implementation Horizon
CREDIT COMPONENTS               1986 1987 1 1988 j1989 1 1990 1991 1992 1993
Generation
Civil Works diesel plant   (0)    0 0000
(A)       AAA AAA
Distribution
Mat.& equip. Dakar Network   O)   0 0000 0000 00 o
(A)          A AAM       AA       _
Engineering
Consult. Serv. Generation  ()    0 0000 0000o        _
(A) -       A     SAA
Consult. Serv. Transmission   (A)    AAA AAAA AA
(A)
Consult. Serv. Distribution    (O)    0 0000  0 0  0 0
(A)        MA AA    AAA
Energy Conser. Studies
Energy Conserv.Program    (O)       0000 0000 oo_-
(A)            AAM AAA AAAA AAA
Petroleum Prod.Supply Study  (O)    0000
(A)                 AA
FNE Study                 (O)       0000 ooo
(A)
Household Energy Consump. (O)       0000o o
Additional Studies (2)    (A)            AAA         0000 0000o
(A)                       AAAA AAA A   AA
Technical Assistance
Rehab. Program TA          g      0 0000 0000 0000_                 _
(A)       AAA   AAAA      AA AA
Training
ESIE Scholarships         (O)       0000 0000 0000 
(A):
(A).                 AAAM AAAM AAMA_
SENELEC training           (O)         00 0000 00oo
(A)                    AA, AAI AAAA
Notes: (1) measured in quarters (three months periods).
(2) See the review of the Energy Conservation and Studies component.
(0) Original time table.
(A) Actual implementation.



26
3.16   Although the actual disbursement profile was different to that originally expected, the
disbursement of Credit 1710-SE remained within acceptable profile limits. Figures 3.2 and 3.3
present summaries of the Credit's disbursement profiles. As it can be seen from these figures
there was a considerable disbursement lag during the first 9 implementation quarters. Between
quarters 9 and 17 Credit disbursement started to accelerate but still remained slightly behind
schedule.  As of quarter 18 actual disbursements surpassed the amounts in the original
disbursement schedule until the closing of the Credit. 25% of Credit disbursement had been
planned for the second implementation quarter; however, it was only achieved one and a half
years later: in quarter 8. 50% percent disbursement was to have taken place by quarter 7 but was
delayed by a year, until implementation quarter 12. 75% disbursement originally schedule for
quarter 8 was only achieved in quarter 13.
Procurement
3.17   The Credit's initial implementation delay came from delays in SENELEC's procurement
process. In spite of a long standing experience in dealing with IDA and Donors' assistance,
SENELEC and GOS proved unable to process procurement documents in an effective and
efficient manner. An important part of the delay was caused by the reversal of the GOS on its
agreement not to tax SENELEC's imported Project equipment and inputs.
Monitoring and Supervision
3.18   Project monitoring and supervision issues were discussed with SENELEC during
appraisal and were finalized at negotiations. SENELEC established a Project Unit satisfactory
to IDA to monitor project execution, and agreed to a series of measures that included quarterly
reports on its activities (project, investment program and financial position).
3.19   Table 3.1 presents a summary of the supervision missions that were conducted during
the implementation of Credit 1710-SE, indicating the number of specialists that participated, the
length of time spent in the field, the fields of expertise represented in the supervision team, the
range of mandatory rating indicators, and the principal problems that were encountered during
each particular supervision mission.
Conclusion: Summary of Lessons Learned
3.20   The principal lessons learned from the evaluation of Credit 1710-SE which are relevant
to the preparation and implementation of IDA projects in the Africa region - and potentially
other Regions - are listed below in a summarized form:
(i) more realistic implementation time schedules, and better implementation schedule
management systems and corrective mechanisms need to be incorporated to projects in
countries with weak institutional framework;
(ii) special attention needs to be given to the inclusion of adequate operating standards
and procedures within the implementation of investment components (hardware) in order
to guarantee their efficient performance and avoid their premature deterioration;



' 27
FIGURE 3.2
SENG,AL: PCR i71O-SE
CI~SLR.\AENr PRZ'_-CRi-t
215
24
22F                                 F
0~ ~ 2
814
c           12
o
1   1      I  5   17  13      171  21   la2
7      4       6       S       '5     18      2Z
IMPLCAA_NTA7,CN ClA-i'&T.S
~ Crigir.:I
Rvised m /7  ActucI       a. Undistursed
-  : :. -        ,                              FIGURE  3 .3
S EN EGAL: 1 710-S E
0153 RSM.5T PROi-L- RVI-H (,.)
100           1         L     I
2                                4       50      9
hi~ ~ s
40
a. 
20             ~~ 
10 
0                     
IU?L'U-NTAn0N CUARTS
E  Orif5nci
Rw.vsqd   A  A;cucl



28
TABLE 3.1: Summary of Credit 1710-SE Supervision Missions
No.       Days in    Specializations              Perfor.   Types of
PAX.   Field          Represented                 Rating     Problems
Status
Month/Year
November 87       2        a            Principal Engineer           I          delay in civil works
Firancial Analyst
March 88          2        7            Principal Engineer           I          SENELEC receivables
Financial Analyst
June 88           2         10          Principal Engineer           I          SENELEC receivables
l_____________             __________  Principal Economist
November 88       2         15          Financial Analyst            I          SENELEC receivables; delay in
Principal Enginecr                     opening of credit-letters
June 89           2        21           Financial Analyst                       SENELEC receivables
l__________  Project Engineer
April 90          3         18          Financial Analyst (2)        1 & 2      power corridor/housing conflict;
Power Engineer                         SENELEC sales
l_______  ___________   _________________________   _________   stagnation.
November 90       1         17          Financial Analyst            I & 2      SENELEC receivables
April 91          2         15          Financial Analyst            I & 2      SENELEC overall situation
Energy Specialist                      deteriorated
April 92          4         15          Principal Economist          I & 2      SENELEC: poor accounting &
Energy Specialist (2)                  financial management. Delicate
Financial Analyst                      funancial state. Incorrect power
plants operating practices,
insufficient maintenance, and poor
J_______  __________   ________________________     ________   quality     of   fuel  oil.
(iii) the implementation of projects with large procurement sub-components in countries
with weak institutional framework requires preparatory technical assistance and training
in procurement issues in order to avoid costly delays and possible budget complications;
(iv) supervision of project implementation by IDA plays a critical role in the successful
completion of project components in countries with weak institutional framework. Thus,
supervision missions need to prepare better and more consistent project supervision
reports in order to  improve project implementation  follow-up  and  evaluation.   A
standardized and more carefull use of the mandatory ratings is also required within the
supervision of projects;
(v) strict enforcement of agreed project implementation procedures (terms of reference,
conditionalities, covenants, etc) is more conducive to borrower's performance discipline
in countries with weak institutional framework and lack of implementation commitment;



29
(vi) unless there is a strong commitment of the borrower to accept the TA inputs and to
implement proposed recommendations, there is little chance for TA components to
succeed.
(vii) the adoption of perforrmance contracts between the central governmnent and public
utilities is not a satisfactory vehicle to promote utility performance discipline and
efficiency unless there is a strong and verifiable commitment on the part of the
government and the utilitv in complying with the contract; and,
(viii) the execution of financial audits should be executed, in accordance to established
procedures, through a certified independent auditor and not through alternative
arrangements subject to potential interference such as a government appointed
'Commissaire aux Comptes'.



30
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1710-SE)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower prepared a detailed 80-page Project Completion Report
in French which is kept in OED files.



31
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1710-SE)
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loan or Credits
Credit No.:          S-26-SE
Title:               Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
Year Approved:       FY80
Piupose:            to assist GOS to develop an overall energy plan and to
reorganize the energy sector.
Status:              closed
Comments:            project was satisfactorily completed.
2.    Project Timetable
Project Phase        Planned       Revised       Actual
Identification                                   02/84
Preparation                                      02/85
Appraisal mission                                05/85
Credit negotiations                              01/86
Board Approval                                   06/86
Credit signature                                 09/86
Credit effectiveness   09/86                     03/87 "
Credit Closing       12/91         06/92         12/92 2v
notes: (1)    credit effectiveness was delay due to a delay in the satisfaction of donor cross-
effectiveness conditionality. IDA waived the cross-conditionality and credit
became effective on March 1987.
(2)    credit closing was delayed twice (6 months extensions) in order to complete the
execution of pending studies and training activities.



32
3.    Credit Disbursement
CREDIT 1710-SE: Disbursement Summary (US$ million)
Fiscal         1 Original Amt.  Revised Amt.   Actual Amt.  Profile Amt.
Year   Quarter  Cumulative     Cumulative     Cumulative    Cumulative
FY86   Jun 86
FY87   Sep 86    .40             .40
Dec 86    1.60           1.60                         .60
Mar 87   2.80           2.80                         1.20
Jun 87    4.30          4.30            .35          2.40
FY88   Sep 87    5.80           5.80            1.86         3.60
Dec 87    7.20          7.20           2.36          4.40
Mar 88    8.60          8.60           2.46          5.20
Jun 88    10.00         10.00          2.67          6.40
FY89   Sep 88   11.50           11.50          2.84          7.60
Dec 88   12.70          12.70          4.17          8.80
Mar 89   13.90          13.90          6.72         10.00
Jun 89    16.79         16.79          9.71         11.20
FY90   Sep 89   17.89           17.89          11.21        12.40
Dec 89   18.79          18.79          13.52        13.20
Mar 90   19.49          19.49          15.67        14.00
Jun 90    20.19         20.19          17.99        14.80
FY91   Sep 90   20.25           20.25          18.28        15.60
Dec 90   20.29          21.85          19.60        16.40
Mar 91   20.33          23.35          19.69        17.20
Jun 91    20.36         23.85          20.45        18.00
FY92   Sep 91   20.36                          21.52        18.80
Dec 91   20.36                        21.63         19.20
Mar 92   20.36                        21.96         19.60
Jun 92    20.36                        22.01        19.60
FY93   Sep 92                                  22.17        19.60
Dec 92                                22.21         19.80
Mar 93                                22.35         20.00
Jun 93



33
4.       Project Results
CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Results
[_PRINCIPAL INVESTMENTS/ACTIVMES                       |SFSUMMARY OF RESULTS
implemcntation of new power tariff structure (condition of Credit  new electricity tariffs implemented.
effectiveness)
implementation of forestry tax incrase                            new forest legislation enacted.
study of petroleum supply, refuning & distribution                satisfactorily completed.
studv on household energy consumption & fuclwood substitutes      satisfactorily completed.
study on National Energy Fund (NEF) iuprovements                  satisfactorily completed.
execution of industrial energy use audits (1986-88)               47 industrial enterpsei audited; 24.380
TEP savings identified; USS9.7 million
invested in energy saving mea-sures.
completion of rehabilitation of existing steam units at Cap des   rehabilitation completed with problems.
Biches (condenser, retubing, sea water intake and spare parts)
insallation of 2x20 MW of low(or medium) speed diesel units at    installation satisfactorily completed.
Cap des Biches
rehabilitation of existing 90 kV transmission line and substations  rehabilitation completed.
(Bel Air/Hann & Bel Air/Cap des Biches)
construction of new 50 k1m, 220 kV tine (Cap des Biches) & 90 kV  satisfactorily compieted
substation (Tobene)
Construction of new 18 km, 90 kV line (Hann/Cap des Biches)       satisfactorily completed.
rehabilitation/strengthening of Dakar network (75 km & 34         program only partially completed. Low
substations)                                                      voltage component not done.
rehabilitation of about 100 km of lines outside Dakar & construction
of 45 km of lines to connect 2 secondary center to the main grid                                         l
135 man/month of consultant services for generation, transmission  Technical Assistance provided.
& distribution components
125 man/month of TA to SENELEC for implementation of              Technical Assistance provided.
rehabilitation program                                                                                   l
Scholarships program to ESIE (7 studentsl3 yeas) & 40 man/month    scholarships provided.
training for SENELEC staff
reduction of consumer receivables to 3 months billing             not accomplished.
implementation of improved fuiancial management system            not accomplished.
TA for implementation of rehabilitation program                   Technical Assistance provided.
Rehabilitation program not successful.



34
S.      Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Project Costs (SDR million equivalent)
Original             Actual
Budget            Disbursemenbt           Balance
Budget Category                   (SDR)                (SDR)                 (SDR)
Civil Works                         3.20               4.96                  -1.76
Distribution                        7.90               7.06                  0.84
Engineering                         1.44               1.82                  -0.38
Technical AssLuance                 1.10               1.35                  -0.25
Training                            0.60               0.57                   0.03
Energy Conservation                 1.80               0.69                   1.11
PPF Refunding                      0.36                0.27                  0.09
Unallocated                         1.90                 0                    1.9
FUND (1)                           0.00                0.31                  -0.31
Totls/Balanc                       18.30         |   17.03                    1.27
Notes: (1) Disbursements pending allocation by category.



35
B. Project Financing
CREDIT 1710-SE: Project Financing Summary (SDR million equivalent)
[          - ACTUAL PROJECT FINANCING PLAN w"
IDA         [IDA          CCCE      AfDB      BOAD | SENELEC    TOTAL
l              ~~~~~OFIGrNAL    ACTUAL      
Project Components               _           _                      _
Genemtion         O3.20 N         4.96 A25L60                       0 5     700        3F.66
Tnmnsmission &
Tnsuport                                                  5.90     2.60      3.00        11I.S0
Distribution        7.90          7.06                  1.40      0.90      7.40        16.76
Engincering
1.44          1.82                                     0.40         2.22
Energy
ConservaLion &
Studies a)          1.80          0.69                                      0.20         0.89
Technical
Assistance          1.10          1.35                                      0.20         I.55
Training            0.60          0.57                                                   0.57
Unallocated )      2.30          0.58                                                   0.58
IDC "                                                                       3.00         3.00
18.30         17.03      25.60      7.30      4.60     21.20        75.73
TOTAL (SDR)           
Notes:  (1) actualfinancing totalsfor other donors not available.
(2) includes SDR 0.2 under the SENELEC column that came from local industries.
(3) includes SDR 0.4 for PPF refunding.
(4) interest during construction.



36
6.       Status of Covenants
CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Compliance With Legal Covenants
ENTITIES                          I
DESCRIPTION OF CO\VENANTS                  CONCERNED              STATUS                      COMMENTS
V         (Credit Atgreement
1/ Implement ,dl principles announced in    Government          OK              Measures have been taken to adjust
the Dctdaraliin of energy policy dated                                           electricity tariffs and promote the use of
July 11-12, 1985 (Sccuon 3.04).                                                  LPG to replace charcoal.
'/ Establisth a formula, acceptable to      Government           PENDING         The corresponding studies arm carried
IDA, for the ncgular adiustinent of user                                         out. The reform of ex-refLnery prices
andi consumer pnccs ot petrolcum                                                 was implemented. However, the GOS
products, taking into account price                                              decided unilateraLly in July 1991 to
fluctuatiorns rn thc world mar-ket and                                         increase the ex SAR supplement from
fluctuatiins in e -hamw'e ruies tSc-tion                                         USSI.8/bl. to USS2.3/bl. No clear
3.05).                                                                           argument has been given for this
change.
Adjustments in the structure of retail
prices are to foLlow the finalization armd
discussion of the recommendations of
the transport and distribution margins
study.
3/ Fumish to IDA, niot latcr than July 1,    Government         PENDING         The above referenced studies as well am
1986, an action piaii accqetable to IDA                                         the recently completed household
for the cilnujiautii of cross subsidies and                                      energy strategy provide the framework
other price distortions between various                                          for the eLirination of cross subsidies.
products (Section 3 OOr                                                          Proposed changes in the retail prices of
petroleum products will reflect the
various recommendations made.
4/ Perodically review the adequacy of       Government/         OK               Electricity tariffs were revised on July
the level and struicture of SENELEC's       SENELEC                              1, 1989 (increase) and July 1, 1991
tanrffs and authorize such tariff increases                                     (slight decrease) following the
as are requirud to enable SENELEC to                                             appLication of the indexation formula to
fulfill its obligations under the ConLract                                      take into account particuLa.rly the
Plan (Section 4 02)                                                              petroleum prices fluctuation.



37
CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Compliance With Legal Covenants (Continuation 1)
ENTITIES
DESCRIPTION OF COVENANTS                CONCERNED            STATUS                    COMMENTS
5/ Funish to IDA for review, not later  SENELEC            OK              SENELEC prepared its capital
than Novenmber 30 of each year, the                                        investment progmrm in July 1991, and
capital inveKsment prograrn in the                                         discussed it with IDA under the
electricity subsector (Section 4.05).                                      preparation of the second Energy Sector
Donors' Meeting which has been held
in 1992.
6/ Compensate SENELEC for the cost of   Government         OK              Therm has not been any new secondary
electricity supply to remote or secondary                                  center.
electric centers if not economically
justified iSection 4.04)
7/ Make sparte and adequate prvisions   Government          PENDING        A system is being developed to monitor
in the naional budget and those of                                         electricity consumption during the fuical
municipalities to cover annual forecasts                                   year and ensure pmrmpt payment.
of blings and ensure that all bills are                                    However, this did not prevent the
settled vwihin three months from the                                       accumulation of new arream from the
billing daLe (Section 4.05).                                               GOS, above thrre months.
Bl Project Agreement
1' Set up project implementation unit   SENELEC             OK             In place.
(Section 2'01).
9/ Carmv out the contmct plan and the   Govemment/          OK             The contract plan and the rehabilitation
rehabilitation program (Section 3.02)   SENELEC                            plan were partly carried out for the
period 1986-1990. However,
SENELEC's ovemrll *itation has
deteriorated over the last two year.



38
CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Compliance With Legal Covenants (Continuation 2)
ENTIMES
DESCRWTTON OF COVENANTS                   CONCERNED            STATUS                    COMMENTS
JL/ Have the Special Account and          SENELEC            OK              The audit report for 1990 was furnishod
SENELEC's accounts audited and the                                           in time but it was not satisfactory. It
related audit report furnished to IDA not                                    was agreed that another firm should
later than 6 months after end of fiscal                                      cary out a new audit of SENELEC's
year (Section 4.01).                                                         financial accounts for the period 1990
and firgt half of 1991. The new audit
report has resulted in 'diclaimer of
opinion' The special account has closed
in February 1990.
jLl Take all nrcessay measures to         SENELEC             PENDING        SENELEC has difficulies to meet this
ensure that at all times rrecivables shall                                   covenant, partly because the
be paid within 90 days of the billing rate                                   Government accumulates subantial
(Section 4.02).                                                              arrears to SENELEC. SENELEC is
implementing an action plan to improve
collection and reduce its receivables
from private consumenr. However, two
operations of cross-debt compensation
between SENELEC and the GOS were
carried out concerning all the arrmars up
to 30/06/1991. As a rult the total
amount of receivables decreased from
5.58 months of sales as of 12/31/1990
to 3.93 months as of 12/31/1991.
12/ Maintain an average cash generation   SENELEC            PENDING         SENELEC complied with this covenant
ratio of at leat 30% (Section 4.03).                                         in 1990 but not in 1991. Financial
statements for 1991 indicate a average
cash generation ratio of 8%.



39
7.    Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff and Consultant Inputs
CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Staff and Consultant Inputs
Fiscal   Task ID   Sub-Total       Total FY
Stage of Project Cycle    Year               Staff weeks     Staff weeks
Through Appraisal         FY83    LENP        3.5
69.6 Staff weeks                   LOP        1.1            4.6
FY84    LENP       14.3
LOP        1.1            15.4
FY85    LENA       19.3
LENP      29.7
LOP       0.6             49.6
Appraisal through Board   FY86    COF         1.5
Approval                           LENA       11.8
55.9 Staff weeks                   LENN      29.4
LOP       12.9
PAD        0.2            55.9
Board Approval through    FY87    COF         1.1
Effectiveness                      PAD        3.4
22.3 Staff weeks                   SPN        17.8           22.3
Supervision               FY88    GAC        0.4
70.1 Staff weeks                   PAD       0.3
SPN       11.7            12.5
FY89    SPN        16.1            16.1
FY90    SPN        16.2            16.2
FY91    SPN        8.1             8.1
FY92    SPN        5.5             5.5
FY93    SPN        6.8
PCR       4.9             11.7



40
B. Missions
CREDIT 1710-SE: Summary of Project Missions (
No.         Days in      Specializations
Month/Year           Mission Purpose           PER.         Field        Represented
Feb 84               project identification    1            2            Power Engineer
May 85               project appraisal         4           15            Sr. Loan Officer
Deputy Division Chief
Financial Analyst
Power Engineer
Nov 85              co-fimancing mecting &     4            5            Sr. Loan Officer
technical discussion                                Deputy Division Chief
Financial Analyst
Power Engineer
Dec 85              prepation of               2           10            Power Engineer
negotiations                                        Financial Analyst
Mar 86               review of compliance      1           2             Sr. Power Engineer
with conditions.
Jun 86               review of compliance      1            6            Sr. Power Engineer
with conditions.
Nov 86               supervision               2           10            Sr. Power Engineer
Financial Analyst
March 87             supervision               2           15            Sr. Power Engineer
Financial Analyst
November 87         supervision                2            8            Principal Engineer
Financial Analyst
March 88             supervision               2            7            Principal Engineer
Financial Analyst
June 88              supervision               2           10            Principal Engineer
Principal Economist
November 88         supervision               2            15            Financial Analyst
Principal Engineer
June 89              supervision               2           21            Financial Analyst
Power Engineer
April 90            supervision                3           18            Financial Analyst (2)
Power Engineer
November 90         supervision                1           17            Financial Analyst
April 91             supervision               2           15            Financial Analyst
Energy Specialist
April 92            supervision                4           15            Principal Econornist
Energy Specialist (2)
Financial Analyst
Notes: (1)    ng,ufiamnr idaenjiazion and initial preparation workfor Credit 1710-SE was done
while conducting field misnion for Credit S-26-SE.



