Dammtaf
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIL USE ONLY
CR  />/bSc
Report No. P-4325-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF
SDR 18.3 MILLION (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 20, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -    CFA Franc2 CFAF)
US$1           -    CFAF 412 -
CFAF 1         -    US$0.00243
CFAF 1,000     -    US$2.43
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
One kilovolt (kV)        -          1,000 Volts
One Megawatt (MW)        -          1,000 kilowatts (kW)
One Gigawatt hour (GWh)  =          1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
One barrel (bbl)         e          0.16 cubic meter
One ton of oil equivalent (t.o.e.) = about 7 bbl of crude oil
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
BADEA     -    Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
BOAD      -    Banque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
CSPT      -    Compagnie Senegalaise des Phosphates de Talba
EdF       -    Electricite de France
EEOA      -    Compagnie des Eaux et de l'Electricite de l'Ouest
Africain
ESIE      -    Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricite
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GOS       -    Government of Senegal
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau
NDIA (DE) -    Ministere du Developpement Industriel et de
l'Artisanat, Direction de lVEnergie
OMVG      -    Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du fleuve Gambie
OIVS      -    Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du fleuve Senegal
OPEC      -    Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
SAED      -    Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du
Delta du Fleuve Senegal et des Vallees du Fleuve Senegal
et de la Faleme
SAR       -    Societe Africaine de Raffinage
SENELEC   -    Societe Nationale d'Electricite
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
UPDEA     -    Union des Producteurs, Transporteurs et Distributeurs
d'Energie Electrique d'Afrique
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July I-June 30
SENELEC:     January-1-December 31
1/ The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The FF is currently floating.
2/ Currency exchange rate prevailing at the time of negotiation.
However, the current exchange rate is US$1 = CFAF 360.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:           Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries:      SociItfe Nationale d'Electricite (SENELEC)
GOS (Ninistry of Industrial Development)
Amount:             SDRs 18.3 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA-
Relending Terms:    Out of the US$20 million equivalent, the Government
would relend US$18 million equivalent to SENELEC, as
follows: (i) US$15.5 m4llion equivalent at the
prevailing Bank interest for 20 years, including
5 years of grace; and (ii) US$2.5 million equivalent
at the prevailing Bank interest for 20 years
including 10 years of grace to finance the proposed
technical assistance and training components of the
project. SENELEC would bear the foreign exchange
risk on its share of the Credit.
Colenders:          A consortium of cofinanciers would provide about
US$41 million equivalent toward project costs.
Project             The proposed project would assist Senegal in
Description:       optimizing its use of energy resources by
eliminating price distortions and by adopting
conservation measures; reducing the cost of
generation; improving system reliability and
reducing losses through upgrading of transmission
and distribution networks, particularly in the Dakar
area; and strengthening the institutional
arrangements in the sector through a program of
managerial and financial rehabilitation. The
proposed project consists of:
(a) a 40 MS diesel plant with related engineering
services and completion of the rehabilitation
of the existing Cap des Biches steam plant;
(b) construction of about 50 km of 220 kV and 18 km
of 90 kV transmission lines and associated
90 MV substations, together with rehabilitation
of existing 90 kV lines and substations;
(c) rehabilitation of distribution system, mainly
in Dakar;
his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rsipients only in the peror
of thdr ofca dutieL Its contents may not oterwe be disclosd without World Baok autborintionL



- il -
(d) technical assistance to implement SENELEC's
rehabilitation program and training;
(e) an industrial energy conservation program; and
(f) studies related to petroleum supply, household
energy and the operation of the National Energy
Fund.
Project Benefits    The main benefits of the Project would be to
and Risks          optimize use of energy resources in Senegal by
reducing the cost of power generation and
progressively eliminating price distortions. The
proposed project consists of normal power utility
works, which pose no unusual risks.
Estimated Cost:
USS million equivalent
Local     Foreign   Total
Generation                                 6.2       27.0      33.2
Transmission                               2.7        7.5      10.2
Distribution                               6.5        9.6      16.1
Engineering                                0.3        1.3       1.6
Technical Assistance                       0.2        1.2       1.4
Training                                    -         0.8       0.8
Energy Conservation and Studies            0.2        1.7       1.9
Base Cost                               16.1       49.1      65.2
Contingencies:  Physical                   1.2        3.4       4.6
Price                     2.5         8.5     11.0
Total Project Cost                      19.8       61.0      80.8
Interest During Construction               3.3                 3-3
Total Financing Required                23.1       61.0      84.1
Financing Plan:
IDA  : IDA Lending Terms                         -        20.0      20.0
Cofinanciers
-  CCCE :  5%                                    -        28.0      28.0
-  AfDB : 10.55%                                 -         8.0       8.0
-  BOAD :  12%                                   -         5.0       5.0
Sub-Total                                         41.0     41.0
SENELEC                                   22.9         -      22.9
Local Industry                             0.2         _        0.2
Total                     23.1        61.0     84.1



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY        87           88         89          90         91
Annual            4.3          5.7        4.9         3.4         1.7
Cumulative         -          10.0       14.9        18.3       20.0
Rate of Return:   17Z
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5808-SE
Maps:  IBRD No: 1910ORl:  SENEGAL - Electricity Supply System
IBRD No. 19101R1: SENEGAL - Dakar and Cap Vert Region
Transmission Network
RAPEG
May 1986



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 18.3 million (US$20 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Senegal to help
finance a proposed Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project. Additional
external financing for the project would be provided by France, through a
loan from Caisse Centrale de Coope.ration Economique (CCCE) of US$28 million
equivalent, a loan from the African Development Bank (AfDB) of US$8 million
equivalent, and a loan from the West African Development Bank (BOAD) of
US$5 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONONY
Economic Structure and Past Developments
2.       A report entitled "Senegal: Country Economic Memorandum"
(5243-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5, 1984.
Country data appear in Annex I.
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the
traditional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for
domestic consumption, and groundnut cultivation for export. The modern
sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over
one million inhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent
port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a small but
fast-growing tourism industry. With a population of 6.3 million in
mid-1984, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1984 was estimated at US$380.
4.        At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as
the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to reduced
economic, administrative and political circumstances. In the latter part
of the 1960s, income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell due to
unfavorable weather and lower export prices resulting from the loss of EEC
special preferences. Over the decade, the Senegalese economy marked time
as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.5 percent per annum, i.e.
below the estimated rate of population growth.
5.        Economic management became even more difficult during the 1970s
as a result of the growing unreliability of agricultural production and its
linked effects on domestic incomes and on fiscal and export revenues.
During the 1970s, Senegal's groundnut production was hit by sharp climatic
Aluctuations, and despite higher rates of private and public investment,



- 2 -
average GDP growth did not rise above that of the previous decade. The
same pattern of sharp year-to-year fluctuations around a 2.5 percent growth
trend has continued since 1980. However, the Government no longer has the
leeway to cushion these fluctuations through increasing its borrowing and
expenditures.
6.        Fluctuations in physical output are aggravated by the price
volatility of Senegal's major exports and imports. For example, in 1974,
the overall terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, due to
exceptionally high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export
commodity; however, this improvement was almost entirely wiped out the
following year by declines in export prices for both groundnuts and
phosphates. Increases in imported oil and rice prices in the late 1970s
brought a further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss
in national income of roughly 6 percent between 1974 and 1982.
7.        This deterioration in terms of trade, along with two successive
years of drought in 1979 and 1980, plunged the economy into an acute
financial crisis, from which it is still recovering. The onset of this
crisis led the Government to launch a five-year economic and financial
recovery program, whose main objectivet were to stabilize the economy
during the first two years and then to achieve an economic growth rate of 4
percent per annum in the following three years. This program was sup orted
by an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of US$243 million equivalent, appro'lb1
by the IMF in August 1980, and a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL) of
US$60 million equivalent approved by the Bank in December 1980.
8.        The recovery program consisted of an economic stabilization plan
(agreed with and monitored by the IfF), introduction of new producer
incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change in the
national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforms in the agricultural sector. The objectives of this program were
sound but the implementation schedule proved too ambitious. Despite delays
caused by a record low 1980/81 groundnut crop and by the change of
President in early 1981, the Government did achieve significant progress in
financial arrears reduction, parapublic sector management and introducing
new industrial incentive policies. However, in other areas, and especially
in the reform of agricultural policies and institutions and in reduction of
the current account and fiscal deficits, the results were disappointing.
The SAL second tranche of US$16.2 million was cancelled on June 30, 1983.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        The overlay of acute structural and financial problems which
Senegal had suffered for a number of years was compounded in 1983/84 by the
return of severe drought conditions. These reduced by almost 40 percent
the volumes of agricultural crop production available both for export
(groundnuts and cotton) and for domestic consumption (mainly cereals). The
drought, probably the second most severe since 1972/73, had a negative
impact on the level of economic activity in 1984, on Senegal's balance of
payments and, indirectly, on its public finances.



-3-
10.      While there are some encouraging signs of growth in sectors not
directly affected by the drought (e.g., fishing and tourism), a sustained
recovery in output and employment is still some way off, not only because
of climatic aberrations, but also as a direct result of the nersistent
financial crisis and the contraction in domestic demand. Although the
economy appeared to have recovered strongly in 1982 and 1983 from the
effects of the two preceding drought-affected years, restoring real per
capita income to its 1979 level, GDP fell by an estimated 4.0 percent in
1984; it would have been even lower without the growth in fisheries,
petroleum refining and other export-based industries, notably fertilizers,
for which a 200,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant came on stream at mid-year.
Preliminary figures suggest that the effects of the recession which took
place in 1984 continued well into 1985. With an estimated one million ton
cereal crop and an improved production of groundnuts in 1985/86, the
outlook for recovery in 1986 is much more promising.
11.       Over the last two years, Senegal has pursued its financial
stabilization program in close consultation with the IMF. Credit
outstanding with the IMF at end-June 1985 was equivalent to 260 percent of
Senegal's quota of SDR 85.1 million. In August 1983, following the
announcement of measures to eliminate subsidies on petroleum, rice and
other products, an IMF standby arrangement was agreed for 1983/84, with
commitments to observe strict public employment limits and domestic credit
ceilings. This program, aimed at reducing the current account deficit by
more than three percentage points of GDP and reducing the overall fiscal
deficit from 9 to 4.8 percent of GDP, was successfully completed. A new
standb- arrangement covering an 18-month period to June 1986 was approved
by the IMF Board in January 1985, and performance is judged by the DMF to
be satisfactory up to the end of December 1985, the period covered by the
last review.
12.       The first meeting of the Consultative Group for Senegal was held
in December 1984 and endorsed the Government's medium-term adjustment
program for the period 1985-1992. Since the CG meeting, the Government has
prepared an action plan of specific policies and reform measures to
implement the objectives outlined in the medium-term adjustment program.
The main objectives of the program are to establish an incentive
environment which maximizes the exploitation of the growth potential,
particularly in agriculture and industry, and to improve economic
management. The Government's strategy to accomplish these objectives is,
on the one hand, to progressively withdraw the State from direct
involvement in production activities and to promote private sector
initiative through a change in incentive policies, and, on the other hand,
to achieve greater efficiency of public resource management through
improvements in the quality and management of public investments, the
streamlining and reform of the parapublic sector, and the generation of
public savings. The first phase of this program is being supported by a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) which was approved in February by the
Executive Directors. Details are given in Report No. P-4213-SE dated
January 10, 1986.



-4-
13.      A major constraint on the Government's finances and the balance
of payments is the serious and growing burden represented by service of the
external foreign debt. Over the past four years, debt has been rescheduled
four times with the Paris Club and as well as with the banks, and debt
service is projected to average around US$300 million per year over the
next four years. This will represent an average debt service ratio of
about 21 percent and is almost certain to require a continuation of debt
relief for a few more years until the adjustment program has had time to
take effect on the economy.
Producer and Export Incentives
14.       The structural adjustment program addresses the need to improve
Senegal's trade balance by adjusting relative prices in order to encourage
export production and to discourage growth in imports of food, energy and
consumer goods. Under the SAL, the objective is to revise the export
premium system introduced in 1981 with a view to basing it on industrial
value added in international prices. During 1986, there is to be a full
revision of the structure of the customs tariff, to be followed by a
progressive removal of non-tariff protection over the next two years.
Between February 1982 and January 1985, the Government doubled the retail
price of rice, the main food staple in urban areas, in order to reflect
higher import costs, eliminate consumer subsidies and to provide a measure
of protection for domestic rice production. The Government is committed to
maintaining this nominal rate of protection at a level of at least
25 percent. Cereals are marketed mostly through private channels; the
official floor prices for producers were raised by about 10% for the
1984/85 season and b- around a further 20X for 1985/86. There was also a
substantial increase in the producer price for groundnuts for the last
season, in order to maintain comparability with prices offered on tha
parallel market. Electricity tariffs and petroleum product prices were
also increased in 1985 to eliminate subsidies and to reduce the operating
deficits of SENELEC and the petroleum refinery.
Investment Program
15.       The outlook for investment has deteriorated since the
establishment of the structural adjustment program in 1980. While the
latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to re-establish
macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced program has
become difficult. In the present climate, a careful screening of new
investment projects is particularly needed, together with increased
attention to rehabilitation and maintenance needs. The necessary
institutional reforms for improving the Government's programming, budgeting
and monitoring of investment projects are expected to be put into place
this year under the SAL. The objective is to put in place a system of
three-year rolling investment programs starting with FY87. In the
meantime, an interim two-year investment program (1985-86) has been
prepared and reviewed by the Bank. In view of the difficult public finance
situation, the Government's ability to generate public savings for
financing its investment program will remain very constrained during the



-5-
next few years, and the investment level itself will be largely determined
by the availability of concessional foreign resources. Some public
enterprises, however, such as SONATEL and SENELEC should be able to
generate funds for investment during this period, and the share of private
investment is expected to increase as the financial situation begins to
improve.
Parastatal Sector
16.       Reform of the large parastatal sector in Senegal continues to be
a high priority. Over the last year, the Government has taken some
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable or
inefficient public enterprises. In the agricultural sector, a number of
agencies are being wound up and about 2,000 staff have been laid off. For
others, a redefinition of 'asks and a reduction in staffing numbers has
been decided. For some of the most important public enterprises, the
Government has moved to improve performance by negotiating multi-year
contrats-plans which set out production and financial objectives for
company operations and spell out the reciprocal obligations of the
Government and enterprise managers.  To date, the Government has signed
seven contrats-plans, and several others are well advanced. A
comprehensive policy guideline and action program was adopted by the
Government in 1985 and progress is being assisted by an IDA-financed TA
project for parastatal reform.
Long-term Prospects
17.        Senegal's long term economic prospects depend very much on the
success of its medium-term adjustment program. This program seeks to
create an improved base for development, both by correcting the
unsustainable imbalances an the government budget and on the external
accounts, and by improving the institutional and incentive environment for
economic activity, part of which involves reducing Government's involvement
in the economy. The Government's development strategy continues to
emphasize the promotion and diversification of agricultural and
export-oriented activities. The agricultural program calls for the
development of rainfed areas less susceptible to drought, such as Casamance
and Eastern Senegal, and increased incentives for domestic millet and maize
production to replace imported rice. Agricultural research is being
reoriented, with the objective of lowering the costs of yield-raising
agricultural techniques and better adapting them to local constraints.
Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid northern part of
the country along the Senegal River. Construction is proceeding on the two
large dams planned for the Senegal River by the "Organisation pour la Mise
en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal" (OMVS); the first (Diama) should be completed
this year and the second (Manantali) would be completed in 1988. The
Government's new agriculture policy aims at eliminating the present high
level of state subsidies required on irrigated rice production, which
otherwise would severely constrain the pace of new irrigation development,
by a combination of cost-cutting and transfer of production activities to
the private sector.



18.      The US$250 million ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer project started
commercial operations during 1984, and Senegal's attractive investment code
is expected to help attract other export industries, as the international
economy improves. Export diversification is necessary to offset the
probable limits on growth of earnings from grounduuts, phosphates and fish
exports. Senegal's groundnut exports suffer from increasingly irregular
production due to recent drought conditions, from an increased supply to
EEC markets of competing vegetable oils, which have tended to narrow the
price premium previously enjoyed by groundnut oil, and by restrictions
imposed by some European countries for health reasons on the import of
groundnut cake for animal feed.
19.      The assistance provided to Senegal in support of the Government's
1980-85 stabilization program has helped the country survive a period of
extraordinary economic difficulty and to start to address some of its most
difficult long-term problems. However, the overextended public sector, as
well as heavy domestic arrears and external debt service charges, continue
to impose serious burdens on pub'lic finance and on the current account of
the balance of payments. The Treasury will not be able for a few years to
absorb additional recurrent cost charges from development projects for a
few years, and will continue to need high shares of foreign financing for
the investment program and for budgetary assistance on concessional terms.
However, the actions taken so far indicate the firmness of the Government's
commitment to tackle these problems.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.       As of March 31, 1986, the Bank Group had approved 60 operations
in Senegal for a total of US$642.8 million, consisting 36 IDA credits, 11
Bank loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, five IFC operations, two
blends of Bank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds.
Physical execution of projects is progressing reasonably well, although
some operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to
the Government's continuing difficult public finance situation. Annex II
contains the Status cf World Bank Operations in Senegal.
21.       Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement
and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the financial crisis
of the past several years and the magnitude of the structural distortions
in the economy has led to a major shift in our strategy, which now has the
following main objectives. First, to assist the Government, supported
where appropriate with technical assistance and structural adjustment
lending operations, to improve the production incentive environment and the
efficiency of economic management, and restore in the medium-term a sound
financial basis for development efforts. Second, to promote the long-term
growth and development of the economy by underpinning the structural
adjustment operations through well-prepared investment, rehabilitation and
sectoral adjustment operations within a framework of appropriate sectoral



-7-
policies. Third, to improve our knowledge of economic, social,
institutional and the administrative frameworks to better tailor policy
reforms to the country's absorptive capacity. Finally, to contribute to
improved aid effectiveness in Senegal by acting as the focal point for aid
coordination between donors and the Government, and at the same time
assisting the latter to strengthen its own planning and aid coordination
ability.
22.       The structural adjustment credit which was approved by the
Executive Directors on February 4, 1986, is conceived as the first in a
series of such operations to promote central incentive policy changes and
improved economic management objectives over the medium-term. The IDA
lending program will also include complementary project lending and sector
operations which will be increasingly policy oriented and highlighting
sectoral strategies, investment programs and institutional reforms.
Finally, as described below, the on-going project portfolio also supports
the development of sound economic growth in the productive sectors as well
as the rehabilitation of infrastructure.
23.       In agriculture, past operations have aimed at improving the
productivity of traditional food and cash crops, supporting diversification
into new crops and regions, and enhancing forestry outputs and agricultural
research. At the core of the Government's development strategy in
agriculture is the promotion of rainfed cereals production and the
exploitation of the irrigated rice farming potential in the Senegal River
Valley. In addition to an Irrigation Technical Assistance Project,
approved in October 1985, to help restructure the River Valley Development
Agency (SAED), including preparation of a specific schedule for the
latter's disengagement from production activities, the Fourth Irrigation
Project under preparation would help rehabilitate and expand rice
perimeters. Sector operations are also under preparation in support of
inputs and marketing activities for the development of rainfed food crops.
24.       Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion
of the country's infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail,
port and airport. But with the stagnant economy and heavy past
investments, emphasis is now being placed on better utilization and
maintenance of existing facilities. To this end, three projects were
approved during FY84: a Fifth Highway Project addresses the Government's
limited capacity to provide funds for road aaintenance; the Dakar Container
Port Project includes rehabilitation and maintenance of the Port of Dakar;
and the Technical Assistance Project for Urban Management and
Rehabilitation emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure in support of industrial development.
25.       As in infrastructure, the Bank is supporting the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the major public utilities. In electric
power, an engineering credit, approved in 1980, led to sector
reorganization proposals. In telecommunications, the Bank supported the
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of local and long distance
facilities through two operations to-date, and has played a major role in



convening a donors' meeting on the sector in 19G4. A project to further
address the principal constraints facing the sector, with primary emphasis
on institutional development, is being submitted to the Executive Directors
for their consideration on June 17, 1986. Finally, in the urban water
supply and sanitation sector, an engineering credit, approved in 1979, laid
the groundwork for the Eleven Centers Water Supply and Sewerage Project
which was approved in March 1985.
26.       While Bank strategy has supported the emphasis on financing
productive projects and rehabilitation needs, it also recognizes the need
to support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of
both the Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In
education, efforts have been directed at primary education and at technical
and vocational training to support activities in the productive sectors,
and in health, efforts have been directed at primary care in the rural
regions.
27.       As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic
and financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed
exclusively through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the
late 1970s towards multi-sectoral technical assistance and structural
adjustment lending. Two operations in support of this effort are currently
being implemented. In the parapublic sector, a Second Parapublic Technical
Assistance Project was approved in July 1983 to help consolidate results
already achieved under the first project and to begin rehabilitation of
some key public enterprises through detailed action plans. A Technical
Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning was approved in
August 1980 to help the Ministry of Planning evaluate priority projects and
monitor the investment program and the Finance Ministry to strengthen its
debt management capability. A follow-up project is being prepared to
consolidate progress made in improving economic management.
28.       Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on
high-priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and developmental
recurrent costs, improved donor coordination is now assuming increased
importance. The Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in
close coordination with the IMF and bilateral and multilateral donors. In
this connection, the Bank convened a first meeting of the Consultative
Group in December 1984, at which agreement was reached on the policy
measures and assistance levels and aid coordination mechanisms needed to
enable Senegal to overcome its economic and financial difficulties. The
Bank followed up on this meeting by preparing a structural adjustment
operation as well as by organizing sector meetings of interested donors on
telecommunications and power; further sector meetings are planned during
1986 for the agriculture, industry and water supply sectors. A second CG
meeting is also planned for late-1986 to consider the Government's new
investment program.
29.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1980-83 averaged approximately 20 percent, of which roughly
two-thirds was IDA-financed. The Bank Group's share in outstanding



medium/long-term (NLT) debt was 19% at end-1984 and is projected around 24%
by 1990. The Bank Group's share in uMLT in external debt service payments
(excluding IMP) rose from 3.7% in 1980 to 16% in 1984, but is projected to
decline to around 8Z in 1990, under an assumption of no new debt
renegotiations between 1986 and 1990.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Resources and Consumption
30.       Senegal's energy economy is based on fuelwood and imported oil.
In 1984, the primary energy supply was about 2 million tons of oil
equivalent (t.o.e.) of which 60 percent came from wood, and 40 percent from
imported oil.  Natural forest could supply fuelwood equivalent to about
I million t.o.e. annually, but 90 percent of this potential is in eastern
Senegal and Casamance, far from the urban consuming centers of western
Senegal.  Consequently, fuelwood resources closer to the urban centers are
being rapidly depleted. In 1984, imports of crude oil and petroleum
products for domestic consumption amounted to about 720,000 tons,
accounting for 18 percent of the country's imports and costing the
equivalent of 32 percent of export earnings. In 1972, those percentages
were 3 percent and 4 percent, respectively. Senegal's other indigenous
resources comprise a share of the untapped hydro potential of the Senegal
and Gambia rivers (combined total estimated at 1,400 MW and 7,500 GWh);
some petroleum resources whose exploration is being promoted under the
Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit 1323-SEN, February 8, 1983), a small
natural gas deposit; and about 4 million tons of peat (1.6 million t.o.e.).
There is potential for wind and solar energy, whose commercial prospects
have not yet been established.
31.       Senegal's annual per capita consumption of final energy (about
0.25 t.o.e.) is similar to that of other sub-Saharan African countries.
Fuelwood and charcoal are the principal sources of energy for household
cooking, although small amounts of LPG are used in urban areas. Petroleum
products are used principally for electricity generation (35 percent), for
industry (25 percent) and for transport (20 percent). The household sector
consumes about 75 percent of final energy and industry/transport about
20 percent.
Energy Sector Organization
32.       The Ministry of Industrial Development and Crafts (NDIA) has the
main responsibility for the energy sector. It controls the power sector
through its Department of Energy (DE) and the petroleum sector through its
Department of Mines and Geology (DMG), and is also responsible for energy
conservation and the development of new and renewable energy resources.
The Ministry of Hydraulics is responsible for the development of water
resources, including hydro power. At present, coordination between the two
Ministries is adequate. A National Energy Committee, chaired by the



- 10 -
Minister, MDIA, reviews energy policy options and makes recommendations to
the National Energy Commission, which is chaired by the Head of State and
is responsible for policy decisions. The Department of Energy, NDIA, acts
as a technical secretariat to the Energy Committee. Both DE and DMG suffer
from a lack of qualified and experienced personnel, particularly in the
areas of economics, finance and specialized fields such as wood and
household fuel. Advisors to improve coordination in MDIA on energy policy
were appointed under the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
(Credit S-26-SE, May 19, 1980). These efforts are continuing with the
recent secondment from the Bank Group of an Energy Advisor to the Minister,
MDIA.
33.       A state controlled company, Petrosen, is responsible for
petroleum exploration and production activities and is embarking with Bank
assistance (Credit 1323-SE) on a major promotion effort to induce foreign
oil companies to explore the Senegalese basin. A private company, "Societe
Africaine de Raffinage" (SAR), in which GOS holds a 10 percent interest and
foreign oil companies 90 percent, owns and operates a refinery near Dakar
with a capacity of 1.2 million tons/year. Because of its financial
problems, SAR has in recent years increasingly imported refined products
which now account for 65 percent of the total petroleum consumption.
Responsibility for the distribution of the petroleum products rests with
subsidiaries of foreign oil companies.
Energy Policy and Pricing
34.       In response to the second oil shock, the Government of Senegal
(GOS) formulated an ambitious energy policy aimed at reducing the internal
consumption of oil products by 50 percent over the period 1981-1990. GOS
strategy is to substitute indigenous energy such as hydro, or less costly
imported fuel such as coal, for imported petroleum and to restrain energy
consumption by increasing the efficiency of utilization through energy
conservation and an appropriate pricing policy. So far, efforts to develop
indigenous resources have not been successful and the consumption of
petroleum products has increased from 600,000 to 720,000 tons since 1981.
The translation of policy into specific operational programs and projects
will require the resolution of some important issues related to the
development of hydro resources within the regional context, and in the
allocation of resources to the power sector.
35.       A 1982 study identified substantial potential for savings through
energy conservation in the industrial sector. An Office of Energy
Conservation has been established within MDIA (DE), with the assistance of
two Italian-financed experts. The approach to energy conservation has been
defined under the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) and
would consist of energy audits of major industrial users as well as
institutional changes. UNDP is financing the first of three years'
activity under this program, CIDA (Canada) is considering financing part of
the energy audits, and the proposed project includes financing for the
second and third years' activities.



- 11 -
36.       As a follow-up to the Senegal Consultative Group meeting in
December 1984, GOS requested IDA to take the lead in organizing a donors'
meeting for the energy sector. For this meeting, GOS prepared, with
assistance under ESMAP, an analysis of sector problems and a minimum-needs
sector investment program for the period 1986-90. The principal purpose of
the donors' meeting, held in Paris in July 1985, was to review sector
development policies and investments and to seek the commitment of the
donor community to finance the investment program. During negotiations
agreement was reached that GOS would consult with IDA, prior to undertaking
any investment in the energy sector exceeding US$3 million equivalent.
37.       Energy pricing distortions in Senegal were highlighted in the
UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Report and were a principal topic
addressed by GOS in its Declaration on Energy Policy presented at the July
1985 donors' meeting. Fuelwood and charcoal prices do not reflect the cost
of reforestation. In the Dakar area, there is a need to find substitutes
for household fuel in order to reduce the current strong demand for
fuelwood from local forests and a study of this problem is included in the
proposed project. Electricity tariffs in recent years have been inadequate
in relation to economic and financial requirements. Although the overall
level of petroleum product prices exceeds the CIF level, the GOS pricing
policy results in significant distortions both between product categories,
and between end users of the same product. This necessitates the operation
of a complex system of revenue equalization, administered by the
distributors' organization to assure that they receive guaranteed revenues.
At the July 1985 donors' meeting, GOS announced that it would eliminate in
stages all subsidies on petroleum products. Petroleum product price
increases ranging from 4 percent for a particular grade of gas oil to 60
percent for LPG cylinders were introduced effective July 1, 1985, and are
expected to yield an additional one billion CFAF (US$2 million equivalent)
in revenues. At the same time, GOS announced a 10 percent increase in
average electricity tariffs as of September 1985 to be followed by two
further increases in March 1986 and March 1987. However, in view of the
reduction of fuel prices to be applied on July 1, 1986, the tariff increase
of September 1985 will be rolled back and the two further increases are
made unnecessary. A nearly ten-fold increase in the forestry tax to
20 CFAF/kg of charcoal was also announced, to take effect from January
1987. This increase is a step towards the elimination of distortions in
fuelvood pricing.
38.       The elimination of distortion in petroleum products pricing
requires a review of the refining and distribution activities as well as
the functioning of the National Energy Fund (INEF).  Retail petroleum
product prices in Senegal are fixed by GOS so as to cover the ex-refinery
price, Value Added Tax, distributors' and retailers' margins, and an
element of revenue equalization as indicated above. As the ex-refinery
price is not regularly adjusted to reflect fluctuations in the dollar price
of crude and refined products, SAR's profits in excess of a guaranteed
return are paid into NEF out of which, on the other hand, SAR's losses up
to the guaranteed return are made good. Any surplus resulting from revenue
equalization is put into NEF.  Until mid-1985, SAR operated at a loss and



- 12 -
NEF's resources were insufficient to meet SAR's accumulated deficit
amounting to CFAF 11 billion. The position has changed dramatically in
recent months with the declining cost of oil in the world market and the
drop of the dollar rate of exchange. SAR's profits soared because GOS did
not pass on the benefit of cheaper oil to the domestic market. By end of
1985, NEF had accumulated more than sufficient funds to pay off SAR's
deficit. While these circumstances prevail, NEF will continue to
accumulate substantial funds. Consequently, during negotiations, agreement
was reached that GOS would implement the principles of its July 1985
Declaration on Energy Policy and, in particular: (a) would furnish to IDA
before July 1, 1986, an action plan for the elimination of price
distortions among and between various petroleum products; and (b) vould
establish a formula for the regular adjustment of consumer prices of
petroleum products taking into account price fluctuations on the world
market and fluctuations in exchange rates, and regularly consult IDA on the
application of this formula. To this end, and to help GOS address this
petroleum pricing issue, the proposed project includes: (a) a study of the
supply, refining and distribution of petroleum products in Senegal; and
(b) a study to recommend improvements in the functioning of the NEF.
Finally, during negotiations, GOS agreed to allocate CFAF 6.9 billion from
NEF funds to finance the immediate working capital requirements of the
power utility, SENELEC, in the form of a loan over 10 years including 4
years grace at 6 percent interest. The actual availability of this loan is
a condition of Credit effectiveness. In the meantime, a first tranche of
CFAF 5.8 billion has been disbursed to SENELEC, with which SENELEC settled
a major part of its arrears to its fuel supplier.
Existing Electricity Supply Facilities
39.       The "Societe Nationale d'Electricite" (SENELEC), under the
supervision of MDIA, is responsible for electricity generation,
transmission and distribution throughout the country. SENELEC operates an
interconnected power system with a capacity of about 200 NW, and 22
secondary centers totalling less than 10 MW. The main generating
facilities are the 60 MW Bel Air steam plant in the port of Dakar, and a
124 MW mixed-thermal plant at Cap des Biches. The Bel Air plant is
obsolete and inefficient and should be replaced. Poor operation and
maintenance practices at the Cap des Biches plant caused serious outages in
1984 and emergency repairs to the boilers are underway. However, a major
rehabilitation of the plant is required and would be undertaken under the
proposed project. As a result of these outages, SENELEC was compelled to
install 20 NW of gas turbines in October 1984 to reduce load shedding and
restore adequate supply, albeit at very high operating cost. Over 50
percent of the diesel units in the secondary centers are in a bad state of
repair. The Bel Air and Cap des Biches generating stations supply a 90 kV
interconnected network mainly serving the area of Dakar-Thies-TaTba. In
1984, the energy supplied to the system was 756 GWh, with a peak load of
123 MW. Private autoproducers account for about 25 MW of additional
installed capacity.



- 13 -
40.       The existing transmission and distribution facilities consist of
130 km of 90 kV overhead lines linking five 90 kV substations, about
1,050 km of 30 kV lines and eight 30 kV/6.6 kV substations, and a 6.6 kV
primary distribution network in Dakar, Saint-Louis and Ziguinchor. The
90 kV and 30 kV transmission lines in and around Dakar are adversely
affected by marine corrosion and insulation problems which result in
frequent outages. The transmission network has not been properly
maintained. In particular, the 90 kV Bel Air/Hann/Cap des Biches
transmission lines are in poor cendition and would be rehabilitated under
the proposed project. A second 90 kV line is needed to guarantee security
of supply to Talba and Thies. The distribution system in the Dakar and Cap
Vert region, representing 80 percent of the market, has not been adequately
expanded nor properly maintained; this results in poor quality of service
and high (about 16 percent) losses. A recent distribution study has
recommended that future distribution expansion should be at 30 kV.
Access to Electricity Service
41.       SENELEC supplies electricity to about 150,000 consumers
accounting for about 17 percent of the population, or 38 percent of those
living in the supply area. Electricity consumption rose at an annual
average growth rate of 6 percent in the period 1970-1984, from 285 GWh to
643 GWh. Peak demand on the interconnected system grew at about the same
rate from 50 MW to 114 MW. Industrial customers account for 70 percent,
residential for 23 percent, and commercial for 7 percent of electricity
consumption. The phosphate industry alone "Compagnie Senegalaise des
Phosphates de Talba" (CSPT) accounted for 17 percent of total sales in
1984.
Power Sector Development and Investment Program
42.       As a result of the downturn in the Senegalese economy, earlier
demand forecasts have been revised and now assume an annual average growth
of 4.5 percent through 1990, rising to 6.5 percent thereafter.   A
least-cost generation and transmission development program for the period
1985-2005 has been prepared under the Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project. The study reviewed hydro and alternative thermal
(including peat and imported coal) solutions and concluded that the optimal
sequence of generation investments would be a 2 x 20 MW low-speed diesel
plant by 1988, thereby permitting the retirement of the Bel Air plant,
followed by another 20 MW unit in 1990 in the Dakar area and 120 MW of
hydro power from the Manantali dam in 1992, with two 220 kV transmission
lines to bring it to Dakar. The latter development poses complex
institutional problems which can only be addressed in a regional context
(para. 46).
43.       Following the discovery in 1979 of peat deposits in the Niayes
region, GOS considered the development of a peat-fired power plant and
requested Bank Group assistance in financing the project. After further
study, financed under the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project, such a project was found to involve unusually high technical risks



- 14 -
and very great financial costs. Conoequently, the Bank Group declined to
support the project and GOS will not row proceed with it.
44.       The Manantali hydro development would enable the interconnected
system to be expanded to all major cities presently supplied by high-cost,
inefficient diesel plants. Until that time, schemes to expand the
secondary centers should only proceed where economically justified and
financially viable. Should GOS require SENELEC to proceed with uneconomic
schemes, financial compensation should be provided. Agreement to this
effect was reached with the Government.
45.       The most urgent transmission requirement is the construction of a
50 km 220 kV line from Dakar to Thies to secure the supply to the phosphate
industry. GOS confirmed at the July 1985 donors' meeting that the
inclusion of this line in the proposed project would enable GOS to drop the
planned investment by CSPT (Talba Phosphate) in a 15 MW captive diesel
plant. Such an investment by CSPT would have been inappropriate, as
greater benefits would ensue from integrating the plant in the public
supply system to take advantage of the future hydro power from Manantali.
Urgent subtransmission and distribution measures for Dakar, to be
implemented by 1988, have been defined in a recent study.
46.       Investment requirements for the power sector were presented to
the July 1985 donors' meeting and amount to US$187 million equivalent
between 1986-90 at constant 1985 prices (US$230 million equivalent in
current prices). The 1986-88 program (US$100 million) consists of ongoing,
funded projects (22 percent), the proposed project (65 percent), and a
planned start on the third diesel unit and the transmission lines
associated with the Manantali hydro development (13 percent). Completion
of the two latter projects accounts for about 78 percent of the 1989-90
program. The Manantali hydro power station is not included in SENELEC's
program, as its construction would be the responsibility of OMVS. Having
regard to the impact of this program on SENELEC's future financial
position, agreement was reached that SENELEC will consult with IDA annually
on the power sector investment program.
Power Sector Issues and Government Policy
47.       Exploitation of the hydro power from the Senegal and Gambia
Rivers is the responsibility of two regional organizations, OMVS and
"Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du fleuve Gambie" (OMVG), and its
development poses complex institutional and technical problems. The
Manantali project would be the first step in the least cost sequence of
development of hydro resources. OMVS is constructing the dam principally
for agriculture, but the design allows for the generation of 600 GWh of
firm energy by the addition of a 200 MW power plant. The dam is due for
completion in 1988 but electricity could not be supplied before 1992 at the
earliest. Detailed studies are needed for the two 900 km 220 kV lines, of
which 300 km would be within Mali, to supply electricity to Dakar.
Furthermore, given the regional nature of OMVS, any progress will require
the resolution of the institutional and intercountry issues associated with



- 15 -
the development, ownership and management of power facilities. To this
end, a recently approved advance from the Special Project Preparation
Facility tSPPF) is assisting the financing of the necessary studies. The
engineering for the transmission lines would be financed under a separate
operation, once the institutional and intercountry arrangements have been
agreed.
48.       Efforts to strengthen the laws relating to public enterprises in
Senegal have begun under the Second Parapublic Technical Assistance
Project. The present legislative framework ("Cahier des Clauses et
Conditions Generales") for the power sector has recently evolved from the
concession system and is reasonably satisfactory. The annex to this
document, which regulates the tariff issues, is being finalized.
Strengthening SENELEC's autonomy as a power utility is a longer-term
objective which would be further discussed with GOS during implementation
of the proposed project.
SENELEC - The Implementing Agency
49.       Organization, Management and Staffing.  SENELEC is responsible
for public electricity supply in Senegal and has a monopoly on generation
(with some restrictions), transmission and distribution. SENELEC's Board
consists mainly of Ministry representatives who determine and monitor
SENELEC's broad policy. Policy implementation is the responsibility of a
six-man Management Committee which includes the Chairman of the Board and
the General Manager, who is responsible for the day-to-day management of
SENELEC. At present, in addition to the supervision by MDIA (DE), various
other controls are exercised over SENELEC. However, this process is being
reviewed in the broader context of public enterprise reform under the
ongoing parapublic sector project.
50.       SENELEC's headquarters are in Dakar and it has seven regional
offices for distribution and remote diesel generation. SENELEC suffers
from internal organizational and managerial weaknesses and a precarious
financial position. SENELEC has a staff of about 2,100. By regional
standards this level is reasonable but extra efforts are needed to train
staff, and this would be addressed under the rehabilitation program.
Furthermore, the proposed project would continue to finance the training of
suitable candidates at the regional training school "Ecole Superieure
Interafricaine de l'Electricite" (ESIE) begun under the Power
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project.
51.       Rehabilitation Program and Performance Contract. A diagnostic
study financed under the ongoing Second Parapublic Technical Assistance
Project, identified major weaknesses in SENELEC's organization, management
and staffing. A rehabilitation program which addresses these weaknesses
has now been prepared, and agreement was reached to implement it over the
period of the performance contract. Many of the changes will require time
to be implemented, in particular those requiring a change of management
style and practices. SENELEC has engaged advisory technical assistance
personnel in the areas of finance, customer accounting, planning and



- 16 -
operation to assist its own staff in the rehabilitation; they are drawn
from a power utility under a general "twinning" agreement.
52.       Agreement has been reached between GOS and SENELEC on the
framework ("Contrat-Plan") to regulate the performance of SENELEC over a
four-year period (1986-89) thus covering the rehabilitation program. The
finalizing and signing of this performance contract is a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
53.       Accounting and Audit.  The ongoing Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project provided funds to audit SENELEC's accounts and
to review its accounting procedures. The latter have steadily and
significantly improved in recent years, and the remaining weaknesses would
be addressed in the rehabilitation program of the proposed project. The
audits for 1979-84 have been satisfactorily completed; agreement was
reached that SENELEC will continue to have its accounts audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, and will submit to IDA its
audited accounts, and the auditor's report thereon, within 6 months of its
fiscal year end.
54.       Past Financial Performance.  SENELEC's financial performance has
deteriorated in recent years, principally because of its high cost of
production, and of GOS's reluctance to grant timely and adequate tariff
increases necessary to cover rising costs. Consequently, SENELEC has
incurred operating deficits in each of the last four years and as at end
1985, SENELEC's liquidity was inadequate (the current ratio was 0.9).
Primarily, as a result of high public sector receivables, SENELEC has had
to delay payments for fuel (CFAF 8 billion) and to resort to a bank
overdraft (over CFAF 1 billion). Due to the revaluation of fixed assets on
January 1, 1983, when SENELEC was established, its debt/equity ratio is
satisfactory (30:70). A tariff increase of CFAF 2/kWh (about 3 percent)
was introduced from March 1, 1985, but was insufficient to overcome
SENELEC's serious financial problems in FY85. Reduction of fuel prices,
improved management and maintaining tariffs at adequate levels should help
to restore SENELEC's financial viability.
55.       Billing and Collection.  Accounts receivable as of end 1984 were
over CFAF 13 billion (US$31 million equivalent), representing about four
months' billings. This high level was due primarily to the poor payment
record of the public sector, whose accounts were more than one year in
arrears (about CFAF 4 billion) and, to a lesser extent, to private
consumers outside Dakar. SENELEC recently started a major recovery and
disconnection campaign, particularly directed at private clients. For the
public sector, SENELEC has reached agreement with the various agencies on
the amounts outstanding, and on a plan to set off the arrears against
amounts due by SENELEC in respect of debt service. As of end 1985,
receivables had dropped to about CFAF 10 billion (US$24 million
equivalent). The rehabilitation program proposes comprehensive measures to
strengthen SENELEC's control of collections. In order to complement these
actions, agreement was reached that: (a) the annual budgets of all
Gover ent departments and local authorities would include sufficient



- 17 -
provision to cover the cost of their annual consumption of electricity; and
(b) SENELEC would ensure that the level of consumer receivables would not
exceed the equivalent of 3 months' billings.
56.       Tariffs.  Tariffs for each class of consumers are uniform
throughout Senegal. This results in a substantial subsidy to consumers in
the secondary centers, where the costs of supply from isolated diesel
plants are high. Tariffs are at the level based on the medium-term
least-cost development program, which is about CFAF 60/kWh (USd15/kWh).
However, they need to be related more closely in future to the costs of
supply. Agreement has been reached following a recent tariff study on an
acceptable tariff structure and levels, which are to be implemented as a
condition of effectiveness.
57.       Internal Cash Generation.  In order for SENELEC to contribute to
the financing of its investment program as needed to ensure its envisaged
implementation, SENELEC's financial position needs to be substantially
improved. The reduction in the price of its fuel as of July 1986 would go
a long way towards the achievement of this objective. Tariff increases
are, therefore, unlikely to be required during the program period, as long
as fuel prices to SENELEC (US$23/barrel) remain at about their present
level. However, in order to ensure SENELEC's ability to meet that
ob4 ective, agreement was reached that the Government and SENELEC would
undertake whatever measures would be required, including tariff increases,
so that SENELEC achieves a contribution to its investments from internally
generated funds of not less than 30 percent annually as of 1987. At this
stage of SENELEC's development, it was deemed simpler to establish a
satisfactory level of internal cash generation, taking into account debt
service and working capital requirements, than a rate of return requiring a
regular fixed asset revaluation.
58.       Financing Plan.  SENELEC's financial requirements in current
prices for the period 1986-90, based on its investment program (para. 45),
amount to about US$230 million, of which the proposed project accounts for
about US$82 million, excluding US$2 million for the energy conservation
component to be implemented by MDIA. SENELEC has already secured about
US$20 million to finance ongoing projects from AfDB, BADEA, CCCE and CIDA.
For the proposed project GOS would be the borrower of the IDA Credit of
US$20 million, of which US$18 million would be passed on to SENELEC. The
remaining US$41 million foreign exchange cost of the proposed project would
be financed by other donors. Further borrowings of about US$85 million
would be needed to finance major new investment from 1988 onward, most of
which is attributable to the further 20 NW diesel plant and transmission
links to the Manantali hydrostation. At this stage, however, the
investment program and financing plan after 1988 must remain tentative.
59.       Future Finances. With progressive implementation of the
rehabilitation program, SENELEC's financial position would improve; in
particular, SENELEC would be able to repay the balance of its arrears to
its fuel supplier and its overdraft (para. 54) within one or two years, and
thereafter maintain adequate levels of working capital and liquidity. Debt



- 18 -
service coverage and current ratios would be satisfactory through 1990.
However, to help ensure SENELEC's future financial viability, agreement was
reached during negotiations that SENELEC would not incur new debt without
IDA's concurrence unless its expected future internal cash generation is at
least 1.5 times future debt service, including the proposed borrowing.
Bank Group Role in the Energy Sector
60.       Strategy and Rationale for Involvement.  Bank Group strategy aims
at assisting the authorities to achieve an optimal use of energy resources,
to reduce the cost of electricity supply, meet economic demand and ensure
satisfactory service to consumers while, at the same time, reducing the
burden of financial demands imposed by the sector on Government resources.
These aims are being pursued by a strategy of: (a) continued institution
building in the power sector, by way of strengthening SENELEC;
(b) assistance to GOS and SENELEC in making optimal decisions on
rehabilitation and expansion of power facilities, including the promotion
of regional hydro resources; and (c) conservation measures, including
economic pricing of electricity. The Bank Group role is essentially
catalytic. For example, at GOS request, the Bank Group acted as
coordinating agency for the July 1985 Energy Sector donors' meeting which
provided a forum for major sector policy reforms and for mobilizing the
substantial cofinancing needed for the proposed project. Without our
involvement, it is unlikely that the above aims would be achieved in a
satisfactory and coordinated way, as other sector aid is predominantly of a
bilateral nature.
61.       Past Involvement in the Sector.  In FY80, the Bank Group approved
the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project to assist GOS to
develop an overall energy plan and to reorganize the sector. Several
studies (generation/transmission master plan, tariffs, audits) have been
completed satisfactorily, and provide the basis for the institutional,
technical and financial improvements envisaged under the proposed project.
Technical assistance was also provided to MDIA in energy and power sector
planning, and an overseas training program was established for Senegalese
officials responsible for energy planning. Identification of energy sector
reforms was further supported in FY83 through the Second Parapublic
Technical Assistance Project, which provided funds to finance, inter alia,
a diagnostic study and rehabilitation program for SENELEC. Implementation
of both projects has been satisfactory.
PART lV - THE PROJECT
62.       The project was prepared by SENELEC following studies under the
ongoing Power Engineering and Second Parapublic Projects and was appraised
in May/June 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1986;
the Senegalese delegation was headed by Mr. Demba Diop, Director of
Programming, Financing and Investments Monitoring in the Ministry of



- 19 -
Planning and Cooperation. Supplementary data on the proposed project is
presented in Annex III.
Project Obiectives
63.       The proposed project would assist Senegal to:
(a) optimize its use of energy resources through the elimination
-             of price distortions and through the implementation of
energy conservation measures;
(b) reduce the cost of electricity generation through improved
efficiency and availability of existing plant and through
the construction of more fuel-efficieut facilities;
(c) strengthen and expand the existing transmission and
distribution system to improve reliability, reduce losses
and generate sales, mainly in the Dakar area; and
(d) strengthen SENELEC's management and restore its financial
viability through a comprehensive rehabilitation program.
Project Description
64.       The proposed project consists of the following components:
(a) Generation:
Mi)  the installation of 2 x 20 NW of low- (or medium-) speed
diesel units at Cap des Biches; and
(ii) completion of the ongoing rehabilitation of the existing
steam units at Cap des Biches.
(b) Transmission:
Mi) rehabilitation of the existing 90 kV transmission line and
substations, Bel Air/Hann and Bel Air/Cap des Biches;
(ii)  construction of a new 50 km, 220 kV line, Cap des
Biches/Thies (operated at 90 kV initially) and a 90 kV
substation at Tobene; and
(iii)  construction of a new 18 km, 90 kV line, Hann/Cap des
Biches.
(c) Distribution:
(i) rehabilitation and strengthening of the Dakar network (75 km
of 6.6 kV line and 34 substations);



- 20 -
(ii)  rehabilitation of about 100 km of 30 kV line outside
Dakar and construction of 45 km of 30 kV line to connect
2 secondary centers to the main grid.
(d) Engineering: Consultant services for the generation,
transmission and distribution components (135 man-months);
(e) Energy Conservation: Consultant services, training and equipment
for the industrial sector energy conservation program (1986-88);
(f) Studies of: (i) petroleum product supply, refining and
distribution arrangements, (ii) organization and operation of the
"Fonds National de l'Energie", and (iii) household energy
consumption;
(g) Technical Assistance: (125 man-months) to SENELEC, as defined in
the rehabilitation program; and
(h)  Training:  Continuation of the program of scholarships to ESIE of
7 students annually for the three-year period 1987-89 and
provision for about 40 man-months training for SENELEC staff in
those areas identified in the rehabilitation program.
Project Cost
65.       Based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of negotiations,
the estimated cost of the project, including provision for physical and
price contingencies, but excluding interest during construction, is US$81
million equivalent (including US$2 million of energy conservation), and is
set out in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
The foreign exchange cost of US$61 million equivalent represents about 75
percent of the project cost. Project cost estimates are based on recent
studies and are at end-1985 prices. Foreign costs of engineering services
and technical assistance personnel are based on currently prevailing rates.
The cost figures do not include taxes and duties on the proposed project.
The cost of the 40 MW diesel component is based on low-speed units,
although bids will be invited for both low- and medium-speed units in
mid-1986. The project cost includes 10 percent physical contingencies for
all equipment, which is reasonable. Price escalation for both foreign and
local costs have been included at rates of 7 percent in 1986 and
7.5 percent thereafter.
Project Financing
66.       An IDA Credit of US$20 million equivalent to GOS is proposed
which would finance about 25 percent of the project cost. IDA would
finance a part of the civil works of the new diesel plant, the foreign cost
of the Dakar distribution rehabilitation component, consultant services for
engineering, energy conservation, energy studies and technical assistance,
and training. Most of the proposed Credit (US$15.5 million equivalent)
would be relent by GOS to SENELEC for 20 years, including 5 years of grace,



- 21 -
at the IBRD prevailing rate. About US$2.5 million equivalent would be
relent to SENELEC for 20 years including 10 years of grace, at the IBRD
prevailing rate to finance technical assistance and training. SENELEC
would bear the foreign exchange risk on its share of the Credit. The
execution of a satisfactory subsidiary financing agreement between GOS and
SENELEC is a condition of Credit effectiveness. The remaining US$2 million
equivalent of the IDA Credit would be retained by GOS to finance the energy
conservation and energy studies components of the project. The local cost
of the project (about US$23 million equivalent) would be covered by SENELEC
from internally generated funds. GOS and SENELEC would assume
responsibility for any cost overruns.
67.       About US$41 million equivalent cofinancing is needed for the
proposed project. At GOS request, the Bank Group has taken the lead in
coordinating arrangements for this cofinancing and a meeting was held in
Dakar in October 1985, during which the financing plan was finalized. CCCE
would contribute US$28 million equivalent for design, electromechanical
components and construction of the diesel plant. However, formal
commitment of CCCE is awaiting a satisfactory agreement between SENELEC and
CSPT, its largest industrial customer, on further reduction of the tariff
level to be applied to CSPT. We do not anticipate any problems in this
respect since all concerned agree on the basic principles being applied in
determining this level. AfDB would contribute US$8 million equivalent and
BOAD US$5 million equivalent to the financing of the transmission component
and distribution component outside Dakar; BOAD would also finance part of
the rehabilitation of the Cap des Biches steam plant. The effectiveness of
all cofinancing is a condition of Credit effectiveness. Since these
cofinancing amounts are denominated in currencies orher than US dollars,
fluctuations of the US dollar exchange rate will have no real effect on the
financing plan. With respect to the IDA share, which is pegged in SDR's to
the dollar value in effect at negotiations, when the exchange rate of the
US dollar was CFAF 412, used in this project, such fluctuations would have
no significant effect, and would, at any rate, be absorbed by the built-in
contingencies.
Project Implementation
68.       Status of Preparation and Execution.  Project preparation has
been satisfactorily advanced under the power engineering and second
parapublic projects, and through the distribution expansion study which
have defined optimal programs for power sector rehabilitation and
expansion. Project completion is expected by end-1990.
69.       SENELEC would implement all aspects of the proposed project,
except for the energy conservation com-onent and energy studies for which
IDIA (DE) would be the executing agency. Existing SENELEC staff would be
responsible for project management, with overall co-ordination by the
General Manager. However, in view of SENELEC's limited experience and
capabilities, assistance from engineering consultants and technical
assistance personnel would be needed. SENELEC lacks experience in
engineering the diesel component and has appointed Electricite de France



- 22 -
(EdF) for design, bid evaluation and supervision under terms of reference
agreed with IDA. EdF has also been appointed, with ongoing CCCE financing,
to engineer the transmission component. Consultants have been appointed to
assist SENELEC in programming and monitoring the transmission and
distribution components of the proposed project under terms of reference
agreed with IDA. SENELEC has also appointed satisfactory technical
assistance personnel, drawn from a power utility, to assist in implementing
major aspects of the rehabilitation program. An advance of US$400,000 was
made from the Project Preparation Facility to accelerate the engineering
and technical assistance components of the proposed project.
70.       Procurement.  Apart from the civil works, the CCCE-financed
diesel plant package which includes the detailed design, electromechanical
component and erection vould be procured following French procurement
procedures. In order to maximize competition, bids for both low- and
medium-speed diesel options will be sought. Civil works would be procured
in accordance with the Bank Group's ICB requirements; bids would be
restricted to prequalified contractors. Transmission line and substation
contracts would be awarded on a supply and erect basis, following BOAD and
AfDB procurement procedures. The distribution component outside Dakar
would also be procured under BOAD and AfDB procedures. IDA-financed
distribution materials would be procured under Bank Group guidelines. Most
of the installation work on the distribution component would be financed by
SENELEC and would be carried out by competent local contractors, follo-;ing
LCB procedures which are satisfactory. IDA-financed components for amounts
over US$0.25 million equivalent would be subject to prior review.
Consultants and technical assistance personnel to be financed by IDA have
been appointed in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in the following table:



- 23 -
Procurement Arrangements /
(US$ Million)
ICB        LCB       Other         Total Cost
Project Component
Generation                  9.3                  31.9           41.2
(4.4)                                (4.4)
Transmission               11.2       1.4                        12.6
Distribution               12.0       8.1                        20.1
(9.5)                                (9.5)
Engineering                                       2.0             2.0  b
(1.6)          (1.6) -
Technical Assistance                              1.7             1.7
(1.5)          (1.5)
Training                                          0.9            0.9
(0.9)          (0.9)
Energy Conservation                               2.3             2.3
(2.1)          (2.1)
Total Project Cost       32.5       9.5        38.8           80.8
(13.9)                 (6.1)         (20.0)
a/  Figures in brackets represent proposed IDA financing.
b;/ Includes PPF advance.
71.       Disbursements.  The proposed Credit would be disbursed against
100 percent of foreign expenditures on: (a) the civil works for the new
diesel plant; (b) materials and equipment for rehabilitation of the
Dakar distribution system; (c) engineering services; (d) technical
assistance; (e) training; and (f) energy conservation. The proposed
Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1991.  This corresponds
to the Western Africa Region Power Sector Profile.
72.       Monitoring and Reporting.  SENELEC has established a Project
Unit satisfactory to IDA, under the General Manager, to monitor project
execution. Detailed monitoring and reporting requirements were
discussed with SENELEC during appraisal and were finalized at
negotiations. These would include quarterly reports on SENELEC's
activities (project, investment program and financial position).
73.       Environmental Aspects.  The proposed project would not have
any major adverse environmental effects. The diesel plant would be
located at the existing Cap des Biches power plant, which is some
distance away from Dakar, and measures would be incorporated in the
design to minimize noise and pollution.



- 24 -
Project Justification, Benefits and Risks
74.       No technical alternative exists for the rehabilitation
components of the proposed project. These are urgently needed to
improve the efficiency and availability of existing generation plant and
to improve reliability and reduce losses in the transmission and
distribution system. New investments in generation and transmission
have been selected on the basis of the least cost sequence of system
expansion to meet load growth to the end of the decade.
75.       The composition of the proposed project makes it appropriate
to consider the return on SENELEC's five-year investment program through
1990 as a reasonable proxy for the return on the proposed project. The
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) on SENELEC's investment program (excluding
investments related to the Manantali project) is 17 percent, based on
measurable costs and benefits. The latter understate the total
benefits, particularly those arising from rehabilitation which have not
been quantified (improved reliability and maintenance of the present
level of sales). A 10 percent increase in total benefits would raise
the IRR to 20 percent. A 10 percent reduction in costs would have the
same effect. On the other hand, the IRR is not particularly sensitive
to different assumptions on the trend of real oil prices after 1995.
The effect of a 10 percent variation in the exchange rate of the
US dollar would have no significant effect on the IRR.
76.       The project presents no unusual technical or environmental
risks. The risk of cost overruns is small, as the cost of the largest
component of the project (new diesel plant comprising about 50 percent
of the project cost) may prove to be lower than estimated. The main
area of uncertainty is the pace of implementation of SENELEC's recovery
program as, despite the proposed use of technical assistance personnel,
considerable political and managerial will is needed to resolve present
problems.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
May 20, 1986



-25-                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
T A * L Z 3ft
SL3061.               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA  Ni
SENEGAL                           SUFR3300r8s (NIGfdE  AVEAOSU) pm
OT                      (MMT lUi:T iSTIUNA) lb
196unL     197mot   ZOIcnTk      AFCi S. oF  SMMA   W.   A    6 MID SU
. C_ mug. m10
iotL                              196.2      191.2      196.2
MUCILIAL                         n9.4      1o0.5       109.3
m'm  cars CUES)                       ..          ..       440.0            063.1                  1334.9
CEULOC3I OF OIL U1ALWAT)         361.0       360.0      206.0             5831.5                  623.9
icew   muLm SATISTCS
FIorATUIU.NID- , CTSOIIUIIW)   3495.0    U615.0        6211.0
11M r1Axl1  (I OF TOTAL)          23.0        30.0       34.4              32.0                    49.0
roinTlIm mleumnsu
IOPUIAnIO  Ii TiAR 2000 (CLL)                          10.1
STATICIIA  MWULAZON CHLL                               30.0
POPLATIO INIINTUN                                       1.9
POECLATIO   CIT
FIR SQ. KM.                      17.0       22.3       31.7              65.1                    37.5
Pn  SQ. I1. ARX. LAW            35.1        42.2       55.2             126.8                   470.1
lOSATION Ad STRCTUI (CX)
0-14 TM                        4Z.7        43.9       66.4              65.6                    43.5
15-64 Ts                        54.2       53.1        52.6              51.5                    53.0
65 MD ARM                        3.0         2.4        2.8               2.7                     3.3
POPULATN COSt RATE CX)
TOTAL                            2.6         2.3        2.6               2.9                     2.8
1UBA                             3.4         5.0        3.7               5.1                     4.46
CRUD stu   am  (PE TNOS)   *       7.5        46.7       46.1              47.0                    40.0
CROWN DaTE tAE CPU TOUS)         24.6        21.9       18.5              15.0          I1.5
GROS 'WXWUCCIOU RAZ                3.1         3.1        3.2               3.2                     2.8
FUEL! PLASII
ACPTO . E 3  mASL        . C.T.S)
USS CZ Of HARRIS       )          ..         ..         4.0 I             6.4                    21.4
INUC O FOD PROD. PR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                    125.0       83.0        64.0              82.9                    45.1
PER CAPITA StUPPLY OP
CA-t U: CZ OF  )hdUIiIiTS)      99.0       93.0        99.0              98.5                   113.2
PROTEI  (CRAM PE DM)            67.0        62.0       70.0              55.4                    77.8
Or aICII ANDIAL AiM PULSE      20.0        19.0       19.0 Id           16.5                    17.8
CUII  CAuS 1-) DRAIN RATE        45.9        38.1       2S.0              16.6                    12.8
LI2B EXECr. AT SZIC  (TasS)       39.6       62.6        65.5              52.0                    574
ivsAirr Mr. RATE (M  MM)         178.5       164.0      140.0             108.6                    96.8
ACCESS TO SAUllIER (EPOP)
TOTAL                             ..         ..        42.0 la           42.4                    67.2
UR                               ..          ..        77.0 7;           67.5                    93.6
RURA.L..                                     ..        25.0 7;           35.8                    45.8
ACCS TO  1CA  DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOAL                              ..         ..        33.0 la           26.9                    45.9
IIUBA                            ..          ..       100.07;            37.7                    63.0
IBALM..                                     ..          2.o 7;           20.7                    28.6
POELAT    PER RSICIA           2469.0    16790.0    13780.0 /e          11791.7                  4331.0
for. P  NURSING PRSON           3150.0 /f  1950.0      1390.0 J          2459.8                  1865.0
FM. Pn  wSPITAL n
TOTAL                          840.0       820.0      900.0 Id          961.1                   621.8
0AN                            460.0 A    650.0       560.0 T           368.8                   565.0
MtAL                           1990.0 A   1250.0     1280.0 7;r        4371.9                  2511.3
AII5IONS PM 8OSPITAL               ..        22.2        29.2 Id           27.2                    25.7
AXCRC SIZE OP HOUIOLD
TOTAL                            ..          ..
1158UI                            ..         7.6/h      ...
RURAL                            ..         6.07        .
ASCECz uo. OFr PzRsasEoms
TOTAL                            1.5 /I      ..
mU                               ..         ..          .                  ..
PEKUTSrAE OF D113L130 WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                            ..         ..
0                                 ..         ..         .                  ..
NEL                              ..          ..         .                  ..



-26                                          --ANNEX  I
T ALE  IA                                      'TPage 2  of  7
SENEGAL               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
SEL                                 REFERENCE CROUPS (ZWIGHTED AVERAGES) Z
NMOS                    (MOST RCE  EIMATE) /b
zgeoL?.    i       RZCNT            MIDDLE INCOM          MIDDLE INCONE
ESTITLL./b     AFRICA S. OF SANAA   P. AFRICA & KID AST
ADJUSTED ERLLMEN RATIOS
PRIMRY:  TOTAL                  27.0        38.0       48.0              95.7                     89.8
MALE                  36.0        47.0       58.0             100.0                    103.7
FEMALE                17.0       30.0        38.0              83.2                     75.2
SECONDARY TOTAL                  3.0         9.0       12.0              17.3                     42.9
KAILI                  4.0        13.0       16.0              25.0                    50.9
FEMALE                 2.0        5.0         8.0              14.8                    34.6
VOCATIONAL (2 Of SECONDARY)       23.1         9.2       10.4               5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TEACKER RATIU
PRDIMAY                         43.0 .1     45.0       43.0              41.1                     29.7
SECONDARY                       34.0        34.0       21.0              25.5                     18.8
C1-TIOU
PASSENGR CARs/TNOUSAND POP         5.7         8.7        ..               20.8                     17.8
RADIO NECEIVHS/TMOUSAND POP       35.7        60.7       61.3             107.8                    175.9
TV RECEIVERS/T1OUSAND POP          ..          0.3        0.8              20.8                     51.2
NEFSAPER ("DLY CCNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THWUSAND POPULATION           5.7         4.5        7.5              18.4                     37.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANECAPITA      ..          ..         0.7 1,            0.4                      2.4
LABOR PORCE
TOTAL LAKOR FORCE (COUS)        1619.0      1925.0     2509.0
FEMULE (PERCENT)                39.5        39.0       37.9              36.2                     11.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)           84.0        80.0       76.9 1-           54.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               5.0         7.0       10.0 7'           18.3                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                           46.3        43.6       40.4              36.8                     26.2
MAL;E                           56.3        53.7       50.7              47.1                     46.2
FEMALE                          36.A        33.7       30.6              27.2                      5.8
ECONOMIC DEPDENCY RATIO            1.0         1.1        1.2               1.3                      1.8
Zl D        XSIIITO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HlIGHST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS        36.8 Ik
HICHEST 20S OF IOUSEHDLDS       62.5 7k
LONEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS         3.2 .
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS         9.4         ...
ESTED ABSOLUTE POVER INCO0E
EVEL. USS PER CAPITA)
URBN                              ..         ..         ..              590.7                    226.3
RURAL                            ..          ..        82.0 Ie          275.3                    134.0
ESTIATED RLAIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                            ..          ..       194.0 Ic          545.6                    431.5
RURAL                            ..          ..         ..              201.1                    326.0
ESTIKATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LVEL (Z)
URBW                             ...
RURAL                            ..          ..         ..                ..                      29.0
NOT AVAILABIL
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTZ S
/a  The group avar*Sse for eaeh indletor are populatIom-weighted aritlmtlc mm. Coverag of countries
among the indicators depea on availabilty of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unleas otbearvie noted. IDa& for 1940" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; nd data for "Mot Recant lattusae between 1981 and 1983.
Ic  1978; Id 1977; /a 1980; /f 1963; L/ 1962; /b 1973; /i 1955; 11 1976; Ik Population.
UE. 1985



- 27 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 o
DIMNMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note Althobug thedita daedradwn from  seornerallyjtdged the motm uthontativeand rellaJe it dhouldalso be noted that they may not be interntionally
comparbe because or the lckt of ataniardlad defailtions and coneepta used by different countrie In collecting the dewa The data are. nnetheke. untel to
ducdbeordmoro mwitide. Indate trenda, and characterize certain major differenoe between countrie.
The referen  groups an (I) the m- contry grup of the subject country and (2) a country group with smiewhat higher average income than the coumry
groupef the ubiect country (escae for High Income Oil Erportere grop where Middle lncome Noth Afrki and Middle Eat"t Ischoten because ofsrner
aoclo.cultural atniinle I. the refenree group data the avera are popultion weighted arithmetic menr for each indicawr nd hown only when majority
ofthe counltrien a Sgrop hs data or that Induator. Since the coverage ofcuntrie among the Indicsator depends on the avaIlabilty ofdata and i, not uniform.
caution must be exerisd In reting averag of one Indicator to another.     avas1 are only useful in comparing the valie of one indcator at a tdme among
the country snd refrenwe groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            0        Btkirth Fite (per tiemaad)-Number oflive birlhs in the year
Teed-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waersn;   per thousand or mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1913 data.                                         Crude ewath Rate (per tehusandD-Number or deaths in the year
AplebuaL-Estimate of agricultural area used tenporarily or        per thousand or mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Grapn wducplen Rate-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) -GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, alculated by same conversion method as World       Faosfy Phannimg-Accepters. Annd (ehowandrj-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors ofbirth-control devikes under auspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Famiy Planrirg-Lsens (percent of nsanid wenntea-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothennal elec-   tage of married women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960 1970, and  wbose husbands are prcticing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        orchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49, although ror
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Total Pepems, Mid- Yew (rhluands)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Inex ofFeod Poduction Per capita (9a7I, - lo0)-index o per
Urhm  Papdadon (percent of tori)-Rato of urban to total           capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       indude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
paton Precties                                                    which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Poptuation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000     eicluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates mortality rates and  livestock products. Aggregate production ofeach country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights; 196-65. 1970, and
were projected at rie-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
asumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply of Caories (p-cet ofrqmie-eas)-Comput-
Stationary populatin-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalen t of net food supplies available in country
tality rtes have not changed over a long peiod, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantitics used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age stnrcture is also   food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Puation Momentum-ls the tendency for population growth to         Per Cpia Supply ofProtein (grms per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacemnt-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The monrrtum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for rminimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
mnent level from year r onward, 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
lbplaton Dlesity                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in she Third World Food
Per sqkJm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
ares) of total area; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                   Per Caia Prwtein Supply  Fe,m Aaimal and Psbe-Protein supply
Per sq.kn. agricutral land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961 -65.
land only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Poptimen Age Struwte (percant)-Children (0-14 years). work-       Chl (ages 14) Deth Rate (per theusandj-Number of deaths of
ingage(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over)as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PopnlAeiou Growth Rate rpercenerD-,totm--Annual growth rates of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Pop1laton Growh Rate (percenr)j-b_ar-Annual growth rates          Life Expeancy at Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 28 -                                      ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 7
at the time or of its birth were to stay the mani throughout its life;  Pypllteacher Ratio - primary. ad secandary-Total students e-
1960 1970 and 1983 dab.                                       rolled in primary and secondary klvels divided by numbers of
Jhnt Mdent Rta (per thousmnd)-Number of infants who die       teacher in the corrapondi  levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births In a given
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Ae  teo S     Shear (pan of populaduu-t.t4 wham, an            assenfe Cars (per thossand pepuJiaa)-Passenger ca  com-
ral-Number of people (total, urban and nmal) with reaonable   prime motor can seating kls than eight persons: exludes ambul-
a      to arc water supply (includes treated surace wanters or  anca, hearses and military vehicles.
untrated but uncontainated water such as that from proectwed  Rdo Recevmners (per thousadpoplul -All typs of reeivers
borehoes sprngs and unitary webl) as percetage of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to geneal public per thousand of population;
tive populadon. In an urban area a publhc ountain or stmndpost  eacludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in yepar when
loated not more than 200 meter from a house may be consideed  registrtion of radio sets wa in effect; data for rcent years may
as being within reasonable ass of that houe. In rural areas   not b compamble ince most cntres abolisedrecensing.
reasonable a      would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate pen or the cay  TV Recevers 0(per thousaind popuati- V reivers for broadcat
in fetching the family's water needs.                         to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
in ftching the EN:rC  Db_ (pereext rbJ,-tetol,               receivers in countries and in yean when registration of TV sets w
Acces to Excert Disposal (percent of p.pmlatlon)--rota. arban,  in effec.
ad rNal-Number of people (total, urban. and rurai) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.    NAnPspeer Clrulariou (per tousaidpapitkmJx-Sbows the aver-
Excret disposal may include the colkction and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primariy to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at klst four times a week
Popadon per Phpsliman-Population divided by number or prac-   C        A_na Atendance per Capia per Ye-Based on the
tising physicans qualified from a medical school at university kvel.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admistions to
Popation per Nusing Person-Pbpulation divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female grduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practicl nures and nursing auxilisries.                       LABOR FORCE
Population per Hospial Bed-total, wham, ad rwal-Population    Total Labor Force (rthusumbs-Economically active penors, in-
(total, urban, and runal) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but exduding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and private, general and      students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establislunents  various countries are not comparble; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pmnently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femal fpervenv-FRmsJle labor force as percentage of total labor
icing principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, indude health and medical centes not permanendy staffed  Agrkculre (percens4-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor froc; 1960. l970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acconunodation and provide a limited rnge  data.
of medical facilities.                                        ladsry (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Admiio aer HofsiVtel Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Ps_cpWo Rae (percent)-Ostal, mue, adtn      ;Ome-Partcipation
HOUSING                                                       or aCtivity rates are computed as total, male. and fenale labor force
Av-ae Sze of Houseol (person per householdj-totul, whoa.      as pacentages of total. male and female population of all ages
adnwal-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respactively: 1960. 1970, and 1983 dat .These are baed on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodgFr may or  participation rates reflecting agc-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persons per Room-total, urba, and rul-      Economi Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per rpom in al urban. and rural     65 and ovcr, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pennanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Perentae of Dweligs wish Elctricp-botal urba, and rural-      Pemene of Total Disposable ome (both - cash Iad hnd)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarers as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4dued Euolimnt Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate mneasures of poverty
Primary school - total. male and femaGross total. male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as prcentages of  Est_ted Absolute Pov    lan  Level (IUSS per eapta)-wbn
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rwra-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated A Rari  Pov  lncs Leve (USS per capir)-_uran
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male and female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  EstimnUted Popul    Below Abhstore Povr  Incme Level (pgr-
mary instruCtion; provides generd. vocational, or teacher training  cearJ-urbsor ad rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
mstructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are 'absolute poor."
cene course are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrollment (permnt of seandryj-Vocationa] institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial. or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
.
COUNTRY DATA - SENEGAL
AREA                                             POPULATION                  DENSITY (1983)
Total              196,200 sq. km              6.4 million (mid-1984)            31.7 per sq. km
Agricultural       109,300 sq. Km              Rate of Crowth 2.9w               55.2 rural population per sq. km
(1980 - 1985)                     agricultural land
POPULAXTON CHARACTERISTICS (1981)                             HEALTH (1978)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)              46.1                Population per physician                   13,780
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)              18.5                Population per hospital bed                   900
Age of 14 years (%)                       44.4                Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)             1140
Urban Population (%)                       34.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1960)                                    DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
S of National Income                                          Not available
Highest Quintile                        62.5
Lowest Quintile                          3.2
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1982)                                  ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (1980)
Occupied dwellings without                                    % of Population - Total
safe water (%)                          63.0                                 - Rural                 (negligible)
NUTRITION (1981-83)                                           EDUCATION (1980)
Caloric intake as % of Requirements       99.0                Adult Literacy Rate %                       10.0
Per Capita Protein Intake (grans/day)    70.0                 Primary School Enrollment %                 48.0
GNP PER CAPITA in 1984 al: USS380
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984                           ANUAL RAIE OF GROWTH (S, Constant Prices)
US SMIn          S            1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-84
GNP at Market Prices           2159.0          100.0           2.5         1.9        0.6         2.3
Gross Domestic Investment       301.8           14.0           1.4         3.0       -2.4        -0.4
Gross National Savings         -110.1           -5.1           2.1         3.1      -31.7        47.6
Current Account Balance        -411.9          -19.1
Exports of Goods, NFS           80b.0          37.3            0.1         1.0       -4.9         0.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          1084.2          50.2            0.2         1.4       -0.2        -1.6
a/   Per capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conver%ion technique as the
World Bank Atlas, 1984-85 edition.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange
rate prevailing during the period covered.
. not applicable
not available



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
COUNTRY DATA - SENEGAL
OUTPUT. EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUC-IVITY IN 1983
Value Added                  Tabor Force                  V.A. Per Worker
USS Mln.           %         Million            %              USS             %
Agriculture                      537.1           21.7            1.9          77.0              287          28.0
Industry                         596.7           24.1            0.2          10.0             2456         241.0
Services                        1342.2           54.2            0.3          13.0             4208         414.0
Total                       2476.0          100.0            2.4         100.0             1017         100.0
Annual
GOVERNMENT FINANCES
80/81        81/82        82/83         83/84         84/85         Growth rate (W)
----   actual                           (prov.)          8o/a1-847851
(percentages)
Wages and salaries               46           46            43           48             '9                8.2
Operating expenditures           37           35            31           33             30                1.6
Interest on public debt           7           10            13           18             20               38.4
Treasury accounts, net           10            9            13            1              1              -41.4
Current expenditures          100          100           100          100            100
(CFAF billions)
Current expenditures            169          182           216          207            219                6.7
Revenues & grants               126          152          177           196            2U                13.8
Net budgetary saving.           -43          -30           -39          -1L             -8
Development expenditures         38           31            39           40             35
Memorandum items:
GDP (current CFAF bn)           649          757          892           978         1,076                13.5
Inflation (N p.A.)
CGDP deflator)           9.5           8.8          9.2         10.7           11.1                10.0



- 31-
ANNEX 1
rWM 7of 7
COUNTRY DATA - SENECAL
*               MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES        1982         1983            1984             1985             1986
(CrAP Bln outstanding end period)              (Projections)
Money Supply
(end of June) a/            238.1        266.8            276.6            284.7            300.4
Sank Credit to GZvernment
(net)                        70.2         90.4            120.9            126.3            149.8
Sank Credit to Private
Sector                      328.3        377.6            369.2            377.1            399.6
(Percenrauge or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GOP              28.2         28.4             27.2             25.1             22.3
General Price Index
(1979 - 100)                 138.9       1l1.1             165.9            179.3            197.0
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index           10.2           8.8              9.7              8.2             10.0
Bank Credit to
Government (net)            134.8          28.8             33.7              4.5             18.6
Sank Credit to
Private Sector               U.5           15.0             -2.2              2.1              6.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1993-85)
1981     1982        1983     1984
TM=  millionsr                                          CUSS Mln)      %
Petroleum Imports b/              297       251        203      240   Groundnut products              115       21.1
Petreoleum ExportsCc/            141        139        107      L05   Fish and fish uroducts          112       20.5
Phosphates                     61        11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS            832        915        849      806   Petroleum Products              104       19.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           1335       1275       1172     1084   Fertilizers                      30        5.5
Resource Gap                     -503      -356       -323     -278   Salt                             11        2.0
Cotton                         17         3.1
Interest Payments (net)            67        62         97      142   Other goods                      83       15.2
Other Factor Payments (net)        27        24         24        23   Entrepot                        13        2.4
Net Transfers (private)            31        30         29       31
Balance on Current Account      -566       -414       -415     -412   Total                           546      100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1984
UVSS Kin.
Private Capital                    66        44         51       91
Capital Grants                   122        107        113      129
PUblic HLT Capital
Disbursements                  164        228        243      209   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           1546.1
Amortization                    49          9         17        35   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               8.7
Debt Relief                      54        78         75       83   Total Outstanding and Disbursed         19ZC!
Net Flow                       169        297        301      257
Other Capital (net) dl             44      -159       -132      -101   NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1984
Overall Balance                  -165      -125        -82      -36   Public Debt incl. guaranteed              10.8
Non-guaranteed Private Debt               0.6
Total Outstanding and Disbursed          11.4
Net foreign assets
(end year)                    -465       -467      -503   -425
IBRDI1DA LENDING (Dec. 31. 1984) (Millions US S)
USS Hln.
IBRD IA
Oustanding and Disbursed          53"   19E7
Undisbursed                       25.7  123.4
Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed  116.6  322.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Annual Averages                                 End Period
1981             1982          1983            1984                   June 1985
USS 1.00 - CFAF                  271.7          328.6            381.1          437.0                   467.0
CFAF 1.00 - US S                  3.68           3.04             2.62           2.29                    2.14
a/ Money and quasi-money.
bi Crude and derivatives
cI Debt Service, net of interest accrued on foreign exchange reserves as a percentage of Exports of Goods and
Non-factor Services; after rescheduling.
dl Includes errors and omissions.
WAPEG
May 1986



-32 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL                                        T
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1986) *
Amount (less cancellations)
L_T7redit                                                                         (USS Million)
Number        Year    Borrower      Purpose                              Bank       IDA 2/ Undisbursed 2/
Fourteen Loans 1/  and twenty-one Credits fully disbursed               86.74     160.57
1412-T-SE     1977    Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism                  8.0                     1.04
1413-SE       1977    Senegal       Petite COte Tourism                  5.6                     0.87
775-SE        1978    Senegal       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation                        20.0          0.94
908-SE        1979    Senegal       Education III                                  22.0          6.60
991-SE        1980    Senegal       Small Rural Operations                          11.0         4.05
1810-SE       1980    Senegal       Fourth Highway                      10.0                     5.51
S-26-SE       1980    Senegal       Power Eng. & T.A.                                3.3         0.66
1061-SE       1980    Senegal       T.A. for Planning                               5.3          1.44
1973-SE       1981    SOFISEDIT    Investment Promotion                  6.5                     3.18
1136-SE       1981    Senegal       Investment Promotion                             2.5         2.50
2025-SE       1981    SEFICS        Rail Transport                      19.3                     6.32
1103-SE       1981    Senegal       Forestry                                        9.3          6.28
1176-SE       1982    Senegal       Agricultural Research                           19.5        11.56
1310-SE       1983    Senegal       Rural Health                                   15.0          9.77
1323-SE       1983    Senegal       Petroleum Exploration                           9.5          4.54
1360-SE       1983    Senegal       Phos. Ind. Dev. Eng.                            7.7          7.29
1398-SE       1983    Senegal       Second T.A.-Parapublic                         l1.0          8.74
1406-SE       1983    Senegal       E.S. Rural Dev.                                16.1         14.24
1448-SE       1984    Senegal       Fifth Highway                                  10.75         5.56
SF-15-SE      1984    Senegal       Fifth Highway                                  10.75         6.71
1458-SE       1984    Senegal       T.A. for Urban Mg-t. & Rehab.                    3.05        1.59
SF-13-SE      1984    Senegal       T.A. for Urban Mgmt & Rehab.                    2.95         2.96
1459-SE       1984    Senegal       Dakar Container Port                             2.65        2.37
SF-14-SE      1984    Senegal      Dakar Container Port                             4.85         4.85
1554-SE       1985    Senegal       Eleven Centers Water Supply                     24.00       22.83
1632-SE 4/    1986    Senegal       Irrigation T.A.                                 4.9          4.90
1638-SE Zti   1986    Senegal       Regional Mgmt.School (CESAG)                    5.5          5.50
1656-SE       1986    Senegal       Structural Adjustment Credit                   20.0         13.55
A-10-SE       1986    Senegal       Structural Adjustment Credit                   44.0         33.33
Total                                                          136.14     446.17       199.02
of which repaid                                               23.42       6.57
Total now outstanding                                          112.72     439.60
IBRD     IDA
Amount sold                           37.     2'5
of which has been repaid            3.24    2.01               0.02       0.05
Total now beld by Bank and IDA 31                              112.70     439.55
Total undisbursed                                               16.92     182.10      199.02
1/ A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was cancelled on
March 25, 1971.
2/ Beginning with Credit 1061-SE, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing Rights CSDR). The
dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at the time of credit negotiations
for the IDA amounts and the USS equivalents as of March 31, 1986, for the undisbursed amounts
(1 SDR - USS1.13827).
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
X/ Not yet effective.
* The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31. 1986)
Amount (USS Million)
Equity
Fiscal Year       Obligor                     Type of Business         Loan       Investment        Total
1967           Socidte Industrielle        Fertilizer Plant         2.45          1.01            3.46
d'Engrais du Sdnegal
1972)
1973)          BUD Senegal, S.A.           Vegetable Export          -            0.84            0.84
1976)
1974           SOFISEDIT                   Development               -            0.34            0.34
Finance Company
1980           Banque d'Habitat            Money and Capital         -            0.47            0.47
du SEndgal, S.A.            Market
1980           Soci4ti HOteli&re           Tourism                  3.00           -              3.00
du Btrachois, S.A.
1982           Industries Chimiques        Fertilizer              25.00           -             25.00
du Sdndgal
1984           African Seafood             Fish Processing          2.50          0.70            3.20
Plant
Total Gross Coumitments                             32.95          3.36           36.31
Tess Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales and Losses                         7.54          1.15            8.69
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   15.91          1.51           17.42
Undisbursed Balance                                  9.50          0.70           10.20
WAPEG
May 1986



- 34 -
ANNEX III
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project   :  One Year
(b)  Project prepared by                  :  SENELEC with IDA and
consultant assistance
(c)  First presented to IDA               :  February 1985
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission       :  May 1985
(e)  Negotiations                         :  January 1986
(f)  Effectiveness (planned)              :   September 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
NONE
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) GOS loan of CFAF 6.9 billion to SENELEC (Condition of
effectiveness, para. 38);
(b) SENELEC not to expand isolated centers unless
economically justified or unless GOS pays compensation
(para. 44);
(c) SENELEC to implement agreed rehabilitation program by
1989 (para 51); and performance contract agreed with IDA
to be signed (Condition of effectiveness, para. 52);
(d) Satisfactory future budgeting arrangements to be made by
GOS for electricity dues (para. 55);
(e) SENELEC's consumer receivables not to exceed three
months' billings (para. 55);
(f) Introduction of new tariff structures and levels
(Condition of effectiveness, para. 56); and
(g) SENELEC to achieve a contribution to investment from
internally generated funds of no less than 30 percent
annually in FY87 and thereafter (para. 57).
WAPEG
May 1986



17WJ                                                            17r2'                                                           1r2
SENEGAL
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Dakar and Cap Vert Region
Transmisslon Network
AWPS'
14'45 '    '?                    /            K      --
-,                  Us~~~Llze Des Eo-Iu'x-" 
13                                                                    \Jo, IObi(013p Do
~~\\  ',  u*7's...._
\   /      /       '- 90 W  Transmndon Une
220 W  Transnision Une
o          Large Diesel Stotion
EUsflng:
-        \   \    .  390 kV Transmission Unes
30 W~ Tmnransmison Urnes
\ \< * Stearn Power Statons
~ .  *    Sub-station
173-W
___________________________'_            -                                                      InternaTrCtbaleBoundd' es
A1t4      _,_C                             1MM0 14-
OCLAN /MAURI.A.
'J NEGAL
> AREA OF NW                 t.M                                                                                                              2__
_~~~~GAf 6 90V 4Jjd   _                                                                                                                                                                                                         _
|  _  .*>   r  17^2rr  _t_d  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       m wble



_/M  A  U  R  I I  A  N   U  R I T  A  N  I A             Pro Ict    ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PI
-.   _                               A.                                                                     *,_ ' -- C..gs_.220 kV                       ; SELE,..
A?tAfhYCX hl                                                                                                                                                . ,* ,
_~ ,N_EG  AIL                    -'4|n *Stxe
00 kV               5fte  -  0v i
_ , _,, _M'_ ___ --_7 -,                                                                                                                         3n,_nb n_0
|~~~~--  Ar ,, ,,L  ,  
,.,.                                                                                                                                                -., 
i,cw- ~ nio .                         /4 -d   -N                                                                                                      I i
.    F    1                                                             .~~GU   '_                          <g.8<.
A, r   v r -L ___
i  ~ f ^ _ <SWAI                                                 NE  --aI,---- Ii  UJNS'GUI   






