CREDIT MTMBER 1710 SE
Project Agreement
(First Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE
Dated       O,i            :7     9 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1710 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Odt6'r         D'1       , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SENELEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Senegal (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eighteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 18,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SENELEC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SENELEC, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to SENELEC on the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS SENELEC, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SENELEC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry


﻿-2-
out the Project, with the exception of Part E thereof, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,   financial,  engineering   and   public  utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Parts A through D, F and G of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section SENELEC shall carry out Parts A through D, F and
G of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association
and SENELEC.
(c) SENELEC shall maintain its Project implementation unit
with such powers, responsibilities and staff as shall be accept-
able to the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project, with the exception of Part E thereof
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SENELEC shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and Parts A through D, F and G of the Project.
Section 2.04. SENELEC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary 1inancing Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, SENELEC shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SENELEC shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Parts A through D, F and G of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, ane other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SENELEC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the


﻿-3-
progress of Parts A through D, F and G of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by SENELEC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SENELEC
Section 3.01. SENELEC shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, management and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SENELEC shall carry out the Contrat Plan and
the Rehabilitation Program in a manner and in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. SENELEC shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial management practices.
Section 3.04. SENELEC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. SENELEC shall consult the Association not
later than November 30 in each year on its proposed investment
program for the following year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SENELEC shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) SENELEC shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance   sheets,   statements  of   income   and


﻿-4-
expenses,   fund   flow   statement  and   related
statements) and the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by   independent   auditors   acceptable   to  the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, SENELEC shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with  paragraph  (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02 SENELEC shall take all necessary measures to
ensure that at all times its receivables shall be paid within
90 days of the billing date.
Section 4.03 (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, SENELEC shall produce: (i) for its fiscal year end-
ing   on December 31, 1987, and each fiscal year thereafter,
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of
SENELEC's average capital expenditures incurred, or expected to
be incurred over three consecutive fiscal years, for each such
fiscal year.
(b) Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, SENELEC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by SENELEC and satis-
factory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that SENELEC would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SENELEC's fiscal
years covered by such review, SENELEC shall promptly take all
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SENELEC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of SENELEC shows that
the estimated net revenues of SENELEC for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times
the estimated debt service requirements of SENELEC in such year
on all debt of SENELEC including the debt to be incurred.
Section 4.05. For the purposes of this Article:
(a) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(i) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations, consumer deposits and consumer contri-
butions in aid of construction, net non-operating
income and any reduction in working capital other
than cash; and
(ii) the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance and


﻿-6-
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
provision for depreciation and other non-cash
operating charges), debt service requirements, all
cash dividends and other cash distributions of
surplus, increase in working capital other than
cash and other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures.
(b) The terms "net non-operating income" means the dif-
ference between:
(i) revenues from all sources other than those related
to operations; and
(ii) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
in subparagraph (i) above.
(c) The term "working capital other than cash" means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and current
liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(d) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all
assets other than cash which conId in the ordinary course of
business be converted into cash within twelve months, including
accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and
pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
within the next fiscal year.
(e) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
which will become due and payable or could under circumstances
then existing be called for payment within twelve months, includ-
ing accounts payable, customer advances, debt service require-
ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(f) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
gate amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(g) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures
incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged
to construction, related to operations.


﻿-7-
(h) The term "three consecutive fiscal years" means the
current fiscal year as well as the preceding and the following
fiscal year.
(i) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
(j) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SENELEC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(k) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on the date
of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into.
(1) The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(i) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations and net non-operating income; and
(ii) the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance,
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
provision   for   depreciation,   other   non-cash
operating charges and interest and other charges
on debt.
(m) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast pre-
pared by SENELEC not earlier than twelve months prior to the
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Association
and SENELEC accept as reasonable and as to which the Association
has notified SENELEC of its acceptability, provided that no event
has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably
be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or future operating results of SENELEC.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SENELEC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 15 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the- date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify SENELEC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-9 -
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SENELEC:
Socift6 Nationale d'Electricit6
28, Rue Vincens
Dakar
Rpublique du S6n6gal
Cable address:                   Telex:
KARELECK                        661 KARELEC SG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SENELEC, or by SENELEC on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by SENELEC's Director-General or such other person or
persons as SENELEC shall designate in writing, and SENELEC
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
' Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE
y1   Auhrz      Represe nta4At'
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A.1 of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the
West African Economic Community may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereof.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Materials and equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of 50,000 dollars per contract up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of 500,000 dollars, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
2.   Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
500,000 dollars per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph I of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalfnt of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 13 -
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SENELEC in carrying out Parts D and F of
the Project, SENELEC shall employ engineering and other consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   Within SENELEC, the Project shall be managed by its Project
implementation unit under the authority of SENELEC's General
Manager who shall have at his disposal the resources required
to carry out monitoring of Project execution and preparation
activities of quarterly reports on SENELEC's activities (project,
investment program and financial position), with the assistance
of consultants provided for under Part F of the Project.
2.   Within one month after the end of each calendar quarter
the Project is executed SENELEC shall provide the Association
with   a report on the Project's progress during said quarter.
The progress report shall address, inter alia:
(a) progress and status of the execution of the physical
component of the Project (generation, transmission, Dakar distri-
bution), documented with all necessary information concerning
work schedules, procurement, disbursement and cost data;
(b) progress and status on the Rehabilitation Program, with
particular emphasis on financial indicators, including those
related to the collection of receivables; and
(c) the status of the Borrower's power sector in general
and SENELEC's performance in particular using the key indicators
set forth in the Contrat Plan.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


