DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
RFport No. PTR-126a
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILANID
November 17, 1972
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
UM$0.048      - B 1.00
US$1.00       - B 20.80
US$48,077      - B 1 million
Fiscal Tear: October 1 - September 30
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                        British/US
1 meter (n)                 - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2      0.62 miles (mX)
1 square kilometer (km)   = 0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                 - 0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
0.26 US gallons (gal)
I ibtric ton (m ton)        - 0.98 long tons (ig ton)
= 1.10 US short tons (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms:
ARD        - Office for Accelerated Rural Development
DOH        - Department of Highways
ETO        - Express Transport Organization
MOC        - Ministry of Communicatiom
MOND       - Ministry of National Development
NEDB       - National Economic Development Board
PMWD       - Public and Municipal Works Department
RID        - Royal Irrigation Department
SRT        - State Railway of Thailand
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programe
US A.I.D.  - United States Agency for International Development
ER         - Economic Return
LCL        - Less than carload
voc        - vehicle operating costs
vpd        - vehicles per day



APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMmARY      .....................................
I.   INTRODUCTION          ..........................................  1
A.   Previous Transportation Projects ................      .    1
B.   Bank Group Lending Strategy ...............                  1
C.   Project Preparation ......      ...................          I
II.   THE TRANSPOIRTATION SECTOR ......       .......................    2
A.   The Country and its Economy ................                 2
B.   The Modes .......................                            3
C.   Planning and Coordination ........................    5
III.   HIGHWAYS ..6...............................                        6
A.   The Network .........        .............................    6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic ....         ........    7
C.   Administration ...................                           8
D.   Planning ...........       ..............................    8
E.   Financing and Taxation ...........................    9
F.   Engineering .........        .............................    9
G.   Construction .......................               .....   10
H. Maintenance .10
I. Training .11
IV. THE PROJECr .11
A.  Description ..............                              ,  11
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component ....   14
C.   Execution .................................... 16
D. Financing .17
E. Disbursements .17
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .17
A.   Construction and Improvement of the Project Roads.    17
B. Other Project Elements .19
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS e...X......                                        20
This report was prepared by Messrs. P. R. Morris (Engineer), H.J. Schlechtriem
(Econcmist), and Mrs. P. Valad (Editor).



-2-
TABLES
1.   Government Investments in Transport during Second and Third Five-Year
Development Plans, 1967-71 and 1972-76
2.   Motor Vehicle Registration, 1961-70
3.   Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels, 1960-71
4.   Revenues from Road User Taxes, 1970
5.   Department of Highways:  Expenditures and Sources of Finance, 1967-71
6.   Design Standards for National Highways and Provincial Roads (Rural)
7.   Department of Highways:  Road Construction Program, 1972-76; Regional
Distribution and Sources of Finance
8.   Lengths of Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways, 1961-70
9.   Detailed Project Cost
10.  Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
11.  Vehicle Operating Costs
12. Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEXES
A.   Previous Transportation Projects
B.   Details about the National (Primary) Highways to be Constructed
C.   Details about the Provincial (Feeder) Roads to be Constructed
D.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHART
Organization of Department of Highways
MAP
National Highway Network



APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
SUMMLARY
i.        Thailand has a radial transport system, with Bangkok (the capital)
at the center. During the last decade, Government transport investments,
made in response to needs of the growing eeconomy, have helped to stimulate
economic development. An adequate primary transport system is nearly com-
plete, spanning long distances between borders. This system comprises high-
ways, railways, inland waterways, ports, and domestic aviation. The Govern-
ment's Third Five-Year Development Plan (1972-76) proposes transport invest-
ments totalling about 20% of development-expenditures. Highway investments
total about 80% of transport investments (a 40% increase over the previous
Plan). Highways consist of about 51,000 km of national highways and
provincial and local roads; they serve 738,000 registered motor vehicles.
About 85% of the national highways and 35% of the provincial roads are paved
and the remainder are gravel. Local roads are gravel or earth surfaced.
In the past, the Government has directed major attention to improvement of
national highways. But in the Third Plan, including the Fifth Highway
Project, it is giving more emphasis to improvement of provincial (feeder)
roads.
ii.       Railways are most important of the other modes.  A 3,770 km system,
all meter gauge and mostly single track, extends into all regions of the
country.  As roads have been improved, they have attracted an increasing
proportion of total traffic. The main inland waterway network is the Chao
Phya River system in the Central Plain, with interconnecting canals. It
provides about 1,600 km of navigable waterway in the wet season and 1,100
km in the dry season. The port of Bangkok, near the mouth of the Chao Phya,
is the only commercial port for ocean-going vessels. Domestic aviation
traffic, though still light, is growing fast but, as with railways, short
haul traffic is transferring to roads as they are improved.
iii.      While the primary transport system was being developed, planning
was simple. Now that most of the obvious needs have been met, more careful
planning will be required for evaluating projects and setting priorities.
A Bank mission comprehensively reviewed the transport sector in October 1971
and identified the need for improved transport planning and coordination.
To this end, the Government has decided to establish a new transport plan-
ning unit, and technical assistance for setting it up has been included in
this project.
iv.       Serious congestion plagues Bangkok because the transport system
did not keep pace with the city's rapid growth. The Government has regulated
daytime truck entry to reduce congestion, and has employed the consulting
firm Kocks (Federal Republic of Germany) to carry out a Bangkok Urban Transport
Study. The Study will recommend traffic management improvements and a long-
term development program for the City's transport system.



- ii -
v.        Bank Group lending operations in Thailand have been designed to
support the Government's development objectives during the Third Plan. A
crucial element of the Plan is to increase exports, and agriculture is ex-
pected to contribute most to this increase. Expansion of agricultural produc-
tion for export will be facilitated under this Fifth Highway Project by the
construction and improvement of three national (primary) highways and four
provincial roads. Also under this project administrative improvement will
be furthered by the technical assistance and training to the Department of
Highways (DOH) and Ministry of Communications (MOC).
vi.       The Bank has financed ten transport projects in Thailand:  four for
highways, three for ports, and three for railways. Six were completed satis-
factorily, three were extended because of construction delays, and one is
expected to be completed without any problems.
vii.      Under this eleventh transport project, about 285 km of three
national highway sections and about 387 km of provincial roads will be
constructed and improved, including supervision. With the Bank's agreement,
the Government has awarded the contracts for two national highway sections.
Feasibility studies will be made of about 1,200 km of provincial roads,
followed by detailed engineering of 800 km if justified. A highway maintenance
study will be conducted and urgently-needed maintenance equipment procured.
Finally, technical assistance will be provided to the DOH and MOC.  The DCH
will be aided in planning, executing, and maintaining highway projects and
training will be given to its professional staff. The MOC will be aided in
improving transport planning.
viii.     Roads to be constructed and improved under this project rank high
in the Government's current highway development program. The Bank and the
United States Agency for International Development financed preinvestment
studies for the national highway sections, and the DOHi and consultants carried
out the studies. The Government selected the provincial roads from a feeder
road study by the DOH and their advisory consultants, financed by the Bank.
The bank also financed detailed engineering, by consultants, of the national
highways under the Fourth Highway Project, and of the provincial roads under
the Third. The project was appraised in October 1971, but revisions were
found necessary to reduce construction costs, and these were completed in
October 1972.
ix.       The project cost, including contingencies, is about US$58.6 million.
The foreign exchange component is US$28.6 million or 49%. Cost estimates for
two national highway sections are based on contracts already awarded; for
the third national highway and the three provincial roads, on unit prices
obtained recently in bidding for similar works in Thailand adjusted to
reflect costs expected at the time of bidding. Costs of construction super-
vision, preinvestment studies, and technical assistance and training are
based on previous contracts for similar works in Thailand. The cost of the
highway maintenance study is based on an assessment of man-month requirements.
Finally, the costs of urgently-needed maintenance equipment are based on
items tentatively identified by the DOH.



- iii -
x.        Responsibility for completing the project over 4-1/2 years will
be vested in the DOH. It will be assisted by consultants for construction
supervision, preinvestment and highway maintenance studies, and technical
assistance and training. Contracts for two national highway sections already
being built were awarded after international competitive bidding, and those
for the other civil works and maintenance equipment will be awarded similarly.
Local contractors secured about 20% of the contracts financed under previous
Bank-financed highway projects, and they are expected to secure a comparable
or slightly larger share for this one. Under the project, an average of
about 2,000 men will be directly employed on the civil works for a period of
about 5 years ending mid 1977.
xi.       The foreign exchange cost of the project (US$28.6 million) will be
financed by the Bank loan; the local cost (US$30 million), by the Government.
The Government has asked the Bank for US$4 million maximum in retroactive
financing for the civil works now underway, and this is included in the project.
These works have been started because the Government wanted to maintain its
policy of providing steady work for the construction industry and to avoid
delay in executing its highway improvement program.
xii.      Economic returns for individual sections of the project roads
range between 12% and 22% with a combined return of 16%. Savings in transport
cost to existing and generated traffic will result from these civil works.
Substantial benefits also will accrue from preinvestment and highway mainte-
nance studies, purchases of urgently-needed maintenance equipment, and
technical assistance and training, but they were not quantifiable.






APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
I. INTRODUCTION
A.   Previous Transportation Projects
1.01      The Fifth Highway Project will be the eleventh Bank-financed
transportation project in the Kingdom of Thailand. Previous projects
comprised four for highways, three for ports, and three for railways.
Annex A gives details about them and their progress.
B.   Bank Group Lending Strategy
1.02      Bank Group operations have been designed to help Thailand achieve
its development objectives during the Third Five-Year Development Plan
(1972-76). Among these objectives, the highest priority is to increase
exports, and agriculture is expected to contribute most of them. By facili-
tating agricultural production and exports, the three national (primary)
highways and four provincial (feeder) roads to be constructed and improved
under this Fifth Highway Project will contribute to these objectives.
Administrative improvements also will be furthered under this project by
the technical assistance and training to the Department of Highways
(DOH) and Ministry of Communications (MOC).
C.  Project Preparation
1.03      Roads to be constructed and improved under this project rank
high in the Government's current highway development program and will provide
much-needed betterment or expansion of the present highway network. The
DOH, assisted by consulting firms, carried out the feasibility studies and
detailed engineering of the national highways. Previous loans from the Bank
and a grant from United States Agency for International Development (US A.I.D.j
financed this preinvestment work (para 4.02). The Government selected the
provincial roads included in this project from a feeder roads study conducted
by their advisory consultants and updated by the DOH. Consultants prepared
detailed engineering for these roads (para 4.04).
1.04      To maintain its policy of providing steady work for the construction
industry and to avoid delay in executing its highway improvement program, the
Government has awarded construction contracts for two national highway sections
(para 4.03). It has asked the Bank to finance this work retroactively, and
this finance is included in the project (para 4.19).
1.05      The maintenance study and technical assistance to the DOH and MOC
are suitable for financing by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
But the Government has asked the Bank to finance them because it prefers



- 2 -
to use UNDP finance for other studies and technical assistance, mainly in
social sectors.
1.06      This report is based on information provided by the Government
and consultants, as well as on the findings of the October 1971 appraisal
mission composed by Messrs. P.R. Morris (Engineer) and II.J. Schlechtriem
(Economist). Mr. S. B. Andricopoulos (Agricultural Economist, Food and
Agriculture Organization/IBRD Cooperative Program) assisted in evaluating
the agricultural aspects of the project. The report was edited by Mrs. P.
Valad.
II. THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
A.   The Country and its Economy
2.01      Thailand is a medium-size country in Southeast Asia, with an area
of 514,000 km2 and a population of about 37.3 million in 1971, comparable in
size and population with Spain. Climate and topography do not seriously
impede transport movements. But the length between borders results in long
travel distances.  The climate is monsoon tropical, with two rainy seasons.
Mountains and rivers dominate the topography. A spur of the Elimalaya IMoun-
tains occupies most of the north and extends along the western border with
Burma through the Mfalay Peninsula (including the Kra Isthmus). Two major
rivers, the Mekong and Chao Phya, originate in these mountains. The country
is divided into the Central, Northern, North-eastern, and Southern Regions.
2.02      Thailand is predominantly rural.  About 85% of the population
lives outside urban centers (more than 10,000 inhabitants) and earns
its livelihood from agriculture. Bangkok, the political, comnmercial,
cultural and, recently, industrial center, is the only major city. Its
population is increasing over 5% annually (compared with the country average
of 3%), and now is over 3 million. To reduce income disparities between
Bangkok and the countryside and among regions, the Government has undertaken
regional development programs.
2.03      The economy grew rapidly in the 1960s (9% annually) and supported
a significant growth of transport. But it grew less rapidly from late 1969
to mid-1971 (6% annually) mainly because world market prices fell for rice
and rubber (the main export commodities) and US military expenditures
decreased. Economic growth accelerated again in the second half of 1971
because of an unexpectedly large increase in exports, a continued growth in
Government expenditures, and an increase in US military expenditures. For
1972, continued recovery is expected and the Governnent's main objective
for the Third Plan (1972-76) is to sustain a T' ainual growth rate.  Achieve-
ment of this objective may be difficult because Tlhailand will have to increase
its commodity exports by 8% annually and receive a larger inflow of official
external capital. Demand for transport will continue to grow, but at a lower
rate, in line with the economy.



-3-
B.   The Modes
(a) General
2.04      The pattern of movement for goods and passengers reflects Bangkok's
dominant position in the economy. Primary and agricultural products are
carried to Bangkok for export, processing, and local consumption; imported
and locally-manufactured industrial products are moved in the opposite
direction. To accommodate these flows, a radial transportation system has
evolved, with Bangkok at the center. It consists of highways, railways,
inland waterways, ports, and domestic aviation. This system is generally
adequate to serve present needs of inter-regional traffic and is basically
complete.
2.05      Few statistics exist on passenger and freight movements, except
on the railway. Road transport, however, is the most important mode, with
rail and water transport following. Domestic aviation does not carry a
large share of traffic. As roads have been improved they have attracted
an increasing proportion of total traffic. The individual modes are dis-
cussed hereafter.
2.06      Congestion is serious in Bangkok because the city has grown
rapidly but its transport system has not expanded at the same rate. The
Government has banned entry of heavy trucks into the city during the day.
It also has employed the consulting firm Kocks (Federal Republic of Germany)
to carry out a Bangkok Urban Transport Study.  Kocks started the Study in
1971 and is expected to complete it in late 1974.  The firm will produce
interim reports on particular aspects such as the improvement of traffic
management, and will prepare a long-term development program for the City's
transport system.
(b) Highways
2.07      Chapter III gives details about highways.
(c) Railways
2.08      The system of the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) consists of
about 3,770 km, all meter gauge and mostly single track. The main lines
radiate from Bangkok to the North, Northeast, East, and South. In the
East, they connect with lines of the Khmer Republic and in the South with
those of the Federation of Malaysia. Between 1960 and 1970, carload freight
and passenger traffic about doubled and by 1970 the system carried 2.2 billion
m ton-km and 4.1 billion pass-km, respectively.
2.09      Past railway operations have been profitable.  But this situation
may change unless reforms and investments are made to improve efficiency.
Principal reforms needed include: (i) discontinuation of uneconomic local
services; (ii) improved investment planning; (iii) a more flexible and cost-
related tariff policy; and (iv) improved marketing of services. The Bank



-4-
will support the Government in carrying out these reforms within a Fourth
Railway Project which is now being prepared.
2.10      The southern line of SRT parallel to the project highway, Langsuan-
Suratthani, is busy but a substantial part is uneconomic less than carload
freight and local passenger traffic, much of which is likely to divert to
the road. This should allow the SRT to reduce the number of local trains
and close several stations, thus making it possible to handle the remaining
traffic more efficiently.
(d) Inland Waterways
2.11      The main inland waterway network consists of the Chao Phya River
system in the Central Plain, with interconnecting canals. About 1,600 km
are navigable in the wet season and 1,100 km in the dry season. More than
half the traffic is sand and construction materials extracted from the
rivers and being transported to Bangkok. Another third consists of agri-
cultural commodities, mainly rice, also being transported to Bangkok.
Traffic is imbalanced, with about 93% southbound and 7% northbound. This
imbalance, and the lack of year-round navigability, cost of dredging, and
conflicting needs of water for increased irrigation or power generation
are the main limitations on inland water transport.
Ce) Ports
2.12      Bangkok, operated by the autonomous Port Authority of Thailand,
is the only commercial port where ocean-going vessels can berth. It is a
river port situated about 30 km from the mouth of the Chao Phya River, and
its approach needs constant dredging. Bangkok handles 80% of Thailand's
international sea traffic and about 40% of its coastal traffic, totalling
10 million m tons in 1969. Expansion of its facilities, particularly
for bulk traffic is constrained because of the sharp bends and shallowness
of the river. The Bank's Third Port Project (Annex A) includes expansion
works to meet traffic demands up to 1980. By 1980 a second deepwater port
will be needed or waiting times for ships will be excessive. Two locations
southeast of Bangkok, Laem Krabang and Sattahip (an existing military port),
may be adaptable to commercial use and the Government is now studying these
possibilities (Annex B)).
2.13      The Government plans to improve  many small ports for coastal
shipping and to develop a deepwater port on the Kra Isthmus to serve exports.
Studies are now being made of Kantang and Phuket on the western coast of the
Isthmus and of Naradhiwat and Songkhla on the eastern coast. But only small
quantities now are lightered in these ports and expansion soon is not
economically justified. Further study is needed to determine priorities
among them.
(f) Civil Aviation
2.14      Bangkok's Don Muang airport is a civilian and military operation
administered by the Royal Thai Air Force. It is served by over 30 foreign



airlines and is the focal point of domestic operations of Thai Airways
Company Limited. International passenger traffic grew at an average annual
rate of 26% between 1966 and 1970, while domestic passenger traffic grew
at an annual average rate of 25% in the early years of the same period and
declined to an average annual rate of 10% after 1969. Passenger movements
at Don Muang totalled about 1.5 million in 1970. Ground space at Don Muang
is inadequate, and in the next 6 to 8 years additional facilities will be
needed to accommodate projected traffic.  The Goverment is considering
whether to construct a separate civil airport at a new location.
2.15      The Government-owned Thai Airways operates scheduled services from
Bangkok to 20 domestic airports, Vientiane in the Kingdom of Laos, and
Penang in Malaysia. Its fleet consists of seven Avro 748's and four Douglas
DC-3's. Traffic is light and in some locations has dropped so low when
roads have become available that scheduled services are no longer justified.
Two other airlines provide international services: Thai International Ltd.
flies to 18 regional points, including Tokyo, New Delhi, and Sydney, and
Air Siam offers passenger/freight service to Los Angeles.
C.   Planning and Coordination
2.16      The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy. Through its own departments, or through supervising Government
transport enterprises, it is concerned with all transport planning and
operations; however, construction and maintenance of roads were only
transferred to MOC from the Ministry of National Development (MOND) on
October 1, 1972. Recently, the National Economic Development Board (NEDB),
the Government's central planning agency, has directly assisted the ministries
concerned in preparing their transport plans.
2.17      During the last decade, the Government has made transport invest-
ments in response to needs of the growing economy. These investments have
in turn helped to stimulate economic development. A vigorous, efficient,
and competitive highway transport industry has evolved, mainly owned by many
private operators. The railway has tried to meet the challenge of road
competition, but reforms are needed to improve its efficiency (para 2.09).
Transport planning was simple as the primary system was being developed, and
while needs were obvious no significant excesses or misallocations of
transport investments occurred. But now that most of the obvious needs have
been met, planning of future development will have to be more careful, par-
ticularly in evaluating projects and setting priorities.
2.18      A Bank mission comprehensively reviewed the transport sector in
October 1971 and identified the need for improved transport planning and
coordination. The mission's recommendations have been discussed with the
Government, which has agreed in principle to set up:
(i) a transport policy and planning committee; to review and
recommend transport policies and investment programs for
Government approval; and



- 6 -
(ii)  a transport planning unit in the Ministry of Communications;
to act as a secretariat to the transport policy and planning
committee, including drafting transport policy papers, and
formulating transport sector investment programs; the unit
will also develop and operate a management information
system, to provide an adequate data basis for decision-
making on transport matters at all levels of Government
and its transport agencies.
The project includes an estimated 70 man-months of technical assistance to
the MOC to aid in implementation. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed its agreement to make the proposed institutional changes by
December 31, 1973 and agreed with the Bank on the scope and timing of related
technical assistance.
2.19      The Government's Third Five-Year Plan (1972-76) includes an alloca-
tion of about B 21 billion (US$1 billion) for transport or about 20% of de-
velopment expenditures (Table 1). Highway investments are about B 16.6 bil-
lion (US$800 mi'llion) or about 80% of the transport allocation. This is
about 40% more than in the preceding Plan. To ensure that the selection
and ranking of proposed transport projects reflect economic priorities and
realistic time schedules for preparation and execution, the projects should
be further studied and analyzed and the Plan should be reviewed and, if
necessary, revised. A review of the highway program is in progress (para 3.12).
III. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The highway network consists of about 10,400 km of national
(primary and secondary) highways, 5,900 km of provincial (feeder) roads,
and about 35,000 km of local roads. National highways, classified as primary
and secondary, connect the main towns and serve predominantly inter-regional
traffic. Provincial roads, the important regional roads, collect traffic
from local roads and bring it to regional centers and national highways.
The distinction between provincial and local roads is not well-defined, and
one of the tasks of the maintenance study under the project will be to review
the existing classification as part of a comprehensive network inventory
(para 4.06).
3.02      The Government's past highway development programs have emphasized
improvement of national highways. Consequently, a basic trunk system of paved
(85%) and gravel (15%) roads has been established. Now the Government is
giving greater emphasis to provincial and local roads, which are inadequate
in all but the North-eastern Region. Of the provincial roads, about 35%
are paved and the remainder gravel. Most local roads are gravel or earth
tracks, passable only in dry weather; their exact length and condition are
not known.



B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3.03      The motor vehicle fleet grew at an average annual rate of 20%
between 1961 and 1970. About 738,000 vehicles were registered in the country
at the end of 1970 (Table 2). The portion registered outside the Bangkok
metropolitan area increased during the period from 46% to 59%, mainly because
the number of motorcycles in the provinces increased rapidly. Nevertheless,
Bangkok has 95 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants whereas the rest of the country
has 13 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants. Duties and taxes are higher for
imported vehicles to protect development of the local automobile assembly
industry, but no other restrictions limit the supply of motor vehicles.
3.04      Traffic distribution on the network reflects the concentration
of motor vehicles in Bangkok and the capital's dominant position in the
economy. Traffic is highest on the approach roads to Bangkok, where it is
8,000-12,000 vehicles per day (vpd), and decreases sharply as the distance
increases from the capital. Traffic on provincial roads is less than 500 vpd
and on local roads less than 100 vpd. Average annual traffic growth of 12%
to 15% has been in line with the increase in motor fuel consumption (Table 3),
but lower than the increase in the fleet. Growth rates on individual roads
have varied widely, but have been highest in the Northern, North-eastern,
and Southern Regions, particularly on improved roads.
3.05      Public bus transport is closely regulated.  The Government-owned
Transport Company Ltd. has the franchise for all main routes but operates
on only a few highly-trafficked routes and sublets operations on most others.
The Government is considering legalization of "small bus" services, now
operating without licenses mainly in rural areas. These buses serve many
short local routes and stop as needed. Bus fares vary according to road
conditions and distances and compare reasonably with operating costs.
3.06      The Government has the autlhority to limit the number and size of
trucking firms and to control freight rates. But it has not exercised its
authority, and the trucking industry has developed without restrictions.
The Government-owned Express Transport Organization (ETO), the largest
trucking firm, owns 1,260 trucks and hires 5,000-6,000 others. Under
Government-sponsored service agreements, ETO has sole rights for: access to
the Port of Bangkok and the main railway stations, transit traffic to Laos
and the Khmer Republic, traffic of Government-owned manufacturing companies,
and haulage of US military cargo. ETO's services are satisfactory now, but
its rates are higher than those of private truckers. Private firms take care
of most trucking needs; most firms are small (1 or 2 trucks) but many, espe-
cially in and around Bangkok, are medium-size (10 or more trucks). The latter
often are freight agents, obtaining cargo for themselves and for independent
truckers. Freight rates usually are negotiated and not advertised, but seem
to be competitive and cost-related.
3.07      The Government has enacted regulations on vehicle weights and
dimensions that are reasonable for the earlier stages of developing a
highway network. But they may now be unduly restrictive in some respects



- 8 -
and will be reviewed as part of the highway maintenance study under the
project (para 4.06).
C.   Administration
3.08      Under the current organization of ministries, the DOII in the MDC
is responsible for administering, planning, constructing, and maintaining
national highways and provincial roads. The provinces and municipalities are
formally responsible for the local roads and are assisted by central Govern-
ment agencies (para 3.09). The Royal Irrigation Department (RID) in the
Ministry of Agriculture builds and maintains roads serving irrigation
projects; the Army, national defense roads.
3.09      The DOH has an adequate organization (Chart), with a full complement
of professional and technical staff whose academic qualifications are adequate.
But middle-level staff lack sufficient professional experience and are trained
on-the-job (para 3.22). Most provinces and municipalities have rudimentary
works organizations and their works capabilities are being built up by central
Government agencies, normally through programs for rural and community
development. The most important agencies are the Office for Accelerated
Rural Development (ARD) in the Prime Minister's Office and the Public and
Municipal Works Department (PNWD) in the Ministry of the Interior. Both
provide technical expertise and equipment to local authorities. The ARD
takes care of "sensitive" provinces, mostly in the North-eastern Region.
It relies heavily on bilateral aid.
3.10      The DOH prepares proposals for highway development programs and
annual budgets.  At present, after clearance by the Ministry (now MOC) these
proposals are reviewed by the NEDB which recommends them to the National
Executive Council (Cabinet) for approval. In future, the new transport
planning unit of the MOC (para 2.18) will incorporate the DOH highway
development program into a transport sector program. This program will be
reviewed by the transport policy and planning committee (para 2.18) before
being submitted to the NEDB and the National Executive Council.
D.   Planning
3.11      The Planning Division of the DOII is in charge of all preinvestment
work, including preparation of highway improvement programs and annual budgets.
It conducts engineering reconnaissance, prepares initial cost estimates for
proposed improvements, and selects projects, based on economic criteria.
Its planning has been simple, but has not been uniform or systematic. Now
that most of a basic trunk system has been established, more sophisticated
planning will be needed. The ARD and P111D assist in planning local roads
and carry out engineering preparation. They select roads according to only
general economic, administrative, and security considerations, but do not
make quantitative evaluations.
3.12      The Government recognizes that adequate analyses have not been
made of highways included in the Third Five-Year Plan (1972-76) and the
DOH, assisted by its advisory consultants T.P. O'Sullivan (United Kingdom),



-9-
is reviewing and revising these analyses (para 2.19). Until this is com-
pleted early in 1973, work will continue largely on projects begun under or
carried over from the Second Five-Year Plan (1967-71) and on projects for
which feasibility studies were completed in anticipation of foreign financing.
To improve long-term planning, the Government is having T.P. O'Sullivan
review the Planning Division's data collection system, including traffic
counting. Difficulties not easy to overcome are that planning in other
Government agencies is often less advanced than in the DOH and that input
data for highway appraisals is lacking.
3.13      The Third Plan includes an allocation for highway investments of
about B 16.6 billion (US$800 million). This amount would be distributed
among the DOH (B 15 billion), ARD (B 660 million), PMWD (B 580 million), and
RID (B 375 million). The DOH road development program is shown in Table 7.
The Bank's recent Transport Sector Mission agreed with the Plan's emphasis
on provincial and local roads, but suggested that about B 11.7 billion
(US$560 million) would be more realistic for the DOH from the standpoint of
project preparation and execution. It also recommended a review of project
priorities. Tentative estimates by the Mission showed that about equal
portions should be spent on national highways and provincial roads.
E.   Financing and Taxation
3.14      Highway expenditures are financed from general budgetary revenues
and foreign loans and grants. Road user taxes are not earmarked, except
for proceeds from motor vehicle registration fees. Revenues from these fees
are distributed among the Police Department, and the Municipalities, Sanitary
districts, and provinces. In 1970, the Government collected about B 2.6 million
(US$124 million) in road user taxes (Table 4). This represented about 85% of
the DOH's expenditures, including administration, for national highways and
provincial roads (Table 5) and over 70% of all Government agencies' highway
expenditures.
3.15      The Government has no specific policy to tax road users, but levies
taxes to raise general public revenue, to protect the domestic automobile
assembly industry, and to limit automobile ownership (considered to be a
luxury). A more rational policy would be desirable, and a study should be
made to determine one. During negotiations, it was agreed that an appro-
priate time would be when the Bangkok Urban Transport Study and the highway
maintenance study under this project have been completed, probably in 1974,
since they would provide most of the data needed.
F.   Engineering
3.16      The Location and Design Division of the DOH carries out highway
design of national highways and provincial roads to the limit of its
capacity; the ARD and PMWD design local roads in accordance with standards
laid down by the DOH. To cope with excess work, particularly for large and
complicated projects, the DOH employs consulting firms. Although most are
foreign, they are employing an increasing number of local staff. Also local
firms are beginning to supply specialist services, like materials testing.



- 10 -
The DOH has adopted a reasonable range of design standards for national
highways, provincial and local roads, according to class, terrain, and
traffic (Table 6).
G.   Construction
3.17      The Construction Division of the DOH administers construction
of national highways and provincial roads. About 90% of this work is by
contract and the rest by force account. Force account work is largely
through three training centers, partly financed by bilateral aid (para 3.22).
Road construction not under the jurisdiction of the DOH is mainly by force
account.
3.18      The DOH executed the 1967-71 construction program satisfactorily.
The Government's policy of completing most work through a continuous series
of contracts, awarded after competitive bidding, has fostered the growth of
an efficient, vigorous, and highly competitive construction industry. It
also has kept prices stable. Small contracts have been reserved for domestic
contractors, but large contracts, even when fully financed from the budget,
have been subject to international competitive bidding. For the Fourth
Highway Project, 2t firms were prequalified (17 foreign and 4 domestic).
The Government hopes to be able to prequalify more domestic firms for this
Fifth Highway Project, particularly for construction of the four provincial
roads.
H.   Maintenance
3.19      The Maintenance Division of the DOH maintains national highways
and provincial roads (Table 8) through its Headquarters Office and 12 Field
Divisions. Each Field Division is responsible for a group of the 58 Field
Districts. Provinces and municipalities maintain local roads, the RID
maintains roads serving irrigation projects, and the Army maintains national
defense roads.
3.20      Maintenance of national highways and provincial roads by the DOH
has improved over the last 5 years. Maintenance expenditures have increased
from B 234 million in 1967 to B 365 million in 1970 or average expenditure
per km of road from B 18,500 (US$890) to B 22,400 (US$1,080). Progress has
been made in instituting regular and systematic routine maintenance, like
repairing surfaces, cleaning drains, and cutting grass. But periodic
maintenance, like resurfacing of bituminous roads or reshaping and resurfacing
of gravel roads, is still inadequate and a large backlog of this work exists.
A highway maintenance study will be made under the project to prepare a 5-year
program and to recommend improvements in maintenance operations (para 4.06).
3.21      Maintenance of local roads by provinces and municipalities has
been deficient, even considering the low traffic volumes on these roads.
Most are unimproved and in poor condition. The Government's highway
improvement program under the Third Five-Year Plan includes bettering



- 11 -
maintenance of local roads and strengthening the works capabilities of
local authorities (para 3.09).
I.   Training
3.22      By the end of 1972, 37 professional staff will have completed
special training courses abroad under programs financed by the First and
Third Highway Projects. Additional staff has been trained under bilateral
aid agreements. Local education facilities, particularly at the Asian
Institute of Technology, have improved and the need for academic training
abroad in future has lessened. But many DOH staff are young and lack
practical experience that would enable them to work independently. There-
fore, under this Fifth Highway Project, the DOH wishes to continue the on-
the-job training, especially in highway planning and maintenance, initiated
by T. P. O'Sullivan under the Second Highway Project. It also wants the
consultants who will carry out the feasibility studies under this project
to train counterparts (paras 4.05 and 4.08). The project will include
overseas training of three transport economists for the DOH, and a similar
number for the transport planning unit, for whom suitable courses are not
available in Thailand. Field training of road supervisors, mechanical
equipment operators, and mechanics is continuing at 3 local centers financed,
staffed, and equipped with the assistance of Australia, Japan, and New
Zealand.
IV.  THE PROJECr
A.   Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i) construction and improvement, including supervision by
consultants, of about 285 km of national (primary)
highway sections and about 387 km of provincial
(feeder) roads;
(ii) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km
of provincial roads, followed by detailed engineering
by consultants of about 800 km, if justified;
(iii) a highway maintenance study by consultants and the
procurement of urgently-needed mechanical equipment
for highway maintenance;
(iv) technical assistance by consultants: (a) to the DOH
for planning, executing, and maintaining highway projects,
and (b) to the MDC for improving transport planning and
coordination, and training of staff.



-12 -
(a) Construction, Improvement, and Supervision
4.02      Three sections of national (primary) highways, described in Annex
B, will be constructed and improved:
(i)  Don Muang-Bang Pa In-Saraburi (83 km);
(ii)  Siracha-Rayong (72 km); and
(iii)  Langsuan-Suratthani (130 km, including about 20 km
of access roads).
The DOH, assisted by its advisory consultants, T.P. O'Sullivan, conducted
feasibility studies for the first two highways under the Bank's Second
Highway Project. Louis Berger, Inc., a US consulting firm, made the
feasibility study for the third highway under a grant from the US A.I.D.
Under the Bank's Fourth Highway Project, De Leuw Cather (US) carried out the
detailed engineering for highways (i) and (iii); Kampsax (Denmark), for
highway (ii).
4.03      To maintain its policy of providing steady work for the construction
industry (para. 3.18) and to avoid delay in executing its highway improvement
program, the Government has already offered the Don-Muang-Bang Pa In-Saraburi
and Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong Roads for international competitive bidding
and awarded the contracts, in agreement with the Bank. For the Don Muang-
Bang Pa In-Saraburi Road, it awarded contracts to the Italian-Thai Development
Corporation (Thailand) on December 9, 1971 and to the Hyun Dai Construction
Co. (Korea) on November 15, 1971. For the Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong Road,
it awarded the contract to the Dae Lim Industrial Co. (Korea) on April 11,
1972. De Leuw Cather is supervising construction of the Don Muang-Bang Pa In-
Saraburi Road and will be employed for the Langsuan-Suratthani Road. Kampsax
is supervising construction of the Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong Road.
4.04      Four provincial (feeder) roads, described in Annex C, will be con-
structed and improved:
(i)  San Sai-Phrao (81 km);
(ii)  Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mai Suai (133 km);
(iii) Suphanburi-Chainat (99 km); and
(iv) Khao Daeng-Ranot (74 km).
These roads were selected from a feeder road study carried out by T.P.
O'Sullivan in 1967 under the Bank's First Highway Project and updated
by the DOH in 1969-70. Detailed engineering was carried out initially
by Lyon Associates (US). It was revised by Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick (UK)
to reduce construction costs, and the Government intends to employ the
same firm to supervise construction.



- 13 -
(b) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.05      Based on the feeder road study (para. 4.04) and in consultation
with the Bank, the DOH has selected about 1,200 km of provincial roads for
feasibility studies. If justified, about 800 km of the highest priority
roads will be selected for detailed engineering. During negotiations, the
Government agreed that it will select the roads for detailed engineering in
consultation with the Bank.
(c)  Highway Maintenance Study and Purchase
of Urgently-Needed Mechanical Equipment
4.06      This two-phase study (para 3.20) will:
(i)  review highway maintenance policies, operations, and
methods;
(ii)  formulate a highway inventory (including classification
proposals);
(iii) prepare optimum 5-year maintenance programs for
national highways and provincial roads, based on
economic analyses of costs and benefits;
(iv)  assess the resources needed to carry out maintenance
programs with estimated annual capital and recurrent
budgets; and
(v)  review legislation and regulations governing weights
and dimensions of motor vehicles.
Phase I (6 months and about 30 man-months) will include a review of and
preliminary recommendations for items (i)-(iv), including recommendations
for immediate purchases of urgently-needed equipment and an estimate of
highway maintenance needs. The project provides for financing of this
equipment, but the equipment will not be ordered until the Government and
the Bank have reviewed the Phase I report and the Bank has agreed to the
items to be purchased. Phase II (6 months and about 25 man-months) will
include final recommendations for items (iii) and (iv), and a review of
and recommendations for item (v).
4.07      During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will:  (i)
purchase the maintenance equipment recommended in the Phase I report in
consultation with the Bank; (ii) prepare a 5-year program for maintaining
the national highways and provincial roads, based on the final recommendations
of the highway maintenance study; (iii) discuss these recommendations and the
proposed program with the Bank; (iv) carry out the agreed program according
to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; (v) maintain the national highways
and provincial roads adequately thereafter according to sound engineering
and highway practices; and (vi) provide promptly, as needed, the finance,
facilities, services, mechanical equipment, and other maintenance resources
needed.



- 14 -
(d) Technical Assistance and Training
4.08      The project includes continuation of advisory services by T.P.
O'Sullivan (para 3.22). Four experts will be employed during a period of
about 2 years to assist the DOlI in carrying out its responsibilities,
particularly for:
(i) planning highways;
(ii) preparing and executing highway development programs;
(iii) improving highway maintenance operations; and
(iv) training professional DOH staff, both on-the-job and
through training courses.
Also included is an estimated 70 man months of technical assistance to the
MDC by consultants to aid in implementing agreed institutional changes for
improved transport planning and coordination (para. 2.18). Additional pro-
fessional staff will be trained as counterparts to consultants carrying out
feasibility studies and detailed engineering (para 4.05) and through overseas
training courses where necessary.
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.09      The project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$58.6 million. The foreign exchange component is US$28.6 million or 49%.
Table 9 shows detailed costs, which are summarized on page 15.
4.10      Cost estimates for construction of Don Muang-Bang Pa In-Saraburi
and Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong Roads are based on the amounts of the contracts
already awarded (para 4.03). The cost estimate for the Langsuan-Suratthani
Road was prepared by De Leuw Cather, and cost estimates for the four provincial
roads by Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick, based on unit prices obtained recently
in bidding for similar works in Thailand adjusted to reflect costs expected
at the time of bidding. Costs of construction supervision, feasibility
studies and detailed engineering, and technical assistance and training are
based on previous contracts with consultants for similar work in Thailand.
The cost of the highway maintenance study is based on an assessment of
man-month requirements. Costs of urgently-needed maintenance equipment are
based on items tentatively identified by the DOH. The cost estimates were
agreed with the Government during negotiations.
4.11      Contingency allowances of about 18% for construction and 10% each
for consulting services and purchases of maintenance eqlipment are considered
adequate. The contingency for construction allows 10% for increases in quan-
tities of work and 6% for increases in local prices (about 4% annually) and
9% in foreign prices (about 6% annually) from the expected time of receiving
bids to completion of construction. The 10% physical contingency allowance
for consulting services is for increases in the man-months of work in super-
vision, design, etc.



-15-
Foreign
Exchange
Project Element      Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Component
I.  Construction and
Improvement of:
(a) National
(primary)
Roads         271     222     493     13.00   10.70  23.70      45
(b) Provincial
(Feeder)
Roads         188     154     342      9.10    7.4o  16.5o      45
Sub-total I       459     376      835     22.10   I8.10  40.20
II.  Supervision of I    35      35       70      1.70    1.70   3.40      50
III. Feasibility
Studies and
Detailed Engi-
neering             33      33       66      1.60    1.60   3.20      50
IV. Maintenance
Study               4L       6       10      0.20    0.30   0.50      60
V. Maintenance
Equipment            O1/   41        41         1_  2.00   2.00    100
VI. Technical
Assistance and
Training            10      16       26      0.-0    0.80    1.30    60
VII. Contingency
Allowances   2/
(a) On Item 1/      74      71     145       3.50    3.40    6.90
(b) On Items II-
vi)Q 8                          21      0.40    0.70    1.10
Sub-total VII     82      84     166       3.90    4.10    8.00
Total Project
Cost             623     591   1,214      30.00   28.60   58.60    49
1/ Small amount for local handling, assembly, and transport.
2/ 10% physical and increases of 6% and 9% in local and foreign costs, respectively.
3/ 10% physical.



- 16 -
4.12      Consultants estimated the foreign exchange component of construc-
tion and improvement at 50% if carried out by foreign contractors; 35%,
if by local contractors. The estimates are satisfactory. Of the 30 contracts
financed under previous highway loans (Annex A), 24 were awarded to foreign
contractors and 6 to local. Local contractors are expected to secure a
similar, or gradually increasing, proportion in the future; this results in
a foreign exchange component of about 45%. The foreign exchange component
of consulting services was estimated at 50% for engineering and supervision
of construction and about 60% for technical assistance; that of maintenance
equipment at 100% of c.i.f. cost of imported equipment, though a small
proportion of the equipment may be manufactured or assembled locally.
C.   Execution
4.13      The DOH will be responsible for carrying out the project.  Consul-
tants will assist the DOH in the construction supervision, feasibility studies
and detailed engineering, highway maintenance study, and technical assistance
and training. During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will:
(i) employ qualified and experienced consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) make qualified counterparts available to
work full-time with the consultants.
4.14      Contracts for the two national highways already being built (para
4.03) were awarded after international competitive bidding according to
Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement". Contracts for the remaining
construction and improvement works and for the maintenance equipment will be
awarded similarly. Thailand has no preferential tariffs on imports.
4.15      The technical assistance and training will begin in early 1973
and be completed in early 1975. The feasibility studies and highway maintenance
study will begin in early 1973 and be completed by late 1974. Contracts
for the remaining construction and improvement works will be awarded during
1973 and all works should be completed by mid-1977. The detailed engineering
will begin in late 1974 and be completed by late 1975. The orders for
highway maintenance equipment will be placed in mid-1974. During negotia-
tions, the Government and the Bank agreed on the timing of project execution
and reporting requirements.
4.16      Unemployment in Thailand is relatively low, with most steady
unemployment in the Bangkok area (about 5%). Seasonal unemployment in
construction and agriculture occurs in the rest of the country. However,
the Government tries to provide steady construction work and allows contractors
to choose the most economical methods, including the use of mechanical equip-
ment. Under the project, an average of 2,000 men will be directly employed on
construction and improvement works for about 5 years to mid 1977. In its
highway maintenance operations, the Government also tries to ensure economical
methods by balancing labor and equipment.
4.17      The Government has adequate powers to acquire the right-of-way
for highway construction, but it has sometimes been slow in beginning acquisi-
tion procedures, and construction was occasionally delayed. During



- 17 -
negotiations, the Government agreed that it will take timely action to acquire
all necessary land, right-of-way and other property rights for the roads to
be constructed under the Fifth Highway Project, before awarding individual
construction contracts.
4.18      Ecological aspects were not explicitly included in the studies
of roads to be constructed, but no major problems are expected. Mainly
for health reasons, however, sections of the gravel-surfaced provincial
roads passing through villages will be paved to eliminate dust.
D.   Financing
4.19      The foreign exchange cost of the project (US$28.6 million) will
be financed by the Bank loan and the local cost will be financed by the
Government. Under previous projects, local funds were provided promptly,
and no problems are foreseen for this project. The Government has asked
the Bank for a maximum of US$4 million in retroactive financing for con-
struction works on two national highway sections now underway (para 4.03),
and this is included in the project. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to provide adequate local funds for the project.
E.   Disbursements
4.20      Disbursements from the Loan Account will be on the basis of:
45% of the total cost of construction and improvement works, 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of the consulting services, and the 100% cif cost
of imported maintenance equipment, or of the ex-factory price of locally-
manufactured equipment, or 65% of the total cost of imported and locally-
purchased equipment. Based on the foregoing and on the schedule of project
execution (para 4.15), an Estimated Schedule of Disbursements has been
prepared (Annex D), which was agreed with the Government during negotiations.
Surplus funds remaining in the Loan Account after the project has been
completed will be cancelled.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Construction and Improvement of the Project Roads
5.01      This project fits well with Government's general strategy of
improving communications to increase exports, meet the food consumption
needs of Bangkok's rising population, and provide opportunities for ex-
panded industrial and other economic activities in areas away from the
congested capital city. Given the competitive nature of trucking in the
areas served by the project roads, savings in vehicle operating costs (voc)
are likely to result to commercial traffic and to be passed on as lower
transport costs to producers and consumers. These savings should act as
one stimulus to increase the demand and supply of agricultural produce and
manufactured goods.



- 18 -
5.02      The expected Economic Returns (ER) for the individual roads to be
constructed or improved range between 12% and 22%, with the combined ER for
all roads being 16%. Table 10 shows the actual and projected traffic on the
project roads, excluding military traffic, which only forms a small part of
the total. Annexes B and C provide detailed information relating to the
existing roads, the areas served, and the methodology and input data used in
the economic evaluation.  The following paragraphs summarize the more impor-
tant aspects.
5.03      The area served by the Don Muang-Saraburi Road is primarily agri-
cultural, but significant manufacturing industries have developed in many
small towns in the area.  Present traffic varies between 7,000 and 12,000
vehicles per day (vpd), with recent average annual growth rates ranging be-
tween 14% and 24%. The road is one of the mst heavily trafficked in Thailand
outside the immediate suburbs of Bangkok, to which it leads. The existing two
lanes are severely congested, with extensive delays that occur acting as a
brake on potential growth of the area. Without the proposed improvements,
costs of trips will increase above existing levels and annual traffic growth
at the 10% and 7% rates forecast over the next few years (with somewhat lower
rates thereafter) could not be realized. The proposed 83 km construction of
two more lanes and the improvement of parts of the existing road to make a
four-lane divided highway will result in voc savings, time savings for bus
passengers and car occupants, and reduced accident levels. Based on voc
savings alone, the proposed investment in this road will produce a 22% ER.
5.04      The Siracha-Rayong Road will extend the present four-lane divided
highway some 20 km south to Ban Lamung. It also will provide 52 km of a new
two-lane road southeast from Ban Lamung on a more direct route to the coastal
city of Rayong, reducing travel distance 25 km. Although agriculture is the
most important economic activity in the area served by the proposed road im-
provement, industrial and tourist centers along the coast have grown rapidly
in recent years. Present traffic on the existing road is heavy, ranging
between 5,000 and 7,000 vpd or about its maximum service capacity. Conges-
tion and extensive delays are common, and continued development of the area
depends greatly on increased road capacity. Considering only voc savings,
the proposed road improvement will yield an 18% ER.
5.05      Traffic between the Central and Southern Regions and between
Thailand and Malaysia now travels indirectly along the western coast of the
Kra Isthmus because no road spans the 320 km distance between Langsuan and
Phattalung on the eastern coast. As a first step to fill this gap, the 127
km Langsuan-Suratthani Road will be constructed.  This road improvement will
shorten travel distances, link major population centers of the Southern
Region which are on the eastern coast, and complement the railway which now
fills the gap (para. 2.10). Traffic on the new road is expected to be over
300 vpd initially, growing at 12% for the first 5 years and declining to 7%
later. On this road, voc savings will be significant and the ER will be 14%.
The Government plans to close the rest of the gap with a 193 km road between
Suratthani and Phattalung; detailed engineering for this, financed under the
Fourth Highway Project, is underway.



- 19 -
5.06      To provide better access to areas of rich agricultural potential
and economical transport to markets of agricultural commodities, four pro-
vincial roads totalling about 387 km will be constructed and improved under
this project. The San Sai-Phrao and Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mai Suai Roads will
be significant in bringing about new agricultural development for their
influence areas, partly induced by Government development schemes. The
Suphanburi-Chainat and Khao Daeng-Ranot Roads will better accommodate
existing road traffic. Estimates of traffic for each road were based on a
combination of present traffic data, wherever reliable, and projections of
traffic expected to be generated by forecast increases of population and
agricultural production assuming that the roads would be built or improved.
On this basis, the expected savings on transport costs (excluding time
savings) produce ERs ranging between 12% and 14% for the particular road
sections.
5.07      Estimates of future traffic on the project roads have been made
assuming that no tolls will be levied. The Government during negotiations
undertook not to introduce tolls on the project roads without the agreement
of the Bank.
5.08      Table 11 gives estimated voc on existing and improved roads.  Savings
as a result of the civil works range between 10% and 72%, and are consistent
with past Bank estimates for comparable roads.
5.09      The sensitivity of the ERs was tested by assuming 10% increases
and decreases in the economic cost of construction and in traffic and 20%
increases and decreases in traffic growth. Table 12 shows the results. In
the most pessimistic case (increased construction costs combined with reduced
benefits), the ER for one provincial road (San Sai-Phrao) would fall below
10%. Nevertheless, this road is justified because: (i) the best estimates
of development in the influence area and of future traffic may be too
conservative due to the poor data base and related uncertainty (an argument
supported by the rapid acceptance by traffic of several similar roads
constructed by the Government); and (ii) important benefits could not be
quantified from the civil works, like better administration, including
eradication of narcotics production and traffic, and higher quality of life
resulting from improved access to social, health, and educational services
and to employment opportunities in nearby towns.
B.   Other Project Elements
5.10      Benefits from the preinvestment studies, highway maintenance study,
purchases of urgently-needed maintenance equipment, and technical assistance
and training were not quantifiable. But these elements are clearly justified
since they will contribute to increased efficiency in highway administration
and assist the Government in the necessary improvement, expansion, and
maintenance of its highway network.



- 20 -
VI. RECONMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on
the following principal points: (i) institutional changes to be made for
improving transport planning and coordination, and technical assistance for
implementation (para 2.18); (ii) selecting the roads for detailed engineering
in consultation with the Bank (para 4.05); (iii) purchasing maintenance
equipment recommended in Phase I of the highway maintenance study (paras
4.06 and 4.07); (iv) preparing and carrying out a five-year road maintenance
program (para 4.07); and (iv) not introducing tolls on the project roads
without the agreegiWit of the Bank (para 5.07).
6.02      The prop`6ed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$28.6
million to the Kingdom of Thailand for a 24-year term, including 4-1/2 years
of grace.



TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Governmexnt Investment in Transport during
Second and Third Five-Year Development Plans. 1967-71 and 1972-76
(B million)
Second Five-Year           Third Five-Year
Development Plan,          Development Plan,
Mode                           1967-711/                 1972-76
Highways:
National                       8,000                     8,200
Provincial                    2,500                      6,800
loocal                        1,300                      1,600
Sub-total                  11,800                     16,600
Railways                      1,640                      2,470
Inland waterways
and Ports                     677                        920
Civil Aviation
(including Airports)          563                        890
Total                        14,680                     20,880
Transport as percentage
of development expen-
ditures                        24                         20
1/ Expenditures for 1967-70 and budget allocation for 1971.
Sources:  National Economic Development Board, Department of Highways, Public
and Municipal Works Department, Office of Aocelerated Rural Develop-
ment, and Royal Irrigation Department, October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THILAND
Motor Vehicle Registration, 1961-70
Motorcycles
Year       Cars        Busesi/         Trucks         and Others        Total
(thousand units)
Thailand
1961        51.8         13.2           39.6              47.4          152.0
1966       90.1         25.6            79.1             177.5          372.3
1967      109.1          27.6           90.1             236.3          463.1
1968      132.5         35.9            97.8             271.0          537.3
1969      153.9         43.0          121.1              332.1          650.1
1970      179.0         49.2          141.0              368.6          737.8
Bangkok & Thonburi
1961       41.5          4.8           13.7               22.7           82.7
1966       71.5           8.0           27.6              50.0          157.1
1967        84.7        10.4            34.0              59.9          189.0
1968       98.4         16.9           38.8               72.2          226.3
1969      118.4         22.7           43.3               74.3          258.7
1970      138.0          27.8          49.1               89.1          304.0
Average Annual Growth Rates
(%
Thailand excluding
Thailand         Bangkok & Thonburi    Bangkok & Thonburi
1961/66   1966/70    1961/66   1966/70        1961/66   1966/70
Cars        12         19          12         18           13         22
Buses       14         18          11         36           16          5
Trucks      15         16          15         16           15         16
Other        30        20          17         16           39         22
Average      20        19          14         18           25         19
Annual Average Grouth Rate of Motor Vehicle Fleet, by Region
Motor Vehicles
All Motor          Motorcycles        other than Motor-
Vehicles           & Tricycles      cycles and Tricycles
Region                1961/66  1966/70   1961/66  1966/70    1961/66  1966/70
Thailand                20        19 32                20         12        18
Northern Region          27       18         53        22          10       11
North-eastern Region   28         19         68        21          15       18
Southern Region         26        17         46        20          9        11
Central Region_/        24        21         48        24         14        17
Bangkok & Thonburi      14        18         16        14          13       19
1/ Includes private buses.
2/ Excludes Bangkok and Thonburi.
Sources: Licenses Division, Police Department, and Mission Estimates based
on data from the Police Department and Department of Highways,
October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWTAY PROJECT
THAILAND
1/
Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels, 1960-71
Year          Gasoline      Increase      Gas-oil       Increase
(million 1)     (%)        (million 1)       (%)
1960            471             -            280
1961            478             1            349          25
1962            491             3            451          29
1963            553            13            556          23
196             581             5            737          33
1965            622             7            931          26
1966            678             9          1,191          28
1967            785            16          1,h64          23
1968            922            17          1,755          20
1969          1,04h            13          2,016          15
1970          1,159            11          2,214          10
197 2/        1,2h0             7          2,325           5
Average Annual Increase
(%)
1960-1966                       6                         27
1966-1971                      13                         14
Regional Distribution of Motor Fuel Consumption, 1970
Gasoline                       Gas-oil
(million 1)        %         (million 1)       %
North9rn        133            11            183            8
North-eastern   102             9            223          10
Central         83h            72          1,506          68
Southern         90             8            302          1h
Total     1,159           100         2,214          100
1/ The figures represent total consumption of gasoline and gas-oil. Consump-
tion on roads is not recorded separately. Road motor vehicles consume about
95% of all gasoline. The road portion of total gas-oil consumption is de-
creasing. It was estimated at 70% in 1965 and now is about 60%.
2/ Estimated.
Source: Shell Company of Thailand Ltd., October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Revenues from Road User Taxes, 1970
Customs   Business &    Vehicle
Duty or    Municipal    Registra-
Item               Excise Tax    Tax         tion Fees       Total
(B million)             (B million) (%)
Gasolinel/                   832          103            0       926        36
Vehicles, parts,
and accessories
(excluding cars)           3h9          244          152        745       29
Cars                         326          234           86       646        25
2/
Gas-oil7                     147           54            0       201         8
3/
Tires                         35           16            0         51        2
Total                 1_680           651          238     2,569       100
=/ Assumes that road motor vehicles consume 95% of total.
2/ Assumes that road motor vehicles consume 60% of total.
3/ Revenues from imported tires only.
Sources: Customs and Excise Departments, Police Department
and Mission Estimates, October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Department of Highways: Expenditures and
Sources of Finance. 1967-71
(B million)
Administration-/      Maintenance             Construction
Fisc!a)       Government          Government       Government  Foreign Loans
Year_           Budget               Budget          Budget     and Assistance  Total
1967            439                   234           1,540          498           2,711
1968            465                   296           1,551           390          2,702
1969            506                   328           1,626           403          2,863
1970            529                   365           1,752           370          3,016
19713/          570                   354           2,128           289          3,341
1/  October 1 - September 30.
2/  Includes the cost of: (a) mechanical equipment, depreciation and repairs
which are not apportioned to maintenance and construction works; and (b)
special highway police patrols.
3/  Budget allocation.
Sources: National Economic Development Board and Department of Highways, October
1971
November 1972



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAIIAND
Dssign Standards for National Highways and Provincial Roads (Rual)
1. Bridge width:                    9 m on National Highways and 8 m on Provincial Roads
2. Vertical clearance:              4.50 m
3. Design wheel load (pavement)$ 10,000 lb (12,000 lb in Bangkok area)
4. Design bridge loading:           H 20 - S 16
5.  Geometric design standards:r/
Terrain
Flat ancd moder-     oI.llng and
Highways and Roads                    Unit   ately Rolling           Hilly       Mountainous
(a)  National(Primary)
Design speed                        1n/h    80-100               60_80         59760Z'
Maximuan gradient                   %        4                   6              8d
Right-of-way                        m        60-80               60-80          60-80
(b) National (Secondary) and Provincial
(Feeder) F(l)
Design speed                        ko/h    70-90                55-70         40  5-
Maximum gradient                    %        6                   8              lC-
Right-cf-way                        m        40-60               40-60         40-6C
(c)   Provincial (Feeder) F(2) and F(3)
Design speed                        kn/h    60-80                45-60          3O252
Maximum gradient                    %        8                   10             12-
Right-of-way                        m        20-40               20-40         2C-4C
6. Roadway features:
(a)   National (?rimary                    class   P(D)               P(1)            P(2)            P()
Equivalent daily traffic (AADT)-  number  above 8,000           4,000-8,000    2,000-4,000    below 2,000
Surface type3I                      n.a      high               nigh            intermediate   intermediate
Width of carriagexa                 m        divided  2x7.04  7.00              6.50           6.oo
'Width of shoulder/                 m        2.50               2.50            2.25           2.00
Width of roadbedc2                  in       varies            12.00          11.00           10.00
(b)   National(Secondary)                 class   S(D)                S(1)            S(2)
Equivalent dai,1y traffic (AADT)j-  number  above 8,000         1,000-4,000    below 1,000
Surface type3/                      n.a.    high                intermediate  low
Width of carriageWa                 n        divided  2x7.00--/ 7.00-6.00       5.50-3.50
Width of shoulder/                  n,       2.50               2.50-2.00      1.75-2.75
Width of roadbed2'                  m        varies            12.00-lC.00     9.00
(c)   Provincial (Feeder)                 class   F(1)                F(2)            F,
Equivalent da;,y traffic (AADT)-  number  6,000-1,500           1,500-200      below 200
Surface typel                       n.a.    intermediate        low            gravel
Width of oarriageway                in       7.00-6.00         5s5-;.035        -
Width of shoulde; ,                 m        2.50-2.00          1.75-2.25       -
Width of roadbedL/                  m         2.00-10.00        9.00-8.00      6.00
1/  Geometric standards normally based on 15-year traffic pro,ection;  AADT (annual average daily traffic) calculatedi
in equivalent passenger car units.
2/ Design speed and widths may be reduced and gradients increased, in exceptional circumstances.
3/  Pavement design normally based on 7-year traffic pro,ection.
4/  Initially constructed with two Tl ies unless immediate consaruct'on of four lanes is esonomically justified.
Note: n.a. means not applicable.
Source: Department of Highways, October 1971
November 1972



TABLE I
APPRAI SAL OF
A FIFIH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Department of Highways: Road Construction Program, 1972-76
Regional Distribution and Sources of Finance
Road Construction Program
Expected                 Norharn                               Central            Southel              Tota
Sources of Finance          __  illio          km     B     ion    km   B million   km    B million
National Highways
Construction       Governnmnt Budget Only        425       506       793      960       185       589        73      110    1,476    2,165
Governsmnt Budget and                                                                                                    1'
Bilateral Aid                -        -        253       415        -        -         72        95      325       510-
Governmnt Budget and
Loans (International 1
Agencies)                   371      744       353       599       508    1,373       309       578    1,541    3,294./
Improvement        Government Budget Only        245       197    1,238       764       471       482      679       577    2,633    2,020
Sub-total                                    1,041    11447    2,637    2,738    1,164    2,1444    1,133    1,360    5,975    7,9891/
Provincial Roads
Construction       Govermr.nt Budget Only    1,740    1,082          928      618       766       667       848      566    4,282    2,933
Government Budget and
Loans (International
Agencies)                   366      471        53        42      524       556       193       184    1,136    1,2533/
Improvement        Government Budget Only        347       242       578      360       630       465      495       362    2,050    1,429
Sub-total                                    2,453    1,795    1,559        o       1,920    1,688    1,536    1,112    7,468    5,615-/
Total                                        3494    3,242    4,196    3,758    3,084    4,132    2,669    2,472   13,443   13 ,604
% of total length                                   26                  31                 23                  20                100
% of total cost                                               24                 28                  30                 18                 100
l/  Excludes bilateral aid in the form of technical msistance and goods, eetimated value of B 194 million; if
this amount were included, the sub-total for national highways would be B 8,183 miliion.
2/ Includes loans estimated at B 1,482 million.
3/ Includes loans estimated at B 565 million.
14/ Excludes proposed expenditures on minor improvements of roads and bridges, totalling B 1,150 million;
if this amount were included, the sub-total for provincial roads would be B 6,765 million.
Sourcess National Economic Development Board and Department of Highways, October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 8
APPRA&ISAL OF
A FIFTH iLWHWAX  PROJECT
THA.ILR4D
Lengths of Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways, 1961-70
Natioal Highways   Provincial Roads              All Rad
Year    Paved    UnpaRed    Paved        ed   Paved        Unpaved         Total
(kmn)              (km)            (km   (%)   (km)  (%)       (km)
1961    3,108    5,392        -       -        3,108   37  5,392    63    8,500
1962    3,709    5,258        -       -        3,709   41   5,258    59    8,967
1963    4,157    4,917        -       -        4,157   46   4,917    54    9,074
1964    4,702    4,702        -       _        4,702   50   4,702    50    9,404
1965    5,042    4,431          2,048 2        5,042   53   4,431    47    9,473
1966    4,996    4,643        427    2,569     5,423   43   7,212    57   12,635
1967    5,506    4,011      1,072    3,637     6,578   46   7,648    54  14,226
1968    6,614    3,130      1,131    4,078     7,745   52   7,208    48   14,953
1969    7,822    2,146      1,281    4,448     9,103   58   6,594    42   15,697
1970    8,623    1,781      1,479    4,413    10,102   62   6,194    38  16,296
1/  Excludes  local roads, which are not under the responsibility of the Depart-
ment of Highways; details of thEm are not known, but they are belived to
total about 35,000 km.
2/  In 1965, the responsibility for 2,048 km of provincial roads was transferred
from the Public and Nunicipal Works Department to the Department of Highways,
but the breakdown between paved and unpaved roads is not available.
Source: Department of Highways., October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 9
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH rIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Detailed Project Cost
Foreign
B (million)            US$ (million)          Exchange
ELement                         t      Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Component
I. Construction and
Improvement of;
(a) National (Primary)
Roads
(i)  Don Muang-Bang Pa
In-Saraburi            83    127       104       231     6.10   5.00    11.10
(ii)  Siracha-Ban
Lamung-Rayong           72     65       54       119      3.10   2.60      5.70
(iii)  Langsuan-
Suratthani            130      79       64       143      3.80   3.10      6.9o
Sub-total (a)       285    271       222       493    13.00  10.70    23.70         45
(b) Provilncial (Feeder)
Roads
(i)  San Sai-Phrao           81      37      31        68      1.80   1.50      3.30
(ii)  Chiengmai-Doi
Saket-Mai Suai        133      86       70       156      4.10   3.40      7.50
(iii)  Suphanburi-
Chainat                99      39       32        71     1.90   1.50       3.40
(iv)  Khao Daeng-Ranot        74      26      21        47      1.30   1.00      2.30
Sub-total (b)       377    I          mT      v32      9.10   7.40    16.50         45
II.  Supervision of I                          35       35        70      1.70   1.70      3.40       50
III.  Feasibility Studies and
Detailed Engineering                      33       33        66     1.60   1.60       3.20       50
IV.  Maintenance Study                           4       6        10      0.20   0.30      0.50       60
V.  Maintenance Equipment                       01"    41        41         ol/ 2.00      2.00      100
VI.  Technical Assistance
and rraining
(a)  Department of Highways                5        b        13     0.25   0.40       o.65
(b)  Ministry of Communications            5        8        i3     0.25   0.40       0.65
Sub-total VI                       10       _        77    ~77    0.          1.30       60
VII.  Contingency All wances
(a)  On Item IT/    /                     74       71      145      3.50   3.40       6.90
(b)  On Items II-VI3                       8       13        21     0.40   0.70       1.10
Sub-total VII                      b2      _        i-7      3.90   7 .o      8700
rotal Project Cost                       623      591   1E2E       30.00  2d.60    )8.60          49
1/ Small amount for local handling, assembly, and transport.
2/ 10% physical and increases of 6% and 9% in local and foreign costs, respectively.
3/ 10% physical.
Source: Government and Consultants' Estimates, November 1972
November 1972



TABLE 10
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
Average Daily Traffic
Actual              Projected
197TZ/     1975       1984       -994
National Highways
Don Muang - Bang Pa In - Saraburi
Don Muang-Bang Pa In_2/    9,600      14,Iooc    23,700    36,600
Bang Pa Ln-Saraburi 3/    8,20i     9,900    18,300    29,600
Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong
Siracha-Ban Lamung         6,000      10,000    20,400    33,300
Ban Lamung-Rayong>/        1,000       1,700      3,400     5,600
Langsuan-Suratthani               170        300        900     1,700
Provincial Roads
San Sai-Phrao
San Sai-Km 9                 200         300        6.00      900
Km 9-Phrao                    50          80        160       230
Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mai Suai
Chiengmai-Doi Saket        1,000       1,400      2,750     4,500
Doi Saket-Ka 69               80         120        250       400
Ku 69-mai Suai               250         320       650      1,100
Suphanburi-Chainat                400        550      1,050     1,700
Khao Daeng-Ranot                  300        400        800     1,300
1/ Estimated total traffic (excluding military) in 1970 which would have used
the roads if they had existed.
2/ Projections refer to 1974, 1983, and 1988.
3/ Projections refer to 1974, 1983, and 1993.
Includes 700 vpd which will divert to Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan Road when complete.
5 Excludes local traffic.
Source: Department of Highways, Consultants, and Mission Estimates, October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 11
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIaWAY PROJECT
THAUAND
Vehicle Operating Costs
Passenger Cars                             Buses                              Trucks
Existirg  Improved                    Existing  Improved                    Existing  Improved
Road      Road         Saving         Road       Read        Savi           Road      Road         Sav ,j,
3per      B perkm   Ler km            B Per km             Tr B per km    per_____                       m
National Highways!"
Don Nuang - Bang Pa In - Saraburi
Don Musing-Bang P. In        1.01       0.90       0.11      11     2.02      1.59       0.33       16    1.83      1.56       0.27       15
Bang Pa In-Saraburi          0.97       0.90       0.07       7     1.88      1.59       0.19       10    1.72      1.56       0.16        9
Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong
Siracha-Ban Lamung           1.02       0.94       0.08       8     2.01      1.79       0.22       11    1.82      1.64       0.18       10
Ban Lamung-Rayong           (0.94)      0.94        -         -    (1.79)    1.79         -          -   (1.64)    1.64         -          -
Langsuan-Suratthani 2           1.78       0.94       0.84      47      4.03     1.34       2.69       66    3.23       1.23      2.00       62
Diverted Traffic             0.97       0.94        -         -     1.89      1.79        -          -    1.72      1.64        -          -
Provincial Roadsi/
San Sai-Phrao
San Sai-Km 9                 1.1B       0.90       0.28      24     1.98      1.27       0.7]       36    1.73      1.17       0.61       34
Km 9-Phrao                   2.27       1.11       1.16     51      6.44      1.80       4.64       72    4.91      1.62       3.29       67
Chiengmai-Doi  Sakett-Mai Suai
Chiengmai-Doi Saket          1.09       0.90       0.19      17     1.71      1.27       0.44       26    1.56      1.17       0.39       25
Doi Saket-Km 69              2.27       1.11       1.16     51      6.44      1.98       4.64      72    4.91       1.62       3.29       67
Km 69-Mai Suai               1.78       0.94      0.84       47     4.03      1.;14      2.69      66    3.23       1.23       2.00       62
Diverted Traffic!/           0.99       1.03        -         -     1.77      2.07        -          -    1.64      1.88        -          -
Suphanburi-Chainat              1.13       0.90       0.23      20     1.93      1.27       o.66       34    1.74      1.17       0.57       32
Khao Daeng-Ranot                1.18       0.90       0.28      24     1.98      1.27       0.71       36    1.78      1.17       0.61       34
1,' 1.5 1 car; bus with 45 seats; 10 ton truck.
2/ 1.5 1 car; bus with 20 seats; 5 ton truck.
Sources:  Consultants and Mission Estimates, October 1971
November 1972



TABLE 12
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
Best         Low-/         High/
Estimate     Estimate      Estimate
National Highways
Don Iluang-Bang Pa In-Saraburi     22            17            27
Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong          18            14            21
Langsuan-Suratthani                14            11            17
Provincial Roads
San Sai-Phrao                      12             9           19
Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mai Suai       13            10           16
Suphanburi-Chainat                 14            11           17
Khao Daeng-Ranot                   13            10           16
Combined                              16            12           19
1/ Assumes a 10% increase in the cost of construction, together with
a 10% decrease in base year traffic and a 20% decrease in traffic growth.
2/ Assumes a 10% decrease in the cost of construction, together with a
10% increase in base year traffic and a 20% increase in traffic growth.
Source:  Mission Estimates,  NwSuter 1972
November 1972



ANNEX A
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Previous Transportation Prolects
A.   Highways - Loans:  341-TH, June 1963, US$35 million (First); 455-TH,
June 1966, US$36 million (Second); 535-TH, May 1968, US$29 million
(Third); and 626-TH, June 1969, US$23 million (Fourth).
1.        The main objectives of these projects were:
(a) construction of 1,860 km of national highways;
(b) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of roads to be
constructed;
(c) purchases of maintenance equipment; and
(d) technical assistance to the Department of Highways, mainly
to improve its capabilities in planning and maintaining the
highway network.
2.        The First Highway Project was completed on schedule; about US$13.1
million of the loan amount was cancelled because, at the Government's request,
some road sections to be constructed were removed from the project. The
Closing Date of the Second Highway Project was extended from September 30,
1970 to July 31, 1972 because construction of some road sections and the
feasibility study and detailed engineering of one section took longer than
originally scheduled. US$4.9 million was cancelled as most of the contingency
allowance was not required. The Closing Date of the Third Highway Project
has been extended by six months to complete the construction of one section
which was delayed by floods, to complete detailed engineering of provincial
roads to be constructed under the proposed Fifth Highway Project, and to
settle final payments. The Government intends to request cancellation of
US$4.0 million of the loan which is expected to be surplus. No significant
problems have arisen on the Fourth Project, which is expected to be completed
on schedule and within the cost estimates.
B.  Ports - Loans:  37-TH, October 1950, US$4.4 million (First); 151-TH,
October, 1956, US$3.4 million (Second); and 702-TH, August 6, 1970,
US$12.5 million (Third).
3.        The first two projects were completed on schedule; about US$141,000
of the contingency allowance in the loan amount for the Second Project was
cancelled. However, the Third Project is about 18 months behind schedule
primarily because of delays in awarding civil works contracts.



ANNEX A
Page 2
C.   Railways - Loans:  35-TH, October 1950, US$3 million (First); 128-TH,
August 1955, US$12 million (Second); and 280-TH, April 1961, US$22
million (Third).
4.        The three projects were completed satisfactorily; about US$7.5
million of the loan amount for the Third Project was cancelled because the
Borrower chose to purchase equipment according to procedures that did not
conform to Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement".



ANNEX B
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Details About the National (Primary) Highways To be Constructed
A.   Don Muang-Bang Pa In-Saraburi (83 km)
1.        This is part of the national highway between Bangkok and the
north, which carries heavy traffic between Bangkok and the Northern, Cen-
tral, and North-eastern Regions. A four-lane divided highway, paved and
24 km, links Bangkok and the airport at Don Muang, and a two-lane road,
paved and 83 km, links Don Muang and Saraburi. At Bang Pa In (about 28 km
from Don Muang), the new highway to the north (financed under the First,
Second, and Third Highway Projects) intersects the Don Muang-Saraburi sec-
tion.
2.        The Don Muang-Saraburi section will be widened to four lanes,
divided, and paved according to P(D) standards, with a 7 m carriageway and
2.5 m shoulders. The existing carriageway will be levelled and strengthened
with an additional course of asphalt 5 cm thick. The section will be con-
structed on a 1.5-2 m high embankment to raise it above flood level in the
plain of the Chao Phya River. The existing alignment is good and the new
carriageway will parallel the old one. A 50 m right-of-way is needed and
additional land has been acquired, where necessary.
3.        Access to Bangkok from the section is adequate now and no pro:.-
are foreseen. The Government plans to widen the Bangkok-Don Muang Road to
six lanes (including the grade separation at major intersections) and a pa..I-
lel road to four lanes. In the city, the Government is now preparing to bu-'
a middle ring road. The Bangkok Urban Transport Study will recommend how
better traffic management can improve use of the existing streets (para.
Long-term solutions for the transport problems of Bangkok and the surround l
area will be proposed later in this study.
4.        The area the road traverses is primarily agricultural.  Wi 'i the
land along the Bangkok-Don Muang Road largely built up, suburban development
now is spreading further north. Several large manufacturing industries al-
ready exist, mostly near small towns along the road. About midway between
Don Muang and Bang Pa In, the first phase of a new university complex is
being constructed. No definite development plans exist, but the area is
attractive for further development and urbanization is likely to continue.
5.        The section now carries traffic between 11,900 vehicles per day
(vpd) near Don Muang and 7,100 vpd beyond Bang Pa In; about half is heavy
trucks and buses. Recently, traffic between Don Muang and Bang Pa In grew
at an average annual rate of 24%, but between Bang Pa In and Saraburi it



ANNEX B
Page 2
grew at an average annual rate of only 14%. The lower growth rate between
Bang Pa In and Saraburi was because local traffic grew less and part of the
long distance traffic to the Northern Region diverted to the new Bang Pa In-
Nakorn Sawan Road before it was completed. Future traffic between Don Muang
and Bang Pa In is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 10% up to
1978 because of a further increase in local traffic as well as traffic gen-
erated by the new road to the north. But between Bang Pa In and Saraburi,
traffic is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 7% up to 1983 and
5% thereafter.
6.        Traffic on the section, particularly in the south, is severely
congested. Queuitig and slow-downs occur constantly. Based on present con-
ditions, the proptsed widening will reduce vehicle operating costs (voc) be-
tween 11% and 16% bn the Don Muang-Bang Pa In section and between 7% an' 10%
on the Bang Pa In-Saraburi section. This does not take into account time
savings for occupants of cars and buses, most of whom are on business trips.
7.        Based on voc savings, the investments will yield Economic Returns
(ER) of 29% for the Don Muang-Bang Pa In section, 17% for the Bang Pa In-
Saraburi section, and 22% combined. The traffic capacity of the Don Muang-
Bang Pa In section will be reached after about 15 years of operation, there-
fore the ER for it was calculated over only 15 years although benefits will
continue to accrue beyond this period.
B.   Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong (72 kim)
8.        This part of the national highway between Bangkok and the south-
eastern part of the Central Region parallels the rectangular coast and carries
heavy traffic.  Between Bangkok and Siracha a four-lane divided highway, paved
and 107 km, exists (two lanes were constructed between 1965 and 1969 under
the Second Highway Project). From Siracha a two-lane paved road continues
through Ban Lamung to Sattahip (57 km) and then turns to Rayong (46 km).  A
two-lane paved bypass of Sattahip exists, which reduces the distance for
through traffic by 6 km.
9.        Between Siracha and Ban Lamung (20 km) the road will be widened
to four lanes, divided, and paved according to P(D) standards, and between
Ban Lamung and Rayong (52 km) a direct diagonal road, with two lanes and
paved, will be constructed to P(1) standards, with a 7 m carriageway and
2.5 m shoulders. The section crosses flat to gently rolling terrain and the
alignment is good. In a comparison of several alternatives, this location
was found to be the best solution for the direct road.
10.       The Government is investigating two proposals for a seaport in
the Southern Region (para. 2.12) and the feasibility of building a rail
connection to the new port. One proposal would be to build a new port at
Laem Krabang (midway between Siracha and Ban Lamung) and the other would
be to convert the existing military port at Sattahip to civilian require-
ments. Regardless of the proposal chosen or feasibility of building a rail
connection, the new port would create additional traffic on the Siracha-Ban



ANNEX B
Page 3
Lamung section. If the Sattahip proposal is selected, the two-lane
road between Ban Lamung and Sattahip would need to be widened earlier than
now expected.
11.       The influence area has about 400,000 inhabitants.  Its economy is
relatively diversified and is benefited by its proximity to Bangkok. Agri-
culture is the most important economic activity, and the main cash crops are
rice, tapioca, and sugar cane. Two oil refineries near Siracha are the most
significant industries and the rest are mostly agriculture-based enterprises.
Along the western coast between Siracha and Sattahip, several fairly well-
developed tourist resorts cater to domestic and international vacationers.
United States and Thai military bases near Sattahip support a small service
industry.
12.       Traffic on the existing coastal highway varies between 7,000 and
5,000 vpd. It is highest near Siracha, decreases, and increases again from
local traffic near Sattahip and Rayong. Past traffic growth rates near
Sattahip were inflated by military developments, but civilian traffic alone
grew at a high rate (over 15% p.a.). For the future, average annual growth
rates of 10%, 7% and 5% have been assumed, corresponding to the present
development of the area and its general growth expectations.
13.       Military traffic is not important on the Siracha-Ban Lamung
section, nor will it be significant on the new direct highway, Ban Lamung-
Rayong. Nearly all arms shipments arriving in Sattahip are hauled over the
more direct hinterland route to the Northeast.
14.       The coastal road is nearing its capacity, particularly its northern
section which has the highest traffic and poorest design. Queuing occurs
during much of the day and will become worse with further traffic increases.
Based on present conditions, voc will be reduced about 10% when the Siracha-
Ban Lamung section is widened.
15.       About 1,000 vpd now travel all the way along the indirect coastal
road and would divert to the direct diagonal road, thereby saving 25 km in
travel distance. Relief of the coastal road is equivalent to a 2 to 3 year
increase in traffic and will defer the need for investments to provide addi-
tional capacity for this road by the same period. Also, the new road will
provide the agricultural hinterland with a more direct export route to its
main markets in Bangkok and Thonburi and thus accelerate its development.
About midway along the proposed new road, the Public Welfare Department is im-
plementing a self-help Land Settlement Scheme of 300 km2. The Royal Irriga-
tion Department is carrying out irrigation works for this scheme and is plan-
ning works for two other projects along the road.
16.       Savings in voc justify the proposed investment.  Widening the
Siracha-Ban Lamung section will yield an ER of 18% and constructing the
Ban Lamung-Rayong section will yield an ER of 19%, considering only the
benefits to long distance traffic.



ANNEX B
Page 4
C.   Langsuan-Suratthani (130 km including about 20 km of access roads)
17.       This part of the national highway between Bangkok and the Southern
Region runs along the eastern coast of the Kra Isthmus. The existing high-
way is two lanes and paved. It has a 320 km gap between Langsuan and
Phattalung. This traffic now must travel by the indirect west coast road
from Chumporn (66 km north of Langsuan) via Takuapa to Phattalung on the
eastern coast. This involves two crossings of the central mountain range
of the peninsula. Paved lateral roads exist, which link the west coast
road with the provincial centers of Suratthani and Nakorn Sithamarat on
the eastern coast.
18.       The Langsuan-Suratthani section (130 km) is the first part of
the direct link between Langsuan and Phattalung. It will be constructed
as a two-lane paved highway according to P(2) standards, with 6.5 m carriage-
way and 2.5 m shoulders. This includes access roads to villages (20 km).
The section crosses level to moderately rolling terrain, except short hilly
sections (about 10 km) and the alignment is good.
19.       The new section will shorten road travel distaaces within the
Southern and Central Regions and between Thailand and the Federation of
Malaysia. All major population centers in the south are on the eastern
side of the Isthmus and now are served inadequately. The new section will
improve road access to Suratthani Province (population 450,000) and provide
road transport in an area now predominantly served by the railway. Under
a future project, the Government plans to complete the Suratthani-Phattalung
section; detailed engineering is now being carried out (financed under the
Fourth Highway Project).
20.       About 180,000 people live in the immediate influence area of the
Langsuan-Suratthani section, mainly along the railroad or between the rail-
road and coast. Agricultural production consists of rice, coconut, sugar
cane, maize, and, depending on the availability of transport, fruit and
fish. Timber production is mainly in the northern part of the area. Rubber
is less important in the corridor paralleling the road than in the southern
parts of the Suratthani Province. Produce is marketed in Suratthani (popula-
tion 35,000) and Chumporn (population 15,000). These are the administrative
and commercial centers of the area and the sites of industrial establishments
(mainly processors of agricultural produce).
21.       Most existing transport needs in the Langsuan-Suratthani area are
met by the single-track railway that carried 2 million passengers and 920,000
m tons of freight in 1970. Of the 1.5 million passengers who board trains
at stations and stops (about 7 km apart) along the line, about two-thirds
make purely local trips (about 30 km). About 30% of the 110,000 m tons
originating in the area are of less than carload (LCL) volume (10 m tons),
much higher than the 8% system-wide proportion of LCL freight. Based on
experience after opening the highway section north of Langsuan, about a
third of the passenger and LCL freight traffic originating in the area will
divert to the Langsuan-Suratthani section. Because data are limited, the
economic benefits for this traffic cannot be assessed exactly. Using the



ANNEX B
Page 5
data of the Bank's reappraisal of the Third Railroad Project in Thailand, 1/
on this link the marginal (variable) transport cost for passengers by rail
(B 0.03/pass-km) is considerably lower than by road (B 0.06/pass-km) and
that for LCL freight by rail (B 0.23/m ton-km) is only slightly lower than
by road (B 0.26/m ton-km).  If, however, in addition to line haul costs, the
differences in the quality of service to the user, the cost of pickup and
delivery hauls, and the cost of transloading are considered, road transport
is likely to have lower overall costs for a substantial part of the passenger
and LCL freight traffic.
22.       Although no through connection exists between Langsuan and Surat-
thani, some low-class roads and tracks are in the area. Traffic is local
(partly serving railroad stations) and is about 20 vpd in the northern part
of the area and 40 vpd in the more populated south. The new section will
greatly change the existing traffic pattern, but the difference in voc
between the existing road and the new section (averaging B 2.4/vehicle-km
or 60% of the existing cost) can be conservatively assumed as future savings
in transport costs. Long distance road traffic between Suratthani and Chumporn
and further north now is 20 vpd along the indirect road. When this traffic
diverts to the new section, it will save 250 km in travel distance.
23.       About 20% of the traffic on the west coast road (130 vpd) is through
traffic between north of Chumporn and south of Takuapa. This traffic initially
will benefit from the new section by a reduction of 20 km in travel distance
and a reduction of travel time because of generally better driving conditions.
It will benefit fully from the new section only when the entire Langsuan-
Phattalung Road is completed. Travel distances will be reduced, depending
on destination, between 270 and 360 km and voc of B 9.5 million will be
saved (based on 1970 traffic). About 40% of these future benefits can be
attributed to the Langsuan-Suratthani section.
24.       Traffic on the existing highways in the area has been growing
between 15% and 40% annually in the past. Historical traffic data for local
roads are scarce, but growth rates seem to be considerably lower mainly
because of the poor condition of these roads. Considering the potential
of the area served by the section and the Government's interest in develop-
ing the Southern Region, further steep increases in road traffic are ex-
pected. Over the 20-year service life of the road, traffic is expected
to grow at 12% for the first 5 years, 10% for the next 5 years, and 7% for
the last 10 years. These growth rates may be exceeded in the early years
after the road is opened if the railway fails to meet the challenge of
road competition for long distance traffic by increasing its efficiency
and improving its rate policy and if more rail traffic than assumed diverts
to the road.
1/   IBRD/IDA, Economic Staff Working Paper No. 132, "Reappraisal of a
Railroad Project in Thailand", July 1972.



ANNEX B
Page 6
25.       The Langsuan-Suratthani section is justified based on savings in
voc to existing traffic. The initial traffic volume will be over 300 vpd.
Assuming that the rest of the Langsuan-Phattalung Road would be available
only in 1985, or 10 years after the Langsuan-Suratthani section is opened,
the ER would be 14%. Even if the rest of the sections were not built, the
ER would be 12%.



ANNEX C
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Details About the Provincial (Feeder) Roads To Be Constructed
A.   San Sai-Phrao (81 km)
1.        The existing road in the Northern Region consists of three sec-
tions. Between the junction with the Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mai Suai Road to
8 km north of San Sai (13 km), the road is paved. Between 8 km and 25 km
north of San Sai (17 km), it is gravel-surfaced, well-aligned, and on flat
terrain. Between 25 km north of San Sai and Phrao (64 km), it is an unim-
proved earth road, passable only in dry weather, and it crosses terrain that
is flat to rolling (34 km) and hilly to mountainous (30 km).  Timber bridges,
culverts, and fords span streams and rivers.
2.        The transport need along the road is to reach Chiengmai, the most
important market in the North and Thailand's second largest city. Traffic
is poorly served by the existing road, except along the fair gravel road at
the southern end. From the northern end and center of the road, traffic
passes over existing earth tracks or on the gravel road toward the west be-
tween Fang and Chiengmai (involving detours up to 35 km). The route used
depends on the condition of the tracks and availability of river crossings.
During the rainy season, the road cannot be used for about 2 months.
3.        Construction will start near the end of the existing paved road
(8 km north of San Sai). A two-lane paved road will be constructed for the
first 9 km according to F(2) standards, with 5.5 m carriageway and 1.75 m
shoulders. A gravel road will be constructed for the remaining 72 km ac-
cording to F(3) standards, with a width of 6 m including shoulders. Short
sections through villages and on gradients exceeding 8% will be paved to
avoid dust in dry weather and mud in wet.
4.        The influence area is about 500 kmi  and is inhabited by about
100,000 people. From San Sai, the road traverses a partly-irrigated area
between the Ping River and its tributary (the Faeng), crosses an upland
plateau, and enters a mountain valley to Phrao.  About half the population
is clustered near Phrao. Agricultural produce consists of rice, tobacco,
fruits, and vegetables as well as timber (young hardwood, teak, and fire-
wood from the mountainous central part of the road). The produce is mar-
keted in the provincial capital of Chiengmai.
5.        The table (page 6) shows present and projected population and
production figures (with and without the road). Rice production is expected
to grow 2.5% annually before the new road is opened and by a higher rate
immediately after it is opened. Tobacco production will grow from 625 tons



ANNEX C
Page 2
in 1970 to 1,500 tons in 1985 because the area under the licensing system
will be expanded and better average yields will be produced after increased
fertilization. With increased rice and tobacco production, fertilizer
consumption in the area is expected to quadruple (from 200 tons in 1970 to
900 tons in 1985). Vegetable production will expand rapidly and marketable
maize output will grow 4% annually as a result of road improvement. From
the 100 km2 of productive forest, about 4,000 m3 of hardwood and 3,000 m3
of teak are extracted annually. The master plan for the next 20 years
provides for progressive working of plots in the southern forest. It also
provides for reserving timber from three forests near the road for curing
tobacco and making charcoal. Timber production is expected to increase from
4,000 m3 in 1970 to 7,000 m3 in 1985.
6.        In 1968 the Land Cooperative Department started a Land Settlement
Scheme (about 80 km2) near Phrao. The Covernment plans to relocate a total
of 2,000 families to the area and to diversify from rice to upland cash crops
(cotton, tobacco, fruit, maize, mungbeans, and soybeans). Implementation is
behind schedule because of financial constraints and poor transport to
Chiengmai. The Government is now making adequate budgetary provision but a
key element for the success of the settlement is to improve transport to
Chiengmai by building the project road. The quantity projections for the
settlement in the table (page 6) are based on the Bank's assessment of the
likely cropping pattern and rate of settlement.
7.        About 170 vehicles per day (vpd) use the existing gravel road near
San Sai. Data for the earth road are incomplete. Based on population and
production figures, initial traffic on the new road is expected to be about
300 vpd near San Sai and 80 vpd near Phrao increasing by 1995 to about 900
vpd and 280 vpd, respectively.
8.        The improved road will reduce vehicle operating costs (voc) to
Chiengmai by about 32% from the San Sai area and about 48% from the Phrao
area and the area midway between the two villages. Benefits to existing
and generated traffic will result in an Economic Return (ER) of 12%.
B.   Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mai Suai (133 km)
9.        Two sections comprise the existing road in the Northern Region.
Between Chiengmai and Doi Saket (14 kIn), the road is paved and well-aligned.
It is built on an embankment because it crosses flat terrain, which is sub-
ject to flooding. But the embankment is too low and the road is too narrow,
with only a 3 m carriageway and 2 m shoulders. Between Doi Saket and Mai
Suai (119 km), it is an earth road 3 m to 5 m wide.  The road is in bad con-
dition and impassable in wet weather. Half is in hilly to mountainous ter-
rain (near Doi Saket) and the alignment is bad, with many sharp curves and
some gradients up to 20%. The remainder is in flat terrain (near Mai Suai)
and the alignment is fair. Most of the 60 stream crossings are fords,
negotiable only in dry weather. The remainder are weak timber bridges.
10.       The Chiengmai-Doi Saket section will be reconstructed to a two-
lane paved road on an embankment averaging 2 m according to F(1) standards,
with a 6 m carriageway and 2 m shoulders. The Doi Saket-Mai Suai section



ANNEX C
Page 3
will be constructed to F(2) standards, with a 5 m carriageway and 1.5 m
shoulders. It will be gravel-surfaced between km 14 (Doi Saket) and km 69,
except for short sections (11 km total) through villages and on gradients
exceeding 8% (maximum 12%); these sections and the remaining 34 km to Mai
Suai will have 5 m paved carriageways. Forty-two concrete bridges and box
culverts will be constructed.
11.       The influence area is about 600 km , with about 5% cultivated.
Average population density is low. About half the 70,000 people living in
the area are concentrated at the northern half of the road in the Wiang Pa
Pao Valley, which is separated from the Chiengmai-Doi Saket area by mountains.
The main agricultural crops are rice, tobacco, garlic, fruits and vegetables. 2
Serious diseases affect cotton and it is uneconomic to cultivate. Some 200 km
of forest are productive, from which about 7,500 m3 of timber (including about
3,000 m3 of teak) are extracted annually. About midway along the road some
tin is mined primitively, with about 500 tons produced annually.
12.       The road is expected to change the area decisively.  Many areas
now isolated will attract farmers. With improved access and better market-
ing possibilities, agricultural production will be enlarged by increasing
productivity of the existing fields and expanding the cultivated area. The
table (page 7) shows present and projected population and production fig-
ures (with and without the road). With improved transport, marketable rice
surplus will increase from 6,000 tons in 1970 to 10,000 tons in 1985. About
1,250 tons of tobacco are produced in the area. Conditions are favorable
for further cultivation and export prospects are good so production will
expand to 3,200 tons in 1985. Maize will increase 4% annually up to 1985.
No major increases are expected in vegetables or garlic. Over the next
15 years timber from areas adjacent to the road will continue to be extracted
at the present rate and minor increases are expected thereafter.
13.       The Chiengmai-Doi Saket section now has traffic of 1,000 vpd, but
the difficult mountain section north of Doi Saket has traffic as low as
15-20 vpd, increasing to 200 vpd in the Wiang Pa Pao-Mai Suai area. Because
of reduced transport cost, major changes are expected in the present traffic
pattern. Except for the Doi Saket area, most agricultural produce and
passengers now are directed toward Chiengrai and Lampang. With the new
road, this traffic as well as timber are expected to turn south toward the
more lucrative Chiengmai market.
14.       Voc on the existing roads and tracks in the area are high.  On
the improved road, a truck will save B 0.4/km (USd2) or 25% between Chiengmai
and Doi Saket, B 3.3/km (US416.5) or 67% between Doi Saket and km 69, and
B 2.0 (US010.0) or 62% between km 69 and Mai Suai. This does not take into
account that during the rainy season long sections are impassable. The
transport cost to Chiengmai from the main agricultural area near Wiang Pa Pao
will be reduced to about 70% of the cost to Chiengrai or Lampang.
15.       About 40 vpd now travel over the existing paved road between
Chiengmai and Chiengrai via Lampang. The new road will cut travel distance
for this traffic from 300 km to about 200 km. Both Chiengmai and Chiengrai,



ANNEX C
Page 4
inhabited by 20,000 people, are growing rapidly and their communication needs
are increasing. Therefore, average annual growth rates of 12%, 10%, and 7%
were chosen.
16.       Voc savings to existing and generated (local) traffic will result
in an ER of 13%.
C.   Suphanburi-Chainat (99 km)
17.       The existing road crosses the densely populated plain of the Chao
Phya River in the Central Region. It is gravel-surfaced, narrow (6-8 m),
and in some areas too low and subject to flooding. The alignment is good,
except for a few tnnecessarily sharp curves. Ten weak timber bridges cross
streams and canals.
18.       The road will be reconstructed to two-lanes and paved, mostly
according to F(1) standard, with a 6 m carriageway and 2 m shoulders. But
a 23 km center section and a 7 km spur to Hankha, which have less traffic
will be reconstructed to F(2) standard, with a 5 m carriageway and 1.5 m
shoulders. Concrete bridges will be constructed to replace the timber ones.
19.       The influence area is about 900 km  and within the existing Chao
Phya Irrigation Project area (Loan 36-TH, October 1950, US$18 million and
Loan 328-TH, December 1962, US$5.6 million). It is highly developed, with
a population of over 120,000. Main crops are rice and sugar cane. Further
production increases depend on larger crop yields and the rate of introducing
or extending double cropping. Chainat in the north and Suphanburi in the
south are the local markets. Rice and sugar are refined near Suphanburi and
marketed in Bangkok.
20.       Most present traffic needs in the area are met by road transport.
A tributary of the Chao Phya River (the Suphan) parallels the road and still
carries some rice traffic. But river transport is losing importance because
it is slow and involves double-handling. Traffic on the road averages 500
vpd near Suphanburi and Chainat, 300 vpd midway between the villages, and
150 vpd on the Hankha spur. Growth rates of 7% up to 1985 and 5% thereafter
have been assumed and seem conservative compared with recent increases of
about 10%.
21.       In addition to traffic diverted from the river, the improved road
will gain traffic diverted from parellel, low-class "irrigation" roads. Also,
because of shorter travel distances, the road will attract some long distance
traffic between the Northern Region, Bangkok, and the Southern Region. This
additional traffic was not evaluated.
22.       For the existing traffic, the improved road will result in voc
savings of 20% for cars and 32% for trucks. Considering only benefits to
existing traffic, the ER will be 14%.



ANNEX C
Page 5
D.   Khao Daeng-Ranot (74 km)
23.       A gravel road (74 km) runs along a narrow, flat landstrip opposite
Songkhla on the eastern side of the Kra Isthmus in the Southern Region. It
is on a good alignment, but is inadequately drained, subject to flooding
mainly on about 10 km near Ranot, and rough because of the heavy traffic it
carries. Seven timber bridges cross streams. An adequate motorized vehi-
cle ferry operates across the mouth of a 0.5 km lagoon between Khao Daeng,
on the southern end of the road, and Songkhla, on the opposite shore.
24.       The Khao Daeng-Ranot Road will be reconstructed to a two-lane
paved road generally according to F(2) standards, with a 5.5 m carriageway
and 1.75 m shoulders. The first 7 km from Khao Daeng passes through a densely
populated area and several villages. Many vehicles stop on this section
so it will be constructed 10 m wide to accommodate them. The earth works
on this section are light. For the last 4 km to Ranot, the road crosses
a low swamp. An embankment will be built there and will make the earth-
works more difficult and expensive than on the other sections. The road
will be constructed almost entirely on the existing alignment. The seven
timber bridges will be replaced with concrete bridges.
25.       The road serves an area about 700 km2 (400 km2 of agricultural
land is well-developed) and a population of about 100,000. Agricultural
production includes paddy, coconuts, palm trees, watermelons, corn, and
kapok. Poultry and pig production and fishing provide additional cash in-
come. Songkhla and Had Yai are the main markets for the area's produce and
provide employment for the area's surplus labor.
26.       Traffic on the road increased rapidly after the vehicle ferry to
Songkhla was introduced and now averages about 300 vpd (about 60% are trucks
and buses). Average annual growth rates of 7% for the years up to 1985 and
5% thereafter are in line with expected development of the area.
27.       Voc savings of 24% for cars and 34% for trucks will yield an ER
of 13%.



ANNEX C
Pageb
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Projected Population and Agricultural Production
on Two Project Roads
1. San Sai-Phrao
A. Population (thousands)
With      Without   With     Without  With    Without
Project   Project   Project  Project  Project  Project
Road      Road      Road     Road     Road    Road
District          1970          19751995
San Sai             40     46        46       67        61       88       80
Mae Taeng           15    18         18       26        24       34       32
Phrao               45     52        52       75        70       98       92
Sub-total        100    116       116      168       155      220      204
Phrao Settlement
New Settlers              7/114      31/ 5
Natural Growth           -/  8-/    -/4    23         10       31
Total            100    123        119     191       165      251      218
B.  Marketable Agricultural Production (thousand m tons)-/
San Sai            7.0    7.9       7.4    10.8        9.4      13.1    10.8
Mae Taeng          2.6    3.0       2.7      4.1       3.4       5.0      4.0
Phrao              7.9    8.9       8.4    12.2       10.5      14.9    12.2
Sub-total       17.5  19.8       18.5     27.1      23.3      33.0    27.0
Phrao Settlement   -        /11-  4.0       12.1       4.8      15.0      6.0
Total           17.5  29.8       22.5    39.2       28.1      48.0    33.0
C.  Forestry (thousand m3)
Phrao             11.0   11.5    11.5                 1 .0      16.0    16.0
1/ By 1980
2/ Rice, tobacco, maize, vegetables, and others.
N,vu'ymber 1972



ANNEX C
Page 7
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Projected Population and Agricultural Production
on Two Project Roads
2.   Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mai Suai
A. Population (thousands)
With      Without    With      Without  With    Without
Project   Project    Project  Project  Project Project
Road      Road       Read      Road      Road     Road
District       1970         1975                1985                  1995
Doi Saket       10      12       12         16        16        23        21
Wiang Pa Pao    40      46       46          72        62       97        83
Mai Suai        20      23       23          29        31       38        42
Total         70      81       81         E                            146
B. Marketable Agricultural Production (thousand m tons)!/
Doi Saket      2.0     2.4       2.4        3.5       3.2      4.6       400
Wiang Pa Pao   4.0     4.9       4.9         7.2      6.5      9.7       7.9
Mai Suai       2.9     3.4       3.4        5.0       4.5      6.7       5.7
Total        8.9   10.7       10.7       15.7    14.2       21.0      17.6
C. Forestry (thousand m3)
Doi Saket/
Wiang Pa Pao 7.5     7.5       7.5        8.0       8.0      8.5      8.5
1/  Rice, tobacco, maize, and others.
Sources: Government and Mission Estimates
November 1972






ANNEX D
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiacal Year                    Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                          at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1972/73
March 31, 1973                              4,300
June 30, 1973                               5,000
1973/74
September 30, 1973                          6,100
December 31, 1973                           7,300
March 31, 1974                              9'
June 30, 1974                              10,400
1974/75
September 30, 1974                         12,500
December 31, 1974                         14,500
March 31, 1975                             16,400
June 30, 1975                              181300
1975/76
September 30, 1975                         19,900
December 31, 1975                          21,200
March 31,1976                              22,500
June 30, 1976                              23,500
1976/77
September 30, 1976                         24,500
December 31, 1976                          25,500
March 31, 1977                             26,500
June 30, 1977                              27,500
1977/78
September 30, 1977                         28,300
December 31, 1977                          28,600
Source: Government/Bank Estimates, November 1972
November 1972






APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
D                                                                                      DIRECTOR GENERAL      O
| DEPUTY - IRECTOR GENERAL FOR1 A..DMINTR.T1OND                                                            D          G         FOR OEERRTRNNR
OFFICE    _           ~~~~~FINAN.._.OUEET                               l        HAT  !vcS                     ADsEUbTO   N                   ESONLTANN                             LNIG_                     LCTO PN..AG            iMT5IL N_    ASIAN. NIGZHWAV T5HICAL
sECT10N MAIN T ENANcE Arco                                      U          NTlNG PUROHAS                                                                                                                                         F        t  S             >N ...-T ON L_.lD H=XUHUr bsANFaWFR ANal  YsksI ....h .ECT AN HIGHWAd Oes GN SECTI'N  MATER1ALS  TsT  NG - IFSOhRISDSON  ..E.... ..O r..S
..1--T 1-1                                                  l-T.- I~~IVDII  EAVII   ITVVVVO  IVID II         I0IITVS             VIIVOO      --O            V -TD      - OD-O IT SlVAV
L JLTY DIRETOR GEN ERAL I.R OPERATIONS 
t5+1 L 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..Hr0n  1 -=C3[< MAgNL <2IsLpI-1N
IIIO:GaHLA  l   q -ETHMARAT l   q   BUA H1N   l IRrO   'r 0  ITIAII,      -| IT ..... ...JuLorE "I  - CH1-uGM   |  -T             - Nll-T   -T-      - V   VAVOIDO                     |
01 I 0 C001                                                                                                                                                                                                          01100111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11L11 
-| rHATHALVN |    L SIAl IHH  l   -|CHLJMPRN  l   4TH>1NBRI  l   gFeACHE4bVA  l C  5P;3R   |   i   FTcHAtON l   4Ch ENLA 2 |   _|  cH hGRAI      -| r-SHUN BX |  -| NONGsA    l   i r)KI o-  NOT 
SOUsCE~  ~              ~            ~ ~ [j                                    [...LLY.o [:                                           LE7s LhE.



I



IBRD-3775R
---ALiUST 1972
-200                              109  MO,     Ch, engr:                 MEON   ,                                                    t'                        2C\\ t
20     N                       0/F.g
MrelHongson MoJr                                                                                              NORTH VIETNAM
-I~~~~~~~~~~~BK
%,od                      - l                I                                    L A        O                         7>
t | mp:n /ge'.";'\ &  DJ
Lo~see                                                                    Odoeod n                     n
'.  '<Pocoen    '  orynolok                                                         Soeo Nocorn       Ban'  C   1 
Chmreg hain                         L   &o                 i.-tc---oo -. KhSre rj(                          Chn Me
'h                               t :korn                                                                      oko,n Pan"/rY  )t >     \
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Su5ko N>o oh:n:     
~~.Poe,gp                                                        nkpop SlOhr0
>      Thong Ph: Phum        K oeq
N.k..S..., b_
S opk.b- YoCh.    95                                                                                        et
Uq   \  59onq  P O S   Mu:ngr         P      r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on
-    1                               B A G S   P : b r |   cl o e n g s : :                    K  H  M    R          E P  U    L
'-c] ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     u
Thr PPh ,                 D.,jed,                                                                                         I.krFpe    hl/rI ID
45                                                                          aM  Ro:d                                                      2:u  a
V                                       Sinhupoo  c
eSRnoS         Pecbn          LOCOKeOB       gool1h
<2;7 / ji~~~~A.th.                           N,,-   $!No wndtyunerosu,tncr sptd
\  ^-tQN.9t iThaa PROEtFIHASris pnoel3iT
Isg g_                 %             oehrCnrtr   ditv e                                                               crpjc4 
I l~~~~~~~~Pthbul                                                                                 K   H    I \A tEr           \    W gRen RNePU LI
lb~~~~~~~~ja
f,               ul             / TAi~~dr~                                                                      SOUTH
VIETNAM
T H ALLAN D
0,-                              ~~~NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWOIRK
EXISTING NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
la<r  arn 2Pr mary under Construotion or proposed
-           S5co._end a.y udernd    costioul  01 Proposed
PROJECT  HIGHWAYS                  r Firt rojea,ct,c  '341 TH
Construction and iOfprsueooent.  Scon  pojec  45   TH
*44Zi.R Ph.                       ........... Study and egigPrur  tThi'd projet  535 T1             2
Keob~~ ~P  900  -m                        SNoOp aerd oogineerleog           h~~~~~~ Fourth Project 626 TH
Tun S.,,                                    ~~~~~~~~~~Natioanl roads      Cnlufo
'o                         sProvincial (feede ) rood?)  8   mnOseeotf Fifth project
0+    Iog            OhiOhaRailroods                                              -90Ilie Provinclotjfeederjroods not shoowo
Kt ton                      hm        r:ng   m               Rivers
.oc Yo          POt I ^_   8et@/ r | ( enor r   nen terootionol boundartes
H.~ ~ ~~~~~~~l0~0i a.Regional boundaries
.'A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Srt   .Io,gP,nNrdhiwat                                                            0          0        100    150   200
7  Torryrgrreoo Takber                            Kilomneters
/           0            ~~~             ~~~          ~~50  100  [so
ro~7  r1jThdoOocn Son,         The Son0grios shows 00 thismo MP o oa   .t epy
too'.                         ALA'o                                eldP5lOtmor 0OOOpIOoncby the world Ba,Iti t  offl6tss



