Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4476
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 870-TH)
May 9, 1983
East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND - FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT: LOAN 870-TH
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
BASIC DATA SHEET ... . . . . . . . . ..                                  ii
HIGHLIGHTS .... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .1.. .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL   . . . . . .     2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
VI.  ROLE  OF  THE  IBRD  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
VII.  CONCLUSIONS   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7 .  .  .  .  .  .  17
TABLES
1.  Actual and Expected Project Implementation (2 pages) . . . . .     19-20
2.  Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Cost (3 pages) . . . . . . .     21-23
3.  Traffic Volumes on Project Roads (2 pages) . . . . . . . . . .     24-25
ANNEX I:  Borrower's Comments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26-28
MAP
IBRD 3775 R (PCR) Thailand - National Highway Network
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PREFACE
The following is a Project Completion Report on the Fifth Highway
Project in Thailand. The Loan, No. 870-TH for US$28.6 million, was approved
by the Executive Directors on December 5, 1972, the agreement was signed
December 26, 1972 and the loan was closed on December 31, 1979 when
US$0.8 million remaining in the loan account was cancelled.
The Completion Report was prepared by the Bank's East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office and is based on information obtained from the East
Asia and Pacific Information Center, Appraisal Report No. PTR-126a dated
November 17, 1972, staff supervision reports, consultants final reports,
data supplied by the Department of Highways and information gathered by a
project completion, supervision and appraisal mission to Thailand in May
1980.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Completion Report was read by the Operations Evaluation
Department but the project was not audited by OED staff. An initial draft
of the Completion Report was discussed with the Department of Highways. The
final draft of the Report was sent to the Borrower and the comments received
indicated agreement with it (see Annex I).



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND: FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 870-TH)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original          Actual or
Item                                   Plan           Re-Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)               58.6               73.1
Overrun (%)                                                     25
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ million)                                  28.6
Disbursed                                       -               27.8
Cancelled                                       -               0.8
Repaid to 3/31/83                               -                4.76
Outstanding to 3/31/83                          -               23.19/a
Date Physical Components Completed            05/31/76           03/27/78
Proportion of Time Overrun ()                     -               40
Economic Rate of Return (%)                      16               20
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY73  FY74  FY75  FY76   FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80
(i)  Estimated          5.0   10.4  18.3  23.5  27.5  28.6
(ii)  Actual             4.5    9.8  13.9  17.4  21.2  26.9  27.7  27.8
Actual/Estimated %         90    94    76    74    79    94    97     97
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                  Actual or
Item                           Plan     Revisions    Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable      -          -          01/02/69
Government's Application                            -         11/27/69
Negotiations                         04/  /71   05/  /72       10/25/72
Board Approval                       06/  /71   06/  /72      12/05/72
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                     12/26/72
Effectiveness Date                                             03/26/73
Closing Date                         12/31/77   12/31/78      12/31/79 /b
Borrower                                        Kingdom of Thailand
Executing Agency                                Department of Highways
Fiscal Year of Borrower                         October 1 - September 30
Follow-on Project Name                          Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads)
Loan Number                                   1519-TH
Amount (US$ million)                          110.0
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                    03/23/78
/a  Including exchange adjustment of $0.14 million.
7b Final disbursement date: October 26, 1979.



- ili -
Page 2 of 2
MISSION DATA
Sent                  No. of   No. of               Date of
Item         b      Month, Year    Weeks    Persons  Manr-weeks  Report
Identification   Tptn Proj.      10/68        4        1        4 /a     11/68
Preparation      Tptn Proj.      02/70        3        2        4 lb     04/70
Preparation      Tptn Proj.   09-10/70        4        3        8 lb     11/70
Appraisal         Tptn Proj.     10/71        4        2        8 7b      12/71
Total                                  11                16 /c
Supervision I       AEPT         12/72        3        2        5 /d     01/73
Supervision II      AEPT         11/73        2        1        2 /e     01/74
Supervision III     AEPT      09-10/74        3        2        6 /f     10/74
Supervision IV      AEPT      11-12/75        4        2        6 /g     12/75
Supervision V       AEPT      02-03/77        4        2        8 /h     05/77
Supervision VI      AEPT      02-03/79        4        2        8 7i     05/79
Supervision VII     AEPT      11-12/79        4        2        6 7-j    01/80
Total                                  24                41 /k
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)               Baht (B)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average                    US$1 = 20.80
Intervening Years Average                 US$1 = 20.47
1973                                    US$1 = 20.62
1974                                    US$1 = 20.38
1975                                    US$1 = 20.38
1976                                    US$1 = 20.40
1977                                    US$1 = 20.40
1978                                    US$1 = 20.34
/a  Includes supervision of First, Second and Third Highway Projects
(Loans 341-TH, 455-TH and 535-TH) and appraisal of Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 626-TH).
/b  Includes supervision of Second, Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
/c  About four man-weeks attributable to Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH).
74  Includes supervision of Second, Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
7h  Includes supervision of Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
If  Includes supervision of Fourth Highway Project.
7g  Includes obtaining data for Completion Report on Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 626-TH).
/h  Includes appraisal of Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project
(Loan 1519-TH).
/i  Includes supervision of Sixth Highway Project and 1 week (2 man-weeks)
on mission to Laos.
/j  Includes supervision of Sixth Highway Project and preparation of the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH).
/k  About 18 man-weeks attributable to Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH).



iv -
HIGHLIGHTS
The project achieved the results expected in its five main
objectives. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) on its road construc-
tion and improvement components is higher than estimated at appraisal (20%
versus 16%), mainly because traffic has exceeded the appraisal forecasts
(para. 5.05).
Firstly, the project helped complete important links in the
national (primary) highway system through: construction of the section
Langsuan-Suratthani in the Southern Peninsula (the remaining section
Suratthani-Phattalung was constructed with financing by Japan); construction
of a shorter new link Southeast from Bangkok to Rayong; and greatly
increasing the traffic capacity of the acutely congested main highway, Don
Muang - Saraburi from Bangkok to the Northeast (para. 1.03).   Secondly, the
project contributed to expansion and improvement of the poorly developed
provincial (secondary) road system through construction of four important
provincial road sections (paras. 1.04 and 2.01).
Thirdly, the project, through the Road Maintenance Study, prepared
a program to establish an adequate maintenance system for the national and
provincial roads (paras. 3.12-3.14, and 4.02). Fourthly, further institu-
tional development was assisted through technical assistance to the Department
of Highways (paras. 3.15 and 4.01) and to the Ministry of Communications for
its Transport Planning Unit (para. 4.03). Fifthly, feasibiilty studies and
engineering were undertaken of further roads, and construction of most of them
was included in the Sixth Hlighway Project (paras. 3.08-3.11).
The cost overrun of 25% was caused by steep price rises, part icu-
larly of petroleum products, from late 1973; the price rises, together with
the lack of adequate price adjustment provisions in contracts, also contri-
buted to a time overrun of nearly two years (paras. 3.03-3.07, 3.18). The
Government now includes comprehensive price adjustment clauses in civil works
contracts (para. 3.19).
The appraisal report forecast that construction of two of the
provincial roads (Chiengmai-Mae Suai and San Sai-Phrao) would have a
decisive effect on rural development in their influence areas, and this
effect has already been confirmed by a consultant-s re-evaluation between
two and three years following their completion (para. 5.06).
The following points are of special interest:
- institutional development, particularly setting up a Transport Planning
Unit in the Ministry of Communications (para. 4.03);
- delays caused by omission of adequate price adjustment clauses in
contracts, and decision to include them in future projects (paras. 3.18
and 3.19);
- ERR's greater than forecast, in spite of cost increases, because of a
greater than anticipated surge in road traffic until the mid-1970s
(para. 5.04 and 5.05); and the even greater than expected impact on rural
development on two of the provincial roads (para. 5.06).



THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 870-TH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The economy of Thailand grew strongly during the 1960s, at an
average rate of about 9% p.a. It was expected to continue to grow at
approaching 7% p.a., and that rate was generally sustained during the 1970s.
Transport demand has grown correspondingly and most of the increase in
traffic has gone to roads. The share of road traffic for freight had
increased to over 50% by 1968 and over 70% by 1976, with even greater pro-
portions for passenger transport.
1.02      To meet this demand for road transport the Government has been
devoting around three-quarters of transport investment to roads. The
first urgent need was to develop adequate all-weather paved national routes
to connect the principal population and agricultural production regions with
Bangkok, the capital and main port and industrial center. The first four
Bank financed highway projects provided major assistance to that end, par-
ticularly financing main highways from Bangkok to the northern region, in
the northeast, and radiating from Bangkok towards the southeast and south-
west. The projects also assisted in institutional development of the
Department of Highways (DOH); this was undertaken through the provision of
technical assistance and provision of equipment for road maintenance and for
workshops. As a result, the capacity of the DOH to carry out planning of
road improvement programs, and to maintain roads, was substantially
improved.
1.03      By the late 1960s, when the formulation of a Fifth Highway Project
was being considered, the remaining needs for the national highway system
were seen to be the completion of some important links, and the relief of
rapidly growing congestion on the main route from Bangkok towards the north-
east. Accordingly it was decided to prepare for construction of new sections
of national road in the southern peninsula and southeast of Bangkok to Rayong
and to convert the existing road northeast from Bangkok to Saraburi to a
four-lane divided highway.
1.04      In addition, it was appreciated that the "Provincial" road system
(in effect the secondary road system) which is also the responsibility of the
DOH, needed to be improved and expanded and five of these roads were included
in the project to be prepared, with studies to be carried out under the Third
Highway Project (Loan 535-TH).



- 2 -
Furthermore, it was decided to include in the Fifth Highway Project feasi-
bility studies and engineering of further provincial roads to prepare for
their improvement under future projects.
1.05      For further institution building, additional technical assistance
was included in the Fifth Highway Project for the Department of Highways
and also for the Ministry of Communications (MOC) to assist it in setting up
a Transport Planning Unit (TPU), and to help in its initial operations.
In road maintenance, although substantial progress had been made in setting
up the DOH field organization, the Government had not prepared and executed
significant programs of periodic road maintenance. Also, satisfactory
arrangements had not been instituted for the maintenance and replacement of
the road maintenance equipment. Although the workshops in the 12 field
divisions had been constructed and equipped, there was not an adequate system
for providing funds, parts for repairs, and for the management of the fleet
and the replacement of old equipment as it became worn out. It was therefore
agreed to include in the Fifth Highway Project a study of road maintenance to
prepare a maintenance program, with estimated annual budgets, and detailed
proposals for carrying it out, and for improving the system of maintenance
and replacement of road maintenance equipment. Towards this end, the study
would also identify the substantial amount of equipment expected to be needed
and which would be procured under a future project. In the meantime,
provision was made in the Fifth Highway Project for procurement of a smaller
amount of urgently needed items of maintenance equipment.
1.06      Feasibility studies of the three sections of national roads were
carried out by the DOH, with help from the consultants provided under the
technical assistance included in the First and Second Highway Projects
(Loans 341 and 455-TH). Detailed engineering of these roads was undertaken
by consultants under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 626-TH). Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering of the provincial roads were carried out by
consultants under the Third Highway Project (Loan 535-TH). The project was
appraised in October 1971, but some revisions were found necessary to the
engineering of the provincial roads to reduce the costs. After the revisions
were made, the Fifth Highway Loan (No. 870-TH) for US$28.6 million was nego-
tiated in October 1972 and signed December 26, 1972.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
1Kv K fication
2.0'      Sections o' natio.al and provincial Roads to be constructed and
im'-oved were identified in late 1968. The three sections of national road
we-e proposed by the Government as priority items in its development program
The first se~cti-n -s tc alieve rapilly mountirg congestion on the main



3-
road access to Bangkok from the north and northeast; the second to improve
communications southeast from Bangkok; and the third, to complete a link in
the main northsouth highway in the southern peninsula. Five provincial roads
were selected on the basis of a "feeder road study" (chiefly of roads
expected to be classified as provincial roads) which was completed by British
consultants in 1967, which was financed under the First Highway Project Loan
341-TH. However, one of the five sections was eliminated during negotiations
(para. 2.09).
Feasibility Studies
2.02      Feasibility Studies were carried out on the three National High-
ways:
(a)  Don Muang-Bang Pa In-Saraburi (83 km);
(b)  Siracha-Rayong (72 km); and
(c)  Langsuan-Suratthani (130 km, including about 20 km of access
roads).
2.03      The feasibility studies for roads (a) and (b) were carried out
in 1969 by the DOH, assisted by its advisory consultants, whose services
were financed under the Second Highway Project (Loan 455-TH). The
feasibility study for road (c) was carried out by U.S. consultants financed
by a grant from USAID. This feasibility study in fact covered the entire
length Langsuan-Suratthani-Phattallung (340 km). However the section
Suratthani-Phattallung was constructed with financial assistance provided by
Japan and not included in the Fifth Highway Project.
2.04      The five provincial roads initially identified were:
(a)  San Sai-Phrao (81 km);
(b)  Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mae Suai (133 km);
(c)  Suphanburi-Chainat (99 km);
(d)  Khao Daeng-Ranot (75 km); and
(e)  Lat Ya-Sangkhlaburi (194 km).
2.05      The feasibility of these five provincial roads was established on
the basis of the 1967 "feeder road study" by consultants (para. 2.01) with
additional work and updating by the DOH, and further information obtained
during the appraisal. Road (e) was omitted from the proposed project during
negotiations (para. 2.09(b)).



-4-
Detailed Engineering
2.06       Detailed engineering of the three National Highways (para. 2.02)
was financed under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 455-TH). Detailed
engineering of roads (a) and (c) was carried out by consultants and of road
(b) by Danish consultants. The U.S. road (a) was designed as a four lane
divided highway, and also the first 20 km of Road (b) between Siracha and
Bang Lamung. The remaining part of road (b) and all of road (c) were designed
as two lane paved roads.
2.07       Detailed engineering of the five provincial roads (para. 2.04) was
carried out with financing under the Third Highway Project (Loan 535-TH).
Engineering of roads (a) through (d) was carried out initially by a second
U.S. consulting firm, but the DOH subsequently had British consultants
revise the designs to reduce construction costs. Detailed engineering of
road (e) which was later omitted, was carried out by Australian consultants.
Appraisal
2.08       The appraisal mission visited Thailand during October 1971, but
negotiations did not take place until October-November 1972 because of the
need to revise the detailed engineering to reduce the costs of provincial
roads (para. 2.07). The Appraisal Report No. PTR-126 (Grey Cover) was
dated November 17, 1972, the project was approved by the Executive Directors
December 5, 1972 and the Loan Agreement No. 870-TH for US$28.6 million was
signed December 26, 1972. The agreement became effective March 26, 1973.
2.09       During the Appraisal, the main issues which arose concerned:
(a) Detailed engineering of the Provincial Roads (a)-(d) listed
in para. 2.04. The quantities of work, particularly of earthworks,
and consequently the costs, were judged to be unnecessarily high
for the types of roads and the expected traffic volumes. The
Government accordingly had consultants revise the design, including
changes in alignments of some sections, to produce a significant
reduction (20% or more in cost).
(b) On Provincial Road (e) a question arose concerning future settle-
ment in the service area of the road and resulting developmental
benefits, which were crucial to its economic justification. The
construction of the new road between Lat Ya and Sangkhlaburi would
provide road transport, for first time, to the valley of the Khwae
Noi river valley which had hitherto been served only by seasonal
water transport on the river. However, the valley was thinly
populated and developmental benefits would depend on new settle-
ment in the area. Also, most of the land was controlled by the



- 5 -
Ministry of Defense and the Government was requested to prepare a
program for releasing the land and for its settlement, as a
condition of financing the road construction. But at the time of
negotiations the Government had been unable to reach agreement on
such a program and the road was deleted from the proposed project.
(c) The need to improve maintenance of the National and Provincial
Road Systems had been a continuing theme through the earlier
Bank financed road projects. Although considerable progress had
been made in the reorganization of the DoH, in providing workshops
and in carrying out routine maintenance (para. 1.05), little
progress had been made in preparing programs of periodic maintenance
and in making budgetary provisions and carrying them out. Also
there were no satisfactory arrangements for the regular and prompt
supply of parts for repair of the maintenance equipment, nor for
replacing it as it became worn out. It was therefore agreed that
the project would include a study of maintenance of the National
and Provincial Road Systems with a particular view to preparing a
Program of road maintenance and proposals for setting up suitable
administrative and financial arrangements for the repair, opera-
tion and replacement of the road maintenance equipment fleet.
(d) Because of the diversion of traffic which had taken place when
the Government imposed tolls on a road built under the Third
Highway Project, and also because the designs and economic evalua-
tions for the roads to be included in the Fifth Highway Project
had assumed tollfree operation, it was considered that an under-
taking should be given that tolls would not be imposed except by
agreement between the Government and the Bank.
(e) The DOH had a regular traffic counting system in operation for
the National Roads, but had not yet extended it to the provincial
road system; it was agreed that for adequate planning of the
Provincial Roads the counting should be extended to all the
Provincial Road System.
(f) The existing regulations governing the weights and dimensions of
vehicles appeared to be outdated and unnecessarily restrictive
particularly as most of the National Road System had been
improved. It was therefore agreed that the Maintenance Study in
(c) would include a review of the subject and recommendations for
any amendments which may be required.
(g) The Government wished to start construction of the two national
roads Don Muang-Bang Pa In-Saraburi and Siracha-Ban Lamung-Rayong
as early as possible, without waiting for the negotiation of the
loan. Detailed engineering of these two roads had been satisfac-
torily completed in 1971. The Government, in agreement with the



- 6 -
Bank, went ahead with international competitive bidding for the
two roads and awarded contracts for the two sections of the first
road November 15 and December 9, 1971, and for the second road
April 11, 1972. The reasons were to avoid delay in carrying out
the road development program and to provide continuity of work for
the construction industry.
2.10       Agreement was reached before negotiations on matters in para. 2.09
(a) concerning the revised engineering, and in principle on (c) for carrying
out a maintenance study, on (e) concerning extending the collection of
traffic data and on (f) for reviewing vehicle weights and dimensions. Final
agreement on the other matters described in para. 2.09 was reached during
negotiations and covenants included in the Loan Agreement:
(a) concerning not imposing tolls except by agreement between the
Government and the Bank (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement);
(b) concerning carrying out a maintenance study, and formulating a
five year maintenance program and carrying it out (Section 3.09);
and
(c) concerning extending the collection of traffic data to the whole
of the National and Provincial Road Systems (Section 3.11).
2.11       In view of the high priority of the sections of national roads
included in the project, and the need to tackle the improvement of the
important provincial (secondary) road system, the project was appropriate to
the needs of the road subsector at that time. The provincial road system
was then about 6,000 km, of which only about 1,500 km had been paved. The
Government recognized that the provincial road system would have to be greatly
extended (already expected to reach 25,000-30,000 km) and that extensive
future programs for constructing and improving provincial roads would be
needed. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering were therefore included
in the Fifth Highway Project to prepare provincial roads for future improve-
ment projects.
2.12       The periods of preparation, appraisal and Board presentation of
the Fifth Highway Project were reasonable for the complete preparation of the
project. Since the detailed engineering had been completed before loan
negotiations, it was possible to go ahead immediately with international
bidding and award of contracts for all the roads. For the two sections of
national roads which were prepared ahead of the remainder (para. 2.09 (g)
above), the decision to go ahead with construction ahead of the conclusion
of the Loan Agreement avoided any delay.
Description of the Project
2.13       The project consisted of:



-7 -
(a) Construction and improvement (including paving) of three National
Highways: (i) Don Muang-Saraburi (83 km); (ii) Siracha-Rayong
(72 km); (iii) Langsuan-Suratthani (130 km, including about 20 km
of access roads);
(b) Construction and improvement of four provincial roads (mainly
paved):   (i) San Sai-Phrao (81 km); (ii) Chiengmai-Doi Saket-Mae
Suai (133 km); (iii) Suphanburi-Chainat (99 km); and Khao
Daeng-Ranot (74 km);
(c) Feasibility studies of about 1,200 km of provincial roads, to
be selected after preliminary screening of about 1,600 km;
(d) Detailed engineering of about 800 km of provincial roads to be
selected from the feasibility studies in ((c) above);
(e) A study of highway maintenance, including the preparation of
programs of work, assessment of the requirements of maintenance
equipment and other resources needed;
(f) The procurement of urgently needed mechanical equipment for road
maintenance, on the basis of recommendations from Phase I of
the study in ((e) above);
(g) Technical assistance to: (i) the Department of Highways for
Highway Planning, preparing and executing highway development
programs and training of staff; and (ii) the Ministry of
Communications for improving transport planning.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONZ AI4D COST
3.01       The project has been satisfactorily completed, but took longer than
scheduled; the Closing Date was extended by two years. On the road construc-
tion works, all the contracts were awarded very closely to the scheduled
dates. However, difficulties arose with the oil crisis in 1973-74 which
virtually stopped the work. It was only effectively resumed after a lapse of
about 18 months following renegotiation of the unit rates on some contracts,
and termination of the contracts and rebidding on others.
3.02       The feasibility studies and detailed engineering for future
projects were completed about a year later than scheduled, chiefly because
of the longer than expected time involved in negotiating contracts. In the
case of the maintenance study, the work began more than 18 months behind
schedule because of the time taken to negotiate, unsuccessfully, with a
single selected firm, and then to obtain new proposals from a short list of
firms, to evaluate the proposals, and negotiate a contract with the selected



- 8 -
firm. The procurement of maintenance equipment was about two years late,
largely because it was to be procured on recommendations stemming from the
first phase of the maintenance study, and with the assistance of the con-
sultants carrying out the study. The technical assistance to the Department
of Highways was provided as scheduled. However, the technical assistance to
the Ministry of Communications began about 18 months later than scheduled,
largely because the staffing of the newly established Transport Planning Unit
(TPU) took longer than expected, for administrative reasons, and the services
of the technical assistance consultants were postponed correspondingly.
Road Construction
3.03      The project had been fully prepared before loan signature,
including detailed engineering, preparation of bid documents, and prequali-
fication of contractors for international competitive bidding. In fact,
bids had already been invited on all but one of the roads and work had been
started on two of the national roads [para. 2.09(g)]. The work therefore
began on schedule and was proceeding very satisfactorily until the oil
crisis in late 1973. The work on one road, Don Muang-Saraburi, which had
been started in advance was practically completed and was not significantly
affected. However, on the remaining roads, there was initially some
interruption of work because of shortage of supplies of petroleum products.
More serious and lasting, however, was the rapid and severe escalation in
cost of materials which began in about mid 1973 but which greatly
accelerated in late 1973 and through 1974. The increase was most marked in
the cost of petroleum products, but costs of other construction materials,
equipment, spare parts and labor all increased substantially.
3.04      The Government's long standing policy had been to have contracts
bid and awarded on a fixed price basis. During the preparation of bid
documents on previous Bank financed highway projects, the Bank had suggested
that price variation clauses be included. However, the Government had
rejected this suggestion as merely causing complications and possible grounds
for dispute, and pointed, with justification, to the relative price stability
which had existed in Thailand for many years. The Government maintained
this position in regard to the three contracts awarded before the loan was
negotiated; they therefore had fixed prices. However, during negotiations
(in October 1972) although there had still been no very significant rise in
construction costs in Thailand, the Government agreed to introduce a price
escalation clause, but for the direct cost of petroleum products only, in
the bid documents for the remaining roads. This was accepted by the Bank as
a step towards a full price adjustment formula, and as a position which
could not readily be disputed under the circumstances which had prevailed in
Thailand.



- q -
3.05      When price rises rapidly escalated from late 1973, they could not
be taken into account at all under the "fixed price" contract on the
Siracha-Rayong road (and also on the Don Muang-Saraburi road which was
however practically completed by then), and price adjustments on the remain-
ing contracts were provided only for petroleum products. The contractors
slowed down their work almost to a halt and this situation persisted for
several months. In June 1974, the Government made a general offer to
contractors (not only on the Bank financed projects): (a) to increase unit
prices by 34.2% on all payments made from June 1974 onwards (but with no
retroactive effect before June 1974, and with no provision for future
additional cost escalation), or (b) to terminate the contract, with no
additional payment for cost increases, with no penalty to be paid by the
contractor, and with the agreement of the contractor to forgo all claims in
regard to the work which so for had been carried out. According to the
contractors, the actual costs had already risen by more than 34%, and were
still continuing to rise. The Bank suggested that the Government consider
making a more comprehensive offer, including incorporating a price escal-
ation formula to take care of any future price changes during the life of
the contracts. However, the Government rejected this suggestion because it
was feared that it would have wide repercussions on other contracts, which
were being financed from the budget.
3.06      During the second half of 1974, the Thai contractors somewhat
reluctantly accepted the Government s offer and resumed work. The foreign
contractors, however, did not accept and eventually their four contracts
were terminated by mutual agreement in mid 1975. On one of those four
sections (the Siracha-Rayong road), the work was offered to a Thai con-
tractor who had been originally second lowest bidder, at the same rates
(including the 34.2% addition) which had been refused by the foreign
contractor. The Thai contractor accepted those terms and a new contract was
awarded in July 1975 for completing the work. For the remaining three
contracts which had been terminated, the Government called for new bids for
completing the unfinished work, and new contracts were awarded to the low
bidders, in December 1975 (on Langsuan-Suratthani road, Section 2) and in
January 1976 (on Chiengmai-Mae Suai and Suphanburi-Chainat roads). After
this, the work proceeded satisfactorily. However, it was not completed on
one of the roads until mid 1977, and on the other three roads until February
and March 1978. The quality of the work is satisfactory. The Government
has been including comprehensive price variation clauses in subsequent
contract documents.
3.07       In view of the substantial rise in prices, it was apparent that
the total cost of the project would exceed the appraisal estimates. Rather
than reducing the percentage disbursement on road construction and improve-
ment, the Government proposed, and the Bank accepted, that it remain at 45%
of total expenditures, hut that the Government would itself finance the full
cost of completing the works on two of the provincial roads, San Sai-Phrao



- 10 -
and Chiengmai-Mae Suai. This arrangement worked satisfactorily in that
there were sufficient funds in the loan account to meet disbursements on the
remaining roads at 45% until the end of the project, in addition to meeting
the foreign costs of the remaining items in the project.
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
3.08       Based on the feeder road study (para. 2.01) the DOR selected, in
consultation with the Bank, 24 roads (or route corridors), totalling about
1,510 km for studies to prepare future road improvement projects. The roads
were divided into two groups, one of 14 roads totalling about 720 km and
another of 10 roads totalling about 790 km. After inviting proposals from
a short list of consulting firms for each group of roads, the Government
provisionally selected two Australian firms and negotiated contracts with
them. This process, and the administrative stages and approvals involved,
took longer than expected and the contracts were awarded, and the studies
started, about 6 months later than originally scheduled.
3.09       Some of the "route corridors" selected for study approximately
followed existing low standard roads or tracks, but others were, in effect,
corridors through populated areas which had no secondary (provincial) roads
in the vicinity and only very poor indirect access by unimproved tracks.
In some cases two or more of the roads were in adjacent areas and the
studies involved a network analysis to establish the optimum road system for
the combined area.
3.10       The feasibility studies were carried out in two phases.     Phase I
was to undertake economic and engineering studies of alternative alignments
and standards. After selection by the Government of the preferred alternative
for each corridor, or group of corridors, Phase II was to complete a detailed
economic analysis, and preliminary engineering, of the chosen solution.
From the 24 roads (1,510 km) studied in Phase I, 18 roads, totalling about
1,075 km were selected for Phase II. Of these, the first Australian firm
had 12 roads totalling about 625 km and the second 6 roads totalling 450 km.
The review and selection by the Government, between Phase I and Phase II,
took about a month longer than expected, so that the feasibility studies
were completed a total of about 7 months later than originally scheduled.
Nevertheless, the review process was well justified. Not only were the
roads which were least economically attractive eliminated, but the proposals
in Phase I for some of the other roads were changed significantly during the
review process. For example, the alignments of the roads in the south (near
Had Yai) were initially conceived as spur" feeder type roads. However, it
was found that there were much more attractive alignments where the roads in
effect would form direct links in the main north-south highway, shortening
it substantially, and at the same time giving access to the areas originally
chosen. The dual function gave the new road sections greatly increased
economic returns.



- 11 -
3.11        After reviewing the completed Phase II Feasibility Studies, the
Government, in consultation with the Bank, selected 9 roads (about 430 km)
for detailed engineering by the First firm and four roads (about 355 km) for
detailed engineering by the second; altogether 13 roads totalling about 785
km. Again, the review process, and negotiation of contracts with the
consultants took longer than anticipated. The two contracts were signed 10
months and 11 months later than originally scheduled. Furthermore, on the
selected roads almost entirely new alignments were justified, in some cases
involving the crossing of irrigated areas, and areas subject to flooding,
with many drainage structures. Consequently, the designs took the second
consultant about a month longer, and the first consultant about 5 months
more than originally anticipated. The last part of the detailed engineering
was therefore completed in August 1977, about 16 months later than scheduled
at the time of appraisal (Table 1, page 2). Nevertheless, the effort and
time taken in the studies, and in reviews at the various stages, was well
justified. The location and design work was significantly more complex, and
the prospective traffic volumes on most of the roads were found to be much
greater, than had originally been supposed. The economic and engineering
studies thus led to the careful design of important new roads. Ten of the
13 roads are being constructed under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan
1519-TH). The other three have been built by the Government from its own
budget.
Highway Maintenance Study
3.12       The terms of reference for the study were agreed at negotiations.
Its main purposes, as noted in para. 2.09(c), were to assist the Government
to improve further the maintenance by the DOH of the national and provin-
cial road systems.   In particular, the study aimed firstly to help in the
formulation of a complete and up to date highway inventory (especially for
the provincial road system, including any additional roads required to be
brought into that system); secondly, to help prepare a five-year maintenance
program for the national and provincial roads, based on economic analysis of
costs and benefits, with estimated budgetary requirements; thirdly, to
propose improvements in the maintenance operations and in the administration,
and arrangements for repair and renewal, of the maintenance equipment fleet,
together with recommendations for additional equipment required. The study
was carried out in two phases. Phase I was a review and preliminary
recommendations, including the preparation of a list of urgently needed
equipment to be procured under the project. Phase II was for the
preparation of a detailed report, including recommendations for all the
resources needed for carrying out the proposed road maintenance program,
with a full list of maintenance equipment required, which would be financed
under the Sixth Highway Project.



- 12 -
3.13      The Government initially selected one firm which it wished to
carry out the maintenance study, since the firm had previously worked with
the DOH.  However, negotiations proved difficult, and after about a year
they were broken off. The Government then invited proposals from five
firms and, after evaluation, the Danish consultants were selected and
a contract negotiated. However, the study began in February 1975, about
19 months later than originally expected, and was completed correspondingly
later than scheduled at appraisal (Table 1, page 2).
3.14      The study performed the valuable functions of helping redefine
an expanded provincial road system, and prepared an eight year program of
road maintenance (more precisely defined for the earlier years, and targets
for later years), with target maintenance budgets, which were incorporated
into a supplemental letter to the agreement for the Sixth Highway (Provin-
cial Roads) Project Loan 1519-TH. Also, the study prepared proposals for
instituting a "revolving fund" for the administration and financing of the
repair of equipment, and the replacement of items of equipment as they
become worn out. The system provides for internal financing by levying hire
charges for use of the equipment, paid from the DOH budget allocations for
maintenance works. The system has a three-fold aim for achieving greater
efficiency. Firstly, it will provide a cash flow for keeping the fleet in
good operating condition. Secondly the hire charges are an important
incentive to the users to maximize output. Thirdly, a comprehensive
management information system is provided virtually as a by-product of the
computerized revolving fund monthly hire charges and accounting records;
data is provided on utilization, time tinder repair, and costs, for individual
items of equipment and also aggregated for each type of equipment in each
field division. The setting up of the system was incorporated into the
agreement for the Sixth Highway Project. The study also prepared the list
of maintenance equipment which has been procured with financing from the
Sixth Highway Project.
Technical Assistance
3.15      The advisory services of the British consultants, which had been
provided under the First and Second Highway Projects (Loans 341-TH and
455-TH) were continued under the Fifth Highway Project for a further two
years. The firm provided initially four experts to continue to assist the
DOH chiefly in the planning, design and budgeting of road improvement
programs, further to assist in improving maintenance by force account
(predominantly routine maintenance), and in the operation of maintenance
workshops and to help in training of road maintenance staff including the
preparation of a road maintenance manual. As noted in para. 1.02 the
planning and maintenance functions of the DOH have been greatly strengthened
partly with the help of the technical assistance provided under the Bank



- 13 -
financed projects. The remaining need is to carry out programs of periodic
maintenance (predominantly by contract) for which further planning, and
above all adequate budgetary provision, is required.
3.16      Technical Assistance was provided by the French consultants to
the Ministry of Communications (MOC) to assist in setting up the Transport
Planning Unit (TPU). Their two year assignment was carried out according
to schedule and the TPU during this period became operational. However,
further technical assistance is required to help it in its initial
operations and this is being provided under the Sixth Highway Project
(Loan 1519-TH).
Project Costs
3.17      The total cost of the project was about B 1,353 million plus
US$6,979,000, or a total of about US$ 73.0 million equivalent (Table 2).
This is about 25% more than the US$58.6 million estimated at appraisal. The
overrun of about US$ 14.4 million is almost entirely due to the increase in
cost of construction and improvement of the roads, which amounted to about
US$13.4 million. The only other item to exceed the appraisal estimate was
the maintenance equipment, by just over US$1.0 million. The consultants
services were carried out within the appraisal cost estimates.
3.18      The reason for the overrun in construction costs was explained in
paras. 3.03-3.07. The sudden and severe rise in costs from the second half
of 1973 through 1975 could not be foreseen. Prices in Thailand had hitherto
been remarkably stable. Similar contingency allowances, both for physical
quantities and for price variations, were made on this project as for
previous Bank financed projects. In fact, in all the previous Bank financed
projects, there had been savings compared with the appraisal cost estimates,
in some cases quite substantial. It is thus difficult to know what, if any,
clear lesson can be drawn in regard to the estimating of project costs.
Clearly, in the case of Thailand, the dominant factor has been world events,
particularly the rise in oil prices, but also general world inflationary
tendencies. The prices in Thailand seem largely to have reflected these
changes, rather than to have originated primarily within the domestic
economy. The projects in Thailand had been well prepared, and there have
been no major increases in physical quantities compared with the estimates
at the time of appraisal. Nor were the original bid prices significantly
out of line with the estimates. In other words, the estimating of costs
resolves itself largely into estimating the trend of world prices; this has
become a notoriously difficult task since 1973.
3.19      There is, however, one lesson which has been absorbed.      That is
the need to incorporate price variation clauses in construction contracts.
This, of course, is a question of the better and smoother administration
of contracts, and fairness to the Government and the contractors, rather
than a question of estimating the ultimate cost. The overall cost of the
work may perhaps not have been greatly different had the price escalation



- 14 -
clauses been included from the start. However, the virtual stoppage of work
for over a year, which occured while the new rates were being negotiated,
and on some contracts while rebidding took place, would have been avoided.
The Government now includes comprehensive price variation clauses in its
contracts.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4.01      The advisory services of consultants financed under the Fifth
Highway Project continued to assist in building up the ability of the DOH in
planning of national highways and provincial roads, preparing and executing
highway development programs, and in improving highway maintenance
operations (para. 3.15). The DOH has built up a substantial expertise in
carrying out these duties. However, due to capacity limitations, it
continues to employ consultants for carrying out individual studies,
detailed engineering, and supervision of construction of major road
construction and improvement programs. The DOH is increasingly employing
Thai consultants, who now supply most of the staff on studies, in
association with foreign firms, but with almost exclusively Thai staff on
engineering design.
4.02      As noted in paras. 3.12 - 3.14, the Highway Maintenance Study
carried out under the project prepared recommendations for carrying out a
road maintenance program over a period of eight years. The proposals
included further strengthening of the DOH for carrying out routine
maintenance, mainly by force account, together with programs of periodic
maintenance, to be carried out mainly by contract. The results of the study
were used in formulating the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project (Loan
1519-TH), including an understanding with the Government to carry out the
recommended maintenance program for national and provincial roads, to
institute a "revolving fund" for improving operation, administration and
financing of the maintenance equipment, including its repair and replacement
(para. 3.14).
4.03      Further technical assistance was provided to the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) to help set up a Transport Planning Unit (TPU) to
assist the ministry in overall transport planning, to study special subjects
concerning transport, and to provide advice on transport matters for the
ministry. After a somewhat slow start, due to some delay in obtaining
the necessary government personnel, the TPU has become operational, and has
expanded its field of activities. Further technical assistance is being
provided under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1519-TH).
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
5.01      An economic evaluation was performed, and economic returns were
calculated, at appraisal, separately for all seven project roads. Benefits



- 15 -
taken into account were savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) in all seven
cases, together with additional benefits from generated traffic in two cases
(San Sai-Phrao and Chiengmai-Mae Suai).
Traffic
5.02      Actual traffic volumes on two of the project roads were about equal
to traffic projected at appraisal. Actual traffic on the other five roads
exceeded projections by between 20% and 320%. Apparently, the appraisal had
not anticipated the country-wide surge in traffic in the first half of the
1970s.
Vehicle Operating Costs
5.03      Except for fuel costs, increases in vehicle operating costs in the
1970s appear to have followed general price increases in Thailand. Fuel
prices outpaced other prices by over 20% p.a. on average after 1973. This
implies that, in real terms, total vehicle operating costs increased between
appraisal and 1980 by about 15-20%. Further increases in real terms over the
life of the roads can be expected.
Recalculation of Rates of Returns
5.04      The recalculation of economic returns was based on actual con-
struction cost and schedules, on revised traffic data and projections
(Table 3) and on constant VOC as of the time of appraisal. In view of the
slowdown of traffic growth in the last few years in Thailand, it was assumed
that future traffic would grow at only 5% p.a. The recalculated economic
returns do not reflect the rise in VOC in real terms since the mid 1970s and
are in this respect conservative.
5.05      The recalculated economic returns, together with the appraisal
estimates, are given below. In all except one case, Siracha-Rayong, the
revised returns are well above the appraisal estimates. Where actual cost
exceeded projected cost, actual traffic grew even more, except for Siracha-
Rayong. The project roads, taken individually and as a whole, were
economically fully justified.



- 16 -
Economic Returns (%)
Roads                            Appraisal estimate           Recalculated
National Highways
Don Muang-Saraburi                     22                        27
Siracha-Rayong                         18                        11
Langsuan-Surratthani                   14                        16
Provincial Roads
San Sai-Phrao                          12                        28
Chiengmai-Mae Suai                     13                        21
Suphanburi-Chainat                     14                        24
Khao Daeng-Ranot                       13                        18
Combined                                 16                        20
5.06      The appraisal report emphasized the effect that constructing the
San Sai-Phrao and Chiengmai-Mae Suai roads would have on rural development.
A comprehensive reevaluation was therefore undertaken by a consultant for
these two roads, which elaborated on their impact on the local/regional
value-added. The economic returns calculated by the consultant confirm those
shown above (para. 5.05).
VI. THE ROLE OF THE IBRD
6.01      The project continued and expanded the close dialogue between the
Bank and the Government. The good working relations with the DOH were
continued, but also more attention was paid to relations with the MOC,
particularly through the setting up and activities of the TPU (para. 4.04)
and close relations have also been maintained with other government
institutions concerned with the transport sector, including the National
Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the relevant offices of
the Ministry of Finance.
6.02      The growing abilities of the DOH, together with the technical
assistance provided through the project, and close contact with the Bank
staff, formed a cooperative effort which has led to the formulation of
systematic and economically justified programs for the improvement of the
national and provincial road systems. Most of the national roads have now
been improved and paved, though much remains to be done to improve the
provincial roads; a further step in that direction has been taken through the
recent Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH).



- 17 -
6.03      The results of the Highway Maintenance Study of the National and
Provincial Roads Systems are bearing fruit. Highway maintenance equipment
has been provided under the Sixth Highway Project and although initially the
Government did not provide adequate budgetary provisions for maintenance of
the national, and provincial roads, in accordance with the estimated needs,
recent budgets have been increased, and there is a reasonable expectation
that adequate provision will be made in the future.
6.04     Present attention of the Government and IBRD are largely being
directed towards the tertiary and lower road systems, often collectively
referred to as "rural roads," and a major study of Rural Roads and the
institutions involved is being financed under the Sixth Highway Project
(Loan 1519-TH) to prepare future projects for their maintenance and
development.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.01      The project had five main objectives:   (i)  to help complete
important links in the national (primary) highway system and to relieve
acute congestion on the main highway leading from Bangkok to the north
and northeast (para 1.03); (ii) to contribute to an urgently needed
program to improve the poorly developed provincial (secondary) roads
(para 1.04); (iii) to prepare a program to introduce an adequate sytem
of periodic maintenance for the national and provincial roads (para 1.05);
(iv) to continue institutional development of the DOH and to extend such
development more widely into transport planning in the Ministry of
Communications (para 1.05); and (v) to prepare important provincial road
sections for future road projects (para 1.04).
7.02      The project achieved important results in all the objectives
listed in para 7.01. In regard to objective (i) the important primary road
link with the Southern Peninsula was completed by constructing the section
Langsuan to Surathani under the project, while the remaining section between
Suratthani and Hat Yai was constructed with bilateral financing by Japan.
The project also completed a shortened and improved new link Southeast from
Bangkok to Rayong, and greatly increased the traffic capacity of the main
northeast route out of Bangkok to Saraburi. In regard to objective (ii),
four important provincial roads were constructed.
7.03      Actual traffic on all seven project roads has so far matched or
even subtantially exceeded traffic projected at appraisal, the underestimate
apparently being due to the country-wide surge in road transport in the
early 1970s, which may not have been anticipated. The recalculated economic
returns for the project roads, ranging from 11% to 28%, are all above
appraisal estimates, except in one case. All seven project roads were
economically well justified.



- 18 -
7.04      In regard to objective (iii) the Highway Maintenance Study prepared
proposals for further strengthening the maintenance capabilities of the DOH
and particularly for instituting a systematic program of periodic road
maintenance with adequate budgetary provisions (paras 3.12-3.14); these
proposals are heing carried out under the Sixth Highway Project Loan 1519-TH.
Objective (iv), further institutional development, was accomplished through
a further two years technical assistance to the DOH (para 3.15) and also
technical assistance to the Ministry of Communications which enabled it to
set up a Transport Planning Unit (para 3.16). For objective (v), future
important provincial road projects were prepared through the feasibility
studies and engineering (paras 3.08-3.11) and construction or improvement of
most of the roads studied were included in the Sixth Highway Project (Loan
1519-TH).
7.05      An important lesson which emerged from the project is the need
to include in contracts adequate provisions for variation of prices
(subsequent to bidding) to take account of changes in cost during the course
of the works, (para 3.03-3.07). The Government now includes suitable price
variation clauses in its contracts.



THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHVAY PROJECT (LOAN 870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual and Expected Project Implementation
Length   Conatractors'     Bid receipt         Contract award      Beginning of work     Completion of work     Z of the works completed
Project component                      (km)    nationality    Actual    Expected   Actual    Expected     Actual    Expected    Actual     Expected    by expected completion
date
A. Construction and Improvement of:
(a) National Roads
1. Don Muang-Saraburi
Section 1               28       Thailand       08/26/71  08/26/71   12/09/71  12/09/71    02/01/72  01/31/72    01/31/74   01/31/74            100
Section 2               55       Korea          07/22/71  07/22/71   11/15/71  11/15/71    12/15/71  12/15/71    01/17/74   12/15/73            100
8-3
2.  Siracha-Rayong            71                                                                                    ( terminated
First contract /a                Korea          10/07/71  10/07/71   05/02/72  05/02/72    08/15/72  08/15/72 { 07/16/75    02/14/75             54
Second contract                  Thailand          -         -       07/16/75      -       08/15/75      -       02/15/78       -
3. Langsuan-Suratthani
Section 1               62       Thailand      02/06/73  02/28/73    05/25/73  03/31/73    06/25/73  04/30/73    01/20/78   12/24/75             33
Section 2               44                                                                                    ( terminated
First contract /b              Korea          03/09/73  02/28/73   08/09/73  03/31/73    12/01/73  04/30/73 ( 05/02/75    05/31/76             10
Second contract                 Thailand      08/28/75      -      12/30/75      -       02/01/76      -       03/27/78       -
106
(b) Provincial Roads
1.  San Sai-Phrao             81       Thailand       04/05/73  05/31/73   07/24/73  06/30/73    08/24/73  07/31/73    11/10/75   08/23/75             98
2.  Chiengmai-Mae Suat       132                                                                                    ( terminated
First contract /h              Korea          03/21/73  06/30/73   07/10/73  07/30/73    08/10/73  08/31/73 | 07/09/75    02/28/76     }       25
Second contract                Thailand       08/13/75      -      01/14/76      -       01/14/76      -       03/23/78       -
3. Suphanburi-Chainat         99                                                                                    | terminated
Firat contract /b              Korea          02/20/73  04/30/73   05/25/73  05/31/73    06/25/73  06/30/73 ( 05/08/75    06/30/75             35
Second contract                Thailand       08/13/75      -      01/14/76      -       02/15/76      -       06/07/77       -
4.  Khao Daeng-Ranot          73       Thailand       12/29/72  03/31/73   06/25/73  04/30/73    07/25/73  05/31/73    02/17/75   02/24/75             92
/a  Contract terminated by agreement between the Government and contractor; new contract for completion of work negotiated with second lowest bidder.
7Th  Contract terminated by agreement between the Government and contractor; new contract for completion of work awarded after new bids obtained.



Actual and Expected Project Implementation
Prposal rece!pt        Contract avard      Beginng of     k     Completion of work    X of the vorka copleted
Project component                                  Consultants  nationality        Actual     Exet       AciQal   Expected    A_tual      xpected   Ata        Fxeted      by expected completion
date
B. Feasibility Studies
of about 1,200 k. of provincial                                              11/30/72  11/30/72   08/29/73  02/28/73    09/20/73  03/31/73    05/20/75   12/31/74          About 70X
roads, after preliminary screening           (i)  Australia
of about 1,600 kin:
(it)  Australia                  11W30/72  11/30/72   08/29/73  02/28/73    09/20/73  03/31/73    05/20/75   12/31/74         About 70X
C. Detailedi Engineering
of about 800 km of provincial roads          (i)  Australia                  02/02/75  12/31/74    11/24/75  01/31/75   12/24/75  01/31/75    08/23/77   04/30/76          About 20X
(ii)  Australia
02/02/75  12/31/74    12/29/75  01/31/75    01/29/76  01/31/75   05/30/77   04/30/76          About 20?
D. Maintenance Study
for national and provincial roads                 Denmark                    06/03/74  03/31/73    01/02/75  05/15/73   02/03/75  05/31/73    02/03/76   06/30/74               -
E. Procurement of Maintenance Equipment                                                                { 11/01/76
for national and provincial roads                CKampsax (Denmark)        { 02/25/76  05/31/74  { 11/05/76  06/30/74   01/15/77  11/30/74    09/05/77   04/30/75
03/30/76            { 11/11/76
F.  Technical As,istance to:
(i)  Department of Highways                       United Kingdom             12/31/72  01/31/73    05/25/73  02/28/73   02/01/73  02/28/73    01/31/75   02/28/75             1005
(       ni)  Ministry of Co munications                                       01/31/74  03/15/73    12/20/74  05/15/73   01/20/75  05/31/73    09/30/77   05/31/75              15X
(for Transport Planning Unit)                 France



ThAI1LAND
FIFTH H10)4000 PR0OJ0 (LOON R70-T8)
PROkJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(In Bali Iluluna auTo c~7,TVIrleUS,0 thousan d)
Cuatr-t suuo                              At co     cu ta/                                                   Ajprp-a-l  Actua coa-I 117S equi.
(toittail  ~~~19 72  19Mlm19517                                      1q 77       1078        Can.als  antiate of can t anaportnoRt
Project cropuonut    1i1(E0r~~~~~~",t',, on) t15  lN  r l) RhIo     BoR o (I)   Inl o 01     utSa 1975  natU or s55  bah or 0r  Ban rI       Apalaiat CurBesot
sqoin.   u~~~qoac    qul. a-i               aqit         eui        eui          qulo.      equto       aq,l.  af ora  (2)  Sauna (I)
C.--tr"t.o sad inp-vnaent of (60)
1. W. ourarhr
Samba  1    ~~~  ~~~28  90 8  4,3558  65 9  3, 168  28 6  1,390  0 3  14  -   -      -           -   -       -   6.   057     - 
S-ctlu  1       55   14 5.5  6,8993  79 8  3,818  55. 2  2, 675  1152  600  -            -   -       -   -           62   7,13    -      ---
Rootl-1..coocoga-yainno  200. 3  11.553  --                                                             -      - --        -    231  11. 100    --
.rl.oot_locala145-      -    A 2  .?_006  83.8  4J! I65 l2l  616  -                    -                        241. 0 1168 04 13,020        90      101
2.  SIP-hn-RapyB    71
PFIra  ca no-t /0     69.3  3, 332  16.0  768  36 2  1,756  17.9  870  --                                           - 7.  3,400   -      ---
leo...d cotrat       178.8  6, 197  -    -   -       -   -       -   17.8   871-  389  1,919  074  21,313  17 8  862  ill1 9'  5,976 -            --
Third  -tr.r..        2.0   135   --                                                        04     21I.3       11    2 1   116    -              --
Rbt.tat1 2
furl. cart0r)aarya1ir- 201.0  9.664  -                                                             -            1I,)8  5,00      -        -
tor.   anorc-y atlunu-un   -  16 0  768  36.2  1,7 506 7.  17    178    9139        5   4            99    92    9.1  952    II    600102             99
teau   1      62    73  7  3,0639          10.6  514   13. 1  603  13 a   757  21 2  1,019  42. 1  2,0640  14 0  700  116R  S .721  -       -   --
BS-alm2         00                                                                   -                         - 
P iran  -t-tra   _d   8.6   413   -6 88            904   2.8    156   -      -    -      -   -       -   -       -    9 6  1,00  -n 
Sboun.d c.r.a.       11 8.0  5,702 -       -         -   -       -   ii 9   582  34.05  1,700  65 4  5.2717  19 5  9-7  1133 3  4,15 -   ---
OShnont1 3
RodI costtugnoy altr-o-r- 201 .9  9.750                                                -  - -  -     -   -       -   141  6, 900      -        -
101 tnl8uc  luac                      17.0A  1,418  10.9  779  27 3  1,330  57 7  2,820  107 5  5 2 7  33 9  1,661  259 7  3, 709  117  9,16  164  130
fool  rola8n-y aanon 600 2  30,971  -91                                                                                            31.700       - 
tort. cuncto8rocyattrnsnra  -  -  1~~~161.1  7,314  131.4  71325  4 6.3  2_269  65.5  2.10  96.9  4,340  155 3  ,15 21I 1  LI  451 0  34,095  60  227,910  24  i
Ia Cuoratnmotand a-ar "nceohnly In Roht,  -nota  ahoo  to US$ equt-at-t h..nm . taco ..nvrtrd at an-nurr  ohargu  fat  for coot your (BatI par  ISll)
1972  RoOt 20  , 1973  Inht  28 42, 1974  Baht  20.38, 1975  Buha  20.58,  1976- Boht 20 40, 1977  Inhtl 20 00, 1978  Butt  2B.34
/b P....stagaaaraanpra..aad to Bno  --roor.
/c Cuornt- -acooatd by ogr-cr Ocate th. Gnor--a and hOn uoaPOIt,anoart foP crpletion a) -k rul-tlnud Uih -eood touca bidder
/d  Conarsot tarstoatad by  b-unco  Ofec  thn (o-a-net and the co -t-a u,  -ccot-a  for cupl-tlr of  -ar  -uded after  -a  bleo rhato.1.



Co.tOOOO  -t                *000.1~~~~~~~~~~~ I I  C. .I. .770100                                 00Ogt.I  k0I-1 00t 80  MS0  W0.-
172  T0         70         0517                 9197      1070      Tot!     0.00Of000  00990   x 8    . "  I00000  *6 
t.  0.-t000010  00d h.W - .0 07  (80)
(b) Pro.1i.1. &.d0.
8001.o.o.oy.1. .   47. 5  2. 214 --                                                                 -    -     -         0 
5001. OooOIoIoocV ollooo.  -  -  -  -  8~~~~~~~.6  416  24.0  1. 176  25.0  1.227  5.2  256    62.8  3.075                        so'IU098  136
2.  Chlo.W.1-f.0 801  132
710.0t00000t0/     25 5  1.226 -    -   15.7  762  l8.8a  923  1.6  77  -      -   -     - -  -          36.1  1,762     -----
800004 000000t     194.8  9.606    -      - -                           25.4  6.047  102. 7  5.036  16.2  896  26.5 311.979 
0.60.0. 2
i l.o00.ool. .oo  225.3  10,832  -                                          -      -   -     -     -     -  156  750--                       -
tIo.  0.0007  022000.  - -         -  13.7  762  ISa0  923        77  136   6.067  10  .036  182  86    8.  13.761  1If f~-               5       2
F7-t.000000/025.3       1.216  -    -   12.5  606  18.2  890`03-                   -     -   -      -    307 149  
800oodoo -oo -     107 4  5. 166             -      -   -      -        664  3. 255  46. 1  2,357 - -   114. 5 53612  -   ----
806b0.1l 3
100100018000  oIIooo                 12 5  606  Is2  893             66.4  3.255  480.2  2. 357      145. 2 7. III  U  Vwo    -         178     III
0001. o0001.8ooy Oll.o 5 6.6  2.721                             4                                                  7   230--                        -
1001  0001080007 01100000                    III-85 1  42.7  204 17.6  863  0.6  23 -    -   -      -    6.i 7                   06        126     125
OobtoO.1 (6)
001E 00000-1000  4621t  22.216                                  - - - -      -   --                          -  342  1 00-                -       -
1001. 000008000  .110.00C.            4 - - 5.53  2.195  103.7  5.086  642  t.267  195 6  9.587  150.8  7 3.  l 10 2  96  557 8  27. 324  161     123
5600 2.1.0  1.1   (b5
002000080711000  .1655=8                                                                                      835 40.200     --                 -
101  001000   01000   i-- 161.7  7.774  182 7  9.036  150.0  7.355  89 3  6.577  292 5  14.335  306.2  5.000  70.9  3.536  1,254.  9181 79  47.160  3 13  16
I*  00000000.0000 00  89700t0 000  00 1 . 8060,M 0.00   L6.o  tUS$6 .qol111.t h.,. 6.00. 0.00 -- 0 000800 0  h.0.s.0   0.t0  f00  -.01  70-  (8.ht po US52)
C1972  80h0  208. S  1973  8.0  206.174  Bht0 20.30. 1975  8060 20 38. 1976  Soho  20.40. 1977  8.60  20.40. 1978  8.60  20.34.
/b          -woo.0.oar...d 00 .6  00000007
/.  C-noo-o  i.-o.-o d by 0800000  600000  0h0 G0,00000  00d 020 000E00,000000  0  000750000  Of  r6k0 0d0d  ft0..  -o bid. obtol1od



A.SO ..oI. . S  at
Contr-t fowtt17                      A cto  1 I Co. St.S                                         6soa ..lsteto. of ..St  ooPortioo of t
(loillol)  XO7S  1013~~~~~~~~~~~~`  1976175  -06        1071       1S9701              Total t   Total to  l.   Coatr
Proinot .-nPoo ..ahoot         055  bth  +  01 -  Eaht  +  11S5  ua.  + s   cho  -+ 1S$~  -at  4  USS  B.ht  +  uass-  73.ht  4 uss  Baht  +  uss  BohObt+ S us$ 0  or  Il  0.0. of  at.
zql-.                                                                                                     09th.  toOt (Il) ()
Subto tal  I (fto. pa8.. 1 6 2).
fool. cot1n.oy t l.a1, 106.30  53,187  --                                                                     -         69II .9    835 1 .0 
1001 .. ootln19.aoly .lo.  -    -  181. 7  -  182.7  -  130.0  -   89. 3  -  292. 5  - 3106.!  -  71 0   -  1,254. 2  - 533  ~      1   710  18    13
(a)  albn         /t     ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~- 3.2  62  2.9  56  1.8  17  -  -  . --  -      -     -    6 9  130 
K1)  ap.o             T.     -   1. 5  -   1.6  155  2. 1  150  2. 1  186  2.1  12 7  2. 1  129  1 3  115  12. 6  8660 -    -    - 
(1) Scott W11... KIrkpatrick  T.s 54 677  -  - 11 65  6.0  2139  3.4  185  1. 2  38  0.6    -   -      -   10. 1  52 7 -    -     - --           -
Subtotal (a)
foo . ootlo.ocS lloot .                                                                                          35  1.700  70   .6  
l -l otltognYY .loao   ______  .7  6  1.6  256   6.9  60    5.5  36   3.3   16   2.5  129   3    115  29 6  1. 522  i39  1.870  77_ 3.6  79 -
Co-p. (SNE,C)       7.68  296  -    -   0.9   56   1.6  118  6.8   236  -      -  -      -   -      -   7. 3  408  -     -    -  -            -
(1) V.1...tl. I.0.1. 6 D-L1..
(V1.D)              7.55  429  -    -   1.8   92  3.0   181  1 9   120  -     -   -      -   -     -    6. 7  393  -     -       --           -
S.btota1 (b)         15. 23  725  -  -   2. 7  1698 .    299  6. 7  556  -      -  -      -   -      -   16.0  801  -     -     - --           -
L5   SME         ~~~19.66  896  -  -  -     -   - --   -              8. 3  367  6. 2  2 53  -   -    16. 5  620  -    -    -  --           -
(11)  83.0              12.62  5088                   -                      6.6 4 99  6.8  139   -     -    11.2  637  -     -    -  -            -
Subtotal  (t)        31.86  1.686  -  -                   -   -      -   1. 7  666  11.0  391  -     -   25. 7  1.057-                         -
Sobtota1 (b) + ()
fol  utlogoncY all-ooo  67.09  2.209  -                                        -     -    -     -    -     -   33  1  80   66 3  0   -     -
Stool .. lotlg ...y o2o~o-          -   22   168   6.   99   6.7   3556  56.7  66  15.  391  -      -   39. 7  1, $     7h    1  *15    70   127
(d) M".12_ 1094t. (KnPa..
K56t1.aooc  alloI no. 4.99  26 7                                                         -    -A              300  10   500        -
lad.  ooootInS.noy allo..oco                   6~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~                     ~    ~  ~~~~~~~~.89 8  12 5 to6.1  26  6  330  II1  550  99  228
(. Teobulca1 6a91.t....
(1)  9.9t0.f H9 8gh.y.  7.81  379           1.8  168   1.8   86  0.3    7- -            -   -     -          5.9  262  S    ISO   65   809   -    -
(I1) KWooo o f CoO01000lO0
( CIWI)              3.11  778  ---            -   -     -          1i  -     265  -    210  -      4    -    750  5    550   12   600   -    -
Sobtota1 (S)
f..o .. ootL.8eny allocaco 10.92  1.137  --                                                            -     - -  - -  -10  700  26  1.200  -  -
1.1.  oot lo.00Y alloa-c      -         1.8  149  1.8   86   0.3   263  -    263  -    21n         50   3.  I.-0  it1  20     7   1.330 9    103
SobtotulI.I (:.2. (b). Cc) (d). CS)
focI totlgoo alooo                                                                  -- 
Soo. oootl.oop alo1 oo - _____  .7  62  9.8  573  13.5  791  17.6  1.156  19.2  1.153  13.5  750  1.3  165  79.3  0,2  0  4,760  18F8  -.I 66  93 -
Ill. 7001L.8m
LI)  D.p-rtao-tf High y.                             ia - 1  - t 18        a         1I2       is         13   -     76   -     -    -     -   -     -
(11)  XiLot,y of C-..n-otio.  -                                                  -                       -     -   - 
Subtot.l1                                         10   -     i1l  -8l             12   -     15  -     13    -    76   -     79    2   1t8n  76   -
-Ot.00018007.looo                     -----                                               2.212  19.5  65l  19.5  2.275   +9 .~!.8  $--r  4781 167
too .ontilog...  allOnan.  ________  166.64  62  192.6  583  163 3  809  106.7  1.162  316 7  1 165  319.6  297 92.7  2 1 ,1353.t0  t 97o  623  20- 6400 T 12-1 4  57$?i  125 
/a  0000.paId 10.6 Bht.h-  b-O  c..... td Into US$ eqlalo  t a-erag  .- -oo   -.h0.00  000 Fo-  000  Y..r (B.ht PC0 U55)-  1972  .60 20 00.  1973  9.60 20.62, 19'6  8.ht 30 58, 1900  Salt 20.59. 5076 6ht 29.49,  1077  80o1  2n.60.  1079  Baht 20 56.
T-b P-rc- ..90  Sre oopo.....d I0 . 0 00t0-007.
Tc  Suporololn  -. p-rfo-nd  an-l .. lot-t. 06106 ctoro.d both detaIlld o ln rta(flo-od  -d-r thl. Thitd UIShtuS7 ftc3-t. Io.o 535-705 oof ouP-i.clno..



Table 3
- 24 -                               Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 870-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Traffic Volumes on Project Roads /a
(average daily traffic)
National Highways                                                               Growth rate
p.a. (%)
Don Muang - Saraburi
Actual                   Projected
Appraisal estimates         1970     1975      1978    1984    1994    1997     1975-94
Don Muang - Bang Pa In   9,600    11,400            28,700  36,600
- Saraburi     8,200     9,900            18,300  29,600
Weighted average         8,700    10,400    12,400/el5,900  32,000               6
Actual                   Projected
Revised estimates           1970     1975      1978    1984    1994    1997     1978-97
Don Muang - Bang Pa In  11,900/b  18,100    24,500          40,000/c40,OOO       3
- Saraburi     8,200    10,000    11,400          24,900  28,800       5
Weighted average         9,400    12,700    15,800          30,000  32,600       3.5
Siracha-Rayong
Actual                   Projected
Appraisal estimates         1970     1975      1978    1984    1994    1997     1975-94
Siracha   - Bang Lamung  6,000    10,000            20,400  33,300
- Rayong       1,000     1,700             3,400   5,600
Weighted average         2,400     4,000     4,900/e        13,400               7
Actual                  Projected
Revised estimates           1970     1975      1978    1984    1994    1997     1978-97
Siracha   - Bang Lamung  4,600/d   9,500     8,800
- Rayong       1,000      n.a.     3,400
Weighted average                             4,900          10,700  12,400       5
Langsuan-Suratthani
Actual                   Projected
Appraisal estimates         1970     1975      1978    1984    1994    1997     1975-94
170       300       420/e   900   1,700               9
Actual                   Projected
Revised estimates           1970     1975      1978    1984    1994    1997     1978-97
170      n.a.     1,080           2,360   2,860       5
San Sai - Phrao
Actual                   Projected
Appraisal estimates          1970     1975      1978    1984    1994    1997   1975-94
San Sai - km 9              200      300               600     900
- Phrao              50       80               160     230
Weighted average                     105       120/e           300              5.3



Table 3
- 25 -                               Page 2 of 2
Provincial Roads                                                              Growth rate
p.a. (x)
Actual               Pro jected
Revised estimates            1970     1975     1978    1941994       1997     1978-97
San Sai -km 9               200)    30         9
- Phrao              50 )
Weighted average                     120      200     270     440              5
Chiengmai - Mae Suai
Actual                   Projected
Appraisal estimates          1970     1975     1978    1984    1994    1997   1975-94
Chiengmai - Doi Saket     1,000    1,400            2,750   4,500
- km 69            80      120              250     400
- Mae Suai        250      320              650   1,100
Weighted average                     350      420/e         1,170              6
Actual                    Projected
Revised estimates            1970     1975     1978    1984    1994    1997   1978-97
Chiengmai - Doi Saket     1,000   1,300     1,400
- km 69            80     n.a.      850
- Mae Suai        250      240      600
Weighted average                              790   1,060   1,720             5
Suphanburi - Chainat
Actual                   Projected
Appraisal estimates          1970     1975     1978    1984    1994    1997   1975-94
400      550       660/e 1,050  1,700              6
Actual                  Projected
Revised estimates            19/0    1975      1978    1984    1994    1997  1978-97
400    1,500     2,740          6,000/c 6,000      5
Khao Daeng-Ranot
Actual                   Projected
Appraisal estimates          1970    1975      1978    1984    1994    1997  1975-94
300      400       500/e   800  1,300              6
Actual                   Projected
Revised estimates            1970    1975      1978    1984    1994    1997  1978-97
300      760     1,130   1,520  2,470              5
/a Volumes indicate number of motorized vehicles exclusive of motorcycles. Statistics
for 1979 and 1980 are incomplete or inconclusive and are therefore omitted.
/b  Actual 1970 traffic used in appraisal was too low.
/c Assumed maximum road capacity.
7Ti Actual 1970 traffic used in appraisal was too high.
7Te Interpolated.
n.a. - not available



-26                               A-NEX I
Page 1
No. It /3                                    Department of Highways
>mt Ministry of Camications
Sri Ayudbya Road, Bangkok
Thailand
March  i  ,  1983
Mr.Shiv S. Kapur
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W., Washington D.C.20433
U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
Project Completion Report on Thailand
Fifth Highway_ProSect (Loan 870-TH)
Thank you for your letter January 17, 1983. This is to inform
you that we have reviewed the Project Completion Report Thailand Fifth
Highway Project (loan 870-TH) of September 17, 1981, prepared by the Bank
Operations Evaluation Department.
No principal comment is being made except some minor misspelling
of tbe project names i.e. Mai Suai, Ban Lamung and Bang Pa Tu (in Table 3
page 24) which should be written Mae Suai, Bang Lamung and Bang Pa-In
respectively.
K    Dmate Wong enera
Deputy Director General



ANNEX I
- 27 -                  Page 2
ZC7C TX216t4  TUR302 STX071 DKSTDJC1A33
USVYA CC THBK J64
SALASANTTITHAC< 64/6D 13 13_'2
SHIV S KAPtlR
DItrNtiTOR OPLfATIONS EVALUATIOr1, DEPAPTi1l,NT
IWNTLAFRAD W4ASHINGTOII DC
RcYOUR LETTER [,ATLD T  JANUARY17 Rc.-ARL' I iCi P,fiOJcCT COfIPLET ION
RcPfIRT ON THAILANU F IFTH HIGH5.-'AY PRFOJtCT STUr' ';J'L HAVE
REV I cEWD,tD THE RtPORT AND FUUND IT I 'J C 'iSI
AN'D (AVt GOOD ACCOUNT OF THE Pr.UJECT i PFOThNCE STOP
THEtFORr- S:.'E HAVt NO FURTHER CUYlElTS TO ,AKiL STOP P' fA.RIS
JEONGJAN KAfi3HU MINISTrY UF COrl1UNICATIONiS 34ANGKUO
COL JANUARY17



ANNEX I
-28 -                    Page 3
d  L   CV ,iN8.i  1i 7 ;;
M1e,  H  i I ' 7'3 
r 2,81 t i il lN N(Cr 
MRi> SH-7v -,. FC4i,i[i
olj ir-.TdtOR . oPcFl:T Y' C;)Nb  F VI-l LiAT k 04 [)EPA,Vi MENT
L*ORLl rANik
Sixi-if  :4iii-T  i-J ''.
Ri (OlijiR L _IIlt R  AI ED L jdii  17, 1 9F3 CWNsVCFKiilNL PROJEC1 COMPLETION
RE PORT JN ltAI[-I4!, r iFiH rHIh-iHWAY PiHOJEL,?. PLEAStL1 To ADViSE YOU
i i Wr HAVE NO COMNCr\j,,.   REGh4RD5,
K4PICHORN SATHiRkiUJL
Dl RiEC- i)R--LbEi'jiRAL
.'Ji.,fL POL,CY OF t'ICF
a 871 MIN1NLCF ir,
Z'U9@2Ci U8UJn 210i.63 fl3,DiJ57 u80
N N N '



ISRD 3775R PCRI
(.. ~  f  ~                               10 4             SEPTEMBER 1ut1
M. H-g02 S..                    <     L YP EO PL E 'S                V I E T N A M
< /  *tolStet\  *,     DEM   REP                  -
(?_ _    9tm     U         vN ?    J
20    (ratg                                                                25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S P,:  ,gK.
(Marrong Son-.                      <S         h   N Jkh
f S Ta                                                                            W
j      ;  \  OrANGKC S Klong    1a
4  L   rak T  Samutnrao  P          Phon  9bu.  P             N
-62 '                7iC%                                                              12 -
K        -  Ntrcha            ()                     T HSMRI AE NIR 75,AGS 1972,
I %  Shuphhon  r                                            C
Ir   S-,khl. a,a",  (SN~ttStonat  otBr
~~~~~~~~~. d,                          F      
10                tth      N,ko) p  tat~~~   ChntrL,  K  M UC
O         K   Br                  THAISASD 
Ranongg jS angSuan~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    '  SOME COTINTRL NIH AME HAET BENCHNE
N..g PI. .  . 1.     A---h~~~~~I---
0     I                                                               VIETNAMh. I
Ph.      L- K                              DEMOCRCEXISTING NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
SIJ  Cha,  \\Band_Y   |    ___ ~~~~~~~~~~Prtnary uinder oOnstn,cttott or proposad   l 
H0~  S.,             h..t y  Secondary  K PJ
j )  f   vratthanP  OSlchon ^   N  ~~~- ---- Sncoedaty under conttnrcttOn or proposed r
21  so,5/ k  1\~~~~~~ PROJECT HIGHWAYS              rFtrst prolnot 341TH
Takus Pty- it\d E \RNS~~~I            C o mmn st rS t ud  o n   a n d   I m p r o e m an t   S e c o nd   p r o l n ot   5 35 T H
12a   ngo  -                                 M, .ra. P12air.  Prov_nc__  t R   I  I |FIth prolect
PrnnTHIStndAr IoaS tAE proeONt IBD37R AGS 92
Gulf ofr~@  ThThangSrnon Phib<l  | E g Rndrdods  /Other Prootec,allleeder) roods not stown
>   >nOS. p A.e.a  't  4   Trong ;2\ S athin tPhr a  U' '  Regional Boundorres
i INDIAfa  CHINAK,Taj I   T  )       c.z*ho  sr  -  _  Intrerttloeai Roondortes
CTHAIL^NO2E   %  KlorgNgl ~~~~~<y0            50 50     15020   150
S                                    THAi VPo   Cl rJ \) Satur\ i' loog Pruan  Tak Ba   MILES
S-"h-   h..,-  Setng  '-m T jCotdBor   -deOto  ctoI,vt OoI, - p-p
ISO 'NOONES.  , . J M A L A Y S|PIA  HGA   Fpe



