RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                   Report No. P- 612
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
FOR A SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 12, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE FOR
A SDEERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in various currencies equivalent to US$6.0 million to the Republic
of Singapore to finance part of the foreign exchange cost of Singapore's
sewerage extension and improvement program for the 1968-72 period.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       In 1966 Singapore applied to the Bank for a loan for its
sewerage program, an essential part of its efforts for urban renewal
and expansion. The project was appraised in July 1967. Difficulties
in compiling financial data for the Sewerage Branch of the Government's
Public Works Department and in properly identifying and confirming the
estimated cost of key project components required a further visit by
Bank staff to Singapore in December 1967. Negotiations took place
between May 27 and June 4. Messrs. Yap Neng Chew, Assistant Director,
Public Works Department, Lee Yong Siang, Executive Director, P.W.D.,
Ong Teng Kok, Accountant, P.W D., and Howe Wee Chong, Ministry of Finance,
represented the Government of Singapore.
3.       The proposed loan would be the seventh to be made in Singapore;
one loan was guaranteed by the United Kingdom and one by 1Malaysia. The
following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Singapore as at May
31, 1968.



-2-
Amount
Loan No. Year       Borrower         Purpose               Bank   Undisbursed
La     r million)
337-SI*   1963   State of Singapore Electric Power         1h.4       _
405-1A*   1965   Public Utilities    Water Supply           6.8      1.0
Board
462-SI    1966   Port of Singapore   Port Expansion        15.0     14.1
Authority
473-SI    1966   Public Utilities    Electric Power        10.0      0.9
Board
503-SI    1967   Public Utilities    Electric Power and    23.0     21.1
Board               Water Supply
513-SI    1967   Singapore Tele-     Telephone Services     3.0      2.9
phone Board
Total (less cancellations)                       72.2
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                              1.3
Total now outstanding                            70.9
Amount sold                       3.9
of which has been repaid         -              3.9
Total now held by Bank                           67.0
Total undisbursed                                         40°
*337-SI guaranteed by the United Kingdom; 405-MA guaranteed
by Malaysia.
h.        The execution of projects financed under Bank loans to Singapore
and the rate of disbursement of these loanis have been satisfactory.
5.       Miembership of Singapore in IFC has been approved by the Board
of Governors and the deadline for Singapore to sign the Articles of
Agreement is September 9, 1968.
PART II - DESCRIPTIONiT OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:            Republic of Singapore
Amount:              Various currencies equivalent to
US$6.0 million.
Purpose:             To cover part of the foreign exchange
cost of Singapore's sewerage extension
and improvement program for the 1968-72
period.



- 3 -
Amortization:        Thirty-one semi-annual installnents
commencing iNovember 15, 1973 and ending
November 15, 1968.
Interest Rate:       6-1/4% per annum.
Comnaitment Charge:  3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Singapore Sewerage Project,
Singapore" (TO-644a) dated June 12, 1968.
8.        The provision of sewerage services, although accounting for
only a small percentage of public capital expenditures, (3.6% in 1966-70),
is an important element in Singapore's overall development plan. Sewerage
is a fundamental utility and it is essential to the hoising, urban renewal
and industrial estates sectors on which Singapore is concentrating with
success in the present Five-Year Plan (1966-70). Singapore's sewerage
program aims toward provid-ing adequate sewer service for about 55% of
the population in 1972 and 75% in 1985, compared to about 50% now.  By
general standards for modern cities this appears to be a reasonable goal
for Singapore.
9.        The project will be executed by the Sewerage Branch - a division
of the Government's Public Works Department - which has the responsibility
for all sewage disposal facilities in Singapore. The Sewerage Branch is
qualified to carry out the project and to operate it efficiently although
it will require assistance in revising and expanding its organization to
cope with its rapidly increasing level of operations. Generally the
existing sewerage system is well planned and maintenance is very good.
10.       The total cost of the sewerage project is estimated at US$21.1
million and the foreign exchange cost at Us$6.5 million, both excluding
interest and commitment charges of about US$1.3 million on the proposed
Bank loan during construction. The project consists of (i) nine area
sewerage programs providing for construction of branch sewers and pumping
stations to serve urban renewal areas, new housing developments and the
Jurong industrial estates, (ii) treatment plant expansion and improvement,
and (iii) miscellaneous improvements and extensions. The project includes
about 95% of the capital investment program for sewerage in Singapore
during the period 1968 through June 1972. Parts of the sewerage program
still under construction in 1968 but nearing completion under contracts
awarded in the past few years are not included in the project. The
project does include some contracts already awarded and the proposed loan
would finance about US$250,000 for payments to be made after the date of
the proposed loan on contracts awarded in 1968, provided they conform to
the Bank's requirements for procurement.



11.       Supply and construction contracts for the proJect will be
awxarded on the basis of international comrpetition. Some of the goods
required for the project are manufactured in Singapore; for these the
Bank would reimburse only the foreign exchange content. The Government
has asked the Bank to allow a margin of protection for local manufacturers.
The Bank has agreed to this request and intends to allow the rate of
customs duty as a margin of protection. Singapore's present tariffs are
low and are unlikely to increase significantly in view of the Government's
declared policy of maintaining Singapore's status quo as a free trading
nation.
12.       At present Singapore's revenues from sewerage services exceed
cash operating expenditures but cover only about 67 percent of operating
expenditures including depreciation. The Government has undertaken to
adjust sewer charges to provide for the year 1972 revenues sufficient to
cover operating expenditures including depreciation, and thereafter to
provide a reasonable annual return on the value of the net fixed sewerage
assets in operation. The Government will carry out before the end of
1971, in consultation with the Bank, a study of sewerage charges and
tariffs with a view to determining a reasonable annual rate of return.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENITS AND AUTHORITY
13.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Singapore and the Report of the Committee provided under Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement conforms
to the form of agreement for projects of this type when the Borrower is
a member and the project is carried out by a Government department.
PART V - THE ECCN(14Y
14.       The Bank's last economic report on Singapore (FE-52a) was
circulated to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1966. An economic
memorandum dated June 1, 1967, updated the information provided in that
report. An economic mission visited Singapore in February/March 1968
and an economic memorandum will be distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
15.       In 1966 and 1967, when Singapore's separation from Malaysia was
creating new uncertainties about the country's future as a major industrial
center in the region, resumption of trade with Indonesia gave a strong
impetus to expansion of entrepot trade. Supported further by continuing
increases in Government expenditures, exports of manufactures and tourism,
GDP rose by about 10% annually in the last two years. Increases in exports
and earnings from entrepot trade, supplem.ented in 1967 by a large inflow
of private capital from the region, considerably strengthened the balance
of payments,and exchange reserves went up by a sizable amount. The Govern-
ment is continuing in its efforts to reduce the rate of population growth,



which have already succeeded in lowerilg the birth rate from 42 per
thousand in 1957 to 28 in 1966.
16.       While over the next few years continuing economic recovery of
Indonesia would offer substantial opportunities for Singapore, in the
longer run success in sustaining economic growth at a rapid rate and
providing employment to the fast growing labor force will depend increas-
ingly on Singaporets ability to build up a large manufacturing sector
oriented towards export markets. Britain's recent decision to withdraw
by the end of 1971 from her bases in Singapore, which have been an
important source of income and employment, has added further to the
need for reorientation of the economy in this direction. In its develop-
ment policies, the Government has given primary emphasis to encouraging
industrialization. Considering Singapore's considerable assets - central
location, an experienced trading and financial community, an educated
labor force and competent Government - there are reasons to be confident
that these efforts will ultimately succeed. There are indications that
industrial investment is recovering after suffering a setback when the
common market with Malaysia failed. However, until it gains considerably
greater strength, uncertainties over the pace of growth in the 1970's
will persist. Singapore is creditworthy for additional borrowing from
the Bank. The present debt service ratio is about 2%.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH AiRTICLES OF AGREMENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PAFtT VII - RECOMMTDmATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 6 -
R7,SOLUTIUO NO.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Singapore
in an amount equivalent to US$6,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Singapore
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million United States
dollars (US$6,000,000), to mature on and prior to November 15, 1988, to
bear interest at the rate of six and one quarter per cent (6-1/h4/) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be subs-
tantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of Loan Agreement (Singapore Sewerage Project) between the Republic
of Singapore and the Bank which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
June 12, 1968



