RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-644a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
SINGAPORE
June 12, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  = Singapore Dollar (S$');
US$1.00'       = S$53.00
S$1.00         - US$O.33.
S$1,000,000 =- US$333,,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
gallon         = imperial gallon
1.2 U.S. gallons
4 4.54 liters
million gallons=  4546 cubic meters
ABBREVIATIONS
IMg   = million imperial gallons
IMgd = million imperial gallons per day
gpcd =- gallons per capita per day
FISCAL YEAR
January I throu-gh December 31



APPRAISAL OF THE
SINGAPORE SZUEERAGE PROJECT
SINGAPORE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                        i
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                   1
2.   BACKGROUND
A. Sewerage Development in Singapore                           2
B. The Present Sewerage System                                 3
3.   THE PROJECT
A. Main Technical Features                                     6
B. Estimated Costs                                             7
C. Procurement and Disbursement                                8
D. Planning, Engineering and Construction                      8
4.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                                  10
5.   THE SEWERAGE BRANCH
A.  Nature of the Entity                                      12
B.  Organization, Administration and Activities               12
C. Accounting and Auditing                                    14
D.  Operating Costs                                           15
E.  Sewer Service Charges and Sources of Funds                16
6.   FINANCING PLAN AND FUTURE FINANCIAL POSITION
A. Financing Plan                                             20
B. Future Financial Position                                  21
7.   CONCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF LENDING                         22
This Report is based on the findings of missions in July and November
1967 to Singapore composed of Messrs. P. Callejas and P. F. Lu.



-2-
ANNEXES
1    Population Trends
2    Trend of Sewage Flows and Treatment Capacity
3    Summary of Project
4    Cost Estimates and Yearly Disbursement Program
5    Public Works Department Organization Chart
6    Sewerage Branch Organization Chart
7    Summary of Sewer Service Charges and Fees
8    Income Statements; 1962-1967
9    Cash Flow Statements; 1962-1967
10    Proforma Income Statements; 1968-1976
11    Proforma Cash Flow Statements; 1968-1976
12    Proforma Balance Sheets; 1967-1976
13    Proposed Rate Increases and Expected Results
14    Financial Assumptions
MAPS
1    Existing Sewerage System
2    Proposed Sewerage Project



-1-
APPRAISAL OF THE
SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUIYARY
The Government of the Republic of Singapore has requested a Bank
loan to assist in financing a sewerage project comprising about 95% of
Singapore's sewerage extension and improvement program for the period
1968 through June 1972. The project includes the ccnstruction of sewers
and pumping stations in nine areas, modification and expansion of three
existing treatment plants and miscellaneous improvements and extensions
to existing pumping stations and sewers.
ii.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at S$67.2
million (equivalent to US$22.4 million) including interest during con-
struction. The proposed loan of US$6.0 million would be used to meet
about 77% of the foreign exchange costs. The balance of the project
expenditures would be covered by appropriations from the government's
development funds.
iii.      The borrower would be the Government of Singapore and the project
would be carried out by the Sewerage Branch, a division of the government's
Public Works Department.
iv.       The sewerage project is an important element in Singapore's
overall development plan. It is essential to the housing, urban renewal
and industrial estate sectors on which the government is concentrating
wvith success in the present five-year plan (1966-1970). The project is
technically sound, the estimated costs and time schedule are reasonable
and the proposed arrangements for design, procurement and construction
are satisfactory. The Sewerage Branch is qualified to carry out the
project and operate it efficiently.
v.        The financing plan is appropriate.  Direct user charges for
sewer service would be raised in steps to yield revenues sufficient to
cover operating expenditures, including depreciation, and eventually to
bring an appropriate financial return on Singapore's sewerage investments.
vi.       With the assurances obtained from the government during
negotiations (paragraph 7.03), this project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$6.0 million for a period of 20 years including five years grace.



APPRAISAL OF THE
SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Singapore has applied for a
loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to
help finance a sewerage project. This report covers the appraisal of the
proposed project.
1.02      The project would comprise about 95% of Singapore's sewerage
program during the period 1968 through June 1972. It would include
expansion and improvement of existing sewage treatment and sludge disposal
plants, the installation of sewers and the erection of pumping stations
in nine separate areas and miscellaneous extensions and improvements to
existing sewers and pumping facilities.
1.03      The estimated total project cost is S$67.2 million (equivalent
to US$22.4 million) including interest and commitment charges of about
US$1.3 million on the proposed Bank loan during construction. Foreign
exchange costs excluding the interest during construction would be equi-
valent to about US$6.5 million and the proposed loan of US$6.0 million
would cover about 92a of these costs.  The balance of the project costs
uould be met by appropriations from the Govrerrmert of Singapore' s
development funds.
1.04      The borrower would be the Government of Singapore. The executing
agency would be the Sewerage Branch - a division of the government's
Public Works Department - which has the responsibility for all sewage
disposal facilities in Singapore.
1.05      This appraisal is based on the findings of Bank missions to
Singapore in July and November 1967, consisting of Messrs. P. Callejas
and P. F. Lu, on information submitted to the Bank by the Government of
Singapore and its consultants during 1967 and 1968, and on the work of
the Bank's economic mission to Singapore in February/March 1968. A number
of factors contributed to the time required to complete this appraisal,
aside from the fact that the project is a new type for Bank consideration.
There were difficulties in compiling satisfactory financial data and
projections from the available accounting information. Engineering
studies by consultants, engaged by Singapore after the initial appraisal
mission, were necessary to properly identify and confirm the estimated
cost of key project components; and finally there were difficulties in
determining revenue requirements for sewer service in Singapore.



-2-
2. BACKGROUND
A. Sewerage Development in Singapore
2.01     The City of Singapore started constructing its main sewerage
system in 1912 when the island had a population of about 325,000. The
initial system served three areas in the heart of the city, each with
facilities to pump sewage to a central treatment plant at Alexandra Road.
The expansion of Singapore's sewerage system since its start is indicated
by the table below and is plotted in Annex 1 (trend of total and sewered
populations) and in Annex 2 (trend of sewage flows and installed treat-
ment capacity).
Estimated Population            Annual              1/
Served by Main       Increase in   Average-
Total       Sewerage System       Population   Dry Weather
Singapore                 (Percent     Served    Sewage Flows
Year    (thousands)  (thousands)  of Total)    (Percent)     (IMgd)
1917         325          25          8                        1.0
7.2
19Lt9      1,050         230         22                        8.0
9.1
1959       1,610         550         3h                       20.5
7.2
1966       1)930         900         h7                       35.3
2.02      For the years 1960 through 1966 the average annual increase in
population served was about 50,000; the apparent increase in 1966 alone
was about 72,000 (8.7%). About one-third of the sewers and pumping mains
in use at the end of 1966 were constructed after 1959, and the pace has
been increasing steadily; sewer construction averaged about 25 miles per
year during 1964, 1965 and 1966.
2.03      In 1961, the City Council of Singapore was integrated into the
Government of Singapore and its various functions were assigned to other
departments or agencies of the Central Government. The responsibility
for sewerage and sanitary installations in the City of Singapore was
transferred fram the City Engineer's Department to the Sewerage Branch,
P.W.D. (Public Works Department). Responsibility for storm water
drainage was assigned to the P.W.D.'s Drainage and Marine Branch.
1/ A convention for expressing sewage flows based on measurements taken
during periods when flows are not distorted by storm water.



-3-
B. The Present Sewerage System
2.04      At the beginning of 1967 the estimated population served by the
main sewerage system was about 900,000 or about 847p of Singapore's 1.9
million people. An additional 130,000 to 150,000 people were served by
secondary sewerage systems (paragraph 2.08). The balance of about 850,000
people was served by the conservancy system (house-to-house collection of
night soil buckets by Department of Public liealth).
2.05      The averap  dry weather sewage flows in the main system during
1966 were 35.3 IMgd- , equivalent to about 40 gpcd (gallons per capita
per day) for the population served. Short term peak dry weather flow rates
ranged from 1.75 to 2.5 times the average in the various parts of the
system. These flows are consistent with water use and other data available
for Singapore. However, during wet weather, flows of up to 4.0 times the
average occur for a few hours at a time in the older areas, indicating the
amount of storm water which enters the system, most apparently from
courtyard drains. This condition leads to installation of larger sewerage
elements than would otherwise be necessary, with corresponding capital and
operating cost increases, to prevent objectionable sewage overflows.
However, there is little that can be done except to look forward to
elimination of the drains in the city's extensive urban renewal program
(paragraphs 4.01 and 4.02).
2.06      The principal elements of the existing sewerage system are shown
on Map 1. In 1967 there were about 400 miles of sewers and pumping mains
ranging from 6 to 72 inches in diameter which served about 150,000 housing
units and other premises through about 100,000 connections. The sewers
and pumping mains averaged only about 2.5 linear feet of pipe per capita
served, emphasizing the high population density in the sewered areas and
the compactness of the system. Due to the nature of Singapore's terrain,
most of the sewage must be pumped to the treatment plants - about 30% is
pumped twice - and there are 23 pumping stations.
2.07      Sewage is treated at two plantq, Ulu Pandan and Kim Chuan,-/
employing the activated sludge process...  The Ulu Pandan plant, located
on the southwest side of the island, was built with a rated dry weather
capacity of 24 IMgd to serve 400,000 people, although sludge treatment
capacity was provided for 300,000 only. The effluent is discharged to
1/ About 4570 of the total water sales of 78.5 IJgd during 1966.
2/ The original, centrally located Alexandra Treatment Plant w7as taken
out of service and the land appropriated for development purposes
when Ulu Pandan Plant was completed in 1961.
3/ A widely used biological process for removal or stabilization of up
to 95% of the putrescible organic matter in sewage by contact with
media of living organisms (activated sludge) mixed with the sewage
and maintained in suspension with diffused air which also provides
the dissolved oxygen required for the process.



the Jurong River and some is being used after furthor treatment,
as a source of industrial water for the Jurong Industrial Estate. The
Kim Chuan plant is located in the northeast part of the island; the
effluent is discharged to the Serangoon River. WThen a large expansion
project is completed in 1968, it wqill be rated at 30 Dtgd. The combined
capacity of Ulu Pandan and Kim Chuan is then expected to be adequate for
about 1,150,000 people. The Serangoon Sludge Disposal Plant, about two
miles from Kim Chuan, is intended to achieve secondary digestion and
disposal of the primary digested sludge from Kim Chuan because of the
lack of space at Kim Chuan. All three of these plants utilize gas generated
from sludge digestion as the major source of energy for the treatment
processes.
2.08      Aside from the main sewerage system, there were about 1,400 small
secondary systems which had been constructed (under Sewerage Branch super-
vision) by other government agencies or private developers to serve areas
where the main system is inaccessible. Altogether these serve about 18,000
properties and utilize septic tanks or other minor treatment and disposal
facilities. As the main system is extended, the secondary treatment
facilities are abandoned and the tributary sewers are connected to the
main system.
2.09     Wiith some exceptions, the existing sewerage system is well planned
and maintenance is very good. The most notable deficiency in the system is
at the Kim Chuan Treatment Plant where a so-called "partial activated sludge"
process was a technical mistake and the plant, completed in 1940 and later
expanded on the same basis, has been very unsatisfactory. Major changes
and additions now under construction should correct this problem when they
go into operation during 1968. The Serangoon Sludge Disposal Plant is
affected by the poor Kim Chuan operations but also suffers from under-
capacity and poor design of its own facilities.  Sludge treatment facilities
at Ulu Pandan also are inadequate to serve the tributary population. As
a whole the system is deficient in flow measuring devices at pumping
stations and treatment plants.
2.10      For the most part, in operating the sewerage system, the Sewerage
Branch- appears to be doing fairly well in making the best of the system
deficiencies mentioned above. However, in the course of preparing this
project for Bank consideration, the Sewerage Branch has discovered a number
of necessary or possible operating improvements of which it probably hadbeen
aware but which had not received sufficient attention. In recent years the
system has growJn rapidly more complex. Operation of the many pumping
installations and the sophisticated treatment processes requires a constant
program for analyzing operations, experimentation and adjustment. But the
Sewerage Branch had not managed to establish operating records suitable for
the system or effective programs for data collection and investigative work;
1/ Section 5 includes further discussion of the Sewerage Branch.



nor had it sought necessary outside engineering advice on how to adjust
operations to make the best possible use of some of its plant. As a
result, operating practices have been adhered to with little awareness
that they had become outmoded and unsuitable for existing circumstances
and conditions. The Sewerage Branch has now moved these operational
shortcomings to the forefront of its current concerns. It has engaged
engineering consultants (J.D.&D.M. WJatson of England) and has recently
received preliminary advice from them on these matters. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Sewerage Branch would establish and
maintain a continuous program of data collection, analyses and investigation,
including the installation of dependable flows measurement devices at
appropriate locations in the system. This program should provide adequate
information on populations served, sewage flow patterns and trends, sewage
characteristics and treatment effectiveness which will be used as the
basis for operating improvements and the detailed design of future system
extensions.



-6-
3. THE PROJECT
A. Main Technical Features
3.01      The proposed project would include 95% of the capital investment
program for sewerage in Singapore during the period 1968 through June 1972.
The project is described in Annex 3 and the locations of the principal
elements are shown on Map 2.
3.02      Nine area sewerage programs provide for construction of main
sewers and pumping stations to serve new housing developments of the
Housing and Development Board, the Jurong Industrial Estate and adjacent
residential sections, the South and North Urban Renewal Areas and the
Kallang Basin Redevelopment Area. The project also would include mis-
cellaneous improvements to existing pumping stations and extensions to the
system of main and minor sewers throughout the city.
3.03      The average dry weather flow capacity of the Ulu Pandan Sewage
Treatment Plant would be increased from 24 to about 36 IMgd, which should
be adequate to serve more than 600,000 people. Sludge treatment and
disposal facilities at Ulu Pandan would also be expanded, some as much as
100O and a variety of modifications and improvements would be made at the
plant based on recommendations made by the consulting engineers (paragraph
2.10) after a review of operating experience.
3.04      The sludge treatment and disposal facilities at the Kim Chuan
Treatment Plant and its attendant facility, the Serangoon Sludge Disposal
Plant, would be modified to improve their effectiveness and some elements
would be expanded by as much as 400%. When completed these facilities
should be adequate for a tributary population of about 750,000 people,
matching the sewage treatment capacity at Kim Chuan.
3.05      Capital expenditures of S$3.2 million (US$1.1 million equivalent)
for sewerage facilities to be completed during the project period have not
been considered as part of the project. Contracts for these facilities
were awarded in 1967 or earlier and the remaining expenditures consist
mainly of final payments to contractors and suppliers. Minor sewers required
to complete many of the area sewerage programs are not included in the
project because they are to be provided by the real estate developing
agencies as part of their development costs.



-7-
B. Estimated Costs
3.06      The total cost of the project is estimated to be S$67.2 million
(equivalent to US$22.4 million) including interest during construction.
The estimates are summarized below and given in detail in Annex 4.
In Singapore $             In US$
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
------------------millions-------------------
Treatment Plant Expansions
and Improvements            7.76    3.94    11.70     2.59    1.31   3.90
Area Sewerage Programs        20.34    8.90    29.24    6.78    2.97   9.75
Miscellaneous Improvements
and Extensions              8.20    2.83    11.03     2.73    0.95   3.68
Contingencies                 7.27    3.13    10.40     2.h4    1.04   3.45
Total Construction Costs     h3.57    18.80    62.37  1.52     6.27  20.79
Consulting Services           0.20    0.80     1.00     0.07    0.27   0.34
Interest and Other
Financing Charges During
Construction                0.00    3.79      3.79    0.00    1,26   1.26
Total                 43,77    23.39    67.16   1h.59    7.80  22.39
3.07      The cost estimates are reasonable.  They were prepared by the
Sewerage Branch and the engineering consultants, based on some final but
mainly preliminary designs for the various project elements. The major
part of the basic cost data comes from actual experience on similar recent
sewerage work in Singapore. The individual items in the estimate include
appropriate provisions for freight and insurance. The allowance for
escalation and contingencies amounts to about 20% of both the estimated
local currency and foreign exchange construction cost components. This
comparatively high allowance is suitable in this case due to the long
construction period, the preliminary status of much of the design and the
uncertain nature of much of the work involving deep excavation in con-
gested areas. The consulting costs include additional technical studies
relating to the exparsion programs for the Ulu Pandan, Kim Chuan and
Serangoon Plants (paragraphs 2.10, 3.03 and 3.04) plus detailed engineering
design of the new treatment facilities. A small amount is included in the
local currency component of the consulting item to cover management advice
(paragraph 5.07). The estimated costs do not include expenditures on
existing contracts for programs nearing completion (paragraph 3.05), but
these costs are shoin in the total capital investment by the Sewerage
Branch during the project construction period (paragraph 6.01 and Annex 4).



C. Procurement and Disbursement
3.08      Supply and construction contracts for the project will be awarded
on the basis of international competition. The procedure now followed by
the P.W.D. in obtaining bids and awarding contracts can be used with a few
minor changes, such as wider advertising and public opening of bids.
Agreement on these procedures was reached during negotiations. Also during
negotiations, the Bank agreed to allow a degree of preference for domestic
over foreign suppliers when evaluating bids for supply contracts. The
margin of preference would be limited to the amount of the relevant
customs duties on the imported products which are low and are unlikely
to increase significantly because of Singapore's declared policy for
maintaining its position as a free trading nation. This agreement cannot
be expected to have much of an effect on the bidding results or estimated
foreign exchange costs because local products, such as pipe, which could
be used on the project are competitively priced, usually win contracts
without benefit of domestic preference, and the cost estimates have been
made on this basis. The local construction contractors are competent and
expected to win most of the contracts for buildings and pipelines.
3.09      The amount of Bank financing proposed for the sewerage project
would be US$6.0 million (equivalent) to cover about 92% of the estimated
foreign exchange costs excluding interest during construction. In the
event that foreign exchange costs are less than estimated, the unused
balance of the loan should be cancelled. Disbursements from the loan
would be for the foreign exchange cost of goods and services required for
the project and for which expenditures are made after the date of the loan.
In the case of some locally procured goods and services, disbursements
for the foreign exchange components would be made as a percentage of their
total cost as agreed between the borrower and the Bank. Some project
contracts have already been awarded, involving about l10$ of the total
project costs, primarily for civil works. It is proposed to disburse
about US$250,000 from the loan for payments made after the date of the
loan under about six contracts awarded earlier this year, provided they
conform to the Bank's procurement requirements1.
D. Planning, Engineering and Construction
3.10      Planning, design and construction supervision of the area sewerage
programs would be by the Sewerage Branch. The consulting engineers would
be called upon to give advice on special technical problems which arise on
the area programs. The requirements for sewers, the extent of the service
to be provided and the timing of construction is largely dictated by the
programs of the Housing and Development Board and the Economic Development
Board. Close coordination is required between the two Boards and the
Sewerage Branch to assure that the cost of sewerage and the lead time
required for construction is fully considered in studying the economics
and setting the location and timing for housing developments, urban renewal
and industrial estates. During negotiations, satisfactory assurances to
this effect were obtained from the government.
1/ The complete details on these contract awards are not yet available.



-9-
3.11      Preliminary techmical studies of expansions and improvements to
the existing sewage treatment and sludge disposal facilities have been
completed by the engineering consultants (paragraph 2.10) to the extent
necessary for defining the project and estimating costs. The consultants
would also make the detailed designs and prepare the bidding documents,
construction drawings and specifications. Bidding, bid evaluation and
construction supervision would be the responsibility of the Sewerage Branch,
with assistance as necessary from the consultants.
3.12      The above arrangements for design and construction supervision
are satisfactory provided that the PWD is successful in expanding and
strengthening the Sewerage Branch engineering staff in order to meet its
design schedule for the next four years. Otherwise, additional consulting
assistance will be obtained - for some of the work, local structural
consultants could be used.
3.13      The time schedule proposed for design, procurement and con-
struction of the various project elements is realistic and takes due
account of recent experience. Some decisions are still to be made on
timing of a few of the area sewerage programs within the overall project
construction period since these are dictated by the housing and urban
renewal programs. The critical parts of the sewerage program are the
works at the sewage treatment and sludge disposal plants. About 3½ to 4
years will be required to complete these, including a reasonable time for
the engineering investigations, government decisions on engineering recom-
mendations, design, bidding: and construction. The project completion date
has been set accordingly at mid 1972. The closing date for the proposed
loan has been set one year later to provide adequate time for final contract
payments as well as some slippage on the construction program. A detailed
time schedule showing the flow of engineering work, approvals, procurement
and construction, as required for project management, was obtained from
the government during negotiations, together with assurances that it will
be revised periodically as necessary and used for project control and
that the use of consultants would be increased as required to maintain
this time schedule.



-10-
4. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
4.01      Singapore's second five-year development plan   for the period
1966-1970, concentrates on (1) expansion of infrastructure facilities such
as utilities and development of industrial estates, and (2) expansion and
improvement of services to the population including education, housing,
urban renewal, and sewerage. l/he plan has been reviewed by Bank economic
missions which have reported- it to be well suited to Singapore's require-
ments and problems under present circumstances and within Singapore's
capacity to carry out with reasonable efficiency. It makes adequate
provisions for Singapore's economic and social requirements while fostering
economic growth with facilities and inducements for private industrial and
commercial expansion. The urban renewal program is being assisted by a
UNDP financed study. Sewerage is a minor part of the five-year plan in
terms of money (3.6% of public capital expenditures) but is a fundamental
utility required especially for the industrial estates and the housing and
urban renewal programs.
4.02      Through 1970, the present project is fundamentally the same as
included in the second five year plan; work after 1970 would be under the
third plan. Its scale and timing is appropriately geared to the housing,
urban renewal and industrial estate programs. These are notably ambitious,
but the housing and indiu,strial estate programs have been classified as
outstanding successes,_ and there is nothing to indicate that they,
along with the relatively new urban renewal program, will fall short of
their goals and leave Singapore with an overextended sewerage system.
In its own right, the sewerage project is also a continuation of a program
aiming toward adequate sewer service for about 75% of the population in
about 1985, as compared to about 50% now and 55% at the end of the project
construction period. By general standards for modern cities this appears
to be a reasonable goal for Singapore; its past accomplishments in terms
of population served and sewage flows (Annexes 1 and 2) indicate that
the step toward that goal represented by the proposed project is
attainable.
4.03      The project would make a positive contribution to improving the
standard of living and public health conditions in Singapore, especially
for the lower income segments of the population which are the principal
beneficiaries of housing program. Furthermore, there appear to be no
economical alternatives to carrying out the project as proposed. Through-
out Singapore, water use is increasing about 6% per year and the more
primitive facilities, such as the conservancy system and septic tanks,
are inadequate to dispose of the increasing volumes of waste economically
without nuisance or hazard. There is no practicable way of providing the
waste disposal services required for the population concentrations which
result from the housing and urban renewal programs, other than the main
sewerage system.
1/ Report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Singapore"
(FE-52a, dated February 10, 1966) and "Memorandum on the Economic
Situation of Singapore", dated June 1, 1967.



-11-
4.04      The methods and standards of sewage treatment and disposal used
in Singapore and proposed for extension as part of the project are con-
sistent with Singapore's requirements. Both treatment plants discharge
effluent to small rivers which empty into coastal waters used for fishing,
shellfish culture and recreation. Studies by the engineering consultants,
while not exhaustive, provide evidence that the high degree of treatment
now in use is necessary unless Singapore resorts to long, large diameter
and relatively uneconomical deep sea outfalls. Deep sea disposal of
sewage flows at Kim Chuan would apparently require an outfall at least
eight miles long due to shoal and current conditions.   Such an outfall
for Ulu Pandan probably would be shorter but would deprive Singapore,
which is not self-sufficient in potable water, of a potential source of
industrial water (paragraph 2.07) through reuse of reclaimed sewage.
4.05      The project design standards are sound, although there is a
tendency for very cautious approaciies. Some of the main sewers,
particularly in the urban renewal areas, will not be used to full capacity
for many years but in these cases in the center of the city there is no
practicable alternative to an initial installation which will satisfy all
forseeable requirements. There is no reliable way of determining which
of the areas tributary to the two sewage treatment plants will have the
fastest growth rate. Under these circumstances, the project includes only
a modest addition at Ulu Pandan in accordance with a flexible approach to
design whereby treatment plant capacity is increased in small stages based
on short range flow projections (Annex 2 shows possible future expansions
following the same approach).



-12-
5. THE SWERAGE BRANCH
A. Nature of the Agency
5.01      The Sewerage Branch, the agency responsible for carrying out
the proposed project (paragraph 2.03), is a branch or division of the
P.W.D., Government of Singapore. At the time it was established,
Singapore's Electricity, Water and Gas Departments were transferred to
the new autonomous Public Utilities Board and there was some opinion
that sewerage should be included with these utilities since fees were
charged for sewer service. However, this was not done on grounds that
sewerage was more a public service than an independent utility and
belonged under a government department. This concept and the government's
retention of complete responsibility for sewerage is not unusual; the
present arrangement is working well and no significant change is proposed
for Singapore.
5.02      The organization chart for the P.Wi.D. is shown in Annex 5. It
is one of several departments under the Ministry of Law and National
Development which is also responsible for the Housing and Development
Board, a statutory government authority whose activities tie in closely
with the sewerage program (paragraphs 3.02 and 3.10). In addition to the
Sewerage Branch, other divisions of the P.W.D. are responsible for roads
and bridges, drainage and marine, works and buildings, and airports. All
P.W.D. expenditures and operations are financed by government appropria-
tions (paragraph 5.17). Accounting is done by the Accountant General's
Office of the Ministry of Finance and auditing, by the Government's
Director of Audit (paragraphs 5.08 and 5.11). The senior officials in
the P.W.D. are: the Director, the Deputy Director and two Assistant
Directors. Each branch is headed by a Senior Executive Engineer, a
Senior Architect or a Senior Quantity Surveyor.
B. Organization, Administration and Activities
5.03      The organization of the Sewerage Branch is shown in Annex 6.
It is responsible for the planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of Singapore's sewerage system and the ultimate disposal of
sewage without hazard or nuisance. It also maintains facilities for
receiving, treating and disposing of the night soil collected by the
Public Health Department, Ministry of Health (paragraph 2.04). Plans for
and construction of minor sewers and secondary treatment facilities
(paragraph 2.08) installed by other public agencies or private developers
must be approved by the Sewerage Branch. It assures satisfactory per-
formance of these secondary treatment facilities by periodic inspection,
making necessary repairs at the owner's expense, and in many cases by
actually taking over their operation.



-13-
5.04      The Public Works Department, holds and employs legal powers to
enforce connection of properties when sewers are available. The Sewerage
Branch constructs sewer connections except in new housing estates where
the connections are made by the developers under the Branch's supervision.
All sanitary plumbing and drains within properties connected to the sewer
system must be approved by the Sewerage Branch. It maintains and repairs
the sanitary plumbing in government buildings. The Branch is responsible
for the collection of most minor fees and charges and assesses properties
for the number of sanitary fittings used as the basis for the Water Borne
Sewerage Fees collected for it by the Public Utilities Board (paragraph
5.16).
5.05      Administration of the Sewerage Branch and operation of the
sewerage system is generally good but improvements are required (paragraph
2.10). The most serious problems within the Sewerage Branch are personnel
and the lack of an appropriate accounting system. The Branch recognizes
both of these problems and has begun taking some corrective steps. A new
accounting system is being established (paragraph 5.09). The personnel
problem is not unusual, involving too much unskilled or semi-skilled labor
and a shortage of engineers and technical staff. The excess labor force
is a carryover from previous years when much of the construction work was
done by its own forces rather than by contract. The Sewerage Branch has
stopped recruitment and replacement of labor, and the labor force is to
be slowily reduced over the next few years by transfers and normal depar-
tures (as a government agency in a country with an unemployment problem,
the P.W.D. will not make wholesale dismissals).
5.06      The Sewerage Branch's engineers and technicians appear well
qualified, but there is a troublesome staff turnover caused by departures
of individuals after they have gained enough experience to begin making
solid contributions to the organization, and there results a shortage of
competent people for the more responsible positions.-, Low salaries
coupled with competitive opportunities for various skills and the departure
of expatriatesformerly holding many specialized posts are the major
underlying causes. The Sewerage Branch is also hurt by a government
practice of keeping staff on temporary appointments for unduly long periods.
This situation has not been faced squarely and there have been no success-
ful efforts either to correct it or to tailor the Sewerage Branch
activities, procedures and recruiting practices to fit the circumstances.
For example, staff is diverted from long range planning and other functions
to which the Sewerage Branch should properly devote its first attention
(paragraph 2.10), to a substantial amount of detailed design for which
outside specialists could readily be retained. The P.W.D.'s 1966 Annual
Report contains a number of references to important work of an investi-
gative or experimental nature which the Sewerage Branch should have been
doing but which was not undertaken or completed for lack of staff.
1/ In Singapore, this staffing problem is not unique to the Sewerage Branch;
the Public Utilities Board, the Port Authority and the Telephone Boardhave
been similarly troubled for several years.



-1h-
5.07      Significant changes in the urnderiying causes of the staff problem,
particularly salaries, cannot be expected in the near future and were
beyond the power of the government negotiators to assure, although the
matter was discussed during negotiations. Fortunately, an equally important
and apparently attainable goal that would improve the Sewerage Branch and
help to assure its expansion on a sound basis is to adapt the Branch and
its expansion plans to fit the situation. This requires a careful objective
study of the Sewerage Branch functions and staff to identify practicable
changes in structure, activities, and procedures (including personnel
policies) and to determine requirements for staff, obtainable in Singapore,
to make the most effective and economical use of personnel and consultants
in meeting the Sewerage Branch's foreseeable responsibilities. During
negotiations satisfactory assurances were obtained that such a study will
be made, in consultation with the Bank, by the Organization and Methods
Branch, Ministry of Finance, with the aid of consulting specialists as
necessary. The study will be completed by April 30, 1969 and the recom-
mendations and their implementation will be discussed with the Bank.
C. Accounting and Auditing
5.08      The Accountant General's Office, Ministry of Finance, keeps all
accounts for the government and its various departments and these are on
the cash basis customary for government operations. The PWD and the
Sewerage Branch do not maintain separate accounting systems. Revenues
from sewer service fees and charges go into the government's consolidated
revenue accounts (paragraph 5.17) and are not set aside specifically for
use on sewerage expenses or investments.
5.09      The principal shortcoming of the existing method of dealing with
severage funds is the lack of accounting procedures which could provide
adequate information for evaluating and controlling operations or to serve
as a rational cost basis for planning expansion. For example, it required
several weeks of joint effort by the staffs of the PWD, the financial
department of the Public Utilities Board and the office of the Accountant
General to compile the financial data given in this report. This defi-
ciency has been discussed with the government. The P.W.D. and the
Accountant General have reacted by proposing a subsidiary system of
accounts for the Sewerage Branch, parallel to the normal government cash
accounts and designed to provide the necessary data about sewerage on
commercial accrual and costing bases. The Accountant General has already
provided the P.W.D. with an experienced commercial accountant who has
started setting up the new system by preparing a preliminary chart of
accounts which is generally satisfactory. This is a step in the right
direction. During negotiations, the government confirmed that it is
establishing and will maintain the new system of accounts for use in
managing the sewerage system.



5.10      The government does not propose to go so far as to separate
sewerage funds from its general funds and there is no sound reason for
insisting on such a major change as a condition for a Bank loan. Sewerage
is a well run central government operation with a good system of checks
and balances through budget review, control and auditing which should be
even better with the new subsidiary accounting system. The government has
an established record of providing monies for sewerage operations and
investment promptly as necessary from its consolidated current revenues
and development funds. In this case, separation of sewerage funds would
hamper the government's flexibility in using its cash resources.
5.11      The Director of Audit of Singapore works as the independent
external auditor for all government units and is responsible for rationa-
lizing collection and disbursement procedures, seeing that such procedures
are followed, insuring public money is spent as intended, revealing
irregularities and screening accounts to see whether they are accurately
and fairly presented. (The financial figures used in this report for 1961
through 1966 are a rearrangement from the audited accounts; 1967 accounts
were not audited when this report was prepared.) The Director of Audit
has agreed to audit the Sewerage Branch's new accounts. His office is
competent to do this and has a reputation for promptness; consequently,
this arrangement should prove satisfactory. During loan negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Sewerage Branch accounts will be audited
at least once a year by the Director of Audit or by an independent external
auditor acceptable to the Bank, and copies of the auditor's report will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
It was also agreed that as part of the Bank's reporting requirements
unaudited reports on the accounts would be sent the Bank within four months.
D. Operating Costs
5.12      The Sewerage Branch's operating costs-/ including pro forma
depreciation for 1962-1966 inclusive (Annex 8) can be grouped into three
main categories as followis:
1) salaries and benefits, averaging about 23% of total
operating costs;
2) wages for labor and material for operations and maintenance,
about 33%;
3) administrative and miscellaneous costs, about 5%; and
4) pro forma depreciation, about 39%.
1/ In this report, operating costs do not include the Public Utilities
Board 5% commission for billing and collection of the Water Borne
Sewerage Fee (paragraph 5.16). Likewise, reported revenues are after
the commission.



-16-
5.13      As a whole, operating costs are reasonable for the type of
system in Singapore. At present, operating expenditures total about
S$300 per DMg of sewage treated (S$510 per DMg including an appropriate
amount for depreciation) and have declined steadily from almost S$400
per IMg in 1962. On a per capita basis, cash operating expenditures
now average about S$5.00 per capita served per year. The average
treatment expenditures at Kim Chuan are lower than they would be if
the existing air compressing facilities were adequate (paragraph 2.09).
The expenditures for daily rated labor are higher than they should be
and for technical staff, lower because of the unbalanced staff (para-
graph 5.05).
5.1h      Total operating expenses will rise with greater sewage flows,
with increases in the cost of supplies and with expansion of the tech-
nical staff. Rising wages for common labor during the next several
years are expected to be offset largely by a gradual reduction in the
labor force. These factors are reflected in the projected operating
expenditures (Annex 10). By 1976, however, because of the increased
and more efficient use of existing facilities, the Sewerage Branch
expects that the total cash operating expenses per IMg will go down
by about one-third and total operating costs including depreciation,
by about 25%. Similarly, by 1976 the annual cost per capita served
should go down to about S$3.60 before depreciation (S$6.90 with
depreciation). These expectations by the Sewerage Branch appear
somewhat optimistic but they are possible as existing facilities
are utilized more fully and effectively; furthermore, they reflect a
continuation of a downward trend, since 1962, in costs per unit volume
of sewage treated or per capita served.
E. Sewer Service Charges and Sources of Funds
5.15      All Singapore's fees and charges for sewer service are
established as regulations made by the Minister of Law and National
Development who is empowered to make and amend such regulations under
Section 184 of the Local Government Integration Ordinance, 1963. The
existing schedule of direct charges is summarized in Annex 7. The
minor revenues are derived from charges for sewer service connections,
fees for maintaining septic tanks and other treatment facilities
owned by others, and a very small income from the sale of sewage
sludge. There is a flat charge per linear foot for mandatory service
connections, intended to cover the average cost and increased from
time to time as prices rise. The Sewerage Branch charges actual
construction costs plus 20% in special cases, called voluntary con-
nections, or where the pipe is larger than 9-inch diameter or over
100 feet long. The principal charge, producing about 90% of the
revenue, is the Water Borne Sewage Fee, a flat monthly charge of
S$2.00 per sanitary fitting for all properties with sewer connections.
Apparently this charge was initially established by the Singapore
City Council as a source of tax revenue with no intention of recovering
any particular percentage or type of sewerage expenditures. There has
been no change in this arrangement under the national government.



-17-
5.16     The Water Borne Sewage Fees, including those charged to govern-
ment quarters, are collected by the Public Utilities Board w-ich includes
them on its combined monthly bills for electricity, water and gas. Five
percent of the billings goes to the Public Utilities Board to cover costs
and the write-off of any uncollected bills. In fact, collections are
excellent since non-payment of any part of the combined bill results in
prompt disconnection of electricity, gas or water services, or all of
them. The minor revenues are collected by the P.W.D. or the government's
District Officers.
51.7     Revenues are not retained by the Sewerage Branch or otherwise
reserved for use on the sewerage system; instead, they go into the
government's consolidated revenue accountE (paragraph 5.08). In turn,
operating expenditures by the Sewerage Branch are met by disbursements
from the government's consolidated revenue accounts and capital expendi-
tures are made by appropriations from govermnent development funds
which are derived from public sector eurpluses, domestic borrowing and
small amourts of foreign borrowing. Nevertheless, it is possible to
relate the revenues from present charges to the sewerage expenditures.--
This calculation shows (Income and Cash Flow Statements, 1962-1967,
Annexes 8 and 9) that for the period 1962-1965, revenues from direct
charges were below cash operating expenditures (before depreciation),
but the cash deficit was steadily decreasing, In 1966 there was the
equivalent of a small cash surplus, and 1967 revenues of s$5.525 million
exceeded the S$b.750 cash operating expenses by 16%. Including pro
forma depreciation, the 1967 revenues were 68% of total operating costs.
Total net government outlays for sewerage (capital expenditures plus
cash operating deficits or minus cash operating surpluses) averaged
about S$9.3 million per year during 1962-67 with a peak of S$1h.5 mil-
lion in 1966.  Over the six-year period 95V of the net expenditure for
sewerage was for capital investment which exceeded total pro forma
depreciation during that period by 220%, and was about 5.5% of total
public deve-opment expenditures.
5.18     Thus it will be seen that Singapore, while having moved toward
a system of charges related to costs, still finances sewerage partially
from general taxes. This is not unusual since comparatively few sewerage
utilities anywhere employ full cost pricing of sewer service - full cost
being defined as cash operating costs, depreciation and an appropriate
return on invested capital, Moreover, the level of revenues and the
method of financing sewerage in Singapore have worked satisfactorily
there with no apparent adverse effects on the cperation, maintenance
and expansion of the system. Disbursements for operations and capital
improvements have been adequate, timely and prcperly regulated (para-
graph 5.10). There are no indications to date that the financing
method has resulted in the government's withholding necessary funds or
in over investing.
1/ Revenues as given herein include the value of service to government
departments for which collections are not made (in order to avoid
the 5% charge by the Public Utilities Board). This value is based
on the Water Borne Sewerage Fee that would apply for such services
and amounts to less than 5% of the total revenue.



-18-
5.19      Nevertheless, Singapore has decided that the revenue from sewerage
services should be increased and has also been considering certain changes
in the nature of the fees. One change would be the adoption of a Trade
Waste Tariff, establishing charges based on the volume and characteristics
of the individual commercial and industrial wastes and the cost of their
collection, treatment and disposal. In Singapore, where trade and industrial
establishments represent a small but growing percentage of the properties
served by sewerage, this should promote individual decisions to reduce or
treat the trade and industrial wastes on the site when this is more econo-
mical.
5.20      The second change that has been under consideration for some
time in Singapore is to relate part or all of the Water Borne Sewage Fee
to the volume of water used. While the bulk of domestic demand is deter-
mined by the fact that connection of households to the system is compulsory,
and the system is extended to serve new customers as a matter of government
policy, the actual use of the system and much of the operation and main-
temance costs are dependent on the use of water. Thus, there is much to
be said for proportioning sewer service charges to water use at the indi-
vidual properties. In Singapore this would be particularly appropriate
since all water use is metered. Such a new basis for sewer charges should
be more equitable to the customers and, with the Public Utilities Board's
computerized billing system (paragraph 5.16), the change could be made
easily. More study-is required towork-out-the details- o't    re-v-isi-orr-
but it should be possible to introduce it during 1969.
5.21      During negotiations, Singapore confirmed its intention to take
the above steps. Assurances were obtained that adjustments will be made
in the sewer service charges so that in 1972, at the latest, revenues
would be sufficient to cover operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance and depreciation, and thereafter to produce a reasonable
annual return on the value of net fixed sewerage assets in operation.
This objective is to be achieved in steps. The first will be the adoption,
before January 1, 1970, of a Trade Waste Tariff and the revision of Water
Borne Sewage Fees to include charges based on metered water consumption.
The decision as to what constitutes a reasonable financial return on the
fixed assets will be deferred until about 1971 or early 1972, giving
Singapore an opportunity to assess the results of the first fee changes
and to complete a study, in consultation with the Bank, to determine the
appropriate rate of return and the nature and timing of any further revi-
sions to the sewer service charges required to achieve this return.
Singapore has agreed to complete this study before the end of 1971.
5.22      This gradual approach is appropriate for Singapore.   Since the
existing system of charges and the general level of revenues do not appear
to have had a detrimental effect on the sewerage system (paragraph 5.18),
there is no particular urgency for substantial revisions. With this past
record and the importance which Singapore appears to attach to having a
well planned and operated system, there is no reason to expect that the
sewerage program will be allowed to deteriorate or to develop without due
consideration to questions of national finance and economics. With some justi-
fication, Sii-ga-ore feels it is not yet in a position where it can determine



-19-
what specific long term sewer service rate policies it should follow.
Finally, the gradual approach to attaining a reasonable financial return
is consistent with the "lumpy" nature of sewerage investments, most of
which are for elements with useful life in the order of 40 to 50 years,
and substantial portions of the capacity which must be installed
initially are not fully utilized for many years (paragraph 4.05).
5.23      It is not yet possible to make a reasonably accurate forecast
of the financial results of Singapore's commitments with respect to sewer
service charges. The introduction of the Trade Waste Tariff may not have
much immediate effect on revenues. The Water Borne Sewage Fee revisions
are apt to result more in a redistribution of revenues than in any
significant income change, although there should be some increase. Con-
sequently, it is safe to assume only that these changes will not in
themselves produce any increase in total revenues over what could be
expected with the present fees, at least through 1971. In that case,
to meet its specific commitment for 1972, and thereafter, Singapore might
be obliged to raise rates so that revenues from the Water Borne Sewage Fee
(including the Trade Waste Tariff) would be about 48% higher than projected
with the existing rates (Annex 13). Assuming that rate changes producing
this increase would have similar results through the rest of the projection
period, no further revisions would be required to give revenues which
cover operating expenses including depreciation through 1976, as shown
in Annex 13. On top of the 48% increase for 1972, a revenue increase of
roughly 30% from the Water Borne Sewage Fee would be required for each
2% of positive return obtained during the period 1973-1976.  These
estimates are based on present assumptions as to future price and wage
levels. The forecasts will have to be adjusted from time to time to
reflect actual conditions, improved estimates and eventually Singapore's
decisions with respect to an appropriate financial return for sewerage.



-20-
6. FINAYUCING PLAfl AND FUTURE FE ANCIAL POSITION
A. Financing Plan
6.01      The intended sources and application of funds for sewerage during
the period 1968 through 1976 areshowln in Annex 11. The financing plan for
the project construction period, 1968-June 30, 1972 is summarized below:
Application of Funds
S$          US$        %
--millions-----
Project Construction Costs                  62.4         20.8       88.7
Consulting Services                          1.0          0.3        1.4
Interest and Other Charges During
Construction (IBRD Loan)                 3.8          1.3        5.4
Other Capital Expenditures                   3.2          1.1        4.5
Total Applications                        70.4        23.5      100.0
Sources of Funds
Proposed IBRD Loan                          18.0          6.0       25.6
Government Development FundsV/               45.0 (40.0) 15.0 (13.4)64.0(56.8)
Cash Generated From Operationsl/              7.4 (12.4)  2.5 ( 4.1)10.4(17.6)
Total Sources                             70.4        23.5      100.0
6.02      The interest and other charges during construction are estimated
on the basis of interest on the proposed loan at 6-1/14% per annum and a
comnmitment charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum on amounts not withdrawn. The
"other capital expenditures" are for expenditures on existing contracts
nearing completion and excluded from the proposed project (paragraph 3.05).
6.03      The proposed Bank Loan would cover one-quarter of the total fund
requirements during the project construction period, about 72% of the total
foreign exchange requirements and 77% of the project's foreign exchange
requirements including interest and other charges during construction.
As a source, cash generated from operations is notional because operating
surpluses are not identified for specific applications. Holwever, the
figure represents a contribution toward the source from wqhich much of
Singapore's development funds are derived. The appropriation from deve-
lopment funds shown above is the government's net outlay after taking the
operating surplus into account.
1/ Based on the present system of rates and charges for sewer service.
With proposed rate changes to produce revenues covering total operating
costs including depreciation starting in 1972, generated cash would
increase and the use of development funds would be reduced as shown
in brackets.



-21-
B. Future Financial Position
6.oA      Financial projections for the period 1968 through 1976 are
given in Annexes 10-12. Annex 13 summarizes the expected financial
results of a 48% increase in revenues from the Water Borne Sewage Fee
(including the Trade Waste Tariff) starting in 1972 (paragraphs
5.21 and 5.23) in order to meet Singapore's caRmittment that total
operating revenues will cover total operating costs including adequate
depreciation. The basic assumptions generally as proposed by the
Sewerage Branch are listed in Annex 14; as a whole these appear
conservative.
6.O5      Cash generated from the system is likely to be higher than
shown as would capital expenditures after 1972. With the existing
schedule of rates and charges, the projections show that revenues from
direct sewer service charges and fees would exceed operating expendi-
tures (before depreciation) by about S$800 thousand (15%) in 1968
and this annual operating surplus would increase steadily through the
projection period to about S$2.7 million (40% of operating expenditures)
in 1976.
6.o6      A revenue increase sufficient to cover only total operating
costs including depreciation (0% return) starting with 1972 would
result in the equivalent of annual cash generation which gradually
increases from about S$5.0 million in 1972 to about s$6.8 million in
1976. This would be sufficient to pay the debt service on the pro-
posed Bank loan and contribute 301% to 410% of the projected annual
capital investments in sewerage from 1973-1976 inclusive. If revenues
increase during those years to produce a return of about 4.5% on net
fixed assets in operation, the operating income would be sufficient
to cover annual debt service plus the projected annual capital
investment.



-22-
7. CONCTUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF IENDING
7.01      The proposed sewerage project would be the most economic way
of expanding waste disposal services in Singapore, and there are no
practicable alternatives for providing this service if Singapore is to
continue its notable programs for housing and rebuilding its urban areas.
The project would make one of the most direct possible contributions to
the standard of living in Singapore, especially for the lower income
segments of the population. It is an important part of Singapore's
development plan and would be a continuation of a sewerage program well
suited to Singapore's requirements and which has been carried out success-
fully for several years. Upon completion of the project, about 1.2 mil-
lion people (55% of the total population) would be adequately served
by the main sewer system as compared to about 950,000 people (47.5%) in
1967 and the capacity of the project elements would be sufficient for
continued future expansion of sewer service.
7.02      The project is well planned and appropriately geared to the
housing, urban renewal and industrial estate programs. The proposed
arrangements for design and construction supervision are adequate. The
cost estimates and the time schedule for construction are realistic.
The proposed financing plan is satisfactory. With establishment of the
proposed special accounting system (paragraph 5.09) there would be
adequate information for efficient management and control.
7.03      During negotiations for the proposed loan, satisfactory
assurances were obtained from the government on the following:
a) That it will make certain improvements to its rate
schedule before January 1, 1970 and increase direct
user charges for sewer service to provide, not later
than in 1972, revenues sufficient to cover operating
expenses including adequate maintenance and depre-
ciation, and thereafter to produce a reasonable annual
return on the net fixed assets in operation (paragraph
5.21);
b) Before the end of 1971, it will carry out, in consul-
tation with the Bank, a study of sewer service charges
to determine the annual return that would be reasonable
for Singapore and the nature and timing of any rate
changes required to achieve this return (paragraph
5.21);
c) Assets will be valued in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation and
revaluation satisfactory to the Bank;



-23-
d) A special accounting system suitable for the requirements
of the Sewerage Branch will be established and maintained
(paragraph 5.09). The accounts will be audited by the
office of the Director of Audit or by an auditing firm
acceptable to the Bank. An annual report of these accounts
will be submitted to the Bank within four months after
the end of the fiscal year, and an auditor's report,
within six months (paragraph 5.11);
e) An objective study will be made of the Sewerage Branch,
in consultation with the Bank, to identify practicable
changes in activities, structure and procedures and to
determine staff requirements in order to make the most
effective and economical use of personnel and consultants
in meeting the Sewerage Branch's foreseeable responsi-
bilities. The study will be completed by April 30, 1969,
and the recommendations and their implementation will
be discussed with the Bank (paragraph 5.07);
f) The Public Works Department will continue to retain
engineering consultants, acceptable to the Bank, for the
sewage treatment and sludge disposal parts of the pro-
posed project, to recommend improvements to existing
pumping and treatment operations, and to provide any
additional assistance required by the Sewerage Branch
in completing design and construction of the project
according to the agreed time schedule (paragraphs
3.11 and 3.13);
g) The Sewerage Branch will establish and maintain a con-
tinuous program of data collection, records, analyses,
and investigation, including the installation of depend-
able flow measurement devices at appropriate locations in
the system, in order to provide adequate information on
populations served, sewage flow patterns and trends,
sewage characteristics and treatment effectiveness and
will make operating improvements and base future system
extensions on this information (paragraph 2.10);
h) Major development plans for housing, urban renewal and
industrial estates will be made or revised in consultation
with the Sewerage Branch and the costs and time required
to provide sewerage will be fully considered in studying
the economics and setting the location and timing of
these developments (paragraph 3.10);
7.04      With the above agreements, the proposed sewerage project would
be a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$6.0 million equivalent for
20 years, including a grace period of about five years.
June 12, 1968



SINGAPORE: SEWERAGE PROJECT
POPULATION TRENDS
(MILLIONS OF PERSONS)
5                                                                                                               /5
/,
4.4% PER ANNUI      /  I   4
4                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
LEGEND: * Census dato                                                                         / /
LEGEND: 0 Census doto                          ~~~~~FORECASTS PREPARED BY//
X Estimote by Dept. of Statistics                      DEPARTMENT OF STATISTICS      / /
A From Somple Household Survey 1966                         3.5% PER ANNUM           /
2.5% PER ANNUM               'Of 
2 0_ _ -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,733,00 - a 
1,446,000
TOTAL PO'PULATION (ISLAND OF SINGAPO RE)
ESTIMATED POPULATION
SERVED BY
MAIN SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECONDARY SYSTEMS
0                                                                                                                  0
1900         1910        1920        1930         1940        1950         1960        1970         1980        1990
YEARS
z
NOTE: 1957 ond later populations exclude foreign tronsients, Armed Services personnel and their fomilies estimated at 30,800 in 1957.  r
February, 1968                                                                                                           IBRD-3702  X



16 0     1  1   I  1  I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I                       I I I I  I I  I I I I I j  16 0
SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT                              POAL AG
TREND  OF  SEWAGE  FLOWS               DR~~~~~~~~~~UTURE AVERAGE DAILY/
TREND   OF   SEWAGE  FLOWS             DRY ~~~~~~~WEATHER SEWAGE FLOWS
140           AND   TREATMENT         CAPACITY                                                140
(MILLIONS OF IMPERIAL GALLONS PER DAY)          PER CAPITA FLOWS INRASN TO  ~  
60 GALLONS PER DAY BY 1990
120                                                                            ------  .....  120
100                                             z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I: /1 0
z
<   -7~~ -- 
w                /
Z    [~~78 OR1/
80                                                                               7 z80
66un            BASIS FOR
__________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              c)                PLANNING
60                                                                      760
CAPAITYOF REAMEN PLNTS                //::            6/o LOWINCEAS
(AVERAGE DRY WEATHER FLOW  BASIS) ~ ~ L                 PER YLWICEAR E
40                                                36                                         40
AVERAGE DRY WEATHER FLOW22         KIM CHUAN TREATMENT PLANT
20                                                                                           20
1935    1940     1945     1950     1955    1960     1965     1970     1975    1980     1985       z
z
IBRD- 3703
N



SINGAPORE SEWERAGE FROJECT
Surmary of Project
Design and Construction
Arrangements and Notes
Project Element                             The Total Program                                  The Project Component                                 on Coat Estimates
A. Area Sewerage Programs
1. Toa Payoh Sewerage          A program, started in 1962, to sewer new          Remaining work: 7,000 1t of 12 through 36 inch          The general layout and functional design
Toa Fayoh housing development northeast           diamete  main sewers.Ja  Minor severs furnished         criteria of the program and the detailed
Of the city (ultimate population, about           by HDB-O not included in project but would be           design of pumping stations and treatment
250,000 to 300,000, by about 1970 to 1975)        turned over to Sewerage Branch after about six          plant extensions by consulting engineers
and adjacent areas (ultimate population,          months.                                                 (J.D.&D.M.Watson).
about 200,U00 by about 1980). Consists of
minor sewers, 23,000 ft. of main sewers,          Completion expected in 1970.                            Detailed design of sewers and force mains
two pumping stations and force mains to                                                                   by Sewerage Branch.
carry sewage to Lim Chuan Treatment Plant
and treatment plant expansion.                                                                            Remaining work to be included in project
carried out by procurement and construction
Gravity sewers constructed for ultimate flows                                                             contraets awarded after competitive bidding
(average of 24 lNgd and maximum of 72 IKgd).                                                              by the Sewerage Branch and the HDB, subject
Also pump station buildings. Initial installed                                                            to review inspection and approval of
pump and force main capacity equals one-half                                                              Sewerage Branch, which also makes surveys
of ultimate. Treatment plant, which takes flow                                                            and tests on completion. No contracts
from other areas, expanded to 30 Thgd average                                                             have been awarded for 1968. Sewerage
flow and 90 XNgd peak flow.                                                                               Branch vill assure HDB compliance with
required IBRD procurement procedures.
MaJor part of program completed 1967. Treat-
ment plant work, except related secondary                                                                 Cost estimates are for actual procurement
sludge digestion and disposal (Item C-14                                                                  and construction only (no design and
below), completed 1966. Over-all completion                                                               supervisionexspenditures).  Government
expected 1970.                                                                                            reimburses HDB for costs of major sewers.
In event of loan, IBRD would reimburse
government for foreign exchange component.
Minor sewers not included in costs, because
HDB includes them as part of development
costs.
2. Jurong Sewerage             Program stArted in 1964 for severing new          Project comprises a pumping station, 10,000 ft.         Planning, detailed design and construction
public housing development and town center        of main sewers and the force mains to be                supervision by Sewerage Branch. Very close
constructed by tbe HDB, the Jurong Industrial     completed during the 1968-1971 part of                  coordination required with HDB and EDB to
Estate (developed by Economic Developnent         program.                                                prevent uneconomic expenditure as phased
Board) and private housing growth in the                                                                  sever program is carried out (for example,
Jurong area. Estimated population served by       Most minor sewers provided by developers not           the timing of housing and industrial deve-
1971, about 75,000 (about 50,000 increase         included in project.                                    lopment in various parts of area determines
over 1967), and by 1980, about 150,000 equi-                                                              economic location and sizing of sewer
valent.  Ultimate future population equiva-       Excludes temporary pumping station and all              facilities).
lent of area, 300,000 to 500,000. First           other wrk for which contracts awarded before
stage includes, Zs6,000 ft. of minor and major    1968 and nearing completion.                            Construction and procurement by contracts
sewers, 5,0DO ft. of force main, and stations                                                             awarded by Sewerage Branch after competi-
to pump sewage to Ulu Pandan treatment plant.                                                             tive bidding.
The program will continue indefinitely. At                                                                Costs include some 1968 and 1969 work for
a later stage a Jurong Sewage treatment plant                                                             which contracts awarded in 1967 and for
will be built.                                                                                            which no reimbursements would be made from
proposed IBRD loan.
3. Pasir Fanjang Sewerage      This program comprises 2 pumping stations         Project includes remaining 20,000 feet of               Planning, design and construction (force
and sever construction program started in         6 through 12 inch sewers for period                     account )by Sewerage Branch.
1965 in the southwest part of the city. The       1968-1970.
estimated additional population served is                                                                 Supply contracts awarded after competitive
about 10,000.                                     Sewers and pumping station work to be completed         bidding.
1968 under existing contracts not considered
Pumping stations and 4w,000 ft. of sewer almost   part of project.                                        Costs include only remaining sewers.
completed. Over-all completion expected 1970.
E/ Minor sewers 9 inches diameter or smaller. Main sewers over 9 inches diameter.
#/ Housing and Development Board under Ministry of Law and National Development.                                                                                                       ¶



Design and Construction
Arrangements and Notes
iroject Elernt                          The Total Frogram                                The Project Component                                  on Cost Estimates
A. Area Sewerage krugrams (cont'd.)
4. Sewerage for Urban          Program to sewer the old city area south of      Tne 1roject includes mair sew,ers and a new            Flainir-g, design and construction super-
Henewal South            the Singapore River which is being recon-        jurnping station to replace onn ~C years old.          vision by Sewerage Branch. Construction
structed over 25 year period under the            The station structure will be adequate to             and procurement by contracts awarded
government's Urban Renewal Policy by the          serve 335,000 people but initial installed            after compctitive bidding.
Urban Renewal Unit of HDB. Ultimately popu-      pumping capacity will be for about 200,000
lation in Urban Renewal South is expected        people or average flows of 9.0 IMgd using              As for the Jurong Sewerage Frogram, very
to double to 270,000. Together with the           the existing force main. Minor sewers are             close coordination is reouired between
population from adjacent tributary areas,         not included in the project as they will be           the Sewerage Branch and HDB.
the sewerage facilities eventually will have      provided by the developers.
to be adequate for about 335,000 people and                                                             Cost estimates include all expenditures
per capita sewage flows will be much greater      The pumping station is expected to be                 for pumping station 1966-1971 inclusive.
than at present. The additional population        completed in 1970. The main sewer work
actually served by 1971 vill be 20,000 to         for 1968-1971 consists of about 12,000                Contracts for pumping station structure,
30,000.                                           feet of 9 through 60 inch diameter sewers.            pumps and some sewers were awarded in
1967. Some sub contracts under these
The sewerage program includes main and minor                                                            awarded in 1968 for prime cost items and
sewers and a new pumping station and will be                                                            materials bid separately could be eligible
staged to keep pace with development which                                                              for disbursements from any IBRD loan.
will be carried out precinct by precinct,                                                                Bulk of sewer contracts not yet awarded.
but some of the new sewerage will have to be
constructed for ultimate requirements. The
program is complicated by the necessity to
maintain sewer service in the area while
development proceeds.
5. Sewerage for Urban         Similar to program Urban Renewal South (above),   The project includes 15,000 ft. of major               Planning, design and construction super-
Renewal North           for the old city area north of the Singapore      sewers to be completed through 1971, the               vision by Sewerage Branch. Construction
River. The ultimate population served by         temporary pumping station, the permanent                and procurement by contracts awarded
sewers is estimated to be about 260,000           pumping station and force main should                  after competitive bidding.
including about 60,000 from an adjacent           be completed in 1971.
tributary area. By 1971 about 4i0,000 to                                                                As for the Jurong Sewerage Program and
50,000 more people would be served than in        Minor sewers are not included as they would            Urban Renewal South, close coordination
1967.                                             be piovided by the developers.                         is required between the Sewerage Branch
aLnd the HOB.
This program eonsists of minor sewers, main
sewers, 12 inch tbrough 60 inch diameter,                                                                No contracts have been awarded yet.
a new pumping s tation and a force main.
To carry out the work it will be necessary                                                              Costs do not include minor sewers.
to first build a small temporary pumping
installation to s erve about 30,000 people.
The persanent puping station will be
equipped initially to serve about 110,000
people which should be adequate until about
1980 when additLonal pups and a second
force main would be installed.
6. Sewerage for lallang           The lallang Basin iedevelopent progra             The project includes 27,000 ft. of major               Planring, design and construction super-
Basin Redevelopment         being carried out by the goversuent consist       sewers, a pumping main, the temporary                  vision by Sewerage Branch. Construction
of reclamation of swamp land and redevelop-       pumping atation and the permanent pumping              and procurement by contracts awarded after
ment of a substandard area near the harbor.       station for average flows of about 9 IMgd.             competitive bidding.
By about 1980, about 100,000 people and a
nusber of small industries would occupy the       Minor sewers are not included as they are              Close coordination is required between
area. There are no existing sewers.              to be provided by the developers.                       Sewerage Branch and HDB.
The sewerage program would provide a complete                                                           Cost estimates are for all 1968-1971
system for the area including minor and                                                                 work. However, disbursements are not
major sewers and a pumping station, which                                                                proposed for expenditures for work under
would also repump sewage from Urban Renewal                                                              1967 contracts.
North to Kim Cbian, with adequate capacity
for about 110,000 people (additional equip-
ment would be added later, so that total
capacity would be adequate for 250,000
people and ultimately a new booster punping
station would raise total capacity to serve
about 420,000 people - average flow 19 IKgd).
To carry out the work, a very small temporary
pumping facility is required.



Design end Otnszruction
Arrangements and Notes
-roject Element                            The Total Frograml,                                The Troject Component                                      on Cost Estimates
A. Area Sewerage Program (contd.)
7. Telok Blangah Sewerage      Sewerage for the ODB's proposed Telok             The orojeot woold include main sewers con-              Flanning, desien and con:struction surer-
aJangan development program near :he             3sructed 1i-9-l191 and the pumi ing station              vision by Sewerage Branch. Constructicn
water front in the southwest part of              anct pum iteg main wnic, woulc be completed             and procurement Dy contracts awrfsed after
Singapore.  Plans are in a preliminary            in 1970.                                                corpetitive bidding.
stage and construction is not scheduled
to start until 1969. Sewerage require-             Minor sewers would be provided by the HD?              Timing of construction depends on HDB Fro-
ments include a pumpinig station, pumping         and are not included in the project.                    gram. If the HDB decides to devote its
,ain and main sewers.                                                                                     attention to another area instead, the funds
set aside for sewerage wDuld be diverted to
those.
Costs are based on estimates for similar
HDM3 projects.
8. Serangoon Sewerage          Sewerage for various existing r esidential        The project includes the program for 1968-              Planning, design and construction super-
areas in the northeast portion of Singapore       1971 comprising about 21,000 ft. of sewer,              vision by Sewerage Branch. Construction
to connect them to the main sewer system.         a small 0.7 IMgd pumping station and a                  and procurement by contracts awarded after
The ultimate population of the area is            L,000 ft. force main.                                   competitive bidding. No contracts have
expected to be about 185,C00. By 1971, the                                                                been awarded.
additional population served would be about
15,000.
The program includes pumping stetions,
purmping mains, and main sewers. Minor
sewers not included.
9. Kampong fiong oahru         A small sewerage program for HDB's                The project includes the entire programn                Planning, design and' construction super-
Kampong Tiong Bahru housing develop-              1968-1969.                                              vision by Sewerage Branch. Construction
ment comprising a pumping station,                                                                        and procurement by contracts awarded
pumping main and main sewers.                                                                             after competitive bidding.
Completion is expected in 1969.                                                                           Pstimated costs are for the entire program
but disbursements from any IB.-D loan are
not proposed for remaining expenditures
under contracts awarded in 1967.
D M



Design and Construction Arranvem.ents
Project Element                                            Description                                                            3nd Notes on Cost Estimates
Miscellaneous Improvements
and Extensions
10. Improvements to Existing Pumping )        Miscellaneous improvements planned for existing pumping          Flanning, design and construction supervision by Sewerage Branch.  All
Stations                        )      stations and the miscellaneous extensions to minor and           procurement by contracts awarded after competitive bidding. Some of
major sewers expected each year 1968-June 1972 based on          construction by force account ard balance by contracts awarded after
11.  Extensions to Main Sewers        )       past experience.                                                 competitive bidding.
12. Extensiorsto Minor Sewers
C. Treatment Works
13. Ulu Pandan Sewage Treatment               Increase plant capacity to serve population of about             Planning and detailed design (except possibly structural) by
Plant Extensions                      600,000 (from 400,00C0 at present).  Sewage treatment            consultants.  Construction supervision by Sewerage Branch.
and sludge disposal -apecity of existing elements,
which were originally constructed to provide for 100%           Procurement and construction by contracts awarded after competitive
expansion, would be extended up to 50% based on                 bidding.
recommendations resulting from studies being made by
consultants.                                                    Design and construction of works would require up to 3-1/2 or 4
years.
l4. Serangoon and Kum Chuan Sludge            Extensions and improvements to existing Serangoon and            Planning, detailed design and construction supervision (except drying
Disposal Works                         Kim Chuan plants to obtain adequate facilities for              beds) by consultants.
treating and disposing of digested sewage solids.
The new work would be based on additional studies and           Cost estimates for additional drying beds by J.D. & D.M. Watson less
design now in progress by consultants but probably              5% for Consulting fees which are included under item E 16.
will comprise mostly of extensions to the drying beds,
and perhaps some modifications at Kim Chuan.
r.
15.  Escalation and Contingencies             20% of total except consulting costs.
16. Consulting Fees                           For studies and design at Ulu Pandan, Kim Chuan and              Consulting engineering costs asestimated by Sewerage Branch and
Serangoon.  Also equivalent of 2-man years for local            consultants assuming 90% foreign exchange.   Also S$60,000/year
assistance on procedures and accounting.                         (no foreign exchange) for accounting and perhaps some management
advice.
June 1968



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Item                                                                Local         Foreign
No.         Description                                           Currency        Exchange       Total
------------(in S$'000)--------------
A.    Area Sewerage Programs
1.  Toa Payoh                                                   615            155           770
2.  Jurong                                                    2,720            960         3,680
3. Pasir Panjang                                                640            160           800
4. Urban Renewal South                                        2,460          1,200         3,660
5. Urban Renewal North                                        3,325          1,840         5,165
6.  Kallang Basin Redevelopment                               5,565          2,600         8,165
7. Telok Blangah                                              1,825           675          2,500
8. Serangoon                                                  3,015         1,155          4,200
9.  Kampong Tiong Bahru                                         145           155            300
Subtotal A                                      20,340         8,900         29,240
B.    Miscellaneous Improvements and Extensions
10.  Improvements to Existing Pumping Stations                    60            740           800
11. Extensions to Main Sewers                                  4,810         1,220          6,030
12.  Extensions to Xinor Sewers                                3,300           870          4,200
Subtotal B                                      8,200          2,830         11,030
C.    Tre.atment VJorks
13. Ulu Panden Sewage Treatment Extensions                     1,960          2,040         4,000
14.  Serangoon and Kim Chuan Sludge Disposal Works             5,800          1,900         7,700
Subtotal C                                       7,760         3,910         11,700
D.   15. Unallocated Escalation and Contingencies @ 20%             7,270         3,130         10,400
Total Construction Costs                       43,570         18,800         62,370
E.   16. Consulting Costs                                             200            800         1.000
F.   17. Interest and Other Financing Charges during Construction       0         3,790          3,790
Total Project Costs (paragraph 3.06)           43,770         23,390         67,160
35.4%           100%
(US$7.80       (US$22.4
million)       million)
Other Non-Project Expenditures (no escalation and
contingencies)            1,700          1,500         3,200
Total Capital Expenditures 1968-June 30,1972   45,470         24,890         70,360
(paragraph 6.01)
June 1968



SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Yearly Disbursement Program for Work Completed 1968-mid 1972
Total
Description                   1968     1969     1970    1971.    1972     1973     Total     Equ_Us
-     -      ~~~(millions)
1. Area Sewerage Programs                   4,950    8,525   8,710    6,200      855        0    29,240      9.75
2. Improvements & Extensions
Sewers & Pumping Stations            1,100    1,200    1,300     940    6,290      200    11,030      3.68
Treatment & Sludge Plants              100    1,900    4,700   4,600      400        0    11,700      3.90
3. Unallocated                                  0       0    2,000    3,000    3,930    1,470   10,400       3.46
4. Consulting Services                        200     500      200      100        0        0    1,000       0.33
Total Construction Costs             6,350   12,125   16,910  14,84o   11,475    1,670    63,370      21.12
Percent                              10.0%    19.2%   26.7%    23.4%    18.1%     2.6%    100.0%
5. Interest & Charges During Construction      50      286     524      798    1,016    1,116     3,790      1.26
Total Project Disbursements          6,400   12,41i   17,[3h  15,638   12,491    2,786    67,160      22.38
6.  Other Capital Expenditures              2,800      400       0        0        0        0     3,200      1.07
Total Disbursements                  9,200   12,811   17,434  15,638   12,491    2,786    70,360      23.45
Foreign Exchange Component (S$'000)     3,300    4,436    5,804   5,528    4,286    1,536    24,890
Disbursements from IBRD Loan S$'000     1,000    3,320    5,260   4,730    3,270      420    18,000
Enuivalent US$ Millions               0.33     1.11     1.75    1.58     1.09     0.14      6.00
CDm
June 1968



SINGAPORE: SEWERAGE PROJECT
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF LAW AND NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
ACCOUNTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE
4         (MINISTRY OF FINANCE)         I
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS                       ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
(DEVELOPMENT)                                              (GENERAL)
OUANTITY
ARCHITECT                   SURVEYING                 DRAINAGE AND                 SEWERAGE                     GENERAL                   MECHANICAL
BRANCH                     SRANCH                   MARINE BRANCH                  BRANCH                   ADMINISTRATION                 BRANCH
HEALTH AND                   SENIOR OUANTITY            SENIOR EXECUTIVE             SENIOR EXECUTIVE           PRINCIPAL ASSISTANT         SENIOR MECHANICAL
EDUCATION                    SURVEYOR                    ENGINEER                    ENGINEER (I)                SECRETARY                  ENGINEER
SENIOR ARCHITECT                                                                   SENIOR EXECUTIVE            HIGHER EXECUTIVE
DEFENSE                                                                              ENIOR (I    E             OFFICER (ACCOUNTS)
SENIOR ARCHITECT
GENERAL
SENIOR ARCHITECT
WORKS AND                 RASBACSPCADEINNDELECTRICAL
BUILDING BRANCH               OD     ANCH              SERV      AINVESTIGATION                                AIRPORT BRANCH                  BRANCH
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER          SENIOR EXECUTIVE           SENIOR EXECUTIVE            SENIOR EXECUTIVE            SENIOR EXECUTIVE            SENIOR ELECTRICAL
ENGINGEE                                     | ENGINIRE|N| ENGINEER                                            ENGINEER
SENIOR EXECUTIVE
ENGINEER (S;
NOTES. Ministry of Law -nd NatIonal DevelopmenIt ,lan over the Housing ond Development Board.
P.W D accoants are maintaied by the Account-nt Generls Office, Ministry of Finanoe.                                                                                              D
The e-ternal audit 1s by thi Director of Audit, Government of Singapore.                                                                                                         Z
February 1968                                                                                                                                                                     (R)IBRD-3753  X



SINGAPORE: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SEWERAGE BRANCH
ORGANIZATION CHART
SENIOR EXECUTIVE ENGINEER (I)
t                                                                                               | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FSENIOR EXECUTIVUE ENGINEER (M)|
MECHANICAL         GENERAL                                               |        CONSTRUCTION                                                                  rPLANNING                                         SANITA
SECTION           OFFICE                                               | AND MAINTENANCE SECTION     |                                                        |     AND DESIGN SECTION                           cECTON
EmgineHiires   Fdgh Cbricol                                         l                                                                                      l                                    spiitory
A...t..t          Of f ic.r                                                      E X EC UTIV E                                                                     |     EXECUTIVE                               Suptnlndwna
Pppil          10 C"mcol ... Sl                                                   ENGINEER                                                                         |     ENGINEER                              31 TEhrOl
Enginr.         2 M-rg-ENGINEER                                                                                                                                          ENGINEER                                Ofic
47 Tfi chr-c.1                                                                                                                                                                                                    9 Orlnt
Off i-en                                                                                                                                                                                                         Subordi..te
I StPr-keop.,                                                                                                                                                                                                      S{fS
127 Dhily R..d                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 '03 rudly R.t0d
E.pl.y. s                                    I ENGINEER                                                                                                       l    3 ENGINEERS                               I    mpbeE N
4 TEMPORARY7 ENGINEERS    l                                                                                      |     I TEMPORARY ENGINEER
3 DISPOSA   WORKS
MAINTENANCE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KMCdA
OF SEPTIC~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAMN
SPTANKS         DEVELOPMENT         STORES         DEVELOPMENT         SEWER             SEWER            SEWER            DRAWING         ULSU PANSAN     VWORKS AND
ERVISION OF  PROJECTS  ' D  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~~TRATMENT                  SERANGOON
PRIVATE        ICONTRACTS I      TRANNSPORT        PRGJECTS        MAINTENANCE      CONSTRUCTION      INVESTIGATION       OFFICE            WORKS            SLUDGE
SEWERAGE                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISPOSAL
PROJECTS                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WORKS
13 Tehni-al      18 Technical       3 Slo-ekeep..e   8 Technical      9 Tchn,cal        a Technical      4 Techical       27 Technicl    |  I M-nager         I SWrn te-de-l
Officers         OftIC-s         5 SaW,d-let        Offc-IC           Off-cers         OlliceS   |       Officen.         Offitra      |I Mechacal    || 14 Tecnical
144 Doily Roted                       SbaIf         253 Gaily Rsed     2 Oth e         139 Dily Rhed      2 Other          53 Daily Roled      Engin-er         Otfi-ers
E.pi.y...               91~~~~~~ D.l haled  Employees         Siib.id-tol      Emply...          oorinl           Empl.y-e        I Eletical       S Dryer
E.pl.y...                          S l  510ff  |St.ff01|                                                Superomnor        S1,bordmnae-
97 Daily Rhaed                     18 Daily Roled                      I Laboretorn  S|tff
Enrplay-e                          Errploy...                         Officer       101  D.eiy hated
25 Orh r            E|ply.ee
Officers
10 0iher
107 0Diy haled
Febragry 1968                                                                                                                                                                                                          (R)IBRD-3752  M



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
Surmmary of Sewer Service
Charges and Fees
1. Connection Fees:
(a)  Actual cost lus 20% establishment (overhead) charges in
cases where:_
1) Connection is voluntary;
2)  Length of connection is over 100 feet;
3)  Diameter of connection is over 9 inches;
4) Connection is to minor sewer constructed by
government agencies or private developers-.
(b) $20 per linear foot when connection is mandatory
and less than 100 feet or not exceeding 9 inches
in diameter;2/
(c) Minimum charge: $35 per connection.
2. Sewer Service Charges:
(a) Waterborne Sewage Fee (or Sewer Fee):3!/
(September 1, 1959):
$2.00 per sanitary fitting (water-closets, urinals or
other fixtures from which body wastes are discharged);
1/  In revenues, these are classified as "voluntary" connections.
2/  Classified as "mandatory" in revenues which include total fee
as revenue and carry total cost under operating costs.
3/ Apply to all properties connected to main sewerage system or
to secondary systems (with septic tank or other secondary treat-
ment facilities) which have been taken-over by Sewerage Branch.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b)  Septic tank Maintenance Fees: (July 1, 1967)1/
Capacity of Tank   Without Pumping    Single Pumping   Double Pumping
(gallon)          (S$1.00)          (S$i.00)2/       (S$1.00)2/
1 -    500            9                19               29
501 - 1,000           12                 24               36
1,001 -  2,000           18                32                6
2,001 -  h,000           24                0                56
4,001 - 8,ooo            32                52               72
8,001 - 16,000          h0                 6h               88
16,001 - 32,000           60                88              116
32,001 -                 80                116              152
1/ Apply only to secondary or private septic tank systems which
are maintained but not taken-over by Sewerage Branch.
2/ Where sewage has to be pumped once or twice in the process.
June 1968



SINGAPORE S'rEaAGE ?H CJE
TNCOE STATH,4ENTS
('r ?:j '000)
1962         1963        1964       1965      1966           1967
-Actual -                            - - - - -  -(Proforma)
REVENUES
Water-borne Sewage Fees                          2,750       3,052      3,122      3,921       4,261        4,780
Connection Fees (Mandatory)                         44          29         61         94        114           150
Connection Fees & Charges (Voluntary)               31          39         55         53          73           75
Connection Charges from Developers                  -           -          -          -           83          300
Septic Tank Maintenance Fees                       133         148        170        166        162           205
Sludge Sales and Miscellaneous                      40          37          9         15         15            15
TOTAL REVENUE                            2,998      3,305       3,417      4,249       4,708        5,525
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries and Allowances                          1,325      1,374       1,352      1,342      1,390         1,463
Contributions to Provident Fund                    223         243        237        228         202          218
Wages                                            1,288       1,357      1,292      1,421       1,389        1,4oo
Materials and Supplies                             391         310        352        295         218          230
Contract Payments /                                 11           7        102        139         200          220
Fuel and Utilities                                 587         487        505        605         550          875
Transportation and Travelling                       84          88         86         96          76           60
Overhead                                           147        148         175        195         223          234
Others                                              43          81         66         87          73           50
TOTAL OPERATING COST                     )4099       4,095      4,167      4,)40      )4321         4,750
Surplus (Deficit) before Depreciation            (1101)      (790)      (750)      (159)         387          775
Depreciation                                      2,502       2,591      2,751      2,875       2,978        3,392   C
Deficit after Depreciation                        3,603       3,381      3,5(1      3,034       2,591        2,617
Operating Ratio before Depreciation                137%        124%       122%       10)4         924          86t
0poerating Ratio after Depreciation                220        202%       202%       171%       155%          147
1/ For both Government and Non-Government Properties.
2/  For maintenance and/or repair work.
NOTE:  Value of nightsoil treatment service provided for Department of Public Health omitted from revenues pending
satisfactory determination of that value.



SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(in S$ '000)
1962     1963     1964    1965      1966       1967
- - - - - - - - - Actual -- - - - - - - - -  (Proforma)
SOURCES
Government Appropriation                  6,042    6,940    9,661   11,621    14,1490    7,184
Surplus before Depreciation                 -        -       -        -          387       775
Changes of Current Assets and/or
Liabilities                               164      314      _        114       300         8
TOTAL SCURCES                  6,206    7,254    9,661   I1.735    15.177     7.967
APPLICATION
Investment
Expansion Projects                      1,755    3,032    3,277    6,1480   10,439     4,652
Other Capital Investments               3,350    3,1432   5,420    4,984     4,638     3,281
Changes of Current Assets and/or
Liabilities                               -        -        214      112       100        34
Deficit before Depreciation               1,101      790      750      159       _         _
TOTAL APPLICATION              6,20673                              15,177    7 967
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)



_.1, APR  s£AuR'3s itoJEC:
FL. CFOi\!'4r INCOME 3fTATEaENTS
(in Sc; '000)
I9U     1%?     1970    1971     197     1973    197u    197:    1976
RE VENUES
Water-borne Sewage Fees, Non-Gov't
properties                            4,675    5,075 5,675     5,875   6,275   6,675   7,075    7,6'75  7,875
Water-borne Sewage Fees, Government
properties                               523i    542     562     583     605     629     653      678     705
Connection Fees (Mandatory)              '1C       1.50    15G     150     150     150     150     150      150
Connection Fees & Charges (Voluntary)       75      75      75      75      75      75      75       75      75
Connection Charges from Developers         300     300     300     300     300     300     300      300     300
Septic Tank Maintenance Fees              260      260     260     260     260     260     260     260      260
Sludge Sales and Miscellaneous              20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20       20
TOTAL REVENUE           6,003          6, 22    67 7263         7685    8 l             8,958    9,385
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries and Allowances                 1,840    1,936   2,040   2,191   2,406   2,526   2,652    2,785   2,924
Contributions to Provident Fund            223     217     210     210     210     210     210     210      210
Wages                                    1,400   1,400   1,100   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400    1,400   1,400
Materials and Supplies                     250     260     280     280     280     280     280      280     280
Contract Payments &/                       300     320     340     360     380     600     420      440     460
Fuel and Utilities                         840     840     850     860     900     910     920      930     960
Transportation and Travelling               65      70      75      80      85      90      95      100     105
Overhead                                   246     258     271     285     299     314     330      346     363
Others                                      50      50      50      50      50      50      50       50      50
TOTAL OPERATING COST           5        5,351   5 516   5,716   6010    6  80   6,357   6,541    6,732
Surplus before Depreciation                 789   1,071   1,326   1,547   1,675   1,929   2,176    2,417   2,653
Depreciation                              3,896   4,117   4,370   6,646   4,876   5,374   5,885    6,185   6,485
Deficit after Depreciation                3,107   3,046   3,044   3,099   3,201   3,445   3,709    3,768   3,832
Interest on Loans                          -       -_      -       -       -        563   1,092   1,066      995
NET DEFICIT                    3,1              3,06    3A099   3201   460      40      6812     ,827 7
Operating Ratio before Depreciation        87%      83%     81%     79%     78%     76%-    74%      73%     72%
Operating Ratio after Depreciation        152d     1h7,   lh'    'L643%  142     143%    143%     142.    141%  o
1/ For maintenance and/or repair works
NOTE:  Jalue of nightsoil treatment service provided for Department of Public Health omitted from revenues
pending satisfactory determination of that value.



SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROFORMA CASH FLOW STATEIENTS
(in S$ '000)
1968   1969     1970    1971     1972    1973    1974     1975    1976
SOURCES
Government Appropriation                     7,261    8,330  10,818   9,291    7,556 11,135   11,674   11,433  11,177
Surplus before Depreciation                    789   1,071    1,326   1,507    1,675   1,929    2,176   2,417   2,653
IBRD Loan                                    1,000    3,320   5,260   4,730    3,270     420     -       -       -
Changes of Current Assets and/or
Liabilities                                  150       90      40      80       10      50       10    _       _
TOTAL SOURCE                         9,200  12,811  17 444   15 648  12,511 1      , 4  13,860  13,f50  13,830
APPLICATION
Investment
Proposed Project                           6,350  12,125   16,910  14,840   11,475   1,670      -       -       -
Other Capital Investments                  2,800     400     -       -        -     10,330  12,000   12,000  12,000
Debt Service
Interest on Loans                             50*     286*    524*    798*   1,016*  1,162   1,092    1,044     995
Amortization of Loans                       -        -                        -        352      738     786     835
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                                             1,514   1,830   1,830    1,830
Changes of Current Assets and/or
Liabilities                                   -       -         10      10-      20      20       30      20    -
Deficit before Depreciation                      -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -
TOTAL APPLICATION                    9 2no  12 811  17   4   15 648  12 511 135 _34   13 80____
__ _  .-L     __    _ '_             _ -3 -60     12==  ?w;0  13 -7
SURPLU.S DEFICIT                                 -
*  Including Commitment and Special Charges.



SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROFORMA BALANCE SHEETS
(in S$ '000)
1967     1968     1969    1970     1971     1972     1973    1974     1975     1976
ASSETS
Current Assets
Accounts Receivable             320     320      320      330      340     350      360      380     l400      400
Materials & Supplies            770     770      770      770      770     780      720      800      800      800
Sub-Total                1,090    1,090    1,090    1,100    1,110   1,130    1,150    1,180    1,200   1,200
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets in
Operation                132,516  152,677  161,527  171,652  182,6'32  191,882  220,85o  232,850  244,850  256,850
Less: Depreciation          43,027   46,923   51,040   55,410   60,056  64,932   70,306   76,191   82,376   88,861
Net Fixed Assets in
Operation                 89,489 105,754   110,487  116,242  122,626  126,950 150,544  156,659 162,474  167,989
Work in Progress             20,161    9,200  13,161   20,470   25,078   28,369  12,000   12,000   12,000  12,000
Sub-Total               109,650  114,954 123,648  136,712  147,704  155,319 162.544 168.659 174,474   717.989
TOTAL ASSETS             110,740  116.044 124,738   137,812  148,814 1%,449 163,694 169.839     175,674 181,189
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Deposits by Contractors        150      200      200      210     220      220      220      230      230     230
Deposits by Consumers          400      450      480      500      550     550      600      600      600     600
Retention Funds and
Payables                     380      430      490      500      520     530      530      530      530     530
Sub-Total                   930   1,080    1,170    1,210   1,290    1,300    1,350    1,360    1,360   1,360
Long-Term Debt
IBRD Loan                     -       1,000    4,320    9,580  14,310   17,580   17s,648  16,910   16,124  15,289
Egaity
Equity at Beginning of Year 105,243  109,810 113,964 119,248  127,022  133,214  137,569  144,696  151,569 158,19C
Add: Gov't Appropriation      7,184   7,261    8,330   10,818    9,291   7,556   11,135   11,674   11,433  11,177
Less: Net Deficit for
the Year               2,617   3,107    3,046    3,044    3,099   3,201    4,008    4,801    4,812   4,827
Equity at End of Year      109,810  113,964 119,248   127,022  133,214 137,569 144,696   151.569 1589     164.54C
TOTAL LIABTLITIE:3 & EQUITY  110,740  116,044  121.,738  137,812  148,8114 156,49 163 694  169,839  175,674 182,19 9



SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED RATE INCREASES AND EXPECTED RESULTS
(in S$ '000)
1968     1969     1970     1971      1972     1973     1974     1975     1976
Under Existing Rates
Total Revenue                     6,003    6,422    6,842    7,263    7,685    8,109     8,533    8,958    9,385
Total Operating Cost before
Depreciation                    5,214    5,351    5,516    5,716    6,010    6,180    6,357    6,541     6,732
Surplus before Depreciation
(Cash Generated)                  789   1,071     1,326    1,547    1,675    1,929    2,176    2,417     2,653
Depreciation                      3,896    4,117    ,370     4,646    4,876    5,374     5,885    6,185    6,485
Surplus (Deficit) after
Depreciation                   (3,107)   (3,o46) (3,o44)  (3,099)  (3,201)  (3,h45)   (3,709)  (3,768)  (3,832)
Interest                           -        -        -        -        -         563    1,092    1,04        i95
Net Income (Deficit)             (3,107)  (3,046)  (3,0O4)  (3,099)  (3,201)  (4,oo8)   (4,8o1)  (4,812)  (4,827)
Operating Ratio before
Depreciation                       87%      83%      81%      79%      78%      76%      74%       73%      72%
Debt Service Coverage              -        -        -        -        -         1.3      1.2      1.3       1.
Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets                           0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Under Proposed Rate Increases                                                1/
on Water-borne Sewerage Fee         E x i s t i n g   R a t e s        +48%-
Total Revenue                     6,003    6,422    6,842    7,263   10,987   11,615   12,242   12,871    13,503
Surplus before Depreciation
(Cash Generated)                  789   1,071     1,326    1,547    4,977    5,435    5,885    6,330    6,771
Surplus (Deficit) after
Depreciation                   (3,107)  (3,o46)  (3,O4.)  (3,099)     101       61         0     1h5       286
Net Income (Deficit)             (3,107)  (3,0o6)  (3,o44)  (3,099)     101     (502)   (1,092)    (899)    (709)
Operating Ratio before
Depreciation                        87%      83%      81%      79%      55%      53%      52%       51%      50%
Debt Service Coverage              -        -        -        -        -         3.6       3.2      3.5      3.7
Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets                           0        0        0        0         0.1%    0        0          0.1%     0. 2%
Operating Ra,io After
Depreciatioi 1i2%                           147%     144%     143,'     99,.    100%     100%       99       983%
1/ Rate increase, on water-borne sewage fee only, is assumed to be effected in January 1972 and thereafter.



ANNEX 14
SINGAPORE SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Assumptions
The financial projections in this report are based on the fol-
lowing assumptions:
1.        The proposed Bank loan is assumed to be for 20 years (including
five years of grace), at 6a per annum interest, with a commitment charge
of 3/4 of 1% on the undisbursed balance.
2.        Debt service is assumed to be on an annuity basis of level semi-
annual payments of principal and interest combined, with the first
installment due on November 15, 1973.
3.        Revenues are based on the existing tariffs as shown in Annex 7.
4.        Rate of increase in the revenue from the waterborne sewage fee -
non-government, is assumed to be S$h00,000 (2,000 fittings) a year after
allowing for PUB commission and bad debts.
5.        Collection of water-borne sewage fee from government buildings
wJas discontinued by the government on June 1, 1967.  However, the imputed
value of this service is still assumed as a revenue to be increased at an
annual rate of 5 percent. Government quarters still pay sewage fees, but
no annual increase is assumed.
6.        Revenues from mandatory sewer connection fees are assumed to
remain at the 1967 level of S$150,000 per annum; from voluntary connection
charges, S$75,000; and from developer's connections, S$300,000.
7.        Yearly expenses of salaries and aJllawares for salar: ed employees
is increased accc--<i.ng to expezted s1;affin, progr- n, w-eeas b-at of daily
rated 'abor force u.l  be kept unchax^ed sInce the work labor force is to
be gradually reduced, which should offset annual wage increases.
8.        Other expenditures are projected in the light of recent experience.
9.        Fixed assets do not include value of state land but include cost
of private land acquired.
10.       All fixed assets are valued at cost.
11.       Depreciation of fixed assets, up to and including 1967, is cal-
culated on the basis of 3.3% for buildings; 2%, main sewers; 2.5%, minor
sewers; and 6.6% for plants and machinery. From 1968 on, all fixed assets are
depreciated at an average rate 2.5%, starting the year after the expenditure
except costs for improvement and extension of treatment and sludge plants,
for which depreciation will not start until 1973 when the project is
completed.
June 1968



SINGAPORE
SEWERAGE PROJECT
EXISTING SEWERAGE SYSTEM
ES 0
I RD,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
-; X > ~~~0                                                                       K w. ,  J D
SF LMr  S gw y/ LX V  <   TRICT  .9                                 '-  Pu=pIng  Mai n s~~S.AGETRE- ,IT  LA.
% 7p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'.. Bd.,y b-                  -ee d-ai-g,  regi-n
> j ' _ _ > O t ~~~~~~~~~~~.           .. .. .. 0 h - e d-rai  n rg  e b ... d-rri-e 
13$E  *  .pis  , /
MlLES      FELOT BLXN(ffipEL 4                          °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ S-.ud-ry p..pi.g st'on 
APRIL 1968 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRr) ZZ36R
APRIL 19158 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ SORLA OSRR 



SINGAPORE
PROPOSED SEWERAGE PROJECT
prvi dedo  mrv  yae
O   1   2   3   4   SEbsERAGE   <,  >  ? Z ;  . >  Z < * g    X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES i G,  Ing  . Seeg me T re Ian m L r
0      dodge  d  :."Ia HorGA  T e be
i.proved or epanded.
Pr-p-sd dodge pipeline fo-
I~~~~~~SI
_ _  _ _SERAE5  S E E R A G E  NE?  .00Z G  TIO G  .AeR  stc L n dary ptimEO Ns ati o n
APRILP 14 8N   aEAS
0              a                                       D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en  ISTRI 8010
APPIL 196g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                               ilOD 231H



