Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-A/ 3 Z2gS- Ec
Report No. 9082-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 29, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Cai.$bbean Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipienis only In the performance of
their official dutfes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank athorization



CURRENCY AND EQUrVALENT UNITS
Currency Units Sucre (8/.)
U8$l - 8/* 655.19 (December 1989)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Syste
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AME         -     Asociacion de Municipalidades Ecuatorianas (Association of
Ecuadoran municipalities)
BEDE        -     Banco  de Desarrollo  del Fcuador  S.A. (Development  Bank
of Ecuador)
CONADZ      -     Consejo  Nacional  de  Desarrollo  (National  Development
Council)
FODESEC     -     Fondo     de  nesarrollo       Seccional  (Local  Government
Development Fund)
FONAPAR     -     Fondo    Nacional   de  Participacion    (National Revenue
Sharing Fund)
FONAPRE     -     Fondo   Nacional   de   Pre-inversion    (National   Pre-
Lnvestment Fund)
FONEN       -     Fondo de Emergencia Nacional (National Emergency Fund)
GTZ         -     Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical
Assistance Organization)
IDB         -     Inter-American Development Bank
INEC        -     Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadistica  y  Censos  (National
Institute of Statistics and Censuses)
IEOe        -     Instituto Bcuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias  (Institute of
Sanitary Works of Ecuador)
INBCBL      -     Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion del Ecuador (National
Institute of Electrification)
LGDL              Local Government Development Law
MIF         -     Municipal Investment Fund
MDUI        -     Municipal  Development  and Urban  Infrastructure [program
or project)
BENDA             Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Administrativo (National
Secretariat of Administrative Development)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLB OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROECT SUMMARY  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   iii
I. THE SECTOR...1
A. Background:  Rapidly Rising Demands; and Declining Capacity  .          1
B. Government Structure and the Provision of Public Services  . . .    2
C. Government's Request for Assistance and the Sector Policy
Letter  . .. .. .. .....                  ..........                 2
D. Institutional and Legal Constraints for Provision of Pi'b3ic
Services  .*. . . . . . . . .*    3
E. Reform of Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations .            .             6
F. Strengthening BEDE as a Lender and Provider of Technical
Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
G. Sector Development Issues, Objectives, and Bank Lending
Strategy .... . . . . . . . . . . ...                               10
H. Prior Bank Experience  ............... ....                            11
I. Rationale for Bank Involvement .........               ......          11
II. TIE PROJECT.. .. .12
A. Project Origin . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .        12
B. Project Objectives ...  .  .     .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   12
C. Project Description ... .                           .13
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan .. .14
E. Eligibility Criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
F. Borrower and Executing Agency  ...  .      .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .   .   19
G. Cost Recovery Policy and Grants to Compensate Lifeline Rates . .   19
II.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . .  .  .    .   . .   ...  ......  .  .        .   20
A. Implementation Arrangements  ........ ....... .         .              20
B. Strengthening Implementing Institutions  ...   .....  .          .  .   .   21
C. Procurement ... . .22
D. Disbursement.. . . . .... .........24
E. Accounts and Audits .... ...26
F. Project Reporting and Monitoring . .. .26
This report was prepared by D. Vetter (LA4IE) based on the findings of a
mission which visited Ecuador during April/May 1990.  The mission comprised
Messrs/Mmes M. Art&za-Rouxel (Mission Leader, LA4IE), J. Carvalho (LEGLA), M.
Linder (LACVP), L. Pisani (LATHR), D. Vetter (LA4IE), E. Wessels (LATDR), L.
Ficinski, H. Garzon and S. Miquel (Consultants). A. Aza, A. Ezcurra, and W.
Malik (Consultants) assisted in the production of this report. The financial
projections were done by B. Von Rabenau (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IV.  PROJUCT JUSTI1MICATION AND RISKS  .   ...... . . .   .  .  . . . . .   .  27
A. Financial Benefit . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .   . . . . ..  27
B. Economic Benefits  . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
C. Poverty Impact . . . . .  .   . .    ...... . . .   28
D. Environmental Impact       . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
E. Risks and Safeguards... ..             . .      .  .  . . . .  29
V. AGRMANTS REACHED AND RBCOIMNDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
ANNBXES
ANNEX 1:   Population Trends and Access to Urban Infrastructure
ANNEX 2:   Policy Letter and Matrix
ANNEX 3:   Reform of the Transfer System
ANNEX 4s   BEDE: Financial Statements and Projections
ANNEX 5:   BEDE: Organization Charts
ANNEX 6:   Institutional Development and Training Component
ANNEX 7:   Infrastructure Component
ANNEX 8:   Methodology for Economic and Financial Evaluation of Projects
ANNEX 9:   Cost Recovery Policy
ANNEX 10:  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
ANNEX 11:  Monitoring Indicators
ANNEX 12:  Selected Documents in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 18179 ECUADOR



-iii -
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Ecuador.
Implementing
Agencies:       Development Bank of Ecuador (BEDE)I and eligible municipalities, and
municipal and regional utility enterprises.
Amount:         US$104.0 million, equivalent.
Terms:          Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and charges.
Onlending
Terms:          The borrower would be the Republic of Ecuador, which would onlend the
proceeds of the loan to BEDE in sucres at the same maturity.  The
exception would be the portion allocated to finance institutional
development and training expenditures, which would be transferred to
BEDE as a grant, and also transferred to subborrowers as grants.
BEDE's interest rate on funds borrowed would be variable based on its
onlending rate to subborrowers minus a spread to cover operating
Costs. The spread would be set initially at four percentage points,
which could be adjusted, subject to Bank approval, to reflect changes
in the nominal interest rate to assure that operating costs are
covered. BEDE's onlending rate to its borrowers would be variable and
set in accord with the understanding reached between the Bank and the
Government (letter from Junta Monetaria of December 13, 1989).  In
accordance with this understanding, this rate, currently at 39%, would
be adjusted biannually so as to reach the commercial bank lending rate
by June 30, 1992, or considerably earlier if nominal interest rates
decline.
Project
objectives and
Description:   The main objectives are to increase the fiscal autonomy of municipal
governments, as well as their capacity to deliver services efficiently
and equitably. This will contribute directly to the attainment of the
Government's macroeconomic goals of reducing the public sector deficit
and increasing sector efficiency. Specific objectives are to:   (a)
make the national/local revenue sharing system more transparent,
equitable, predictable, and effective in mobilizing local revenue; (b)
reduce discretionary fiscal transfers to municipal governments; (c)
help municipalities generate current account surpluses by increasing
own-source revenues and by reducing expenditures (preferably by
increasing efficiency); (d) increase the capacity of municipalities to
plan and execute efficient, equitable, and environmentally sound
projects, as well as to maintain existing physical assets; (e) improve



- iv -
targeting of benefits to the lower income population; (f) strengthen
BEDE as a reliable source of financing and technical assistance for
municipal  governments;  and  (g)  enhance  training  of  municipal
employees.   The government has implemented significant institutional
reforms that provide the foundation for the project's design and
implementation.    The  proposed  project  would  finance  two  main
componentes  (a)   Institutional  Development  and Traininq  (US$27.0
million,   9%  of  total  project  covt),   including  institutional
development for both BEDE and municipalities and training of employees
and instructors of municipalities and   national municipal support
institutions; and (b) Infrastructure (US$273.0 million, 91% of total
project cost), encompassing physical investments in construction and
rehabilitation of public infrastructure (e.g., water, sewerage, storm
drainage, solid waste collection and disposal, and roads), and
community facilities (e.g., markets, parks, and slaughterhouses), as
well as procurement of materials, equipment, and vehicles for
maintenance or the provision of public services; and feasibility and
engineering studies, supervision, and auditing needed to prepare,
carry out and monitor the above investments.   All municipalities and
municipal enterprises potentially would be eligible to participate in
che project, provided they meet project eligibility criteria.
Although all municipalities and municipal enterprises would be
eligible for the Institutional Development and Training component,
only those meeting the financial and institutional eligibility
criteria would be able to borrow for infrastructure to ensure that
they have operating and maintenance capacity, as well as the ability
to pay the debt service.
Benefits:       Benefits include:   (a) financial, by institutional reforms of the
national transfer and credit systems to provide incentives for
municipalities to increase own-source local revenues as well as
expenditure efficiency; (b) institutional, by strengthening the
capabilities of BEDE, the municipalities, local utility enterprises,
as well as other municipal support insticutions at the national level;
(c) economic, by providing an average economic rate of return of 31%
on a sample of subprojects representing 12% of total project cost; (d)
environmental, by introducing the screening of subprojects with
potential for negative environmental impact at the municipal level;
and (e.) social, through lifeline rates for basic urban services and
long-term financing, making cost recovery affordable to the poor.  A
distributive analysis indicates that at least 80% of the benefits
would be received by low-income groups.
Risks and
Safeguards:    The  main  risks  are  lack  of  initial  interest  on  the  part  of
municipalities for doing the fiscal reform required and the continuity
in political commitment to the project during its implementation. The
project has a built-in mechanism to manage these risks in that it
allocates the resources based on performance:   those municipalities
that are eligible earlier and perform better would receive more



resources.   The incentives built into the reformed transfer system
should also stimulate the transfer of innovations from the less
successful municipalities to the more succeseful ones. In addition to
these general risks, there is the possibility of inefficient project
management  by  BEDS  and the municipalities.    This  risk has been
diminished through technical assistance and training during project
preparation, as well as the institutional development requirements in
the  eligibility  criteria.    There  ia  also  the  risk  of  lack  of
continuity in project management by municipallties due to staff
turnover.    This would be reduced by technical  assistance  in the
preparation of legielation to grant civil service status to municipal
employees. Finally, reforms already implemented might be abandoned.
While real, this risk has been reduced through the embodiment nf the
reforms in legislation as well as by specific related loan conditlons.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local          Foreign          Total
(US$Million)
A.      Institutional Dev. and Trainingl/
Institutional Development       11.6              7.8            19.4
Training                         5.3              2.3             7.6
Subtotal                             16.9             10.1            27.0
B.      Infrastructure
Physical Investments           168.6             79.4           248.0
Engineering, Supervlsion        17.5              7.5            25.0
and Auditing
Subtotal                            186.1             86.9           273.0
Total Cost2/                   203.0             97.0           300.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                 56.3             47.7           104.0
IDB                                  56.3             47.7           104.0
GTZ                                   2.4              1.6             4.0
Local                                88.0              0.0            88.0
Total Cost                     203.0             97.0           300.0
Percentage                           67.7             32.3           100.0
Estimated Disbursements:                       Bank Fiscal Year
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
- - …  - - - - (US$ million 
Annual                              7     16    18    19    18    18        8
Cumulative                          7     23    41    60    78    96    104
Economic Rate of Return:            31% (weighted average for sample of sub-projects
representing 12% of total project cost).
1/ Including US$700,000 for repayment of the PPF.
2/  Because the project will finance a timeslice of municipal investments, price and
physical contingencies are not relevant.



ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
I.   THE SECTOR
A. Backgrounds Rapidly Rising Demands and Declining Capacitv
1.01        In Ecuador,  deficient infrastructure, weak municipal. institutions,
and inadequate regulation constrain the productivity of the urban economy and its
ability to generate income, employment, and services for its rapidly growing
population,  especially the urban poor.   Ecuador's urban population more than
doubled between 1962 and 1982 to 4 million.   In 1987, 55% of Ecuador's 9.9
million inhabitants lived in urban areas.  The country's urban economy accounts
for 70% of GDP.  Urban agglomerations in the 100,000 to 200,000 range grew most
rapidly, with their participation in the total urban population rising from 4% in
1974 to 19% in 1987.   The population of the two largest cities, Quito and
Guayaquil, is estimated to have more than doubled between 1974 and 1989 to 1.2
million and 1.7 million inhabitants, respectively.   However, the percentage of
total urban population living in these two centers declined slightly from 53% in
1974 to 50% in 1987, partly due to the faster growth of the medium-size cities.
1.02        Urban growth has outstripped the ability of municipalities to keep
pace with the overwhelming increase in demand for services and infrastructure.
For example, 69% of the total urban population had access to drinking water in
their houses in 1987, down from 75% in 1982; and only 53% had access to adequate
sewage facilities in 1987, down from 62% in 1982.   These unmet infrastructure
needs tend to be significantly higher outside of Quito and Guayaquil.   For
example, the percentage of families without potable drinking water was over twice
as high in municipalities with 25,000 to 50,000 inhabitants than in Quito and
Guayaquil.  A study done as part of project preparation (see Annex 7) estimated a
total cost of US$600 million to eliminate urmet urban infrastructure needs
(including water,  sanitary and storm sewers,  streetlighting,  and solid waste
collection and disposal) for all municipalities, not including Quito and
Guayaquil.
1.03        The  following  sections  will  discuss  the  constraints  that  have
inhibited municipalities from providing these services and infrastructure for
which  they  are  legally  responsible  (paras.  1.08-1.35).    The  inability  of
municipalities to meet their critical infrastructure needs is serious, because
the resulting shortages represent:
(a)  an important constraint on the productivity of the urban economyl and
therefore on its ability to increase the incomes of urban workers;
(b)  an additional burden on the poor who are most likely to lack access
to these services; and
1The World Bank, Structural Adjustment and Sustainable Growth:  The Urban
Agenda for the 1990., Urban Development Division, Infrastructure and Urban
Development Department, Washington, D.C., August 15, 1990.



2-
(c)  environmental degradation,  because sewage and solid waste are not
baing  disposed  of  properly  due  to   lack  of  the  necessary
infrastructure or failure to design and operate the systems properly.
B. Government Structure and the Provision of Public Services
1.04        Local governments in Ecuador include: 20 provinces, 162 cantones %ith
constituted   municipalities,   and   about   1,000   other   cantones   without
municipalities, mostly in rural areas.  Municipalities are the primary political
and administrative units of government and are headed by mayors (Alcaldes) who
govern together with a Municipal Councils both are elected for four years and are
ineligible for reelection.   The number of municipalities increased from 105 in
1974 to 162 today, an increase of 56% in 16 years.   Unfortunately, the great
majority of these are very small (many with less than 2,000 inhabitants),
sometimes not large enough to provide efficiently even basic services.
1.05        Under the current Municipal Law, municipalities are responsible for
planning and delivery of various urban services including water supply and
sewerage, drainage, solid waste, construction and maintenance of streets, parks
and other green spaces, streetlighting, and construction and operation of
slaughterhouses and markets. Provincial Councils provide most of the services in
rural  areas,  especially  construction  of  rural  roads.    Article  III  of  the
Municipal Law grants full autonomy to municipal governments to:   (a) set and
collect  property  taxes,  as well  as user  fees  and tariffs  for basic  urban
services;  (b)  plan,  finance and implement  investments; and  (c) operate  and
maintain basic services.
C. Government's Request for Assistance and the Sector Policy Letter
1.06        In December 1988, the Government of Ecuador, through a letter from
the Minister of Finance, requested assistance from the Bank and IDB for a project
"to change the concept of financing works and expenditures, to modify the
relationship of dependence on Central Government funds, and to increase the
generation of local resources, thus providing greater autonomy to local
governments."   Early in project  identification,  IDB and the Bank agreed to
cooperate in the development of a Municipal Development and Urban Infrastructure
Project that could be cofinanced by both banks.   The GTZ  (German Techninal
Assistance Organization) soon joined this cooperative effort to provide technical
assistance in the preparation of this Project. The extraordinarily high level of
cooperation and integration of the Bank, IDB, and GTZ teams in project
preparation made it possible to attain full agreement on project objectives,
procedures, evaluation criteria, and on procurement guidelines for local bidding.
These agreements are precedents that should greatly facilitate cofinancing with
IDB and GTZ in future operations.
1.07        The ensuing dialogue of the Government with IDB, GTZ, and the Bank
resulted in an agreement with the Government for a two-stage strategy, involving:
(a) a program of significant institutional reforms; and (b) a project that would
build on these reforms to increase further the autonomy of municipal governments.



-3-
Through this dialogue and the reports done to develop an overall sector
strategy,  a far-reaching program of rfforms was developed and included in a
policy letter of the Government to the Bank (see Annex 2). This letter addressed
three main problem areas:   (a) general institutional and legal constraints to
municipal  development;  (b)  the  system  of  intergovernmental  national/local
transfers; and (c) lending to local governments.   As will be discussed in the
following sections, the most important of these reforms were embodied in the
Local Goverr4,ient Development Law (LGDL) of May 1990.3
D. Institutional and Legal Co:sstraints for Provii.on of Public Services
1.08        There are numerous institutional and legal constraints that make it
difficult for municipalities to exercise their legal responsibilities for
providing urban services. The following sections will review these constrairnts
and the program of institutional reforms adopted to resolve them.
The Constraints
1.09        Legal Constraint for Full Cost Recovery.  Municipalities were allowed
under the previous Municipal Law to recover only operation and maintenance costs
of water and sewer systems through user charges, but not the cost of investment.
Existing water tariffs are exceedingly low in most municipalities.   Average
tariffs are well below the marginal cost of new suppliea.   For one large new
project in Quito, the average tariff was less than a tenth of the marginal cost.
On average, municipalities currently recover only about 30% of operating and
maintenance costs for sewer and water; and many municipalities recover far less.
Recent studies show willingness to pay more for water to avoid the high costs of
purchasing it from tank cars.
1.10        Lack of Coordination of Central Government Entities Working in Urban
Areas. Several agencies of the Central Government oversee or are responsible for
providing administrative, technical, and financial support to the municipalities.
The Ministry of Government regulates the creation of new municipalities.   The
Ministry of Finance  and Public  Credit  administers   transfers  to the  local
governments through the National Revenue Sharing Fund (previously FONAPAR, now
FODESEC,  the Local  Government  Development  Fund).    The  National  Development
Council (CONADE) approves the municipal annual budgets and determines tha
priority of the municipal projects presented for domestic and foreign financing,
2The World Bank,  "Local Governments," Ecuador:   Public Sector Finances:
Reforms to Foster Growth in the Era of Declining Oil Output, Country
Department IV, Latin American and the Caribbean Region, August 22, 1990.
3Ecuador, "Ley de Desarrollo Seccional y de Reformas a las Leyes de Regimen
Municipal,   Regimen   Tributario   Interno,   Arancelaria,   Organica   de
Administracion Financiera y Control y 006 de Control Tributario y
Financiero," May 1990.



-4-
thc latter mainly through credits of the Development Bank of Ecuador (BEDE). The
Nait3.onal Pre-investment Fund (FONAPRE) lends and provides 4-echnical assistance
for  preinvestment  studies  for  public  and  private  entities.    The  National
Sueretariat for Administrative Development (SENDA) was created in 1989 to develop
plolicy for improvement of management in public and private entities by upgrading
iiyntor,, and developing integrated national training programs.  The Ministries of
1;ilAu Work,s, Education ard Health as well as the Iretitutes of Sanitary Works
'.;)-  arui Electrification of Ecuador (INECEL) execute works or provide services
to mtAUcipal jurisdictions. There is a. considerable ambiguity on the role and
rouponeibilities of these institutions and a lack of coordination of their
activities.    The  result  is  bureaucratic  conflict  and  delay  with  very  low
o2fctivenoss in fulfillment of these roles and responsibilities.
Lack of Qualified Staff.  The scarcity of qualified staff is one of
i:tio ohi.f constraints to the development of municipalities, causing:   reduced
mobil)zation of  local  financial resources,  inefficient  investment plans,  and
inioff,ctive operation and maintenance of basic municipal services. Although the
iatiibx o- municipal workers is more than adequate (about 1.2 municipal employees
ior every 1,000 inhabitants), most are unskilled.    Only the largest cities have
otaff with the technical capacity to prepare multiyear investment programs and
design new projects. Municipalities have a total staff of about 35,000, and the
national support institutions (BEDE, CONADE, AME, etc.) employ about 700.
Ettimates of the percentage of municipal personnel by employment category are as
fullowss  7% managers and professionals; 31% technical and administrative; and
62% manual workers.   In general, the levels of education and qualification vary
widely by location and size of municipality.   For example,  while in Machala
(Costa) and Puyo (Oriente) only 6.7% and 14.3%, respectively, have completed
primary education,  in Ibarra  (Sierra),  this percentage rises to 24.5%.   The
evidence indicates that at the management and professional levels the two major
problems are: (a) the incompatibility between staff qualification and job
requirements; and (b) high turnover due to the change of mayor every four years.
1012        Inadequate  and  Poorly  Coordinated  Training  Programs.    Problems
affecting the municipalities and municipal support institutions are amplified and
often the direct result of insufficient training.  During the last 7 years only
about 2,000 persons (representing roughly 5% of the potential total) received any
training  at  all.    Furthermore,  the training programs  that  exist  lack:  (a)
eotablished   iolicy,   strategy,   and  objectives;   (b)  mechanisms   for  the
coordinatior  planning and implementation of the training programs;  (c) sound
training need assessment;  (d) managerial knowledge of personnel administvation
and training; and (e) human and financial resources to carry out the training
activities.
lo 11       Insufficient Controls on Increases in Municipal Payrolls.  Municipal
Law (Chapter III, Article 40) allows municipalities to establish their own system
of  personnel   administration   (including  sala&.ies,   promotion,   and  career
development).   Howeve;., until recent reforms, municipalities normally preferred
to follow the civil service of the Central Government, including its salary laws.
It was common practice to raise salaries in accord with the national laws even if



- 5 -
no municipal budgetary resources were available--and then to go to the Central
Government for a transfer to cover the resulting deficit.   Municipalities also
often hired new employees with no budget to pay them, expectinc discretionary
transfers to cover the cost.
Reforms to Reduce the Institutional and Legal Constraints
1.14        These constraints have been addressed  in the  following  legal or
administrative reformsa
1.15        Enactment of Legislation to Permit Full Cost Recover$r for Sewer and
Water Systems.   The LGDL of May 1990 permits full cost recovery for water and
sewer projects.
1.16        Improved   Coordination   of   Central   Government   Agencies   in
Municipalities.   A "Project Committee" will be established in BEDE and will be
chaired by its General Manager.   All Government organizations with a role in
urban development would be represented on this Committee, including the Ministry
of Finance, BEDE, IEOS, CONADE, FONAPRE, and SENDA.  The role of this Committee
is to:  (a) determine the priocity of the projects presented for financing; (b)
determine the type of studies required for each project; (c) suggest to the
Government future policies and possible legal reforms regarding municipalities
and municipal support institutions; and (d) periodically review progress on
project  completion.    In other words,  this  Committee would  seek to  assure
consistency among municipal investment, institutional development, and training
programs.   As a condition of effectiveness for the proposed project, the members
of the BEDE Pro3ect Committee would have been appointed and such Committee would
have begun to exercise its duties in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
1.17        Passage  of  Legislation  Controlling  Increases  in  the  Municipal
Payroll.    Under clauses of the LGDL,  municipalities cannot  raise wages or
contract new employees unleas they have sufficient resources in their budgets to
pay them. The proposed project will build on this by assisting municipalities to
develop more effective personnel policies.  At negotiations, it was agreed that
BEDE, with the assistance of SENDA, will develop a model career development plan
for municipal civil servants designed to ensure their greater employment
stability.    Taking  into  account  the  Bank's  comments,  BEDE  will  require
municipalities to adopt, as part of their subloan agreement, a career development
plan for its employees consistent with the model plan,  The terms of reference
for the plan itself will be presented to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness
and the plan will be completed within the first six months after loan
effectiveness.
1.18        Improvement of the Coordination and Quality of Municipal Training
Programs.    The  Government  selected  SENDA  to  coordinate  municipal training
programs and to form the nucleus of the central national coordination unit.
Expanded training under the proposed project will be provided largely by the
Association of the Municipalities of Ecuador (AhE) through the National Institute
for Municipal Development  (INFODEM).   AMR is a non-governmental entity with



- 6 -
representatives from all municipalities that was created in 1978 to safeguard
municipal autonomy, provide technical assistance and training to municipalities,
and coordinate municipal investment plans with those of the Central Government.
1.19        A Steering Committee headed by SENDA's secretary and composed of
senior officials of BEDE, FONAPRE, AME, CONADE would be established to provide
advice in policy, coordination, implementation, evaluation, and financing of the
training programs within three months after loan effectiveness. The coordination
of training programs for BEDE, FONAPRE, and INFODEM staff will be consolidated by
SENDA to avoid overlapping activities and to facilitate participation of staff in
programa of common interest.
1.20        Training  programs  for  about  580  staff  of  the  municipal  support
institutions (mainly BEDE and FONAPRE) and for about 460 staff of the first group
of municipalities selected to participate in the project were partially financed
by the PPFs from IBRD and IDB.   These efforts proved useful in improving the
desigri of the project's training programs, as well as providing training for
those who wiLl participate during its first year.
B. Reform of Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1.21        Lack of transparency,  predictability,  sustainability and equity in
the transfer system.   Before the reforms, there were significant incentives in
the national/local transfer system for municipalities to run fiscal deficits and
for expenditure inefficiency.   Municipalities would run up high fiscal deficits
as a way to pressure the Central Government for more discretionary grants. These
grants were often awarded to municipalities in direct proportion to their fiscal
irresponsibility (see Annex 3), as in the case of transfers to cover payroll
increases (para. 1.13).   As discretionary grants were readily available during
the oil boom years in the 1970s, municipalities used them in lieu of raising
their own taxes and user charges. FONAPAR was set up in 1971 to make revenue
sharing more predictable and transparent; however, by 1988 its automatic revenue
sharing component constituted only about 30% of total transfers.   FONAPAR's
transfers for investments (about 20% of total transfers in 1988) were not made
based on transparent and predictable criteria.   In addition to the transfers,
investment projects were often carried out in the municipalities by Central
Government agencies with only minimal participation by local governments in
planning.   Furthermore, there was litt'le analysis of the capacity of these
governments to maintain adequately, operate, and recover costs for the completed
projects,  or  of  their  commitment  for  so  doing.          Technical,  economic,
environmental and financial evaluation of projects was very weak or nonexistent,
1.22        In  summary,  the  transfer  system  provided  incentives  for  fiscal
behavior that ran counter to objectives of lower deficits and greater efficiency
in the public sector. After the decline of oil revenues and total transfers, the
unsustainability and counterproductive aspects of this transfer system became
increasingly evident.  However, the disincentives for local fiscal effort (para.
1.21) kept local own-source revenues at about the same levels.  For this reason,
total municipal revenues from both own and national sources dropped from 2.5% of



-7
GDP  in 1982 to only  1.5% in 1988,  creating a serious decline  in revenueB
nocessary to meet the burgeoning demographic demand for municipal services (para.
1.01).
1.23        The  removal  of the disincentives  for  local  fiscal effort  should
encourage local governments to take advantage of the wide margin for increased
mobilization of resources and improved expenditure efficiency.   About 55% of
municipal revenues derive from taxes on real estate, transfers of ownership, and
profits  from  sales.    The  reBt  come  from taxes on business  activities  and
vehicles, and user fees, including tariffs and betterment levies.  cadastres are
out of date, billing and collection procedures inefficient, and cost recovery
from services quite low. There is also much room for improvement in expenditure
efficiency.
1.24        Per capita transfers from the Central to local governments have not
been highly correlated with poverty indicators or unsatisfied basic needs which,
in turn, are  "proxies" for lack of fiscal capacity. Thus, municipalities with
relatively high fiscal capacity often received higher per capita transfers, than
those with low capacity (see Chart 3.1 in Annex 3).   This perceived lack of
fairness of the system makes it difficult for the Central Government to resist
the demands of municipalities for discretionary grants.
1.25        Reform of the Transfer System.   The reform cf the LGDL made the
transfer system more transparent, predictable, sustainable, and equitable (see
Annex 3).  Under the new law, FODESEC (Fondo de Desarrollo Seccional) replaces
FONAPR and will receive i ;ut the same share of national fiscal resources (see
Annex 3).  The total amount to be distributed annually by FODESEC should exceed
US$87.1 million in 1991 versus total transfers from all sources to municipalities
of US$90 million in 1988 of which less than a third came from the automatic
transfers from FONAPAR.
1.26        Of this total, the 2% from the non-earmarked current revenues of the
National budget goes to provincial capitals; the remainder is div'ded as follows:
75% for municipalities, 20% for provinces, and 5% for the emergency fund.  For
the municipal share, 60% would go to automatic revenue sharing and 40% to the
Municipal Investment Fund (MIF).  Given the budget estimates for 1991, this would
mean US$23.9 million for revenue sharing and US$15.9 million for the MIF.  The
following three criteria will be used in automatic distribution:   (a) 60% by
population; (b) 30% by poverty; and (c) 10% by fiscal effort in relation to
fiscal capacity. Chart 3.2 in Annex 3 shows the distribution of the total amount
of FODESEC in accord with these different criteria.   This automatic revenue
sharing will reduce the incentives for fiscal irresponsibility and also make the
system more equitable, in that municipalities with higher poverty and therefore
less fiscal capacity, will get higher per capita shares.   As a condition of
effoctiveness, the Ministry of Economy and Finance would have established all of
the  operational  procedures  for  automatic  revenue  sharing,  including  the
operational definition and calculation of all indicators to be used in the
allocation.



1.27        The LGDL specifies that the 40% going to the MIF will be transferred
to BEDE and serve as counterpart fo.: the proposed project.   The MIF will then
serve as a predictable, transparent, and sustainable source of counterpart
funding for eligible subborrowers.   Moreover, all eubprojects to be supported
under this project must meet the rigorous economic, financial, environmental and
technical evaluations of BEDE.    Eligible subborrowers (para. 2.10-2.16) will
have access to the MIF in three different ways:  (a) onlending from BEDE; (b)
grants to compensate subborrowers for the lose of revenue from lifeline rates
charged to the lower income families unable to pay the full cost of the following
basic services: water, sanitary and storm sewers, solid waste and neighborhood
improvement (see para. 2.20 for method of calculation); and (c) grants as
incentives for current account saving.   The grants for current account surplus
will serve as an added incentive for municipalities to increase their fiscal
autonomy.
1.28        It was agreed by BEDE at negotiations that transfers from the MIF for
the first year will be as follows:  (a) a minimum of 10% for onlending; (b) a
maximum of 40% for grants for lifeline rates; and (c) a maximum of 50% for the
incentives for current account surplus. During the first year, BEDE will onlend
to the eligible subborrowers wishing to receive this incentive, then deduct the
marginal increase in current account surplus from the principal of the loan at
the end of the year.   At negotiations,  BEDE agreed to put into effect  a
methodology, satisfactory to the Bank, for allocation by each of these three
criteria foL the remaining years of project implementation based on the analysis
of the municipal financial and institutional action plans within the first 10
months of loan effectiveness (para. 5.02).    To the extent shown viable in this
analysis, the grants for lifeline rates should decline and incentives to current
account surplus increase to augment the fiscal autonomy of the municipalities.
This methodology should also monitor the distributive impact of the criteria used
in revenue sharing.  For example, it will be important to know if the transfer
from revenue  sharing would enable municipalities with a  "reasonable" fiscal
effort and expenditure levels to balance their current accounts.   If not, the
criteria might be altered or other steps taken (e.g., combine municipalities that
are too small to be fiscally viable).
1.29        In  summary,  the  LGDL  sets  up  a  more  predictable,  transparent,
equitable and sustainable transfer system.   At negotiations,  the Government
agreed that the LGDL will not be modified in any way that would reduce its
effective contribution to project objectives.
F. Strengthening BDUE as a Lender and Provider of Technical Assistance
1.30        BEDE and Its Previous Policies.  BEDE was established in 1976 as an
autonomous financial institution to provide financing for public sector projects
and programs related to the socioeconomic development of Ecuador.   BEDE's board
is chaired by the Minister of Finance; its operations are under a General
Manager; and it is regulated by the Superintendencia de Bancos.   BEDEIs main
source of capital is from Government transfere.



-9-
1.31        BEDE's policy of lending at fixed interest rates of about 12% caused
rapid decapitalization in real terms when the annual inflation rates jumped from
27% in 1986 to 86% in 1988 causing annual markst interest rates for 90-day CDs to
escalate from 23% in the first quarter of 1986 to 65.3% in May 1990.   The
resulting highly negative interest rates caused the real value of BEDE's loan
portfolio to fall from US$979.7 million in 1986 to only US$133.2 million in 1989,
an annual rate of 39.3%.  Net real earnings plummeted by an annual rate of 42.1%
and real interest revenues dropped from US$148.6 million in 1986 to only US$18.5
million in 1989.   BEDE's net worth dropped from US$1.4 billion in 1986 to only
US$134 million in 1989 for two main reasons: (a) the drop in net earnings; and
(b)  the  decline  in  capital  transfers  from  oil  due  to  the  drop  in  the
international price of oil and the sharp reduction of output after the 1987
earthquake.  The current rise in oil prices will be counteracted in part by the
expected decline of oil output due to the exhaustion of reserves.
1.32        Institutional Reform and Capitalization of BEDE.   Reform of BEDE's
interest rate policy is essential to assure its financial health. The Government
and BEDE have agreed to an interest rate reform under which BEDE would gradually
increase its interest charges to market levels on loans to local governmento and
other governmental entities in accord with the interest rate agreement between
the Government and the Bank (para. 2.18). To capitalize BEDE, it would retain up
to 25% of the amount borrowed from the Government as an equity contribution from
the '^overnment, subject to review by the Government which could increase the
percentage repayment in accord with its overall macroeconomic objectives and the
evolution of BEDE's capital base. In light of legislation passed after appraisal
setting up the Provincial Development Fund, which significantly increased the
total transfers of the Government to BEDE, it was agreed at negotiations that
BEDE willt (a) commission a study with terms of reference and consultant
acceptable to the Bank to: (i) develop a methodology for determining the
"adequate" level of capitalization to meet its objectives as the primary lender
to the public sector; (ii) revise the estimates of the total amount of capital
assistance to BEDE under current and pending legislation; (iii) recommend
appropriate corrective actions if necessary to correct any imbalance between such
capital requirements and the availability of funds; (b) submit such study to the
Bank for comments promptly upon its completion; and (c) take into account the
Bank's comments and take all steps necessary to adopt such recommendations.  The
study will be done within six months after loan effectiveness.  BEDE's financial
performance would be monitored under the project (para. 2.19).
1.33        During  project  preparation,  BEDE  commissioned  a  comprehensive
management study (financed in part by the PPF) to determine how it could best
increase its institutional capacity for the implementation of the proposed
project.    Following  the  recommendations  of  this  study,  BEDE  completely
reorganized its administrative structure (see organization charts in Annex 5) to
deal more effectively with its expanded lending program and increased role as a
provider  of  technical  assistance  to  municipalities.    To  improve  project
evaluation (a major weakness in the past), a separate Project Evaluation Division
was created within the Technical Department with four separate sectors devoted to
environmental, technical,  financial and economic  evaluation.    To  avoid  the



- 10 _
implementation problems suffered by other Bank projects in Ecuador due to the
high turnover of key project staff, BEDE agreed at negotiations to: (a) maintain
a person with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank who would be
responsible for the coordination of the Project (Project Coordinator); (b)
establish the Project Coordinator as a department management-level position
(under BEDE's internal rules, hiring or removal at the departmental level
requires the permission of the Board of Directors); (c) make appointment or
removal of high-level staff assigned to work under the supervision of the Project
Coordinator for purposes of the Project *:o be the sole responsibility of BEDE's
Board of Directors, such appointment or removal to be made on the basis of
recommendations of the Project Coordinator.   As a condition of effectiveness,
BEDE's Board of Directors would have issued a directive to establish these
staffing procedures.
1.34        During project  preparation,  BEDE contracted with GTZ  to produce
financial simulation models for its own use and for developing financial action
plans for municipalities (see Annex 4).  To use these models, BEDE formed a new
team of professionals.   Financial and institutional action plans for the 18
municipalities given technical assistance under the pilot project (partially
financed by the PPF) have been completed (para. 3.08).
0. Sector Development Issues, Objectives, and Bank Lending Strategy
1.35        The sector lending strategy is twofold, in that it aims tot
(a)  Induce institutional reforms that:
i)   encourage reforms to the current transfer and credit systems to
provide strong incentives for increased fiscal responsibility
and expenditure efficiency at the local level (see paras. 1.21-
1.24); and
(ii)  strengthen  the  institutional  capacity of municipalities  to
respond to these new incentives.
(b)  Based on this program of reforms, the proposed project would assist
municipalities in increasing their fiscal autonomy and in reducing
their shortfalls of urban services and infrastructure in an efficient
manner.
1.36       Although the recent events in the Middle East and the resulting rise
in oil prices make neceesary constant updating of the country's macroeconomic
strategy, the basic elements relevant to this project remain valid.  To exploit
fully its productive potential and to alleviate pervasive poverty, the country
will have to replace the exhausted growth model of the 1970s with medium-term
policies aimed at accomplishing two fundamental changes in the economy:   (a)
redefinition of the role of the public sector, and (b) elimination of the
existing protectionist trade regime and constraining labor market policies. The
public sector should use most of its oil revenues to finance puk.-lic and private



- 11 -
investment rather than consumption.   Within this strategy,  the local public
sector should:   (a) rely less on subsidies from the Central Government and more
on its own revenues, and (b) increase its expenditure efficiency.
H. Prior Bank M!2erience
1.37        The Bank has financed a number of operations related to the urban
sector since 1980.  Bank assistance to the urban seotor in Ecuador began with the
Guayaquil Urban Development Project (Loan 1776-EC) that became effective in 1980.
This US$31 million loan was designed to demonstrate alternative low-cost
approaches to providing services to poor beneficiaries with minimum subsidies.
Its PCR concluded that this project had a positive impact on the implementing
institutions at the national level, but was not succeesful in improving
managerial and financial capability at the municipal  level.   Following this
project, there have been two housing loans to Ecuador.   The first loan (Loan
2135-EC) in the amount of US$35.7 million closed in 1988. Its PCR indicates that
it succeeded in demonstrating the feasibility of low-cost sheter alternatives
and   introducing  concepts  of  affordable   standards,   coet  recovery,   and
replicability criteria into government housing programs.   The follow-up housing
loan (Loan 2898-EC) sought to build on the achievements of this first loan by
introducing new interest rate policies and a new mortgage instrument designed to
improve housing affordability. Unfortunately, loan performance has been poor due
to the rapidly rising rates of inflation and the weakness of the implementing
institution.  The Bank is supervising this project closely.  FONAPRE received a
technical assistance loan (S-006-EC) of US$11 million in 1977.   The PCR shows
that after a very slow start due to bureaucratic delays, the pace of project
execution improved, resulting in the following achievements: completion of major
preinvestment studies, good progress in its own institutional development, and
the preparation of a proposal for improving the legislation governing consulting
activities. The Second Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project (Loan
2135-EC) is currently suspended. The reason for this was that the implementing
agency was abolished and responsibility for the sector transferred to a new
entity after a serious deciine in the financial and institutional capacity of the
original entity.   Recent efforts made to improve project performance have been
effective, and the suspension is expected to be lifted soon with the new entity
taking over as borrower.   In 1988, the Bank discussed the results of its Urban
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Study with the Government and its main
recommendations were adopted in the design of this project.   The Public Sector
Management loan (2516-EC) financed consultants who contributed to the design of
the reform of the revenue sharing system.
I. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.38        The rationale for the Bank's involvement to date has been to help
develop the overall macroeconomic strategy in which the individual local
government reforms (e.g., revenue sharing, municipal legislation, and BEDE) are



- 12 -
integral parts.4   The Bank's continued involvement through the proposed project
will help the Government to implement this strategy to maximum benefit at both
the  national  and  local  levels.    Furthermore,  the  Bank can  facilitate  the
mobilization of cofinancing when appropriate and strengthen institutions through
the introduction of new technologies in such areas as budgeting, information
systems, and environmental assessment.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.01        This  project  evolved  from  the  Government's  initial  request  for
assistance in the design of a program of institutional reforms that form this
project's institutional foundation (paras. 1.06-1.07). The project also draws on
the experience in municipal development and finance gained in similar projects in
Brazil (Loan Nos. 2343-BR and 2623-BR) and in Argentina (Loan 2920-AR), which
also seek to increase the fiscal autonomy of local governments by increasing both
their capacity to mobilize resources and to spend efficiently.
B. Proiect Obiectives
2.02        The objectives of both the program of institutional reforms already
discussed and the proposed project are essentially the same. The main objectives
are to increase the fiscal autonomy of municipal governments, as well as their
capacity to efficiently and equitably deliver services.   This will contribute
directly to the attainment of the Government's overall macroeconomic goals of
reducing the public sector deficit and increasing its efficiency and equity.
Specific objectives are to support governmental initiatives to:
(a)  modify the national/local revenue sharing system to make it more
transparent, equitable, predictable, and effective in mobilizing
local revenue;
(b)  reduce discretionary fiscal transfers to municipal governments;
(c)  help municipalities generate current account surpluses by increasing
own-source revenues (especially user charges) and by reducing
expenditures (preferably by increasing efficiency);
(d)   increase  the  capacity  of  municipalities  to  plan  and  execute
efficient, equitable, and environmentally sound projects, as well as
to maintain existing physical assets;
(e)   improve the targeting of benefits to the lower income population;
4The World Bank, "Local Goverrments", op. cit.



- 13 -
(f)  strengthen BEDE as a reliable  source of  financing and technical
assistance for municipal governments; and
(g)  enhance  the  training  activities  in  municipalities  and  of  the
municipal support institutions at the national level.
C. Project DescriDtian
2.03       The  proposed  project  (1991-1997,  US$300  million)  would  finance
technical assistance and training and also onlending from BEDE for civil works
and  equipment  to eligible  subborrowers:    municipalities,  and municipal  and
regional utility enterprises  (hereafter municipal enterprises).   The proposed
Bank project would finance about 35% of total project cost.   BEDE's Project
Operation Manuals would provide key implementation arrangements to assure project
objectives would be attained.
2.04        The Project would finance two main componentos
(a)  Institutional Development and Training (US$27.0 million, 9% of total
project cost) including:
(i)   institutional development (US$19.4 million, 6.5% of total cost)
for both BEDE and municipalities; and
(ii)  training (US$7.6 million, 2.5% of total cost) of about 1,100
employees of national municipal support institutions (e.g.,
BEDE, FONAPRE, SENDA and AME) and about 6,000 municipal
employees and instructors (i.e., training of trainers); and the
coordination of training activities.
Both institutional development and training would focus on such areas
as the creation or improvement of: planning and budgeting systems;
cadastres; general organization and management; personnel policy; tax
administration; and project preparation and evaluation, including
analysis of environmental impacts.  This component would finance the
following,  related to the above areas:   fees for consultants and
instructors, courses, travel and subsistence, teaching materials,
office   supplies   and   equipment   (e.g.,   vehicles,   computers,
audiovisuals and furniture).   No civil works construction would be
financed under this component. See Annex 6 for details.
(b)  Infrastructure (US$273.0 rillion, 91% of total cost) encompassing:
(i)   physical investments (US$273 million, 83% of total cost) in
construction and rehabilitation of public infrastructure (e.g.,
water, sewerage, storm drainage, solid waste collection and
disposal, and roads), and community facilities (e.g., markets,
parks,  and  slaughterhouses),  as  well  as  procurement  of



- 14 -
materials, equipment and vehicles for maintenance or the
provision of public services; and
(ii)  feasibility and engineering studies, auditing and supervision
(US$25.0 million, 8% of total cost) needed to prepare, carry
out and monitor the above investments.  For further details,
see Annex 7.
D. Proiect Costs and Financina Plan
2.05        The project cost estimates (see Table 1) are based on sample projects
prepared by the municipalities and BEDE and reviewed during appraisal. General
and unitary specifications and dimensions of typical subprojects were reviewed
and found acceptable to the Bank. Manuals for ex ante review and for supervising
execution were prepared by BEDE and found acceptable to the Bank.
Table 1: COSTS OF THE SIX YEAR MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, 1991-1997
(In US$ million at July 1990 prices)
Foreign 
as % of   Total
Components                         Local Foreign    Total       Total     Cost
1. Institutional Development        16.9     10.1     27.0       37.4      9.0
and Training 1/
Institutional Development    11.6       7.8     19.4       40.2      6.5
Training                       5.3      2.3      7.6       30.0      2.5
2. Infrastructure                  186.1     86.9    273.0       31.8     91.0
Physical Investments         168.6     79.4    248.0       40.0     82.7
Engineering, Supervision      17.5      7.5     25.0       30.0      8.3
and Auditing
Total Cost                   203.0     97.0    300.0       32.3    100.0
1/ Including US$700,000 for repayment of the PPF.
2.06        Costs are expressed in US dollars because of the unpredictability of
national inflation and devaluation rates during the implementation period.
Because the project will finance a timeslice of municipal investments, price and
physical contingencies are not relevant (except in the case of the more detailed
estimate. done for the institutional development and training component, where
physical contingencies are estimated).
2.07        Foreign exchange costs (FEC) have been estimated for each subproject
of the infrastructure component, for studies, and for the institutional
development and training component resulting in an overall weighted average of
32%.



- 15 -
2.08        The total project cost of US$300 million would be financed (see Table
2) by foreign sources (71%) and local sources (29%).  The foreign sources ares
Table 28 P1NANCING PLAN
(US$ mlllon)
Financing                      Currency               Total
Sources__
Local Poreign          US$
Forelgn                     115.0      97.0      212.0       70.7
IBRD                      56.3      47.7      104.0      34.7
IDB                       56.3      47.7      104.0      34.7
GTS                        2.4       1.6        4.0       1.3
Local                        88.0       0.0       88.0       29.3
TOTAL                       203.0      97.0      300.0     100.0
percentage                   67.7      32.3      100.0
(a) the proposed Bank loan US$104 million (35%)l  (b) a proposed IDB loan also of
US$104 million; and (c) GTZ grants totalllng US$4 mlllion (1%) for technical
aseistance and tralnlng.   The domestic counterpart li  from the NIr, US$29.3
million equivalent  (29%).   The proposed Bank loan would be at the standard
varlable rate and charges, with repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of
grace. It would cover 49% of the foreign exchange cost and approximately 28% of
local costs. The Bank loan, along with the IDB loan and the GTZ grant, would
cover 71% of the total project costs (100% of the foreign and 57% of the local
costs).
2.09        Out of 194 subprojects inltlally screened for Bank and IDB flnanclng
durlng the first year of implementatlon, 62 were submltted to more detalled
technical and economlc analysis.   Of these,  24, costing US$43 million, were
selected for the flrst year of project implementation, comprlslng 13 subprojects
(55% of total cost) ln the Sierra and 11 (45% of total cost) in the Coastal
Reglon. In addltlon, 35 subprojects, costlng about US$50 milllon, are ln various
stages of advanced preparation, most of which will probably start during the
flrst year.   The general profile of the flrst year lnvestment program is as
follows:   (a) Water, Sewerage and Drainage Infrastructure would include eight
subprojects costing about US$24.8 million; (b) Other Infrastructure would include
nine subprojects costing about US$13.2 millions three for solid waste collectlon
and disposal (US$S million) and flve for roads and brldges (US$8.2 milllon); (c)
Communlty Facliltles and Neiqhborhood Improvement would include six subprojects
costlng about US$5.0 million (see Annex 7).



16 
E. Eligibility Criteria
2.10        All municipalities and municipal enterprises potentially would be
eligible to participate in the project, provided they meet project eligibility
criteria. However, to assure sufficient funds for Quito and Guayaquil, while not
depriving the smaller municipalities of much needed resources, no subborrower
could receive more than 15% of the total project resources, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank.   Although all municipalities and municipal enterprises
would be eligible for the Institutional Development and Training component
(subject to the priorities listed balow), only those meeting the financial and
institutional eligibility criteria would be eligible to borrow for infrastructure
to assure that they will have the capacity to maintain and operate the
infrastructure,  as well as to pay the debt service.   In addition to these
requirements  for  municipal  governments  in  general,   there  are  specific
requirements  for municipal and regional enterprises  (para.  2.14).   Regional
enterprises will be subject to the same criteria as municipal enterprises.
2.11        Institutional and Financial Action Plan (IFAP).   To participate in
the Infrastructure Component, each municipality must present an institutional and
financial action plan (IFAP) for developing adequate capacity for project
implementation.   This IFAP, which is described in the Project Implementation
Manuals, will show how revenues will be raised and expenditure efficiency
increased for both current and capital expenditures, as well as management
changes necessary  for project  implementation.   Municipalities that have not
updated their cadastres within the last five years would have to do so in less
than two years in accordance with the implementation manuals. The goal would be
to increase the collection efficiency to 80% of total potential urban land tax
through such measures as: increasing cadastre coverage, reassessing land values,
improving procedures for continual updating (e.g., improving registration of real
estate transactions), and strengthening billing and collection procedures,
including the indexing of tax bills.
2.12        Specific Requirements  for the Sewer and Water Subcomponent.    In
accord with the Bank's sector study on urban water and sewerage, municipalities
wishing to invest in water and sewer systems must:
(a)  have a sufficiently  autonomous  entity  for project  implementation
Municipalities with populations of 100,000 or more must create an
independent water company to construct, operate and maintain the
system, and smaller municipalities that do not have an independent
company must have a decentralized entity within the municipal
government for these ends that is acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  develop a financial and institutional development plan acceptable to
the Bank as described in the operations manual.   This plan would
contain strategies for:   (i) increasing of metering at points of
production, distribution and consumption to augment the percentage of
water billed to 75% of total water produced;    (ii)  design and



- 17 -
implementation of a tariff system with lifeline rates for the poorl
(iii) improving billing and collection systems;  (iv) establishing a
separate and efficient accounting system; and (v) bettering operation
and maintenance practices.
2.13        Financial  Criteria  for  municipal  eligibility  covers  (a)  current
account surplus and (b) debt capacity. In terms of current account surplus, only
municipalities with ratios of 1.0 or more between current revenues/current
expenditures would be eligible to borrow for infrastructure, provided they also
meet the  requirements  for  improved  financial planning discussed  above.    In
calculating this ratio, automatic revenue aharing is considered as a revenue, but
discretionary grants are not.  However, municipalities entering the program for
the first time with a current account ratio of 0.9 would be eligible to receive
subloans for infrastructure projects subject to the following conditionss (a)
presentation of an action plan for reaching a current account ratio of 1.0 within
a period compatible with the project's objective of full cost recovery; (b) a
balanced current account will be a condition of disbursement for any subloan to
assure compliance with the action plan; hcwever, in the case of a current ratio
of less than 1.0, proof that the municipality has taken all actions deemed by
BEDE necessary to reach this ratio (e.g., has updated the cadastre, raised
tariffs, etc.) based on agreed financial projections would be considered in
compliance. In terms of debt capacity. the total service of the debt (including
both interest and amortization) should not exceed 15% of the total revenues (net
of discretionary grants and borrowing) of the preceding year, duly adjusted for
inflation; and total short- and long-term debt should not exceed 60% of total
revenues,  as  defined  above.    One  of  the  objectives  of  the  institutional
development and training component is to improve accounting systems so that
municipalities consistently use a cash basis and follow other accepted accountirg
procedures.
2.14        The financial criteria for municipal and regional enterprises are
that: (a) revenues from tariffs must cover all costs of operation, maintenance
and e.ministration, as well as the cost of investment not covered by grants to
compensate lifeline rates when the new works enter into operation (see para. 2.20
for a discussion of the grants); (b)  the averaga time of bill payment must be
less than 90 days--if not, an action plan to reach this goal must be included;
and  (c)    those  enterprises  with  poor  project  execution  or  debt  payment
performance must present a plan for improving future performance, as well as for
paying outstanding debts.
2.15        Priorities for Institutional Development and Training Component.  All
municipalities will be eligible to participate in the Training Sub-component, bu.
priorities will be set for participation in the Institutional Development
Subcomponent to assure the most efficient allocation of this more costly
assistance involving intensive on-site work by teams of consultants. For those
subborrowers   not   initially  eligible   for  the   institutional   development
subcomponent, BEDE would make recommendations for reforms and a financial action
plan to enable each municipality to meet the financial eligibility criteria.
Furthermore, these municipalities would have access to the training programs



- s1 -
(e.g., regular courses, seminars, workshops and on-the-job training) oriented to
developing its capacity to the point where it could more effectively participate
in the institutional development subcomponent and the infrastructure component.
The sequential priorities for this institutional subcomponent are as follows:
(a)  first priority would go to those municipalities that have balanced current
accounts and are therefore ellgible to borrow for investments or that have a
municipal enterprise that might borrow; (b) second priority would go to those
that have: (i) a ratio of current revenues/expenditures of 0.9 or more, (ii)
institutional potential to achieve current account equilibrium wlthin a
reasonably short perlod, and (lii) a project that might potentially be financed;
and (c) last oriority would go to the remaining municipalities.  These criteria
assure that the resources for the institutlonal development subcomporant will be
awarded to those municipalities that can best use them.
2.16        Criteria for EvaluatJon of Subprojects.  Subprojects will be prepared
at the municipal level and evaluated by BEDE according to the economic,
environmental, technical, financial and institutional criteria set out in the
Project  Implementation  Manuals  (see  Annex  8  for  criteria  for  economic
evaluation).
F. Borrower and ExecutLng Agency
2.17        The Borrower would be the Republic of Ecuador. The proceeds of the
Bank and IDB loans would be onlent in sucres to BEDE at the same maturity as the
Bank loan (20 years with five of grace).   The exception would be the portions
allocated to finance institutional development and trining expenditures, which
would be transferred to BEDE and to subborrowers as grants (with the exception of
updating cadastres, which would be financed by onlending). Grants are used as an
added incentive to participate fully in the institutional development and
training component.   The Central Government would assume the cross-currency and
dollar exchange rate risks and will also pay the commitment charge.  The signing
of agreements between the Government and BEDE for the transfer of the Bank loan
would be a condition of effectiveness.
2.18        BEDE's interest rate on funds borrowed will be variable based on its
onlending rate minus a spread to cover operating costs,  set initially at 4
percentage points.   However,  this spread could be adjusted,  subject to Bank
approval,  in accord with changes in the nominal interest rate to assure that
operating costs are covered.   The spread should be estimated  as the total
operating  costs  divided  by  the  sum  of  llabilities  and  net  worth,  plus  a
reasonable margin for profit and risk. The first revlew of the spread should be
in the first quarter of 1991 to assure that it is adequate given the many
macroeconomic changes that have occurred since appralsal. BEDE's onlending rate
tVo all of its subborrowers (not just the subborrower under thls project) would be
variable and set in accord with the understanding reached between the Bank and
the Govern.!ent (Letter of the President of the Junta MonetarLa of December 13,
1989).  In accordance w.th this understanding, the rate on July 1, 1990 was set
ac 3S%.   This rate would be adjusted biannually  in line with the schedule
indicated Ln the above mentioned understanding,  reaching the commercial bank



- 19 -
lending rate (Tasa de Libre Contratacion) by June 30, 1992 or considerably
earlier if nominal interest rates decline (see Annex 4, para. 20). The onlending
terms would be included in the agreements between BEDE and each of its borrowers.
Municipal repayment of loans would be guaranteed by its revenue-sharing receipts.
The repayment period of the loans to municipalities will vary in accord with
potential for cost recovery, ranging from 5 years for cadastres to 20 years for
water and eewer eystems.   The local cuunterpart will come  from the MIF in
accordance with the criteria established by BEDE (para. 1.28).
2.19        At negotiations, agreement was reached on a set of specific financial
targets, including real rates of return on net assets, real net worth, real
disbursements and real growth of disbursements.   In addition,  BEDE agreed to
prepare an annual financial management plan acceptable to the Bank, to be
discussed during the annual review,  which would  include:    (a) a review of
progress in meeting its financial targets; and (b) a atrategy for the coming year
to contribute to the attainment of project and overall macroeconomic objectives
with emphasis on (i) the volume of capital assistance from the Central Governmont
and (ii) capacity to use it effectively.  This plan should also analyze po          -ac
"overcapitalization" of BEDE due to new legislation (e.g., the Provincial
Development Fund) using the methodology discussed previously (para. 1.32).  The
BEDE financial simulation would be used to adjust specific targets for monitoring
indicators from the base case scenario (see Table 4.7, Annex 4) established at
negotiations in accord with macroeconomic shifts, such as changes in the
international price of oil.
G. Cost Recovery Policy and Grants to Ccomensate Lifeline Rates
2.20        Normally, all costs of operation, administration, maintenance, and
investment would be recovered either directly from user charges (e.g., tariffs,
fees and betterment levies) or indirectly from increased general tax revenues
(see Annex 9 for details by subcomponent).   However,  in the cases of water,
sanitary and storm sewers, solid waste, and neighborhood improvement, the general
rule of total cost recovery would be relaxed to provide lifeline rates.   A
lifeline rate is a below-marginal-cost price for a minimum quantity of a basic
service for lower-income families unable to pay marginal cost prices.   For
examtple, the municipal water entity could charge a lifeline rate to lower-income
families for a specified minimum amount of water (e.g., 10 to 15 cubic meters per
month), for which families could not be charged more than 3% of the average
monthly income for '.he municipality (if available) or the region. To compensate
for the revenue lost due to these lifeline rates that cannot be recovered within
the municipality via cross-subsidies in the form of higher rates to higher-income
families, a transparent and up-front grant from the HIF would be allowed.   The
calculation of the amount of this grant would require only estimates of the total
families paying lifeline rates, in addition to the other data required for
project evaluation.  The amount of the grant could never be greater than total
investment  cost  and the other  data used  for project  evaluation.    In more
technical terms, the grant to compensate lifeline rates would be calculated as
the present value of the revenue stream necessary to cover total project costs
(including maintenance, administration, operating, and investment costs) minus



- 20 -
the present value of the actual stream of revenue from the project (which does
not cover all costs due to the lower lifeline rates for poor families).   The
rules for cost recovery and methodology for calculating the grants are defined in
detail in the project implementation manuals.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
3.01        Overall  responsibility  for project implementation would rest with
BEDE, which would administer the MIF and the resources from the Bank, IDB loans,
and the GTZ grants.   During project preparation,  a number of efforts were
directed at strengthening BEDE to fulfill adequately its key role in project
implementation through its expanded lending program and increased role as a
provider  of  technical   assistance,   including   a  complete   a'ministrative
reorganiization and training of employees (paras.   1.33-1.34).   BEDE responded
efficiently to the many demands of project preparation and appears ready to
aesume  its  increased  responsibilities.    During  project  implementation,  an
extensive program of institutional development a-.d training will continue to
strengthen this capacity (para. 3.06 and Annex 6~,
3.02        The Project Implementation Manuals, acceptable to the Bank--including
specific manuals for Eligibility, Operations, Sapervision and Monitoring,
Economic and Financial Appraisal of Projects and Bor,-owers, Technical Evaluation,
Environmental Impact, and Institutional Developmen'. --would cover all regulations
concerning the relationships between the municipal.). ies and other subborrowers
with BEDE, FONAPRE, SENDA, and AME.  At negotiation*, BEDE agreed to administer
the project in accordance with these manuals, and not to amend them without prior
Bank consent.  A condition of effectiveness would  e that project  operating
manuals acceptable to the Bank have been  issued,   These  regulations would
describe in detail the role of participating entities and the internal procedures
of BEDE that municipalities and other subborrowers should be aware of for their
efficient  participation  in  the  project,  includinS;:  (a)  the  criteria  for
eligibility (para. 2.13); (b) the preparation of feasibility studies; (c)
subproject selection criteria; (d) mechanisms for approval of projects by BEDE,
including conditionality on local resource mobilization (tariffs, property taxes,
user charges, etc.) and others re.ated to cost recovery and operation and
maintenance of the projects to be financed; (e) a model of the Loan Agreement
between BEDE and its subborrowers; (f) procurement procedures for goods, works
and services; (g) accounts and auditing; and (h) specific regulations on
environmental protection to be followed during preparation, implementation, and
operation of each project.  BEDE would determine the eligibility of subborrowers
(i.e., municipalities and municipal enterprises) according to the Eligibility
Manual (for criteria see paras. 2.09-2.15) acceptable to the Bank.   BEDE also
would carry out the technical, economic, financial, and environmental evaluation
of the subprojects and would approve the respective subloans.   The Project
Committee will continue to coordinate all Government organizations with a role in
urban development (para. 1.16).  BEDE would supervise subproject implementation
in accordance with procedures determined in the Supervision and Monitoring



- 21 -
Manual, acceptable to the Bank. This Manual would include: (a) a description of
the rights and obligations of all subborrowers; (b) the financial mechanisms for
project implementation (disbursement, retention, and accounting); (c) monitoring
and supervision mechanisms, defining the areas of responsibility of the
subborrowers and BEDE; (d) cross-references with the Project Implementation
Manuals  on  the  interrelation  between  the  project  advance  reports  and
disbursements; (e) a mechanism for disbursements for monthly payments; (f) as
Annexes, the models of standard bidding documents for civil works, goods, and
services to be utilized by municipalities and other subborrowers. Auditing would
be cai-ried out as described in para. 3.18.  BEDE would approve the procurement
contracts of the subborrowers (see para. 3.10) and would provide the Bank with a
biannual progress report (para. 3.19).
3.03        BEDE will establish subsidiary agreements with FONAPRE and SENDA to
perform specific functions for the project. FONAPRE would be responsible for
hiring consultants and supervising the preinvestment studies requested by BEDE's
subborrowers (prefeasibility, feasibility, and final engineering design) in
accordance with an agreement signed between BEDE and FONAPRE, acceptable to the
Bank. BEDE would finance these studies with proceeds from the proposed loan, but
would recover these costs from its subborrowers.   SENDA will coordinate the
municipal training program, but the actual training programs will be provided by
AME and other entities.  As a condition of effectiveness, subsidiary agreements
acceptable to the Bank would be signed between BEDE and (i)  FONAPRE and (ii)
SENDA.
3.04        Adequate Bank supervision would be an especially '.mportant element of
successful  project  implementation,  especially during the  first years.    BEDE
agreed during negotiations to submit all requests for subproject financing with
values over established limits (e.g., US$4 million for sewer and water projects
and US$1 million for other projects) for prior approval of the Bank.
B. Strenqthening Implementing Institutions
3.05        The institutional development and training programs will encompass
all of the institutions involved in the project (see Annex 6).
3.06        BEDE  will  be  strengthened  so  that  it  can  meet  its  increased
responsibilities for providing technical assistance to its subborrowers, as well
as doing the economic, environmental, technical, and financial analyses of the
projects and of the borrowing entities themselves (see Annex 6).
3.07        Since institutional development is a key objective of the project and
financial and Institutional action plans by municipalities and municipal
enterprises are prerequisites for project participation (paras. 2.09-2.15),
special  emphasis  has  been  given to  it.    BEDE will  establish  a technical
cooperation agreement with GTZ that will create a specialized unit staffed by
high-level  professionals  to  carry  out  this  program.    This  unit  will  be
institutionally located in the Technical Department of BEDE in the Technical



- 22 -
Cooperation and Promotion Division (see Annex 5).  The signing of an agreement
between BEDE and GTZ for execution of the institutional development component
would be a condition of effectiveness. In addition, at negotiations, BEDE agreed
that  it  will  hire  consultants  necessary  to  implement  effectively  the
institutional development and training component.
3.08        As part of the project preparation effort, GTZ applied and tested a
comprehensive methodology and an institutional development model in the
municipalities of Tulcan, Riobamba, and Babahoyo.   In addition, GTZ organized
several courses and seminars in coordination with BEDE, AME, FONAPRE and a number
of international entities.  Training was provided for about 100 officials from
the 18 municipalities selected to be the first group of project participants,
including the preparation of administrative manuals for improving institutional
and financial management (see Annex 6). This effort facilitated the testing and
fine tuning of the institutional development program for the municipalities
(para. 1.34).   Training programs for about 580 staff of the municipal support
institutions (mainly BEDE and FONAPRE) and for about 460 staff of the first group
of municipalities selected to participate in the project were partially financed
by the PPFe from IBRD and IDB (see Annex 6).   These efforts proved useful in
improving the design of the training programs to be implemented during project
implementation, as well as providing training for those who will participate
during its first year.
C. Procurement
3.09        Most  of  tho  162  municipalities  of  the  country  are  expected to
participate in the project, resulting in a large number of small and scattered
civil works.   Procurement for civil works costing US$50,000 equivalent or less
and for goods costing US$25,000 equivalent or less would be done through local
shopping, requiring at least three price quotations. This is expected to account
for US$27.4 million equivalent, or about 9% of project costs.   Procurement of
civil works costing more than US$50,000 and less than US$1 million equivalent
would account for approximately US$64.2 million equivalent, or 22% of total
project costs, and would be done through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank.   Procurement of goods costing more than
US$25,000, but less than US$200,000 equivalent, would be done through LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank and represent approximately US$26.0 million, or
9% of project costs. Procurement of civil works costing US$1 million equivalent
or more and of goods costing US$200,000 equivalent or more, would be done through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in agreement with the Bank's guidelines
for procurement, representing about US$135.4 million equivalent, or 45% of
project  costs.     Consulting  services,  estimated  to  cost  US$47.0  millior.
equivalent, or 15% of total project costs, would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines. These arrangements are summarized in Table 3 below.
3.10        BEDE has prepared standard bidding documents for ICB and for LCB of
civil works and goods as well as for hiring of consultants that were approved at
negotiations by both IBRD and IDB. To facilitate the preparation of these common
documents, IDB adjusted some of its procurement regulations to Bank guidelines.



- 23 -
Table 3:  R         - STIM&TED VALUE BY NITOSH
(USS Million equivalent)
Project Element             Type of Procurement l/          Total
Cost
ICQ      LC8       Local   Other
Shopping
Civil Works           128.4      64.2      21.4       -     214.0
(44.5)   (22.3)     (7.4)      -      (74.2)
Goods                   7.0      26.0       6.0       -      39.0
(2.4)    (9.0)     (2.1)     (-)    (13.5)
Consulting Services      -         -        -       47.0     47.0
C-)      (-)      (-)     (16.3)   (16.3)
Total                 135.4     90.2       27.4     47.0    300.0
(46.9)   (31.3)     (9.5)   (16.3)  (104.0)
1/ Amounts in brackets show allocations from Bank loan proceeds.
same percentage financing is expected from IDB.
The common ICB documents would contain two versions of specific paragraphs to
comply with the few still remaining differentiated IDB and Bank Guidelines.
Expenditures under contracts awarded following ICB procedures would be cofinanced
in parallel (i.e., each individual operation will be financed fully by either IDS
or the Bank). When initiating an ICB bidding process, BEDE would decide which
Bank would finance the resulting contract. All LCB and consultant hiring would
be done using uniform documents and would be financed jointly in equal shares by
both Banks.   However,  if a contract is awarded to a bidder from a country
ineligible under IDB Guidelines, this contract would be financed totally by the
Bank.
3 11        The  Government  has  recently  enacted  new  procurement  laws  that
overcome past disagreements about Bank procurement guidelines taking precedence
over local laws, except for a last minute addition to a recently approved law
requiring mandatory coparticipation by local consultants in all consulting
contracts,  including  those  financed  by  multilateral  institutions.    Before
negotiations,   the  Government   issued  a  Regulation  providing  that  such
coparticipation will be mandatory only when there are a sufficient number of
capable domestic firms or individual consultants to allow foreign consultants
reasonable freedom of choi^-e, which is in accordance with the provisions of the
Bank's guidelines. The Bank loan agreement for this project contains explicit
reference to the points of difference either in substance or interpretation
between the World Bank Guidelines and pertinent Ecuadoran legislation, as well as



- 24 -
those procedures not specifically mentioned in the Bank Guidelines.   To reduce
the very  long delays  resulting  from the  need to  have  approval  of bidding
documents for each subproject by the Procuraduria General del Estado and the
Contraloria General de la Nacion, which have been a major factor in slowing
project Implementation in Ecuador, the Government agreed that the review of the
Procuraduria and the Contraloria would be limited to the basic model bidding
documents for civil works, goods, and services. The review of the bidding awards
would still be subject to the review of both the Procuraduria and the
Contraloria.
3.12        BEDE would review ex ante all procurement procedures, documents, bid
evaluations and contract awards to ensure that the agreed procurement process is
properly carried out.   In addition, all procedures, documents, bid evaluations
and contract awards for ICB procurement of goods and works and for procurement of
consultant services costing US$30,000 equivalent or more, would be reviewed ex
ante by the Bank.  Because LCB bid packages would be too small and numerous for
effective ex ante review by the Bank, such review would be delegated to BEDE.
However, to ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, the Bank would
review ex ante the two first LCB procurement processes to be carried out in each
municipal subsector. Furthermore, the audit terms of reference to be prepared by
BEDE would provide that the audit reports contain a certification that the
audited municipalities have used the standard bidding documents prepared by BEDE,
and further tJ.. the procurement documents presented to the Bank for ex ante
review are representative. However, the Bank would review LCB and local shopping
procurement procedures on an ex post basis by sampling.   If it were determined
that procurement did not follow agreed procedures, then no expenditures for such
items would be financed out of loan proceeds and the Bank would cancel the
corresponding  loan  amount.    If  contracts  not  following  agreed  procurement
procedures were paid with funds from the special account, the Government would
have to refund to the Bank their corresponding amount.
D. Disbursement
3.13        Loan proceeds should be disbursed in six years, with a closing date
of June 30, 1997 (Annex  10).   This period, which is shorter than the Ecuadoran
disbursement schedule profile (8 years), is considered acceptable based on the
following:  (a) the priority assigned by the Government to eliminating   urgent
unmet municipal infrastructure needs that would cost an estimated US$600 million,
excluding the two largest municipalities; (b) the establishment of the MIF as a
reliable source of counterpart funding (para. 1.27); (c) subprojects costing
US$43 million have already been prepared for the first year and other subprojects
costing about US$50 million are in advanced stages of preparation for
implementation during the first year;  (d) all necessary   provisions have been
taken during project preparation and will be taken during project execution to
overcome administrative, legal and financial problems that have curtailed prompt
project  execution of past  IDB,  GTZ  and Bank projects  and to  increase  the
implementation capacity of BEDE and the municipalities; and (e) the concerted
actions programmed under the project by IDB, GTZ and the Bank to assure prompt
and efficient project implementation.   Given that expenditures for consulting



- 25 -
services and LCB for goods and works would be financed jointly by IDB and the
Bank, and expenditures for goods and works for ICB would be financed in parallel,
the following disbursement percentages would apply:
(a)  35%  (LCB)  or 70%  (ICB)  of total expenditures  for eligible civil
works;
(b)  50%  (LCB)  or  100%  (ICB)  of  foreign  expenditures  for  imported
equipment, vehicles, and materials;
(c)  35%  of  total  local  expenditures  for  locally procured  equipment,
vehicles, and materials;
(d)  35% of total local expenditures for hiring local consultants for
preinvestment   studies,   supervision   and   auditing,   and   for
institutional development and training (but excluding salaries); and
(e)  50% of the foreign expenditures for hiring foreign consultants and
for travel expenses for training abroad.
Given that financing is partially joint, the signature of the lending agreement
with IDB would be a condition of loan effectiveness. BEDE has already received a
grant from GTZ in the amount of US$1.9 million equivalent (at an estimated
exchange rate of OM1 - US$0.67) and should receive a second grant in the amount
of at least US$2.1 million equivalent before December 31, 1991.  If by December
31, 1991 the IDB loan agreement and the second GTZ grant are not effective, the
Bank will have the right to suspend disbursements.
3.14        Disbursements  for  civil  works  and  for  equipment,  vehicles  and
materials would ba authorized only after verification and certification by BEDE
that expenditurea resulted from a previously approved subloan agreement between
BEDE and one of  its subborrowers.    For expenditures  for hiring of foreign
consultants and under category (d), disbursements would be authorized after
verification and certification by BEDE   that expenditures resulted from the
hiring of consultants acceptable to the Bank or from the technical assistance and
training program approved by the Bank.
3.15        Because  of  the  large  number  of  contracts  and  relatively  small
payments, all disbursements for local expenditures and disbursements for foreign
expenditures for contracts up to US$200,000 equivalent would be against Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs).   These SOEs would present expenditures by subproject,
with a breakdown of outlays for studies, equipment, materials, consultant
services, and civil works.   The documentation for SOE expenditures would not be
sent to the Bank but would be retained by BEDE and available for inspection by
the  Bank  staff.    All  other disbursements  should be  on the basis  of  full
contractual documentation.   A Special Account in US dollars would be set up in
the Central Bank.   The initial deposit would be up to US$6.0 million, which
represents an estimated four months of expenditures under the loan. The Special
Account would be managed by BEDE.
3.16        The PPF for project preparation in the amount or US$700,000 would be
repaid from the loan proceeds. At negotiations, it was agreed that retroactive
financing not exceeding US$1.0 million would be provided for expenditures



- 26 -
approved by the Bank for training, equipment and consultant services required for
further institutional strengthening and incurred between August 1, 1990 and the
expected signing date of the loan agreement.
3.17        Beginning one year from loan effectiveness, the Bank, jointly with
IDB, will annually review progress in project execution and, in particular,
progress in loan disbursement.  This is to ensure that the Bank's participation
in project financing does not exceed 35% of the total project cost over the long
term. In the event the Bank's overall participation exceeds a cumulative 35% of
total project cost at the end of any given year, it will request that BEDE slow
the approval of subloans for Bank financing during the subsequent year to reduce
the Bank's participation to a cumulative 35% of total project expenditures
approved by the end of the subsequent year.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.18        The loan agreements between BEDE and its subborrowers (participating
municipalities, and municipal and regional utility enterprises) would include the
responsibility of each to maintain a separate Project Account. BEDE's financial
statements, the Special Account and the Project Account in BEDE and each
municipality or enterprise would be audited by external, independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.  Such audits, including the SOEs, and compliance with all Bank agreements
and with the implementation of eligibility and creditworthiness criteria
established in the Project Implementation Manuale, would be furnished to the Bank
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year.
F. Project Reporting and Nonitorinq
3,19        BEDE would require monthly reports from each of the subborrowers and
from the agencies responsible for specific components (e.g., water, sewage, and
training),  and  in  turn  BEDE  would  submit  biannual  reports  on  project
implementation to the Bank, within 30 days of the end of each semester. During
negotiations the Government and BEDE agreed that they will exchange views
annually with the Bank on progress in project execution.  These exchanges would
take place in March of each year, starting in 1992. With the Government, these
discussions would focus on the overall performance of the project in relation to
the objectives outlined in the policy letter.   With BEDE, the exchanges would
include: (a) the borrowing capacity and creditworthiness of the municipalities
and other eligible subborrowers; (b) compliance with the loan agreement, credit
regulations, and enforcement of provisions under the subloan agreements
(including audit reporting); (c) financial performance of BEDE and subborrowers
under agreed indicators; (d) financial management plan for the coming year; (e)
resource  allocation  including  grants  and  subloans  by  region,  type  of
municipality, and nature of investments for the current and forthcoming calendar
years; (f) achievement of the Bank's overall percentage participation in total
project cost; (g) indicators of fiscal and cost recovery performance of the
subborrowers; (h) implementation of environmental provisions; and (i) the status
of the Institutional Development and Training component. If any of these reviews



- 27 -
shows an unsatisfactory performance by BEDE or lack of enforcement of lts credit
regulations and subloan agreemente, the Government and BEDE should promptly take
all necessary actions satisfactory to the Bank to improve performance, or the
Bank could take corrective action, including suspension.
3.20        Systematic monitoring would be undertaken by BEDE and SENDA of the
specific and broad ranging indicatore that measure the overall performance and
impact of the project. Special attention would be given to financial indicatore
of improvements in municipal finances, notably increased capacity to invest and
increased revenue. Annex 11 lists typical indicators that would be used.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Financial Benefits
4.01        A primary   project focus is on the institution&l reforms of the
national transfer and credit system to provide incentives for municipalities to
increase own-source local revenues as well as the efficiency with which they
spend them.  This would contribute directly to help local governments to become
more autonomous development entities that save and invest wieely to improve their
infrastructure.  Thie, in turn, could stimulate economic development and future
local revenues.
4.02        Municipal creditworthiness and component eligibility criteria would
ensure that all municipalities participating in the project would be financially
strengthened.     Only  municipalities  that  have  sufficient  financial  and
institutional capacity to maintain and operate the new investment adequately, as
well as service its debt are eligible for financing. Technical aseietance would
be provided for those municipalities not initially meeting the creditworthiness
criteria so that they might improve their performance.
B. Economic Benefits
4.03        The minimum acceptable internal economic rate of return (ERR) for
project approval is 12%, which is the estimated social opportunity cost of
capital. The economic evaluation of the infrastructure projects has been carried
out for 23 subprojects, representing approximately 12% of the proposed project's
cost.   The evaluation includes an analysis of the market demand  for each
subproject; an analysis of alternatives to ensure that the minimum cost
alternative is selected; and an analysis of the ERR.    The weighted average of
the ERR estimates for all subcomponents is 31.1% (see Table 8.2 of Annex 8). The
average return by subcomponent is the followingt water supply (17.4%); sewerage
(19.3%);  storm  drainage  (22.9%);  solid  waste  (93.8%);  roads  (24.5%);  and
community facilities (18.0%).  A sensitivity analysis was done by altering the
variable to which the ERR for each subproject is most sensitive by 25% to
determine the negative impact on ERR. Following this procedure and excluding the
solid waste project in Quito because of its very high ERR, the overall rate of
return dropped to 15.4%.



- 28 -
C. Poverty Impact
4.04        About  70%  of  total  investments  in  infrastructure  would  be
concentrated in the municipalities outside Quito and Guayaquil where the unmet
needs for basic urban services and infrastructure are highest. The proposed
project would eliminate about a third of these unmet needs.   Although usually
better off than these smaller cities, the unmet needs in Quito and Guayaquil are
also sizeable. For example, about a quarter of their inhabitants lack access to
water and over 40% lack access to adequate basic sanitation.   Most of the
resources of the IBRD and IDB loans would be used to finance projects in the
water and sewerage sector that accounts for the bulk of these unmet needs for
urban services. Lifeline rates would promote access by the poorest families. In
addition, the project would provide increased affordability of basic services due
to BEDE's relatively long-term financing, which would permit longer beneficiary
repayment periods. A study done by GTZ during project preparation indicates that
about half of the possible project beneficiaries would have incomes below the
poverty  line  (US$277  per  capita per year  or only US$23  per month).    The
distributive analysis of IDB showed that, on average, at least 80% of total
project benefits would be directed to low-income beneficiaries (i.e., earning
less than US$511 per year or US$43 per month). Finally, the project would
generate over 100,000 person-years of construction work.
D. Environmental Impact
4.05        The project will introduce systematic analysis of the environmental
implications of infrastructure investments at the municipal level.   Thus, the
BEDE/GTZ program will help the municipalities to develop the capacity to do
environmental impact assessment. To assist them, BEDE has prepared a draft of an
Environment&l Manual explaining how to screen projects for environmental impact
in conformity with the Bank's Guidelines (Operational Directive 4.0) that has
been reviewed and approved by the Bank. To receive and analyze the assessments
done by the municipalities as well as do prescreening of projects with
potentially  high  negative  environmental   impacts,   BEDE  has  created  the
Environmental Preservation Sector in its Technical Department (see the
organization charts in Annex 5).  This Sector will receive technical assistance
to improve its capacity to:  (a) analyze the environmental assessments submitted
by the municipalities: and (b) identify potential problems at the prefeasibility
phase of subproject evaluation so that it can alert the municipality to the need
for careful consideration of environmental impact in subproject appraisal. BEDE
can intervene at three different points in the project cycle to deal with
environmental issues:   (a)   during the initial public discussion of municipal
priorities, BEDE will identify projects that could potentially generate negative
environmental consequences;  (b)   when the municipality presents the project
prefeasibility study, BEDE's Environmental Preservation Sector can request a
public meeting of representatives of governmental and nongovernmental entities
before presentation of the final project appraisal report (which would be
convened by the Municipal Council, with minutes of the meeting to accompany the
report); and (c) during appraisal of the final project report presented by the
municipality or municipal enterprise, BEDE would decide whether the project is



- 29 -
environmentally sound in accordance with the guidelines established in the
Environmental Manual.   As part subproject review during project preparation and
appraisal, careful consideration was given to all environmental aspects
(particularly for water supply and solid waste subprojects). In many cases, this
resulted ln substantial design improvements.   For example,  .n the Quito solid
waste project, the Bank requested further studies to ensure that the proposed new
disposal site area would not contaminate ground water.
4.06        The project should improve the physical environment by reducing the
unmet needs of urban infrastructure (e.g., water, sewerage, solid waste, road
surfacing, drainage and slaughterhouses) and by more carefully designing the
project  to  improve  environmental  quality.    The  general  institutional  and
financial strengthening of municipalities should facilitate maintenance once the
systems are operational. Finally, the project will finance parks and in some
cases help to preserve historical areas (e.g., the improvement of sewage and
storm sewers in the historical center of Quito).
S. Risks and Safeguards
4.07        The  main  risks  are  lack  of  initial  interest  on  the  part  of
municipalities for doing the fiscal reform required and the continuity in
political commitment to the project during its implementation. The project has a
built-in mechanism to manage these risks in that it allocates the resources based
on performancet   those municipalities that are eligible earlier and perform
better would receive more resources.   The incentives built into the reformed
transfer system should also stimulate the transfer of innovitions from the less
successful municipalities to the more successful ones. In addition to these
general risks, there is the possibility of inefficient project management by BEDE
and municipalities.  This risk has been diminished through technical assistance
and training during project preparation, as well as the institutional development
requirements in the eligibility criteria.   There is also the risk of lack of
continuity in project management by municipalities due to staff turnover.  This
would be reduced by technical assistance in the preparation of legislation to
grant civil service status to municipal employees. Finally, reforms already
implemented might be abandoned. While real, this risk has been reduced through
their embodiment of the reforms in legislation as well as by specific related
conditions.
V. AGRBMBNTS PRACHED AND RBCOMEBNDATIONS
5.01        During negotiations, assurances were obtained, as follows:
(a)  From the Central Government that it will:
(i)   establish a Steering Committee headed by SENDA's secretary and
composed of senior officials of BEDE, FONAPRE, AME and CONADE
to  provide  advice  on  the  coordination,   implementation,



- 30 -
evaluation, and flnancing of the training programs withln three
months after loan effectiveness (para. 1.19);
(ii)  not modify the reforms of the LGDL in any way that would reduce
its effective contrlbution to project objectives (para. 1.29)t
(iii) agree that BEDE will retain up to 25% of the total amount
borrowed as an equity contribution, subject to the review of
the Government, which could increase the percentage repayment
in accord with and the evolution of BEDE's capital base (see
study defined below in (b)(v)) and its overall macroeconomic
objectives (para. 1.32);
(iv)  accept the onlending terms and conditions, including agreement
to assume fully the cross-currency and dollar-to-sucre exchange
risk (2.17);
(V)   accept that the review of the Procuraduria and the Contraloria
will be limited to the basic model bidding documents for civil
works, goods and services (3.11)S and
(vi)  agree to exchange views with the Bank at the annual review on
the overall performance of the project in relation to the
objectives outlined in the policy letter (para. 3.19).
(b)  From BEDE that it will:
(i)   develop with the assistance of SENDA a model career development
plan for municipal civil servants designed to ensure their
greater employment stability.   Taking into account the Bank's
comments, BEDE will require municipalities to adopt, as an
objective under their subloan agreement, a career development
plan for its employees consistent with the model plan.   The
plan will be presented within the first six months after loan
effectiveness (para. 1.17);
(ii)  allocate transfers from the NIF for the first year as follows:
a minimum of 10% for onlending, a maximum of 40% for grants to
compensate for lifeline rates for lower-income families, and a
maximum of 50% for the incentives for current account surplus;
and put into effect a satisfactory methodology for allocation
based on each of these three criteria for the remaining years
of project implementation within the first 10 months of loan
effectiveness (para. 1.28);
(iii) maintain   a   person   with   qualifications   and   experience
satisfactory to the Bank to be responsible for the coordination
of the Project (Project Coordinator); establish the Project
Coordinator as a department management-level position; cause



- 31 -
appointment or removal of high-level staff assigned to work
under the supervision of the Project Coordinator for purposes
of the Project to be the sole responsibility of BEDE's Board of
Directors, such appointment or removal to be made on the basis
of recommendations by the Project Coordinator (see 5.02, (d))
(para. 1.33);
(iv)  raise interest rates to market levels for all new BEDE loans in
accordance with the interest rate understanding between the
Government and the Bank (para. 1.32);
(v)   a. commission a study with terms of reference and consultant
acceptable to the Bank to: i. develop a methodology for
determining the "adequate" level of capitalization to meet its
objectives as the primary lender to the public sector; ii.
revise the estimates of the total amount of capital assistance
to BEDE under current and pending legislation; iii. recommend
appropriate corrective actions if necessary to correct any
imbalance   between   such   capital   requirements   and   the
availability of funds;  b. submit such study to the Bank for
comments promptly upon its completion; and c. take into account
the Bank's comments and take all steps necessary to adopt such
recommendations.   The study will be done within six months
after loan effectiveness (para. 1.32).
(vi)  present an annual financial management plan acceptable to the
Bank during the yearly review (para. 2.19);
(vii) carry out the program in accordance with the agreed Project
Implementation Manuals, with no amendments without the Bank's
prior consent (para. 3.02);
(viii) submit all projects with values over established limits for
prior approval by the Bank (para. 3.04);
(ix)  hire  consultants  necessary  to  implement  effectively  the
institutional development and training component (para. 3.07);
(x)   require monthly reports from each of the subborrowers and from
the agencies responsible for specific components (e.g., water,
sewage, and training), and submit biannual reports on project
implementation to the Bank within 30 days of the end of each
semester (3.19); and
(xi)  agree to exchange views  annually with  the  Bank on:   the
borrowing capacity and creditworthiness of subborrowers;
compliance with the loan agreement, credit regulations, and
enforcement of provisions under the subloan agreements;
financial  performance  under  agreed  indicators;  financial



- 32 -
management plan for the coming year; resource allocation
including grants and subloans, and nature of investments for
the current and forthcoming calendar years; achievement of the
Bank's overall percentage participation in total project cost;
cost recovery performance; implementation of environmental
provaisons; and the statuu of the institutional development and
training component (para. 3.19).
5.02        Conditions of loan effectiveness will be that the:
(a)  members of the BEDE Project Committee would have been appointed and
such Committee would have begun to exercise its duties in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 1.16);
(b)  terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank would have been prepared
by BEDE with the assistance of SENDA for model career development
plan designed to ensure more stability for municipal employees as
described in para. 5.01 (b) (i) (para. 1.17);
(c)  Ministry of Economy and Finance would have established all of the
operational  procedures  for  FODESEC  including  the  operational
definition and calculation of all pertinent indicators (para. 1.26);
(d)  BEDE's Board of Directors would have issued a directive to establish
the staffing procedures of 5.01, b, iii (para. 1.33);
(e)  project  implementation manuals  acceptable to the  Bank have been
issued (para. 3.02);
(f)  subsidiary agreements acceptable to the Bank would be signed between
the Government and BEDE (para. 2.17), and also between BEDE and: (i)
GTZ for the institutional development component (para. 3.07); (ii)
FONAPRE; and (iii) SENDA (para. 3.03); and
(g)  loan agreement between the Government and IDB would have been signed
(para. 3.13).
Recommendation
5.03        With the above assurance and conditions the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$104 million equivalent to be repaid over a period
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate and fees.
Washington, D.C., November 29, 1990



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
BCUADOR
NUNICIPAL DEVEOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURB PROJECT
Population Trends and Access to Urban Infrastructure
1.           The urban population of Ecuador more than doubled during the 19b2-
82 period to 4.0 million in 1982, causing the percentage of total population
living in urban areas to jump from 36% in 1962 to over half in 1982. While the
total population grew at a rate of 3% in the period 1950-1974 and 2.7% between
1974-1982, the urban population grew at 4.6% per year for the 1950-74 period and
4.9% for 1974-82.   Estimates based on these trends show 55% of Ecuador's
inhabitants living in urban areas in 1987.
2.          Urban population is heavily concentrated in two urban centers,
Guayaquil and Quito, although their participation in the total urban population
has decreased from 53% in 1974 to 50% in 1987.  Urban agglomerations in the
100,000 to 200,000 range had the fastest demographic growth, and their
participation in the total urban population grew from 4% in 1974 to 19% in 1987.
Other urban centers also increased, but at a lower rate, with the exception of
towns of less than 10,000, where population growth was almost nil. Regionally,
the urban population, which was slightly concentrated in the Sierra in 1950, is
now more highly concentrated in the Coastal region.   Although the urban
population in the Eastern part of the country (Oriente) has grown very rapidly,
it is still not very large.
3.          Notwithstanding the slight redu-tion in their participation in the
total urban population, the population of Guayaquil is estimated to have more
than doubled during the 1974-89 period to 1.7 million. Quito's population also
doubled during the same period to 1.2 million.
4.          This rapid urbanization has generated great demand for urban services
and infrastructure, especially in the two largest cities and in the intermediate
urban centers. As .unicipalities have been unable to meet this demand, deficits
have increased. For example, only 69% of the urban population had access to
drinking water in their houses in 1987, compared to 75% in 1982; and only 53%
had access to adequate sewage facilities in 1987, compared to 62% in 1982. In
Guayaquil, in 1987, only 56% had water connections, and only 43% had access to
adequate sewerage facilities. Although better than in Guayaquil, the levels of
service in Quito are also deficient: 80% of the population had access to water,
while only 65% had adequate sewage faAlities. Surveys done as part of project
preparation indicate that most urban centers have large deficits in paving,
street lighting, markets, slaughterhouses, etc. The garbage collection is also
inadequate in many areas due to the lack of good roads and equipment, and its
disposal is often most primitive. The municipal utilities have growing fiscal
deficits and a chronic lack of capacity to serve the expanding areas.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 1.1
Urban and Rural Population
(populatlon In thousands)
Annual Growth
Rates
1950     %        1962      %        1974     %         1982     %       50/74    74/82
TOTAL URBAN     914      28.5    1,612     86.0    2,699      41.4    3,988      49.2      4.6      4.9
quito         210     23.0       3SS     22.0       800     22.2      867      21.8      4.6      4.7
Guayaquil     259     28.3       611     81.7       823     30.6    1,199      30.2      4.9      4.8
Rest          446     48.7       747     46.3    1,276      47.3    1,903      47.9      4.6      6.1
TOTAL RURAL   2,289      71.6    2,864     64.0    3,823      68.6    4,092      60.8      2.2      0.9
TOTAL         3,203    100.0    4,476    100.0    6,622    100.0    8,081    100.0         3.0       2.7
Source: USAID, Marco Estrategico para el Desarrollo do una Estrategia Urbana en el Ecuador,
Washington D.C., Nathan Roberts Associates, February 1990.
Table 1.2
Urban Population by Region
(population in thousands)
1950     X        1962      x        1974     %         1982     X
Sierra      485.6      63.1    744.4     46.2  1,202.8      44.6  1,707.0      43.0
Costs       422.9     46.3    867.6      53.2  1,470.6      64.5  2,199.8      55.4
Oriente       5.6      0.6      10.4      0.6      23.0      0.9     57.8       1.6
Galapagos     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       2.4      0.1      4.5       0.1
URBAN       914.0    100.0  1,612.3    100.0  2,698.8    100.0  3,988.4    100.0
Source: See Table 1.1



ANNX 1
Page 3 of 4
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 1.8
Urban Populat.on by Siz- Groups of Municipalities
(population In thousands)
1974                        1982                         1987
Population   --------_---                 --------------------------   --------------- --  ___
size       No.    X    Pop.    %        No.    X    Pop.    X        No.    X    Pop.    X
More than
1,000,000        0   0.0       0  0.0         1  0.8  1,199 30.2          2   1.4  2,710  49.6
600,000
to
1,000,000        2   1.9  1,423  62.7         1  0.8    867 21.8           0  0.0       0  0.0
200,000
to
500,000         a   0.0       0  0.0         0  0.0        0  0.0         1  0.7    201   3.7
100,000
to
200,000         1   1.0    11I   4.1         6  4.9    458  11.6          8   6.8  1,028  18.8
60,000
to
100,000         7  6.7    457  18.9          6  4.9    458  11.5          6  a.6    380  7.0
10,000
to
50,000        23 21.9    448  18.5         35 28.5    678  17.0         43  31.2    840  15.4
Less than
10,000        72  68.6    282   9.7        74 60.2    310  7.8          79 57.2    308  5.6
TOTAL        105  100   2,899  100        123  100  3,968  100         138  100  5,485   100
Source: INEC



ANTEX 1
Page 4 of 4
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 1.4
Distribution of Municipalities by 13 Stratified Groups
No. of     Urban
Cities    Populat.
Stratified                                              Location    within   of Groups            Accumul.
Groups          Population            Region         in Region    Groups       1989        X        %
1       30,000    to   99,999       Sierra                            4     249,891       4.2    100.0
2        6,000    to   29,999       Sierra        Center-north       10      136,069      2.3     96.8
a          0      to    5,999       Sierra        Center-north       16       67,893      1.0     93.6
4        8,000    to   29,999       Sierra        Center-south        8      114,710      1.9     92.5
S          0      to    6,999       Sierra        Center-south       15       48,748      0.8     90.5
e       30,000    to.  100,000        Costa            -              6      251,868      4.3     89.7
7       16,000    to   30,000         Costa          Center           7      171,689      2.9     85.4
8          0      to   14,999         Costa       Center-north       10       90,136      1.6     82.6
9          0      to   14,999         Costa       Center-south       15      140,993      2.4     81.0
10       2,000    or    more        Orients            -             23      100,882      1.7     78.6
11       2,000    or    more        Nuevos             -             86     207,301       3.5     76.9
12      100,000   or    more     Whole Country         -             10   1,382,790      23.6     73.3
13                                   Quito             -              1   1,233,865      2i.0     49.8
13                                 Guayaquil           -              1   1,699,375      28.9     28.9
…-------------------------------------------------------  ----------__--------__---------------------------
TOTAL                         162   6,884,808    100.0
Table 1.6
Indicators of the Adequacies of Water and Sewage Systems
(Coverage of the basic necessities of the cities)
Drinking
Water      Sewage
City Population                (5)         (X)
1,000,000    or    more               72.3       69.6
100,000    to   1,000,000           60.9       38.2
60,000    to     100,000           83.7       38.1
26,000    to     50,000            86.4       16.9
10,000    to     25,000            42.3       20.0
5,000    to     10,000            33.7       11.1
less   than     6,000           30.0        11.9
Source: See Table 1.1



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Policy Letter and Matrix
Quito
Ref. No. SCP-90
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
As discussed in an initial letter to the Bank of December 21, 1988
and reiterated in discussions held with the Bank, the Government of Ecuador has
developed a consistent and systematic policy to resolve municipal sector problems
that are impeding efficient provision of urban services, especially to the lower
income groups. The attached Statement of Municipal Sector Policy describes the
far-reaching reforms that have been proposed and in most cases implemented.
Those few reforms that have not been implemented will be so during project
implementation.   The Policy Matrix summarizes these reforms, as well as the
very significant progress to date in implementing them.
There is a consensus on the sector's main problems, which have been
identified by the municipalities themselves. In brief, these are: (a) generally
insufficient and inadequate urban infrastructure services; (b) lack of managerial
skills and training in both the municipal governments and municipal enterprises;
(c) excessive financial dependence and growing centralism with regard to the
Central Government, the effect of which has been a weakening of the municipal
governments &rd their autonomy; (d) lack of continuity in municipal action and
instability of municipal jobs} (e) insufficient regional coordination; and
(f) lack of national coordination of the policies and priorities governing the
activities of the agencies involved in the ur an sector in general and the
municipal sector in particular.
With a view to resolving these problems, the Government has begun
action on various fronts, especially through programs overseen by Ecuador's
Development Bank  (BEDE)  and the National Secretariat  for Administrative
Development (Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Administrativo -- SENDA), with
the participation of the National Development Council (Consejo Nacional de
Desarrollo  --  CONADE),  National  Pre-investment  Fund  (Fondo  Nacional  de
Preinversion -- FONAPRE), Ecuadoran Association of Municipalities (Asociacion
de Municipalidades del Ecuador -- ANE) and assistance from the German agency GTZ.
In order to meet the many needs of the municipalities regarding investments, it



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
has been decided to establish a Project Committee within BEDE and chaired by it,
with representation of all pertinent agencies. The Committee will coordinate
the action taken by Central Government agencies in the urban sector in general
and the municipal sector in particular. This Committee will help cut the red tape
involved in municipal applications for credit and will coordinate the
Government's action in this regard.
Due to paternalistic and centralizing policies in Ecuador's public
sector, municipalities became increasingly dependent on transfers from the
Central Government, which financed both their current expenditures and
investments, disregarding local sources of revanue and the need to cover costs
by charging more adequate user fees. When the decline of petroleum revenues
resulted in the drop in these transfers, it became increasing difficult for the
Central Government to maintain the same levels of transfers, while municipal
revenues did not rise because of the increasing municipal dependency on the
transfers from the Central Government.   This caused a serious drop in the
capacity of municipalities to meet their responsibilities for supplying services
and infrastructure for which they are legally responsible.   Thus, although
changes in the international price of petroleum have important implications for
municipal finances and intergovernmental relations, these changes should not
distract from the main problem: the dependency of the municipalities on the
Central Government.
The reforms instituted under this project were predicated on
assumptions regarding oil revenues prevailing the late 19809 which were projected
to remain at essentially the same levels over the medium term. As a result of
the recent rapid increase in the international price of oil, the Central
Government has found it necessary to reevaluate the mechanisms by which these
oil revenues are allocated in the economy. With the intention of maintaining
the reforms and the spirit in which they were enacted, while at the same time
insuring macroeconomic stability, the government is developing stabilization
mechanisms which will insure total transfers to the local governments at levels
originally envisaged (i.e., those which would have prevailed if the price of oil
had remained at US$17 per barrel). Pending implementation of such mechanisms,
the 1990-1991 budget has been prepared on the basis of this latter oil price.
Future budgets will either incorporate the stabilization mechanisms or be
prepared with similar assumptions. Such mechanisms implemented should take into
account both increases and decreases in the international price of oil so as to
permit consistent budgetary policy under both conditions.
Through structural tariff reform that has already taken place,
ongoing customs reform and reform of the capital markets law in general, the
Central Government hopes to strengthen its financial position.  However, its
administrative obligations and those regarding investments in priority economic
and social (especially education, health and social welfare) programs are
growing, such that its financial support to the municipalities cannot continue
indefinitely. Consequently, the municipalities must now work towards achieving
financial autonomy, through a substantial improvement in administration of their
taxes and user charges under the proposed Municipal Development and Urban
Infrastructure Program.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
The  Government's  finance  policy,   .aerefore,  aims  to  reverse
dependence of local governments on the Central Government's coffers by
stimulating the generation of local resources, thereby also increasing municipal
autonomy. As part of this effort by the Government to strengthen local public
finances, the political, legal, institutional and financial changes will be
implemented to improve the efficiency of the municipalities in providing urban
infrastructure and upgrading the quality and quantity of their services,
especially for the urban poor.
The Government is also seeking to reduce the levels and scope of
grants from the Central Government, while concurrently ensuring more equitable
targeting of benefits to the poor, and also to make the budget and revenue
sharing processes more disciplined, transparent and predictable. Through the
reforms of the Local Government Development Law of May 1990, the Government has
taken the necessary measures to ensure that in the future the revenue sharing
funds reach the municipalities in response to well defined criteria in terms of
the population and real needs. Likewise, in the future all funds allocated to
local governments will be distributed essentially in accordance with those
criteria. Moreover, we understand that urban works must be financed through BEDE
operations, while other agencies tend to rural needs.
The Government of Ecuador is committed to a policy of municipal
strengthening, which it considers basic to sound municipal finances.   This
commitment is demonstrated by the fact that almost all of the major reforms have
already been implemented, thereby forming a very sound foundation for project
implementation.
Very truly yours,
Jorge Gallardo Zavalal
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
1Signed copy sent on November 21, 1990.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
STATEMENT OF MUNICIPAL SECTOR POLICY
The Government has embarked on a Municipal Development and Urban
Infrastructure Program, to be financed by US$212 million in external resources
provided by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the GTZ, in response to the need
for an effective solution to the financial crisis faced by Ecuador's
municipalities, which are highly dependent on fiscal transfers because they do
not generate sufficient resources themselves. This has meant that investments
by local governments are limited in volume and suffer from a lack of proper
planning.
The result has been a marked deficit in basic servicas and urban
infrastructure which, according to a study contracted by BEDE to the CEDATOS
consulting firm for this Program, represents an estimated SI. 324,201.7 million,
at the national level  distributed among the following sectors in millions of
November 1989 sucres:   potable water (76,116.7), sewerage (41,255.3), storm
drainage (27,245.8), solid waste collection and treatment (2,216.7), roads
(95,889.9), markets (13,552.2), slaughterhouses (8,474.7), cemeteries (9,210.0)
and green areas (50,240.4).
This Statement will analyze four basic points:
I. Brief assessment of the municipal situation;
II. Studies and training done in preparation for the policy reforms;
III. The Municipal Development and Urban Infrastructure Program; and
IV. Municipal policy changes under the Program;
I.          Brief Assessment of the Municipal Financial Situation
The capacity of Municipalities to provide urban services and
infrastructure is constrained by a shortage of both own-source tax revenue and
user charges.    Moreover,  because of their  institutional weaknesses,  the
municipalities are severely constrained in meeting their obligations to the
community.
Municipal investments are relatively modest in relation to canton
needs and the cost of the necessary works. In addition, the investments depend
on funding from Central Government transfers. Only in the larger and better
organized municipalities and those that have carried out large-scale projects
with BEDE assistance and loans from international agencies with the backing of
the Central Government are investing significant amounts.
Unquestionably, urban property taxes are the main source of revenue
that the municipalities can generate, but their collection does not correspond
to the needs, despite efforts to enforce existing regulations and legislation.
2     Free market exchange rate:  US$1 = S/.650.54.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
From an administrative standpoint, because most municipal salary
scales are the lowest in the public sector, the municipalities have difficulty
in hiring capable and competent technical personnel.
Regarding legal aspects, current legislation for certain municipal
taxes is entirely too cumbersome and lacks the necessary flexibility to avoid
an erosion of the limited resources.
The financial situation of the municipalities, according to data from
the Office of the Controller General for 1985-89, is as follows:
(a)   The municipalities depend heavily on funding from the Central
Government, which provided 53.2% of their total revenue during the
period in question.
(b)   Direct tax revenue for the municipalities represented 68.8% of their
total current expenditures during the same time.
(c)   The current expenditures of municipalities represented 47.6% of total
revenue for the period.   Investments accounted for only 40.5% of
total expenditures.
(d)   The debt service of municipalities, which represents 9.7% of total
expenditures, grew annually on average by 17.6%, rising from
s/. 2,482.1 million in 1985 to S/. 4,750.1 million in 1989.
In summary, the financial crisis faced by Ecuador's municipalities and municipal
enterprises cannot be resolved without an increase in their revenue from local
taxes and user charges to finance all of their current expenditures, thereby free
up more resources for investment and decreasing their financial dependence on
the Central Government.
II.         Studies and Training Done in Preparation for the Policy Reforms
BEDE has taken various actions to promote the development of
municipal governments. It has contracted administrative, technical, planning
and financial studies, carried out by Ecuadoran experts, such as the study on
the "Socioeconomic and Financial Situation of the Municipalities of Ecuador" by
economist Jaime Moncayo.   Others were done by university professors contracted
by USAID.   H. Petrei did an in-depth study of transfers to sub-national
governments.
Other entities such as CONADE, FONAPRE and AME have carried out
studies on the municipal situation and proposed changes in legislation with a
view to improving the financial solvency of the municipalities. They have sought
to coordinate the action of local governments within the framework of national
planning.
Preparatory work for the Municipal Development and Urban
Infrastructure Program has been as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
With a view to improving the financial situation of the
municipalities, the National Government, assisted by GTZ, prepared a study
entitled "A Proposal for the Municipal Future," which analyzes the need to
coordinate the action by the agencies of the Central Government that are involved
in the activities of the municipalities.   The intent is to make inter-
institutional cooperation more effective and cumbersome so that it does not bog
down municipal actions.
In the area of legal, administrative and procedural reforms, GTZ
carried out a study on legal reforms regarding the procedures for municipal
projects and the ability of the municipal governments and municipal enterprises
to recover the investment, administrative and maintenance costs of the projects
through higher taxes.
GTZ also submitted a study on "Policies and Strategies to Improve
Municipal  Finances"  and  "Some  Basic  Notions  for  Municipal  Financial
Restructuring."   It also held an inter-institutional seminar at which the
consultants presented the results, conclusions and recommendations for that
study.
To upgrade the skills of municipal employees, training courses were
given under the direction of BEDE, AME/INFODEM (National Institute of Municipal
Support and Development), CONADE and the Office of the Controller General on
budgeting, cadastres and project appraisal, as well as other topics.
III.        The Municipal Development and Urban Infrastructure Program
The Municipal Development Program to be carried out under the
IDB/IBRD credit inc;.udes the financial rehabilitation of the municipalities in
order to give them financial autonomy with regard to the Central Government and
greater managerial capacity, in addition to financing to meet basic
infrastructure needs.
The program includes the following components that can be financed
by IDB and IBRD:
1.    Investments   in   infrastructure,   including  construction   and
rehabilitation (e.g., water, sewerage and storm drainage, road
maintenance, solid waste collection and treatment, markets,
slaughterhouses, and green areas);
2.    Pre-investment studies;
3.    Technical assistance/institution building and training;
4.    Provision of equipment for BEDE, FONAPRE, AME and the municipalities;
5.    Supervision;
6.    Audits.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
The Municipal Development Program, which BEDE will launch in 1990,
will make it possible to make adjustments in the municipal sector, through the
adoption of specific administrative, financial/accounting, legal and technical
measures,  as detailed below.   The measures will aim at achieving fiscal
discipline, by establishing the bases for faster growth and better living
conditions. To that end, municipal finances will have to be bolstered, so that
the curtailment in government transfers does not affect the availability of
resources for the productive sectors.
The improvement in the financial situation will occur in tandem with
institution building for the municipalities, through training and technical
assistance.
Direct training of sector personnel will be overseen by the National
Secretariat for Administrative Development and cover the following areas:
Management and planning
Budget administration
Financial management
Project identification, preparation and appraisal
Computerization of information.
Technical assistance related to the implementation of investment projects will
be provided by BEDE.
Initially, projects in 9 different sectors in medium and small
municipalities throughout the country will be carried out, along with projects
in Quito. It is expected that in the coming years, while the Program is active,
projects will be carried out in all municipalities of the country. This will
require constant generation of projects by the agencies that conduct pre-
investment studies. Nevertheless, other results are expected to emanate from
the Program since it aims at a sweeping transformation of the municipalities.
IV.         Municipal Policy Changes Under the Program
With the Municipal Development Program, the Government is undertaking
to make policy changes in urban development, municipal finance and municipal
administration.
The urban development policies seek to ensure that investment
programming is consistent with the available financial resources and urban
planning, such that urban growth, land use, provision of services, equipment and
distribution of population is done in accordance with a planning system.
Municipal finance policies govern the handling of the funds of local
governments and consequently budget programming and execution, as well as the
sources of the funds and taxation systems.  These policies aim at improving
financial management via mechanisms for assessing, optimizing and financing
municipal investments.



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 12
Municipal administration policies seek to improve administration so
that it satisfies the needs of the municipality. They will be directed towards
the establishment of mechanisms that result in effective and efficient planning,
organization and administration.
The policy changes will in some instances require legal,
administrative and procedural reforms.
Institutional changes
The entities that provide technical and financial support will make
institutional changes that will affect project appraisal and execution and the
administrative and other procedures needed for the implementation of the
Municipal Development Program.
BEDE has changed its organizational structure in the technical area
for project environmental, socioeconomic, financial and technical appraisal.
The national/local transfer system was totally revised by the Local
Government Development Law (LGDL) of May 1990 to make It more equitable,
transparent and predictable. The LGDL also established the Municipal Investment
Fund that will partly cover the gap between the payment capacity of the
population served by each project and the funds needed for full recovery of the
costs of operation, maintenance and investment, as well as provide added
incentives for local fiscal effort. This Fund will be administered by BEDE under
agreement with the Ministry of Finance.
Due to paternalistic and centralizing policies in Ecuador's public
sector, municipalities became increasingly dependent on transfers from the
central Government, which financed both their current expenditures and
investments, disregarding local sources of revenue and the need to cover costs
by charging more adequate user fees. When the decline of petroleum revenues
resulted in the drop in these transfers, it became increasing difficult for the
Central Government to maintain the same levels of transfers, while municipal
revenues did not rise because of the increasing municipal dependency on the
transfers from the Central Government.   This caused a serious drop in the
capacity of municipalities to meet their responsibilities for supplying services
and infrastructure for which they are legally responsible.   Thus, although
changes in the international price of petroleum have important implications for
municipal finances and intergovernmental relations, these changes should not
distract from the main problem: the dependency of the municipalities on the
Central Government.
Ths reforms instituted under this project were predicated on
assumptions regarding oil revenues prevailing the late 19808 which were projected
to remain at essentially the same levels over the medium term. As a result of
the recent rapid increase in the international price of oil, the Central
Government has found it necessary to reevaluate the mechanisms by which these
oil revenues are allocated in the economy. With the intention of maintaining



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 12
the reforms and the spirit in which they were enacted, while at the same time
insuring macroeconomic stability, the government is developing stabilization
mechanisms which will insure total transfers to the local governments at levels
originally envisaged (i.e., those which would have prevailed if the price of oil
had remained at US$17 per barrel). Pending implementation of such mechaniems,
tts 1990-1991 budget has been prepared on the basis of this latter oil price.
Future budgets will either incorporate the stabilization mechanisms or be
prepared with similar assumptions. Such mechanisms implemented should take into
account both increases and decreases in the international price of oil so as to
permit consistent budgetary policy under both conditions.
The municipalities will establish a personnel and administrative
career policy.  They will have to standardize the procedures and regulations
governing the hiring and retaining of municipal employees and workers. The local
entities will have to issue their own regulations through ordinances and take
steps towards adopting a comprehensive personnel policy that governs recruitment,
appointments, career growth and promotions and compensation, including the
employee benefits required by law.
Financial Changes
The changes in the financial conditions governing the loans to be
extended by BEDE using the IDB/IBRD funds will affect interest rates and loan
terms, which will follow the interest rate policy agreed with the Bank for
adjustable preferential rates until mid-1992, when the latter will no longer be
subsidized.
Moreover, as in some projects the beneficiaries will not be able to
afford the costs of the investments, grants will be made available.  As the
amount of the grant will be based on the project appraisal by BEDE, the grants
will be transparent, direct and based on the payment capacity of the project
beneficiaries.
With a view to increasing the revenue of the municipalities, tax
revenues and those from user charges for public services and special betterment
levies must be increased. The main source of tax revenue for the municipalities
is or should be the urban property tax, which is at present neither determined
on a technical basis nor properly administered. The necessary improvements would
include an urgent updating of cadastres and assessments using modern technical
procedures, which would also make it possible to increase tax revenue through
the special betterment levy, since the beneficiaries of the municipal investments
would be identified. Tariffs should be set high enough to cover the costs of
operation and maintenance, as well as investment. The same objective is sought
with the rates charged for other municipal services, which do not cover the costs
of investment, operation, maintenance or replacement of infrastructure. The LGDL
of May 1990 amends the Municipal Law to permit full cost recovery for water and
sewer systems.
A more technical approach to budget preparation and execution, as
well as computerization of accounting, cash-flow and internal control systems,



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 12
would improve municipal finances in general.
Legal, Administrative and Procedural Changes
The measures to be adopted in this regard will follow from the
diagnostic study being carried out by GTZ on the legal regulations governing the
municipal sector and the proposed legal reforms prepared by BEDE to simplify and
streamline the procedures for granting and formalizing the loans under the
Program. In addition, the necessary mechanisms will be eought to ensure that
inter-institutional cooperation is more effective and less encumbered, through
the establishment, by means of an executive decree, of a Project Committee
composed of all entities involved by law in municipal projects. The Committee
will be responsible for coordination and decision miking regarding project
eligibility, development, approval and execution.
The administrative and procedural changes will be aimed at cutting
red tape for all entities involved in the Program.
Technical Assistance and Training
The training programs will be designed to help resolve the sector's
technical and administrative problems. Training will take the form of courses,
seminars and overseas trips.   Training activities will be based on the
institutional diagnostic study and technical assistance that will be provided
to the municipalities in the form of institution building and specific needs
studies.
The training activities will be coordinated by SENDA and be carried
out by AME in the following fields:
Administrative:  Administration of human resources; institutLonal
planning and administration of public services;
Financial:   Financial and budget administration; policies and
strategies to improve municipal finances; taxation and tax control
and government accounting;
-     Technical: Project preparation; technical, environmental, financial
and economic appraisal of projects; updating of urban cadastres;
formulation of municipal ordinances; works monitoring and inspection;
direct advisory assistance in local planning; specific advisory
assistance for projects.
BEDE will be responsible for technical assistance, which will aim
at  resolving  specific  problems  in  the  identification,  appraisal  and
implementation of projects under the Program, as well as institution building
for the municipalities, through recommendations to improve their organizational
and functional structure and their administrative, financial and accounting
procedures and regulations.



REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
Proposed Municipal Develoranent Programs
Matrix of MuniciPal Sector Policies, Problems and Ptanred Actions I/
SECTORAL POLICIES                     ACTIONS ALREADY IMPLEMENTED           ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED            VERIFICATION INDICATORS
OR BEING IMPLEMENTED                 AND DATE OF IMPLEMENTATION 2/
Increase management skills and       ANE/INFODEM courses and GTZ            GTZ technical assistance and         Sufficient municipal staff
training for municipal                technical assistance                  AME courses during life of the        adequately traired
govermments and omuicipal                                                   project, Municipalities with
enterprises                                                                 projects for the first year of
execution of project fully
trained before septemrber 1990
and 20-30 more during each
year of project execution
Decrease municipal dependence         Ministry of Finance and Public        Submit draft reform of                Law promulgated and being
on the Central Government for         Credit study                          Coparticipation Law to               implemented
funding                                                                     Congress; adopted May 1990.
Adninistrative by-laws prior
to effectiveness
Convert subsidies received by         Ministry of Finance and Public        Estaos .shment (with opirating        Law promulgated and being
the municipalities from the           Credit study                          bylaws) of the Municipal              implemented, municipalities
Goverment (especially throurh                                               Investment Fund to be managed         have funds to make investments
interest rates) into subsidies                                              by BEDE (with bylaws).                to give the poor access to
clearly targeted for the poor                                               Established in May 1990.              mnicipal services
and which are transparent,                                                  Administrative by-laws prior
predictable and gradually                                                   to effectiveness
tapered off
Facilitate the retention and          Promotion of discussions and          Implement Article 64, No. 40          Municipalities have their own
development of municipal              adoption of mechanisms                of the Law on Municipalities          standards for administrative
persorviel                            enabling the municipalities to        on a restricted basis, six            career development
issue ordinances (SENDA, DNP,        months after loan
AME and BEDE)                         effectiveness
Set sectoral priorities and           Preparation of "A Proposal for        Establish a loan conmmittee           Presidential Decree published,
policies and coordinate               the Municipal Future" study           within BEDE at the highest            Comittee operating
Central Goverrunent agencies                                                level to coordinate the action
involved in the sector                                                      of various agencies. Prior to
loan effectiveness                                                               >
0D >
0



Step up of municipal projects,         Study of legal reforms (GTZ)            Adninistrative changes adopted          New regulations in force; less
reducing red tape and delays                                                   in June 1990                           than one year from project
identification to final
contract
Allow municipalities and                                                       Submit draft reform of Law on           Law promulgated,
municipal enterprises to                                                       Municipalities. Adopted as of           Acdninistrative by-laws
recover investment, management                                                 May 1990                               prepared.
and maintenance costs for
municipal services
Permit full municipal control          Studies on legal regulations            Draft reform of Law on                  Law promulgated Administrative
of regulations governing                (GTZ)                                  Municipalities and Procedures           by-laws.
municipal rates, tariffs and                                                   for municipal budgeting and
taxes.                                                                         incentives to increase
municipal revenue, Law
promulgated May 1990
Streamlined and transparent            GTZ study                               Draft reform of Competitive             Law promulgated
competitive bidding procedures                                                 Bidding Laws for works and
acceptable to IDB/IBRD                                                         consultants sent to Congress
New design of cadastre systems         GTZ study                               BEDE shcould revise cadastre           Manual ready and approved
and assessment manuals for:                                                    manual prior to loan
effectiveness
(a)  application of property           GTZ study, basic guidelines             Reform of tax administration           Refom promulgated
taxes
(b)  recovery of investments           GTZ study, basic guidelines.            As in (a)                              Reform  promulgated
via betterment rates;
have nationwide
regulations
Maintain updated cadastres             GTZ study, basic guidelines             As in (a)                               Reform promulgated
through coordination of notary
and property records
1/ This matrix was developed before appraisal and up-dated to reflect reforms adopted as of July 1990, and also dates of implementation,
but does not reflect all of the conditions of the loan.
2/ Includes actions taken after appraisal.
19
0
X X~
I-M



ANNEX 3
-age 1 of 10
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Reform of the Transfer System
1.          This annex will discuss the transfer systems before and after the
far-reaching reforms undertaken during project preparation.
Transfers from the Central Government Before the Reforms3
2.          Before the reforms, municipalities received funds from the Central
Government through a number of different channels, including:   the National
Revenue-Sharing Fund (FONAPAR), which was the most important; earmarked oil
revenues; the budgetary allocations of the Central Government; and a percentage
of the tax on telephone calls. FONAPAR's share of transfers rose from 45 percent
of the total  in  1981 to 57 percent  in 1988.   See Tables  3.1 to 3.3.
Notwithstanding this, FONAPAR transfers fell from 0.8 percent of GDP to 0.5
percent between 1983 and 1988, as a result of the sharp decline in its own
petroleum income. This occurred despite a strong increase in the proportion of
FONAPAR's transfers going to municipalities. The municipalities received a fixed
amount of 2.1 billion sucres from oil revenues4 but inflation had by 1987 reduced
the real value of this allocation to only 30 percent of the 1982 level. Oil
revenues nonetheless remain extremely important for smaller municipalities, which
receive per capita allocations in some cases in excess of 50 times those received
by the largest municipalities. Transfers from the central government budget
have risen erratically from 5 percent of the total to 13 percent over 1981-
1988.
3.          FONAPAR.  Sources of FONAPAR's revenues are listed and described in
Annex 4. FONAPAR's transfers to municipalities flowed through two channels:
automatic revenue sharing and designated investment funds. In 1988, automatic
revenue sharing accounted for two-thirds of total transfers by FONAPAR. There
were,  however,  extremely  wide  variations  in  the  shares  received  by
municipalities. Smaller municipalities received bigger per capita grants than
the larger municipalities through both channels.   The amounts received by
municipalities from automatic revenue sharing were related to the amounts of the
taxes that were replaced by FONAPAR that were being collected at the time FONAPAR
3     In general, this section is a summary of the chapter on "Local Governments"
from: World Bank, Ecuador: Public Sector Finances, op. cit.
4     Thirty percent of oil revenue transfers from the tax on refined petroleum
product price increases is distributed equally among the 28 municipalities
in Oriente and Galapagos provinces and 70 percent equally among the rest
of the municipalities in the country. Municipalities in the province of
Esmeraldas share about 100 million sucres in oil royalties.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10
was established. The shares going to each municipality from autometic revenue
sharing have subsequently been adjusted for inflation, to pay for salary
increases often granted at the national level, and on a case-by-case basis.
Investment transfers were determined by the Ministry of Finance loosely based
on population, territory and needs. They were disbursed by the Ministry against
documents verifying use of the funds for previously approved productive
investment projects.  Not all municipalities availed themselves fully of the
investment funds available through FONAPAR, perhaps because of the very time
consuming red tape involved in obtaining them. In 1982, investment transfers
were 80 percent higher than automatic revenue sharing, but in 1987 the amount
transferred via automatic revenue sharing was 20 percent higher than that from
investment transfers.
4.          FONAPAR investment transfers were done based on criteria that were
neither transparent nor predictable. Furthermore, because of central government
delays in informing local governments about their allocations, the latter had
difficulties in preparing their budgets.  Laborious procedures for obtaining
payments for investments, which were similar to those applicable to contractors
to the central government, caused exceedingly long delays in executing local
government investment plans.   The separation of investment transfers from
automatic revenue sharing was intended to encourage municipalities to strengthen
their own investment efforts, but there was scant evidence that it had been
successful. Intervention by the Ministry of Finance and CONADE helped to improve
the investment selection process by requiring the preparation of project studies
incorporating cost-benefit calculations.   However,  CONADE, while nominally
approving municipal budgets and investments and assuring their compatibility with
sector development targets, does not explicitly rule on municipal projects.
5.          Other Transfers.  Although FONAPAR was originally established to be
the only conduit for central government transfers to municipalities, other
channels accounted for over 40 percent of such transfers in 1988.  Petroleum
revenues, fixed in nominal sucre terms, were eroded by inflation from 36 to 8
percent of total transfers to municipalities from 1982 to 1988.   However,
budgetary and other transfers had grown in importance before the reform. Two
percent of nonearmarked current revenues of the Central Government were set aside
for the provincial capitals: 25 percent each to Quito and Guayaquil and the
remaining 50 percent equally among the remaining provincial capitals. General
budgetary transfers follow no set rules: the executive branch determines their
distribution.   Other transfers made by centralized agencies in the form of
conditional subsidies represented 15 percent of total transfers from 1982-1987.
While assisting the municipalities, they hampered the decentralization of
municipal expenditure decisions. In addition to explicit budgetary transfers,
municipalities benefit from Ministry of Public Works projects.
6.          Transfers and Poverty. Despite the fact that smaller municipalities
tended to be favored by the previous transfer system, there was little
discernible correlation between such transfers and the incidence of poverty.
Chart 3.1 plots per capita transfers under the present system in 1988 for a
sample of 83 municipalities against per capita transfers done on the basis of



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 10
an index of poverty.5  There is very little correlation between the actual per
capita transfers and those made using the poverty indicator.  Chart 3.1 also
shows the per capita distribution based only on population as a line slopping
upward. This chart shows that many municipalities received much more than they
would have received if the transfers had been done based solely on population.
The new revenue sharing system will be based on indices of population, poverty
and fiscal effort, albeit defined using different indicators.
7.          So then, the process for determining the amount and distribution of
central government transfers to the municipalities had become fragmented,
arbitrary, non-transparent, and unpredictable, before the adoption of the recent
reforms. Furthermore, it did not adequately address the alleviation of poverty.
Transfers should be made on the basis of well-defined criteria that impart
greater stability and predictability to the transfer process and encourage
municipalities to make greater efforts to raise revenues themselves, as is the
case under the new law.
Reform of the Transfer System
8.          In accord with the agreements defined in the Policy Letter (See Annex
2), Congress passed legislation reforming the whole national/local government
transfer system in Nay 1990.6  Under this law, FODESEC (Fondo de Desarrollo
Seccional) replaces FONAPAR and will receive the following resources:  (a) 2
percent of the total non-earmarked resources of the National Budget to be
distributed directly to the provincial capitals; (b) all of the revenues
previously assigned to FONAPAR; (c) 3 billion sucres per year from the oil export
revenues (to be adjusted annually beginning in 1991 using the consumer price
index); and (d) future budget allocations from the National Budget. All of these
resources will be deposited directly into FODESEC's account in the Central Bank
for future distribution to the local governments.   In all, the total amount to
be distributed annually via FODESEC should exceed US$87 million.
9.          The 2 percent of the non-earmarked National Budget going to the
provincial capitals will be distributed as follows: (a) Quito and Guayaquil will
receive 25 percent each, and (b) the remaining 50 percent will be divided equally
among the rest of the provincial capitals. The remaining amount of FODESEC (see
(b), (c) and (d) in para. 8) will be distributed, first, between provinces and
municipalities   and then among the entities of each of these three groups.
Panel A of Chart 3.2 shows the criteria used in the first stage of the
5     Details regarding the construction of the poverty index and the simulation
of transfers under a revised system are described in para. 12 of this
annex.
6     Ecuador, Congresso Nacional, LEY DE DESARROLLO SECCIONAL Y DE REFORMAS A
LAS LEYES DE REGIMEN MUNICIPAL, REGIMEN TRIBUTARIO INTERNO, ARANCELARIA,
ORGANICA DE ADMINISTRACION FINAWCIERA Y DE CONTROL TRIBUTARIO Y FINANCIERO,
May 8, 1990.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
distribution:
(a) 20 percent to the Provincial Councils and the Instituto Nacional
Galapagos (hereafter, the provinces);
(b) 75 percent to the municipalities; and
(c)  5 percent for the Emergency Reserve Account.
10.         The 75 percent going to the municipalities will be divided into two
portions:   60 percent for automatic distribution and 40 percent  for the
Investment Fund.  As panel B of Chart 3.2 demonstrates, the following three
criteria will be used in automatic distribution: (a) 60 percent by population;
(b) 30 percent by poverty; and (c) 10 percent by fiscal effort in relation to
total capacity to pay.7 Following IMF guidelines, these resources should be
considered to be municipal revenues because they are automatically set aside
for municipalities.'   The Investment Fund will be the primary source of
counterpart funds of municipal governments for the proposed IBRD/IDB project.
11.         Chart 3.3 summarizes all of the distribution criteria and shows the
total projected amount to be distributed under each criteria in 1991.
Indices for Distribution in Automatic Revenue Sharing
12.         The indices used in the distribution of total transfers in Chart 3.1
are from Petrei's report and are operationally defined as follows:9
Population.--The population distribution criteria is the percent of the
total population in Ecuador living in the municipality in 1988, as
projected by INEC.
Poverty.--This is the inverse of a composite "index of development" that
is calculated using the following four indicators from the 1982 Demographic
Census done by INEC:10
7     The 20 percent going to the provinces will be distributed as follows: 60%
by population; 20% by geographical area; and 20% by poverty.
8     "It may be useful to attribute tax revenues to noncollecting beneficiary
governments . . . when under provisions of the tax law they automatically
receive a given percentage of the tax collected."   IMF, A Manual on
Government Finance Statistics, Washington, D.C., 1986, p. 53.
9     A. Humberto Petrei, ECUADOR:  TRANSFERENCIAS DEL GOBIERNO CENTRAL A LOS
GOBIERNOS SECCIONALES, Quito, Gobierno de Ecuador, Noviembre de 1989.
10    ibid., "Indice de Desarrollo" in Petrei's Report (last column of Cuadro
C.1 in Annex C).



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
Education: Average years of schooling.
Watert Percent of households connected to the public water system.
Electricity: Percent of households with electricity.
Housings Percent of units constructed of durable materials and not
crowded.
Each of these four variables is divided by the corresponding average or
percentage for the country as a whole, so that each indicator shows the percent
that a given municipality is above or below the nation as whole with regard to
each indicator. The "Development Index" is the simple average of these four
variables. The Unstandardized Poverty Index is calculated by multiplying the
inverse of the Development Index by percent population in the municipalities.
The Unstandardized Poverty Index (which is population weighted by poverty) was
then standardized so that it sums to one, by dividing the unstandardized
indicator for each local government by its sum for all local governments. This
standardized poverty index was then multiplied by the total amount to be
transferred in 1988 to arrive at the per capita estimates used in Chart 3.1.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND UP.BAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Chart 3.1
ACTUAL PER CAPITA TRANSFERS IN 1988
AND BY POVERTY AND POPULATION
PER CAAITA TOTAL TRANSFER (USS)
25
20
4.~~~~
15. 
10        *r#ts                                     44.*";   v
O
3           t            7            8           1t
PER CAPITA TRANSFER BY POVERTY
ACTUAL 1988   4 BY POPULATION



AM=lZ 3
Page 7 of 10
ECUADOR
KIUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Chart 3.2
A. Primary Distribution of FODESEC
100% 1
Amjn to iee
B. Distribution to Municipalities
20%~~~~~~0
{  Automatic  |                             tnvos(menm Funatc
050%    1      30S            10%
by POVulation   by OV Pt oty bP  F      bScAr Ebf    P rt
a/ UP-front subsZide-s to poor families
C. Distribution to Provinces
20% 
Provlnces 
(Automatic)|
60%             20%             20% 
by Population      by Area        by poverty 



ECUADOR
MWNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Chart 3.3
Distribution of FODESEC Funds
TOTAL AMOUNT
OVERALL             First Criteria           Second Criteria           Third Criteria            Fourth Criteria         Allocated by Each
Criteris in 1991
US  millions
19X of FODESEC (a)                                                                                                           07.5
Provinclal Capitals                                                                                     34.3
(21 of non-armarked
National Budget)
All Municipalities                                                                                      53.0
and Provincos
20X Provincial Council--I                                                      10.8
169X by population                                     6.4
120  by total area                                     2.1 -
120X by poverty                                        2.1
76X Municipalities   ---l                                                      39.0
J69X Automatic Rovenue---l                            23.9
Sharing              1651 by population          14.3
I  39  by poverty            7.2
119X fiscal effort           2.4
I               ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
149X Investmnt Fund  ---I                             16.9
I                        IDastribution during
I                        lFirst Year
I                        110X On-lending BEDE          1.6
140X Subsidies to            6.4          el'
I                        hlow-incom  familios
I                        160X Matching grants          80.'3 
___I               ___--I                                        o
65  Emergency Fund                                                              2.7
Note: Estimate done for 1991 with data from: Burkhard von Rubonou, BEDEPRO: BEDE PROJECTION MODEL, Columbus Ohio, 193.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 3.1
Ecuador: Composition of Municipal Revenues: 1982-1988 (a)
USS Millions of December 1989
1982     1983    1984     1986     1988     1987      1988
Total Revenues (A+B+C)             213.6   189.7   169.9   183.2   179.6   170.8    148.5
Current Revenues (A+B)             198.3   186.0   167.0   180.6   177.1   168.3   148.2
A. Own Source                       63.8    61.1    61.3    61.6        60.7    81.1    66.9
Tax                            34.7    33.9    42.5    46.0    43.1    43.3    45.6
Tariffs                         4.6      4.3      6.6      5.0      6.4      7.7      4.2
Other user charges             14.5    12.9    13.2    11.6    12.2    10.1           6.1
B. Transfers                       144.6   113.9    95.7   119.0   116.4   107.3    90.2
FONAPAR automatic              16.1    28.1    20.8    27.3    36.2    31.6    28.9
FONAPAR investment             29.2    28.0    22.4    25.9    21.3    26.4    17.8
Petroleum money                42.6    27.9    23.0    16.9    12.8    10.3           7.3
Other Transfers                31.8    39.8    29.6    49.0    47.1    39.0    38.2
C. Capital Revenues                 16.1      4.7      2.9      2.6      2.4      2.3      2.3
Source: A. Humberto Petrei, ECUADOR: TRANSFERENCIAS DEL COBIERNO CENTRAL A LOS GOBIERNOS
SECCIONALES, Report prepared for the Government of Ecuador, October 1989.
Note:(a) Expanded sample of municipalities
(b) Calculated as described on the cover page.
Table 3.2
Ecuador: Composition of Municipal Revenues: 1982-1988 (a)
S OF GOP
1982     1983    1984     1985     1986     1987      1988
Total Revenues (A+b+C)              2.48     2.28     1.94     2.08     2.02     1.90     1.52
Current Revenues (A+B)              2.42     2.21     1.91     2.06     1.99     1.87     1.49
A. Own                              0.86     0.69    0.74      0.70    0.88      0.88     0.57
Tax                            0.42     0.48     0.62     0.61     0.48     0.48     0.47
Tariffs                        0.08     0.06     0.07     0.06     0.06     0.09    0.04
Other user charges             0.18     0.17     0.16     0.13     0.14     0.11     0.06
B. Transfers                        1.76     1.53    1.16      1.35     1.31     1.19     0.92
FONAPAR automatic              0.20     0.38     0.26     0.31     0.40     0.36     0.28
FONAPAR investment             0.36     0.38     0.27     0.29     0.24     0.29     0.18
Petroleum money                0.52     0.37     0.28     0.19     0.14     0.12     0.07
Other Transfers                0.40     0.40    0.30      0.50     0.50     0.40     0.40
C. Capital Revenues                 0.06     0.06     0.04     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.02
Source: See Table 3.1.
Note: (a) Expanded Sample of Municipalities.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 3.3
Ecuador: Composition of Municipal Revenues: 1982-1988 (a)
X of Total Revenue
1982     1983     1984      1986     1988      1987      1988
Total Revenues (A+B+C)               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Current Revenues (A+B)                97.0     97.2     98.2      98.6     98.7      98.7      98.4
A. Own Sources                        30.1     30.1     38.3      83.6     33.8      36.8      37.7
Tax                             19.4      20.0     268.      24.6     24.0      26.4     30.7
Tariffs                          2.6       2.5      3.5       2.7      3.0       4.6      2.8
Other user charges               8.1       7.8      8.3       6.3      8.8       6.9      4.1
S. Transfers                          68.9     67.1     59.8      65.0     64.8      82.9      60.8
FONAPAR automatic                9.0      18.3     13.0      14.9     19.6      18.4     18.1
FONAPAR Investment              16.3      16.5     14.0      14.1     11.9      156.     12.0
Petroleum money                 23.8      16.5     14.4       9.2      7.1       8.1      4.9
Other Transfers                 17.8      17.5     18.4      28.7     26.2      22.9     25.7
C. Capital Revenues                    3.0      2.8       1.8      1.4       1.3      1.3       1.8
Gross Domestic Product                 4.8      4.4       5.2      4.8      6.0       5.3       8.6
Source: See Table 3.1.
Note. (a) Expanded sample of municipalities



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 17
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
BEDEs: Financial Statements and Projections
1.          BEDE was formed in 1976 (Decreto Supremo No. 774 of 9/30/1976)  and
is regulated by v-he Superintendencia de Bancos. Although there are provisions
for private ownerahip in its charter, BEDE is 100% owned by the Government. Its
main objectives are to: finance projects, civil works and services of the public
sector including local governments; and act as financial agent for the public
sector.
Financial Performance and Position
2.          BEDE's balance sheet and income statement for 1986-89 in 1989 dollars
(see Tables 4.1 and 4.2) show the negative impact of its fixed interest rate
policy in the face of inflation rates ranging from 27% in 1986 to 86% in 1988.
The real value of the loan portfolio dropped at an annual rate of 39.3% during
this period. Net real earnings plummeted at an annual rate of 42.1%. During
this period, BEDE's most important asset was its loan portfolio (62% in 1986,
and 85% in 1989). BEDE is essentially a "transfer bank" and borrows very little.
Although BEDE has issued bonds, they have been purchased by the Government at
fixed and highly negative interest rates.   Thus, these bonds are more like
transfers  from the Government  to  BEDE than borrowing.    In this  highly
inflationary environment, real interest income dropped from US$148.6 million in
1986 to only US$18.5 million in 1989.  BEDE's net worth dropped from US$1.4
billion in 1986 to only US$134 million in 1989 for two main reasons:   (a) the
drop in net earnings due to the precipitous drop in real interest; and (b)
decline in capital transfers from oil due to the drop in the international price
of oil and the 1987 earthquake, which significantly disrupted oil production in
Ecuador.
3.          BEDE has virtually no arrears in its loan portfolio.  Almost 72% of
this portfolio as of December 1989 was to the Central Government and the rest
to local governments. Loans to local governments are guaranteed by their revenue
sharing funds.   In other words,  if the local governments don't pay, the
Government just deducts the amount owed from their revenue sharing funds.
4.           Given that it is a transfer bank, many of the indicators normally
used to analyze commercial banks and other lending institutions are not
pertinent. For example, BEDE's debt/equity ratio was 1:11 in 1986 versus an
average of 9:1 for private commercial banks in Ecuador and most other Latin
American countries. Due to the transfers from the Government, BEDE has not had
to borrow funds, and, therefore, has virtually no liabilities. Bonds issued it
1987 and 1988 to the Central Bank are expected to be repaid by 1993.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 17
Financial Projections
5.          BEDE is now redesigning its lending policies, switching from fixed
interest loans at below market rates to loans with adjustable rates which will
eventually reach commercial levels, as well as streamlining its procedures to
substantially reduce diebursements lags.
6.          BEDE's Projection Model (BEDEPRO) is designed to evaluate alternative
development scenarios to assist bank management with a projection horizon of 15
years. It is a Lotus based set of tables that includes all major BEDE accounts
as well as information on the economic snvironment in which BEDE operates.
Specifically, the main components of the framework aret
(1)   Economic Environment:  Indicators on BEDE's economic environment
lncluding assumptions with regard to inflation, economic growth,
financial conditions, government growth, and petroleum production
and consumption.  These assumptions are then used to project the
government budget, revenue sharing funds, BEDE capital assistance,
and BEDE interest rates.
(2)   Resource Mobilizationt  Projections of BEDS's sources of funds,
including bonds, international and domestic loans, government
transfers, and amortization of BEDE loans.
(3)   BEDE Lending:   Targets for lending operations for the IBRD-IDB
municipal program and BEDE's regular lending program. The targets
are set in terms of loan approvals and are translated into
disbursements through lag functions that reflect BEDE implementation
capacity. The model then tracks outstanding debt, disbureements,
repayments, and other loan accounts by credit line and aggregates
them to their relevant account totals.
(4)   BEDE Operation and Administration:   Estimation of BEDE's total
operating cost as a function of its cost structure (fixed and
variable cost by activity type), and based on assumptions about the
rigidity in BEDE's response to excess capacity.
(5)   Financial Accounts and Indicators:  Summary of BEDE accounts.
7.          Results from the Base Case.  The base case projections (see Tables
4.3 to 4.4) show how BEDE's future will evolve as a result of three main changess
(a) the IBRD-IDB loan which will give BEDE experience in financial
intermediation, that is, in borrowing resources at a cost to re-lend; (b)
recapitalization of BEDE through government assistance; and (c) revision in
BEDE's interest policies. A description of the main assumptions used for the
base case appears in the following section.
8.          The base case suggests that these policies will be very effective,
so effective in fact that it is unlikely that BEDE will need to borrow again for
the foreseeable future. Current government intent (written into various laws



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 17
and agreements) is to raise BEDE capital assistance by a factor of more than six
(in constant prices) in a period of two years. Hence, capital assistance from
all sources wlll rise from US$5.6 million in 1989 to US$25.6 million in 1990,
and will stabilize at a level of US$37.4 million starting in 1991 (all in
constant 1989 prices).
9.          The rise in capital assistance, coupled with the IBRD-IDB loan and
changes in BEDE's interest policies, allow BEDE to grow at a rapid rate. The
base case suggests that project approvals will rise from US$59.2 million in 1989
to US$82.6 million in 1990 (in constant prices), and continue to rise thereafter
at an annual average real rate of 10.5%. Disbursements will almost double each
year between 1989 and 1992, and then slow to an average annual growth rate of
10%.  Given these growth rates, it is unlikely that BEDE will see a need to tap
the financial markets for additional resources.
10.         Hence, the direct impact of the IBRD-IDB loan on BEDE resource
mobilization is temporary.  The debt/equity ratio shifts from 1:6 in 1989 to 1:3
in 1993 as a result of the IBRD-IDB loan, but then moves to 1:16 in 2000 and to
lt48 by 2004.  Similarly, the ratio of interest received to interest paid drops
from 10.4 in 1989 to 2.9 by 1992, but eventually rises to 60.5 by the Year 2004.
An obvious possibility of course is that government transfers will turn out to
be much smaller than projected. A sensitivity run considers this concern and
the possibility of domestic resource mobilization.
11.         Because BEDE has little debt and arrears are small, there is little
concern with capital adequacy, asset quality, and liquidity, and the usual ratios
are not examined, though they are calculated in the model.   ?rofitability,
however, must be a major concern, and is examined in Table 4.5. It suggests that
the changes in BEDE interest policies and the switch to adjustable rats loans
will be sufficient to improve BEDE earnings and to establish BEDE as a viable
institution. The real rate of return on net worth (earnings over net worth,
adjusted for inflation) is -38.0% in 1989, rising to -13.8% by 1992. It becomes
positive for the first time in 1997 and eventually rises to 3.2% by the Year
2004. While this result is encouraging, it also suggests that the turnarournd
for BEDE will not be a quick one, due to the gradual adjustment of the interest
rates to market levels and portfolio of loans at fixed rates.  It will take
consistently high interest rates for BEDE to overcome the drag on profitability
by the existing loan portfolio, unless inflation drops dramatically to 12% or
less.
12.         Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analysis is done by systematically
altering the values of five crucial variables in the base case:
--    Interest rate drops from 5% real in base case to 2% reall
--    Interest rate drops to zero;
--    Supervision and commitment fee reduced to zero;
--    Inflation rate that stays at 40% over the entire period rather than



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 17
declining from 50% in 1990 to 15% in 1994, as in the base case;
--    Capital assistance from the Provincial Development Fund and FODESEC
declines to 50% of base case levels in 1995; to 25% in 1996, and to
zero thereafter.
Tables 4.5 and 4.6 show the impact of these changes from the base case on the
.eal rate of return on net worth and net worth (Table 4.5) and also on average
annual disbursement and annual real growth of disbursement (Table 4.6).
13.         Obviously, this result depends crucially on BEDE's interest rate
policy. As seen in Table 4.5, a drop from 5% to 2% in the real rate of return
will postpone BEDE profitability to the twenty-first century; a drop to zero real
rate points will keep BEDE unprofitable past the end of the projection period.
14.         Other fees and spreads are also quite important, including the BEDE
spread on its IBRD-IDB loan and the supervision and commitment fees BEDE charges
on all its loans.   Indeed, the latter are important to BEDE profitability.
Elimination of the supervision and commitment fees would reduce but not eliminate
profitability. The rate of return declines between 1 and 2 points, from -0.9%
to -2.4% in 1995, an-] from 3.2% to 2.0% in the year 2004.
15.         Still another concern are higher inflation rates. These would reduce
the value of the current loan portfolio, which consists of fixed interest loans,
and hence may be expected to reduce profitability. However, with adjustable rate
loans and high inflation rates, the lending volume in constant prices rises
substantially, as real loan repayments become heavily tilted to the front-end
of the loan term. Since commitment and supervision fees are strongly related
to the turnover of BEDE capital, high inflation rates lead to increased BEDE
earnings and increased capitalization.
16.         A final concern is availability of public resources  for BEDE
assistance.   A sensitivity analysis was undertaken to determine impact from
reduced assistance starting in 1995. Specifically, the analysis assumes that
assistance from the Provincial Development Fund and FODESEC declines to 50% of
base case levels in 1995, to 25% in 1996, and to zero thereafter. This will
reduce average disbursements over the projection horizon by more than 35% from
base case levels (Table 4.6), reduce DEDE net worth by more than 35% by the year
2000 (Table 4.5), but will not substantially affect the rate of return (Table
4.5). Even in this case, however, the average rate of growth of disbursements
for the 15 years of the projection horizon is 9.8% in real terms, though most
of this growth occurs during the first four years of the projection. In the 11
years beyond 1993, disbursemer'. row at only 2.1% in real terms.
Principal Government Transfers to BEDE
17.         During the mid-1970s as much as 30% of total oil revenues were
channeled to BEDE, but rigid distribution quotas and rapid inflation reduced this
to 8.2% in 1980 and 0.5% in 1989. This and the rapid erosion of BEDE's asset
base led to a decline in BEDE lending that is only now being reversed under a



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 17
series of laws and agreements that aim to recapitalize BEDE.  The principal
sources of capital assistance to BEDE are:
(a)   The Municipal Investment Fund will receive 40% of FODESEC funds going
to municipalities (see para. 10 or Annex 3).
(b)   Capital Assistance by the Ministry of Finance in the amount of 25%
of the IBRD-IDB loan, under the subsidiary agreement between BEDE
and the Ministry of Finance.   BEDE would repay 75% of the total
principal of this loan, keeping the other 25% to be capitalized in
the form of shares for municipalities up to a limit of 24% of the
equity, subject to the review of the Government, which could require
higher repayment in accord with its overall macroeconomic objectives.
Any amount in excess of this 24% would go to a reserve account that
would compensate the Government for exchange losses.
(c)   A Provincial Development Fund created under a law of March 11, 1990
that transfers 2% of the Central Government's net operating budget
to BEDE for capitalization in the form of shares for the provinces.
(d)   Funds for rural road development in Manabi, which become BEDE capital
under the Ley de Creacion del Programa de Vialidad Rural de Manabi.
(e)   Funds  obtained  through  the  legalization  of  loans  of  BEDE's
predecessor that become BEDE capital upon loan recovery.
(f)   Direct participation in petroleum revenues, based on the allocation
system established in the 1970s and modified through the 1989 Law
of Petroecuador.
19.         Base Case Assumptions.  The model is extensive and includes several
hundred parameters. The most important assumptions of the base case scenario
are:
Economic Environment
Inflation: Rates are taken from recent Bank projections and assume
a decline from 50% in 1990 to 15% in 1994.   They are constant
thereafter.
GDP Growth: In line with Bank projections, GDP grows 3.5% in 1990
and 5.0% thereafter.
Commercial Lending Rates: This is the market rate (tasa libre de
contratacion) charged by commercial banks on their short-term (90
day) loans. The rate is estimated to be around 5.0% in real terms
in 1990, and the base case assumes a continuation at that level.
Exchange Rates: The exchange rate exactly compensates for inflation
differentials between sucres and dollars. The US inflation rate is



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 17
assumed to be 5% throughout.   The intervention rate is lagged
relative to the market rate. The effect is that the intervention
rate during most of the planning horizon is about 2% below the market
rate. Resources from the IBRD-IDB loan are exchanged based on the
intervention rate.
Government Current Income: A share of 2% of the Government's non-
earmarked funds each go to FODESEC and the new Provincial Development
Fund.   Government current income is assumed to be a constant
proportion of GDP, and earmarked funds are a constant share of total
current income.
Petroleum Revenues: These are projected to determine the base for
BEDE and FODESEC's revenue sharing, and generally are consistent with
Bank assumptions before the recent rise of international oil prices:
(a) production peaks in 1994 with 111.6 million barrels and by 1998
declines at a rate of 10% per annum; (b) domestic consumption
declines following a regime of real price increases, and does not
regain its 1989 volume of 34.8 million barrels until 1999; (c) export
prices (in current US dollars) grow at an average annual rate of 2%
in constant prices; and (d) unit production cost rise initially at
an annual real rate of 4% declining to 2%, as a result of the growing
exploration cost and the New Petroecuador Law which permits this
entity to recover all costs of production.
Petroecuador Funds for BEDE/FODESEC Revenue Sharing are projected
as total production net of domestic consumption (in barrels) valued
at export prices (in US dollars), net of royalties, military
contributions, cost of production, ini -est expenditures, and a 10%
share of the remainder for Petroecuad,.. investments. The remainder
is then allocated to BEDE and FODESEC based on an exchange rate of
44 sucres to the dollar, based on shares established by existing laws
with separate consideration of the appropriate TEXACO and CEPE
revenues.   Projections assume a price elasticity of domestic
consumption of -0.6 and a GDP elasticity of 0.8.
BEDE Resource Mobilization
BEDE Petrosucre Revenue Sharing: BEDE participates in TEXACO and CEPE
revenues.   Under base case assumptions, BEDE revenues from this
source decline to zero by the Year 2003 (though oil production
continues well beyond).
BEDE Share in Provincial Development Fund: Under the new Law
governing the Provincial Development Fund, BEDE receives a 2% share
of the Central Government's non-earmarked operating budget from non-
petroleum sources. The funds are for BEDE capitalization (lent to
Provincial Governments) and constrained to be less than 25% of BEDE's
paid-up capital.



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 17
FODESEC: FODESEC funds are projected based on:   (a) the Central
Government's non-earmarked operating budget; (b) petrosucre revenue
sharing; and (c) GDP (based on FONAPAR shares in import duties and
domestic taxes). Of the FODESEC funds, 73.5% are for municipalities,
of which 40% are for investments.
IBRD-IDB Loan: Loan conditions are specified for each of the
individual loan components.   The interest rate paid by BEDE is
assumed adjustable, equal to the rate at which BEDE lends, minus an
administrative spread of 20% of the lending rate. A 5 percentage
point spread has been accepted by IBRD and the Ministry of Finance
in past Bank lending, and would exceed the spread assumed for the
base for years beyond 1993, when BEDE's lending rate will be less
than 25%.
Capital Assistance: BEDE receives 25% of the IBRD-IDB loan as capital
assistance, up to a limit of 25% of BEDE paid-up capital. However,
it pays interest, supervision and commitment on the capital
assistance portion.
Other International Loans: A loan by the German Democratic Republic
for machinery will not be disbursed. BEDE will receive USAID funds
of US$0.6 million both in 1990 and 1991 for housing and local
infrastructure projects on which it earns a 4 point spread. Other
loans can be entered into the model, but none has been assumed for
the base case.
Bonds: Bonds issued prior to 1989 are being repaid by 1993.  No new
bonds are issued.
Manabi Rural Road Program: BEDE receives US$16.9 million (in constant
prices of 1989) in capital assistance under a 1990 Law on the Manabi
Rural Road Development Program. Disbursements are between 1991 and
1996.
Retained Earnings: All earnings are retained, and become paid-up
capital with a one-year lag.
BEDE Development Lending
BEDE Implementation of IBRD-IDB Municipal Program: BED! prepares its
Municipal Development Projects during the four-year period 1990-1993.
Of the approved loans, 60% are signed the same year and 40% the
following year. Of the signed loans, 30% are disbursed the same
year, and 40 and 30%, respectively, during the following two years.
This leads to a disbursement profile of 3.6% of total funds in 1990,
11.7% in 1991, 22.1% in 1992, 27.1% in 1993, 22.1% in 1994, and the
remaining 13.4% in 1995 and 1996. The projected disbursement lags
are much shorter than those experienced by BEDE in the past. To
realize them, procurement practices must be streamlined and



ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 17
implementation procedures improved.
Regular BEDE Lending Program: This program captures all BEDE lending
outside the IBRD-IDB program, including municipal lending required
under the terms of the IBRD-IDB loan for five years after
disbursement is completed in 1996.  The growth rates for project
approvals have been set to maximize total lending, subject to
availability of BEDE funds.
BEDE Loans Types:   BEDE offers five types of loans, three for the
IBRD-IDB program and two in the regular program. Under the term of
the IBRD-IDB loan, all future BEDE lending must be at the same
adjustable interest rate, both in the IBRD-IDB Municipal Development
Program and in BEDE's regular lending program. However, during 1990
almost all BEDE lending will continue at below market fixed rates
that average 13%. To model this, one of the two types of loans in
the regular lending program has been used for these conditions.
BEDE Lending Rate:  Future BEDE lending will be at adjustable rates
equal to (an average) 37.5% in 1990 and growing biannually to the
tasa de contratacion (short-term commercial lending rate) not later
than mid-1992. Beyond this the BEDE lending rate equals the short-
term commercial rate.
Other BEDE Lending Conditio..s: The loan term varies between 10 and
17 years for the IBRD-IDB program.   It is 10 years for loans in
BEDE's regular lending program. BEDE charges a 2% supervision charge
on disbursements, and a 2% commitment rate on undisbursed funds.
BEDE Administration and Operation
Administrative Cost Structure: LEDE's personnel cost structure is
based on 325 employees in 1989, 20% excess capacity in 1989, and 20%
of staff in fixed administrative tasks. Variable cost are projected
based on the level of three BEDE activities: loan preparation
(measured by loan approval), loan disbursement, and loan collection
(total debt service). Unit cost (or staff productivity) is estimated
based on the recent distribution of staff among the three activities.
Similar assumptions are made to establish the structure of operating
cost.
Capacity Adjustments: BEDE staff capacity is upwardly flexible and
downwardly rigid.   New staff and operating capacity is added as
needed by BEDE activities.   Capacity declines at the natural
"retirement ratew of 2% per year.
Cash Management: All BEDE capital assistance is channeled through
the Central Bank, where it remains inaccessible to cash management
until specific project disbursement requests are presented.   In
principle, BEDE could ask for funding authorization from the Junta



ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 17
Monetaria, and, if granted, could then use its funds for short-term
investment. However, as a development bank, it has in the past been
unwilling to do 90, and hence has held up to 90% of its liquid assets
in the form of cash. The base case assumes that 10% of liquid assets
(fondos disponibles and inversiones) are held in short-term
investments.
-     Fixed Assets: BEDE's modernization plan defines new acquisitions
until 19931 acquisitions beyond this time are assumed to grow at 5%
annually in constant terms for equipment and vehicles, and by 1%
annually for buildings and land.
Interest Rate System Applicable to Subloans by BEDE
20.         The following is a simplified description of the methodology used
in calculating BEDE's rate of interest for onlending as discussed in para. 2.18:
Ii = 0.39 + AFi + DFi
Where,
IL = Interest rate applicable to all BEDE loans for period i.
AFi = Ii of previous period - 0.39. If AFi is zero or negative, it is
ignored.
DFi - Differential Factor for Period i = (Free Lending Rate - Ii for the
previous period) X Increment Factor for period i.   The Increment
Factors are defined as follows:
Period                                 Increment Factors for Period i
January 1, 1991 to Juno 30, 1991          0.25
July 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991         0.33
January 1, 1992 to June 30, 1992          0.50
The Free Lending Rate is the arithmetic average of the rates of interest charged
by private commercial banks and other private financial institutions in Ecuador
on loans funded with their own resources, as recorded by the Central Bank in the
preceding week. After June 30, 1992, the interest rate will be equal to the
commercial lending rate as defined in the legal agreements.
A Model for Doing Municipal Financial Action Plans
21.         As part of project preparation, GTZ financed the development of
MUNICIPIO, an interactive model for the analysis of municipal investment and
revenue decisions in medium-sized cities of Ecuador. MUNICIPIO has already been
used by municipal goverrments for strategic planning and decision making in doing



ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 17
their financial action plans for this project, and in the future may be used for
short-term financial decision making and the annual budgeting process. MUNICIPIO
has also been used by BEDE to assist in its lending decisions and to determine
the financial feasibility of its loans.   Specifically, the model has been
calibrated to 18 municipalities that are expected to become the f'rst-round
recipients of IBRD-IDB loans. Finally, the model may be used by the Central
Government to determine the impact of policy changes, such as changes in
Municipal Law.
22.         Model Structure.  The model consists of four main building blocks.
The first block describes the national and urban economic environment in which
the municipal government operates. This includes the urban population growth
rate, the rate of inflation, the rate of interest at which the municipality may
borrow, the rate of GDP growth, and the behavior of the petroleum sector. GDP
and the petroleum sector determine the funds available to the municipality under
various revenue sharing laws.   Variables in this block are parametric to
municipal decision-making.   They determine municipal decisions but are not
influenced by it. The only exception is urban population growth, which in one
model option is taken as a function of the level and cost of infrastructure
services provided. Hence, higher population growth would add to service demand,
and rising service levels would add to population growth.
23.         The second block consists of the municipal  infrastructure and
investment sector.  Specifically, the model tracks the amount and quality of
infrastructure services by sector (e.g., water, sewerage, drainage, electricity,
garbage collection, and streets). For each sector, it estimates the population
share with access to the service. Sector performance over time is driven in one
of two ways: (a) the model user either specifies service targets (i.e., the per-
centage of the population with access to a service), or (b) the model user
specifies an investment program. In the first case the model determines required
investments, in the second case it determines service achievements. In either
case the model keeps track of the value of fixed assets, the size of investments,
and the level of maintenance and operating expenditures, based on unit cost
estimates provided by the model user.
24.         The third block deals with municipal resource mobilization from all
sources, including changes in tax rates, improvements in revenue collection, and
upgrading of the revenue base, such as the indexation of the cadastre, the
one-time revaluation of the municipal property tax base, or a reduction in the
level of tax exemptions. It also determines the municipal borrowing capacity,
and permits the user to specify borrowing goals. The model then keeps track of
municipal revenues from transfers and own sources; and it tracks municipal
outstanding debt, loan disbursements and repayment, debt service and interest
payments.
25.         Finally, the fourth block integrates model results in a system of
municipal accounts. This represents the core of the model and includes an income
and expenditure statement, sources and uses of funds, the municipal balance
sheet, and financial indicators. The system of accounts is similar to the one
used in Ecuador, but has been expanded to provide the correct dynamic link



ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 17
between the sources and uses of funds and the balance sheet.
26.         Municipal Projections. MUNICIPIO in LOTUS based. Though essentially
descriptive, it can be used as a prescriptive modelling tool. It is descriptive
in the sense that it determines the impacts and implications of municipal
decision making, but includes no objective function with which to evaluate
alternative courses of action. However, it is a prescriptive modelling tool for
the user willing to try a fair number of alternatives through trial and error
and educated guessing.  In that case it is up to the user to interpret and
evaluate the results of each run in light of some stated objective, and to alter
parameters until a local optimum (or satisfactory solution) emerges.   The
starting point of the model are sector specific service targets. For each type
of service the ueer specifies the percentage of the population with service
access for each year.  Based on these targets the model computes investment
requiremente, taking into account population growth and replacement demand. It
then computes maintenance and operating cost. Finally, the user specifies means
of revenue generation, including changes in taxes and tariffs, and planned
changes in collection efforts.   The model determines to what extent the
combination of service targets plus revenue generation efforts are feasible.



ANNEX 4
ECUADOR                                                   Page 12  of  17
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 4.1
BEDE. Balance Shoot: USS of December 1989 (millions) (1)
X
Variation
per annum
1986   X       1987   X       1988   X       1989   X  1986 - 89
Assets:
Cash                            335.8   21    166.1   17       29.2    8       6.6    4    (62.6)
Short-term Investments          223.4   14      18.9    1       2.3    1       8.2    6    (68.2)
Loan Portfolio                  979.7   62    787.0   77    274.2   78    133.2   86    (39.8)
Other Assets                     62.4    3      86.0    4      46.1   13       8.6    6    (36.3)
Total                     1,691.3  1tW     965.0  100    360.9  106    168.8  166    (44.0)
#=3  2Q        C   = =        C3 ===     Q= -           1      ==
Liabilitios and Net Worth:
Bonds                            81.6    2      76.5    8      44.6   13      14.4    9    (17.7)
Other Liabilities               128.6    8      57.2    6      16.3    4       8.2    6    (49.8)
Net Worth                     1,431.2   93    a20.2  86    290.9   88    134.1   86    (44.7)
X Annual Change                            (42.7)         (64.6)         (63.9)
Total                     1,591.3  160    963.0  166    368.9  166    156.6  166    (44.0)
-= =               -_ :=3  G=5  Q    -   _    =
Note: (1) lUSS u S/.648.42
Table 4.2
BEDE. Incom  Statement: USS of December 1989 (millions) (1)
Variation
per annum
1986   X       1987   X       1988   X       1989   X  1986 - 89
Loan Interest Income            102.7   64      82.2   76      30.6   87      17.2   83    (38.0)
Investment Interest Income       46.9   29      12.5   11       6.7    2       1.8    6    (58.8)
Coemicsons                        7.9    5       8.2    7       3.6   16       2.1   10    (28.0)
Other Income                      4.1    3       6.4    6       0.5    1       0.1    1    (56.4)
Total Income                166.6  166    109.4  100       36.4  160      20.8  166    (40.0)
=3=  om  =3=   =sr     =      =       =    Q =  
Inter-st Expenses                 6.o    6       0.8    1       8.6   10       1.8    9    365.2
Personnel Expenses                9.6    6       7.6    7       3.1    9       2.1   16    (31.6)
Operating Expen-se                4.4    8       6.4    6       1.2    3       0.4    2    (46.4)
Other Expenses                    1.0    1       0.6    1       0.2    6       0.1    1    (41.8)
Total Expenses               14.9    9      15.4   14       8.1   28       4.4   21    (26.2)
Gross Earnings                  145.7   91      94.0   88      27.3   77      16.4   79    (42.1)
Donations                                                       1.6    4
=3    =         3=   =3         =      =     _       =        3=
Not Earningo                    145.7   91      94.0   88      26.8   73      18.4   79    (42.1)
=3    3~~=== = 3=   =3= =                  =m=m3  =3     3=--
X Annual Change                            (36.5)         (72.6)         (36.6)
Note: (1) IUS8 = S/.648.42



ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 4.8
Condensed Financial Statements
(In Constant December 1989 Prices, USS millions) (1)                                      Continued
Actual                                              Projected
1989     1990     1-91     1992     1993     1994      s 1995   s99     1997      1998     1999     2008
Inco"e Statmnt:
Interest Income                    18.54    15.58    28.2,      8.66    60.98    72.75    78.14    68S.8    94.61   106.09   119.21   133.79
Other Incoam                        2.26     8.01     4.00      4.89     6.43     5.44     5.41     6.68     6.24     7.17     8.21      9.20
Total Ineoe                      20.80    18.80    30.25    48.44    88.41    78.19    91.55    89.49   100.85   113.26   127.42   148.00
Interest Expense                    1.78     2.98     8.17    14.99    20.29    20.92    17.10    16.23    12.96    10.97      9.24      7.74
Personnel and Operating Expense     2.51     2.83    3.79       6.23     5.77     5.99    6.16      6.34     6.97     7.94     9.02    10.11
Other Expenses                      6.11     1.46     1.82      1.07     6.77     0.54     0.48     0.53     0.63    0.76      0.90      1.09
Total Expenses                    4.40     8.91    13.28    21.28    2e.63    27.45    23.78    22.10    20.66   19.66    19.17    18.94
Earnings Before Reserves           18.40    11.69    16.98    27.18    89.57    50.74    97.82    87.89    80.29    98.60   168.25   124.08
Sources and Uses of Funds:
Earnings before Reserves           18.40    11.69    18.98    27.16    39.71   50.74    57.82    67.89    80.29    93.8o   108.25   124.08
Depreciation                        0.00     0.18     0.19      0.28     0.82     0.89    0.44      0.65     0.63     0.75     0.90      1.09
Capital Assistance                  5.1    25.66    87.38    40.48    41.88    41.07    88.15    85.97   83.22    84.21    85.29    88.45
Loan Amortization                   7.53     8.04     6.57      9.92    11.10    13.75    20.80    26.02    32.34   38.46   47.22    54.28
International loans (2)             0.90     4.S4    18.62    24.84    30.46    24.84    12.37      2.70     0.00     9.o0     e.00      0.06
Change In Adainistrative Funds      0.20     0.31     8.99      1.48     1.40     1.01    0.85     9.86     0.87     0.89     0.91      0.94
Other Sourc                         1.58     7.11      1.56     1.29     0.43     0.65     0.57     6.58     0.37     0.45     0.83    0.66
Total Sources                    81.83    55.86    60.27   105.38   125.17   182.46   180.59   184.06   147.75   168.86  198.11   217.37
Disburosemnt, BEDE Loan Program    22.10    88.96    66.29    96.1?   169.18   119.19   120.00   121.06   131.81   149.89   172.58   196.08
Bond Amortization                   0.00     2.56     2.03      1.74     0.45     0.60     0.00     0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00      0.60
Amortization of Int'l Loans         0.60     0.90     0.01      0.02     0.02     0.76     1.23     1.51     1.58     1.56     1.57      1.80
Other Uses                         13.43     8.01    10.43    12.38    11.38      9.07     6.58     9.33     9.87    11.09    12.82    18.95
Total Use                        36.58    47.86    78.78   110.31   120.98   129.02   126.80   181.89   142.70   162.44   188.77   211.58
Note: (1) IUSS = S/.848.42                                                                                                                          0
(2) Excluding part going to BEDE as a grant. 



ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 4.3
Condensed Financial Statments
(In Constant December 1989 Priceo, USS mi llions) (1)                               Continuation
Actual                                            Projected
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1m             1999    200
Balance Sheet:
Assets:
Cash plus Short Term Investmnts  14.82   12.76    9.98    1.08    3.70    4.24         4.29    2.16    2.84    8.54    3.72        2.28
Loan Portfolio                   183.23  119.66  145.31   198.20  256.78   319.64   377.84   423.78  487.66  518.24  576.26  643.12
Other Assets                       8.60   11.26    17.06   24.84   36.88   33.32   33.38   37.33    41.17   46.61    60.69   68.26
Total Assets                   166.64  143.68   172.84   224.10  290.85   367.19  416.61  463.27   511.67   687.28  636.56  701.66
Liabilitiesl
Bonds                             14.41    7.065    3.00    0.57    0.00    0.00    0.W0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
International Loans               0.00    4.54    18.86   37.79   60.67   74.6.!   78.065   67.32    67.01   48.03   40.20   33.36
Funds In Administration            1.86    1.40    4.99      6.27     6.62    6.69     6.80    6.91      6.01    8.12    6.23    6.36
Other Liabilitie                  6.51    4.83      3.83    3.26    2.86    2.68       2.29     2.06     1.86    1.68     1.66    1.44
Total Liabilities               22.67   17.82   28.88   46.87   69.14    82.92   84.14   75.27   64.87    66.83   47.98   41.14
Net Worth:
Paid-in Capital                  109.29  106.65  120.63  143.02   172.66  209.80  253.83  294.67   333.51  376.82   424.27   476.29
Other Net Worth                   24.78   19.20   23.13    34.20   49.05   64.48    77.55   93.43   113.29  134.63  158.31   184.22
Total Not Worth                134.08  126.86   148.68  177.23  221.71   274.28   331.38  388.00  446.80  651.45  582.68  660.61
Note: (1) lUSS * S/.648.42
a-



ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Tablo 4.4
Summary of Projected Capital Assitance to 'FDE from the Base Case
(In Constant December 1989 Prices, US3 millions) (1)
1990     1991     1992    1993      1994     1995     1996     2000     2004
Provincial Development Fund              20.9    19.8    19.9    20.7    21.5    22.4    23.4    27.7            32.8
BEDE Petroleum Revenues                   3.3      2.4      2.0      1.7      1.6      1.4      1.3      0.4      0.0
Rural Road Development In Manabi          0.0      2.2      2.3      2.3      2.5      2.8      2.9      0.0      0.0
IBRD-IDB 26% Capitalization               1.4      4.4      8.3    10.2       8.3      4.1      0.9      0.0      0.0
FODESEC Funds
FONAPAR                              57.5    64.4    54.8    66.7   65.8    68.0    69.2    84.4    71.1
2% Central Cov. Op. Budget           12.5    19.3    19.9    20.7    21.5    22.4    23.4    27.7    32.8
Petroleum Revenues                    3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1
Total FODESEC                          73.1    78.8    77.8    79.6    81.4    83.6    86.7    96.2   107.0
Municipal Investment Fund (MIF) (2)    21.5    22.6    22.9    23.4    23.9    24.6    25.2    28.0    31.5
BEDE onlending from MIF                   0.0      9.0      8.0      7.0      7.2      7.4      7.6      8.4      9.4
X of BEDE on lending form MIF (3)         0x      40%      35X      30X      30X      30%      30%      30%      30X
Total BEDE Capital Assistance            25.8    37.4    40.6    41.9    41.1    38.2    38.0    36.5            42.2
Notes: (1) lUSS = S/.648.42
(2) 29.4X of FODESEC goes to the Municipal Investment Fund.
(3) These percentages are high. They will probably be closer to 10%.
I-Z
Q Z
t-n 
0



ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 17
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 4.6
Sensitivitj Analysis of Financial Projections
Type of Projection                          1989     1992     1996     2000      2004
Roal-Rate of Return on Net Worth:
________________________________
Base Case                                  -38.0K   -13.8%    -0.9%     2.8%      3.2X
Sensitivity Analysis:
BEDE Lending Rate 2% Real                -89.0%   -13.6%    -2.83     O.0%     0.6%
BEDE Lending Rate OX Real                -88.0K   -13.9%    -3.4%    -1.7%    -1.1%
Supervision and Commitment Feo Zero      -38.0K   -15.8X    -2.4%     1.1X      2.0%
Inflation Rate: 40% for entire period   -38.0K   -16.6%    -S.7X      2.6K     3.1X
Lower Capital Assistance                -88.0X   -13.8K    -0.9K      2.2%     2.9%
Not Worth:
(in US8 million, constant 1989 prices) (1)
Base Case                                  153.3    202.7    379.0    756.4  1,194.9
Sensitivity Analysis
BEDE Lending Rate 2% Real                153.3    205.9    366.9    853.4    946.7
BEDE Lending Rate OK Real                153.3    203.5   351.3    583.9    803.3
Supervision and Commitment Fee Zero      153.3    189.9    342.0    661.9  1,019.0
Inflation Rate: 40K for entire period   1S3.3    194.8    357.9    867.4  1,623.2
Lower Capital Assistance                 163.3    202.7    868.4    484.7    811.2
Note: (1) Ave.age 1989 exchange rate (IUSS = S/.567)
Table 4.6
Selected Indicators, Years 1990 - 2004
Annual            Annual
Average            Real
Disbursement         Growth
(USS '000)
Type of Projection                                  (1)          Disbursement
Base Case                                         179,720              16.2%
Sensitivity Analysis
8EDE Lending Rate 2% Real                       157,469              14.2%
BEDE Lending Rate O% Real                       143,367              12.6X
Supervision and Commitment Fee Zero             157,186              14.8%
Inflation Rate: 40X for entire period           237,708              19.8X
Lower Capital Assistance                        115,666               9.8%
Note: (1) Average 1989 exchange rate (1US3 = S/.687)



ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PRCJECT
Table 4.7
Specific Targets for Monitoring Indicators for BEDE, Years 1991 - 2066 (a)
1991     19m      1993     1994     1996      1996     1997     1998     1999      2090
Real Rate of Return on Not Worth                     -21.56   -13.81    -9.1%    -4.81    -0.9X    -0.4X      0.61      1.3X     1.9%     2.3%
Net Worth (December 1989 USS  066)                   143.7    177.2    221.7    274.3    331.4    388.0    448.8   611.6    582.6    680.6
Annual Disbursements (December 1989 US$ 066)          66.3     96.2    109.1    119.2    120.0   121.0    131.8    149.8    172.6    196.0
Annual Growth of Disburseemnts (base: 1991 = 16)      100      146       l6S      186      181      183      198       226      266      296
Annual Rate of Real Growth of Disbursements                    4S.11    13.65      9.21     0.71     0.9X     8.51    14.11    16.2X    13.6X
Note: (a) Based on base runs of financial pro;ection models
IZo 
0
1h



Chart 5.1 BEDE General Organization
Stockholders
I Internal
_      - _          Auditing
Board oirectors|
Exec.utive Co.: nittee
toW   o
tqL 0
P   General Manager lal             F        A         r
Advlsory Committe                                                              c 
go0
General Secretary  |              |   ss sta nt Mznager  |                                                     t     0
0
External  _ _      Library                                                     Legal Advisory
Relations        Documentation                                                    Uommittee                        w C
rt 
Operations                   Technical                       Administrative                 Financial
Department               L Department                          Department                  Department
0
I Guayaquil |                     [  Regional Office             
Branch   I                               Cuenca
Flnanclal                             Projects   I                                                                     I 
Administration                         Supervisionj                                                                       x
Note: lal Presides over the Prolect Committee. See text forfunction and composition



Chart 5.2 BEDE Operations Department
ANNEX S
r°oflon,l                          ~~~~Page 2 of 2
aecior    a oUr g*         Aoue es                 Oore(.'3'                 Va,ilons
Chart 5.3 BEDS Technical Department
ToC cttn|  |oOU ?ocnncoi                         |uOmn |n luotion  Co|          n
oroition    Coso  o             Protcvt ovro      Prot    P rOjects       Sudgon
FI                  I                           iIoncagI  Divison c  nvirOmn
rOulst Prograt emn              Ints;n                    Rcauoao  |ectot
Chart 5.4 BEDE Administrative Department
Administrativ.e
Oeoortn'ont
m4umonAscurcesj               Civil Works ocs ond Sorvictn
g sno Peovotisn OlvIon     |  |  Olvlon fOiVISon                     |
f nsonnel      training      l|         cnoi   |        |nsonfce
|ot0  SVIlInI       Ietor   on|      IEvl^iO               Soo 
Chart 5.5 BEDE  Financial Department
A4       intormation~~~~~~~~~*norot@
A 0    O DvCionr  Ol ?,oor         Oron              E M    Olvi tion
L                                1g1  ' 1k1~~~~~~~~~~~~o,ata



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 9
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Institutional Development and Training Component
Objectives of Institutional Development and Training Compcnents
1.          The specific objectives of the institutional development and training
ccmpcnents are tot
(a)   support institutional and financial reforms at both the national and
local levels aimed at increasing the efficiency and equity of the
municipal governments and enterprises, in line with the Government's
Sector Policy;
(b)   reinforce municipal capacity to deliver urban services and to plan,
design   and   execute   projects   that   are   socioeconomically,
environmentally, technically and financially viable;
(C)   increase the capacity of BEDS to evaluate effectively the economic,
environmental, technical and financial viability of the projects
submitted to it by municipalities, as well as to administer an
expanded lending program to them;
(d)   strengthen  institutions  and  staff  at  the municipal  level  by
implementing a training program specifically designed in accordance
with sector development objectives; and
(e)   improve the municipal support training system at the national level
by establishing appropriate mechanisms for planning, coordination
and evaluation of the sector training activities.
Overall Organization
2.          The institutional development subcomponent will be divided into two
parts directed at: (a) strengthening municipal institutions to plan projects
better and to improve their institutional and financial capacity to implement
them; and (b) developing within BEDS the capacity to provide technical assistance
to the municipalities and to evaluate adequately the projects generated. The
training subcomponent will cover the staff of municipal governments and
enterprises as well as that of the municipal support institutions at the national
level (BEDE, SENDA, AME/INFODEM, CONADE, and FONAPRE).    There is a certain
healthy  overlap  between  the  institutional  development  and  the  training
subcomponents in that both are directed at essentially the same objectives.
Institutiox.al development will, however, be most directly concerned with devising
and implementing institutional reforms in the municipal institutions or BEDE.
Training will show the staff how to work within the new inst.tutional context.
For example, the institutional development component might design the accounting



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 9
systems of municipalities and prepare manuals for their use, while the training
program would provide courses and on-the-job training on how to use the new
systems either on site or through classroom instruction involving more than one
municipality.   The same holds true for BEDE.   The institutional development
subcomponent would provide assistance in improving systems, while the training
would instruct all designated staff on how to function in this new environment.
Description of the Institutional Development Subcomponent (US$19.4 million)
3.          The institutional development subcomponent will be divided into two
main parts: one directed at BEDE and the other at the municipalities.
4.          Institutional Development at BEDE (US$4 million) will be provided
to assist BEDE in improving its institutional capacity to meet its objectives,
especially in the areas of economic, environmental, technical and financial
evaluation of projects, information systems and operational systems. The project
will finance national and local consultants in each of these areas, as well as
equipment and materials. A new computer system in BEDE with network extending
to participating municipalities will also be installed.   The US$4 million
allocated for this will include financing of consultants, travel, per diems, a
new computer system, and other equipment.   See Table 6.1.  A consultant on
environmental evaluation would assist BEDE in developing its capacity to analyze
the environmental assessments prepared by the municipalities, as well as to alert
subborrowers to potential environmental problems at the prefeasibility phase of
project evaluation.
5.          The BEDE/GTZ Program for Municipalities (US$15.4 million).   The
institutional development objectives for the municipalities will be achieved by
implementing a technical assistance program in BEDE with assistance from GTZ
covering the areas of municipal finance and credit management, planning, and
administration. Financing would be provided under the proposed loan for: (a)
administration and coordination of the institutional development program
including  consultant  fees,  per  diem,  and  transportation  of  the  central
coordination unit personnel; (b) local and foreign consultants services to
provide advice to BEDE and municipalities; (c) equipment and materials including
vehicles, furniture, computers, printers, and audio-visuals aids; (d) tutorial
training;  and  (e) manuals.    Detailed costs are presented  in Table  6.1.
Assistance to municipalities will be provided through five teams consisting of
specialists in: socioeconomic development, administrative systems, environmental
assessment, urian development, planning and evaluation, financing, urban
infrastructure and equipment, and human resource development. The technical
assi3tance teams will remain in each municipality between 4 and 6 months
depending on the size of the municipality and the complexity of their problems.
The methodology to be applied will be operationally oriented, highly
participatory, analyzing urban and municipal problems as well as their
socioeconomic context and implications. As a result, municipal organization will
be upgraded and operations manuals and procedures established in consonance with
the nature of the problems detected.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 9
Description of the Training Component (US$7.6 million)
6.          The training objectives will be achieved through:
(a)   a comprehensive training program to enable municipal staff to improve
productivity and efficiency in the delivery of municipal services;
and
(b)   building up a permanent training capability for the staff of
municipal governments by strengthening SENDA as a training
coordination unit and AME as a main institution for execution of the
training programs in the municipalities.
Table 6.2 shows total costs of persons trained under the different types of
training programs, and Table 6.3 shows costs.
7.          Training of Municipal Sector Institutions Staff (US$388,000). This
program is designed to improve the skills of about 1,000 managers and technical
staff of the agencies providing technical and financial support to the
municipalities, mainly BEDE, FONAPRE and AME (see Table 6.2). To implement the
training program for the sector institutions, staff financing would be provided
for: (a) internal courses for about 950 participants including training and
learning material as well as fees of the instructors; (b) contracting courses
with local universities and consulting firms to train about 150 participants;
(c) foreign consultant services (up to 30 staff-months) to prep6re training
manuals and to train sector institutions staff in subjects such as: project
financial appraisal, municipal financial analysis and forecasting, financial
and credit management, cadastres administration, and project formulation,
appraisal and supervision; (d) local consultant services (up to 32 staff-months)
to prepare training manuals and to train sector institution- staff in credit
procedures, loan processing, costs and tariffs of public works and services,
municipal financial legislation, procurement, and mechanisms for cost recovery;
(e) overseas training (up to 28 staff-months) for the management and professional
staff of sector institutions to visit other countries better developed in
financial and credit management and human resources development in the municipal
sector; and (f) specific studies to evaluate the impact of the training in
improving the efficiency of the sector institutions that provide financial and
technical support to municipalities.
S.          Training of Municipal Staff (US$4.6 millioni. This training program
aims to improve the performance capabilities of about 6,000 persons. Performance
based training would be provided in (a) municipal investment planning and
budgeting; (b) municipal finance and revenue administration; (c) municipal
organization and administration; (d) municipal legislation; (e) municipal
infrastructure  and  services  standards  and  norms;  (f)  accounting  and
administrative simplification; and (g) public services planning, organization
and maintenance. Training programs would address the solution of day-to-day
critical operational problems. Most of the training will be carried out on-
the-job as improved systems, procedures and administrative practices are
introduced. To train municipal staff financing would be provided for (a) on-



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 9
the-job training for about 4,000 participants, including fees, per diem and
travel expenses for instructors; (b) specific courses for about 3,000
participants including instructor fees and participants travel expenses and per
diem (total cost estimated at US$3.7 million);   (c) administration of the
training program, including consulting fees of the professional staff, office
supplies, travel expenses and per diem for supervision and coordination seminars
(US$647,000); (d) instructors fees (up to 384 staff-months) to develop and
provide training for municipal professionals and technicians in the following
areas: financial planning, organization and administration systems, occupational
analysis, curriculum design, preparation of training programs, and training
instructors for training programs (i.e., training of trainers); and (e)
furniture, training materials and equipment including audio-visual aids, books,
training manuals, vehicles and microcomputers.
9.          Training Coordination and Organization (US$1.2 million). One of the
main deficiencies of the municipal sector training system is the lack of
coordination among the large number of institutions offering training and between
them and the municipalities. The need for institutional coordination is critical
to avoid overlapping of activities and to facilitate the exchange of technical
and operational experiences.   The Government has assigned to SENDA the
responsibility to assume the role of central national coordination unit for
municipal training programs. The central training coordination unit functions
would bet
(a)   to coordinate the implementation of the training program for the
staff of the municipalities;
(b)   to define a sector training policy and strategy as well as integrate
the specific plans of municipalities and the national support
institutions into a national plan for the overall sector;
(c)   to head the interinstitutional steering committee for training
composed by representatives of AME, BEDE, FONAPRE, GTZ and three
municipalities representing small, medium and large municipalities.
(d)   to promote, in coordination with AME, the adoption of specific
administrative guidelines to regulate municipal staff career
development and promotion;
(e)   to establish a permanent system for monitoring and evaluation of the
training programs carried out disseminating the results and
recommending improvement/adjustment, as appropriate;
(f)   to seek financial resources to insure the stability of the training
system during and beyond the life of the project.
10.         To establish central coordination unit for training, financing would
be provided under the loan for: (a) consulting fees for up to 12 technical staff
(up to 576 staff-months); (b) travel and per diem for supervision and monitoring
of the training program; (c) office supplies; (d) seminars to discuss regional



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 9
training plans, as well as implementation and coordination problems; (e) foreign
consultant services (up to 55 staff-months) to assist the central coordination
unit in management information systems, administration by objectives and
personnel administration, as well as planning, organization, execution and
evaluation of the training program including the application of new training
methodologies; (f) local consultants (up to 21 staff-months) to provide
assistance in occupational analysis, job description, monitoring of the training
program and dissemination of innovative training experiences; (g) overseas
training (up to 12 staff-months) for 6 of SENDA's professional staff to be
exposed to successful training programs in other countries; (h) microcomputers
to implement a training information system, as well as supplementary furniture
and learning materials; and (i) studies including: a model career development
plan, training needs assessment, job description, and the evaluation of the
training program.
Preparation Activities Financed Under the PPFs
11.         IBRD  and  IDB  partially  financed  through  PPFs  institutional
development and training programs with the objectives of: (a)  testing the
institutional development methodology and preparing operational, administrative,
and training manuals in financial management and municipal administration; (b)
initiating the training of the staff of the central agencies that will have the
responsibility to provide technical and   financial support during project
implementation; and (c) training the staff of the municipalities that will have
investment projects during the first year of project implementation.   The
activities and results achieved were as follows:
12.         Institutional Development.   To test the institutional development
methodology, GTZ provided assistance to the municipalities of Riobamba, Tulcan
and Babahoyo. Starting with the involvement of the community in defining its
priority needs, five GTZ specialists working together with the municipalities
professionala identified the main problems, their causes, and possible solutions
in the areas of water supply, transportation, housing, solid waste, urban
streets, retail and wholesale markets, streetlighting, recreation, and community
organization.   After solutions were discussed with the community, plan was
prepared for each municipality including a municipal infrastructure improvement
component and a municipal management planning component, the latter covering
coordination, administration, costing, financing and evaluation of public
services. To streamline procedures, manuals were prepared covering these same
areas and on-the-job training was provided for about 100 staff.
13.         Training of Municipal Sector Institutional Staff.   The training
program was implemented by BEDE and FONAPRE for about 500 professional staff of
these institutions and about 80 from other institutions related to the project,
such as CONADE, the Ministry of Finance, Procuraduria General del Estado, and
IEOS. Training was provided by local and foreign consultants and organizations
(GTZ and a number of other international organizations in the field) in the areas
of: credit management, project evaluation, financial and socioeconomic analysis,
urban and regional planning, tariffs, data processing, accounting, legal
regulations in public services, adjustment for inflation and financial
in-..  a M



A£N3X 6
Page 6 of 9
projections, environmental impact of investments, and cadastres.
14.         Training of Municipal Staff.   About 460 municipal officials and
professional staff, representing about 20 murO.cipalities tkat should be eligible
for an investment project during the first year of the project were trained
mainly by AME. Training covered: financial planning, municipal administration,
program budgeting, municipal taxes, municipal records, public sector pricing,
revenue collection, and cadastres. AMR also spent up to 150 staff-days providing
technical assistance to municipalities in the application of the subjects taught.
z2 Si



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 9
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Tabl- 8.1
Summary of Institutional Development Component Expenditures
for BEDE and Municipalities
Institutional Development Municipal Strengthening    Total
Description                                        of BEDE                    Program
Unit of quantity   US!   Unit of Quantity   USS          US$
Measure           S00S's   Measure-           000's    000'.
ment                       snt
1. Central Coordination
Fes for Long-Term Consultants       p/m         104     630      p/m       289   1,091   1,621
Par diems and Transportation                  global     S0   global                146     196
Rent for Officeo and Insurance                global    432    month        12       24     468
Services                                      global     93    month        12       86     129
2. Technical Assistance and Study Visits
Foreign Consultants                 p/m          21     134      p/m       106   1,612   1,646
Local Consultants                   p/m          76     190      p/i       642   8,634   9,724
Study Visits Abroad                  p           40     200    event                32      232
Local Study Visit and Seminars       p          100     135   global               450      58S
S. Equipment
Vehiclos                                       UN 24    433    UN 10               54O      973
Office Materials                              global    242   global                as      302
Computers and Work-Stations (a)
BEDE                                  global    in                                  906
Uunicipalitles                                         global               615     615
Audiovisual and Photometric Equipment         global     65   global               329      884
Furnitur-                                     global    1s5     P.T.       130     195      346
4. Manuals and Visual Materlal                        global    s6   global                 491     577
S. Physical Contingencies                                        S84                      1,346   1,709
TOTAL                                                        4,000                     15,400  19,400
Note: (a) There will be one plan for the entire computer system.



ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 9
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 0.2
A. Numb.r of Persons to be Trained by Institutions and Arose
(in Number of Persons)
Central
Support
Institutions
Areas                    (1)           Municipalities            Tctal
1. Municipal Finance,
Revenue Administration and
Accounting Management                291                 1,107                1,898
2. Public Service Projocts:
Investment Planning
Administration and Imploemntation    276                 1,802                1,877
8. Municipal Development
Organization and Administration      302                 2,879                2,681
4. Municipal Legislation,
Tariffs, Cadastre                    244                   856                1,100
TOTAL        1,112                5,944                 7,056
B. Numb.r of Persons to bo Trainod Annually under the Project by Aroa
(in Number of Porsons)
Yer
Areas                   1      2      8      4       5      6    Total
1. Municipal Finance,
Revenue Administration and
Accounting Monagement                140    206    215    280   8s5    206  1,898
2. Public Service Projects:
Investment Planning
Administration and Implementation    190    280    290   S80    482    296  1,877
8. Municipal Development
Organization and Administration      270    405    420    sao    641    415  2,681
4. Municipal Legislation,
Tariffs, Cadaotre                    105    152    155    210    826    152  1,100
TOTAL          705  1,042  1,080  1,880  1,782  1,067  7,056
-    = 3 = = 3                     =       =
Note: (1) Includes GEDE, FONAPRE, IEOS, SENDA, CONADE, Ministerio de Finangas,
Contraloria y Procuratoria Coneral del Estado, Junta Nacional de Vivienda,
and AME / ENFOOEM.



ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 9
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 6.3
Summary of Project Expenditures for Training
(in Thousands of US Dollars)
Institutions Receiving      Central
Training          Coordination
(SEN DA )
Description                                         Municipal     Municipal-                    Total
Support (8)       ities                      Costs
1.  Impleinentation of Training Courses                  200.0        3,883.0          0.0     3,883.0
Internal Courses
Per diems of Participants (1)                            2,470.0                   2,470.0
Per diems of Instructors (1)                               281.0                     281.0
Travel for Participants (2)                                119.0                     119.0
Travel for Instructors (2)                                  11.0                      11-.
Training Materials                            9.0           44.0                      53.0
Fees for Instructors (3)                     21.0          518.0                     637.0
External Local Courses
Course Contracts                            170.0          222.0                     392.0
2.  Administration of Training Program                                  647.0       687.0      1,314.0
Fees for Long-term Consultants (4)                             361.0        636.0        898.0
Travel (2)                                                      12.0          6.0         17.0
Per diems (3)                                                  200.0         26.0        228.0
Office Supplies                                                 60.0         23.0         73.0
Seminars for Instructors and
Regional Coordination                                           24.0.        27.0         61.0
Rent for Offices                                                             S1.0         61.0
3.  Consultant Services and Study Visit                  148.0                      483.0        811.0
Foreign Consultants (6)                                                     411.0        411.0
Local Consultants (8)                                                        21.0         21.0
Study Visit Abroad (7)                           148.0                       31.0        179.0
4.  Procurement                                                         303.0         57.0       380.0
Furniture                                                       38.0          6.0         41.0
Learning Materials                                              S2.0          4.0         68.0
Equipment                                                      216.0         48.0        283.0
S. Studies                                                40.0                       49.0         89.0
Subtotal (1+2+3+4+5)                                     388.0       4,613.0      1,238.0      6,237.0
Repayment of Project Preparation Facility                                                        750.0
Physical Contingencies                                                                           813.0
TOTAL                                                                                          7,800.0
Notes:
(1) USS36 per participant or Instructor por day.
(2) USSZO per participant or Instructor.
(3) USS1,000 per staff-month.
(4j Manager USS1,800 per staff-month, coordinator USS1,200 per staff-month,
t*chnician USS1,000 per staff-month.
(5) USS8,800 per staff-month including fees, per diem, and airfare.
(8) USS1,000 per staff-month.
(7) USS6,800 per staff-month including per diem, *irfare, and insurance.
(8) Ses footnote 1 of Table 8.2 for list of these institutions.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPHENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Infrastructure Component
1.          The project's investment in urban and suburban infrastructure would
be implemented by eligible municipalities, as well as municipal and regional
utility enterprises.   To establish the size and possible composition of the
program, BEDE sponsored a study of total municipal infrastructure investment
requirements for the country. In 1989, BEDE carried out a survey of the needB
of a sample of 39 municipalities (9 with populations of less than 10,000, 12
between 10,000 and 30,000, 8 between 30,000 and 100,000, and all 9 cities between
100,000 and 200,000) representing nine different geographic regions of the
country. Applying specific methodologies for each subsector, this survey showed
total needs of the 39 representative municipalities to amount to approximately
Us$300 million equivalent. The expansion of this sample yielded an estimate of
the total requirements for all 160 municipalities of US$600 million, not
including Quito and Guayaquil (where about half of the urban population lived
in 1987).   A program of US$300 million, including Quito and Guayaquil,  is
therefore well justified as a first attempt to reduce the unmet infrastructure
needs.
2.          The above survey of 39 cities identified 481 municipal development
subprojects.   Out of these,  194. were found potentially eligible for Bank
financing.    After analyzing the possibilities  for timely preparation of
engineering studies, 62 of these subprojects were submitted to more detailed
technical and economic analysis. A total of 24, costing US$43 million, were
selected to integrate the first-year program, 13 of these subprojects
(representing 55% of the total costs) are located in the Sierra Region, and 11
(representing 45% of total cost) in the Coastal Region (Table 1 of this Annex).
In addition, 35 other subprojects, costing about US$50 million, are in various
stages of advanced preparation and most of them can start during the first-year
of the program.
3.          The Bank and IDB's project would finance a timeslice of eligible
subprojects in eligible municipalities as well as municipal and regional utility
enterprises. Although the investment profile should be similar to that of the
first year program, it could vary in future years according to the priorities
of the participating subborrowers.
4.          Loan resources would be mostly used for investments in water supply,
sewerage, storm drainage, fjolid waste removal, roads, and miscellaneous community
facilities.  Rehabilitation works would have priority over all new projects.
To avoid undue concentration of physical investments financed by the loan
resources, no municipality could receive more than 15 percent of total loan
resources for infrastructure.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
5.          The infrastructure component of the program finances US$248 million
of investments (83% of program cost). The general proflle of the first year
investment program is as follows:
(a)   Water, Sewerage and Drainage Infrastructure would include eight
subprojects costing about VS$24.8 million; three for water supply
(US$9.1 million); three for sewerage (US$9.2 million); and two for
storm drainage and combined sewerage (US$6.5 million). The water,
sewerage and storm drainats subprojects; would include procurement
of equipment and materials;
(b)   Other Infrastructure would include nine subprojects costing about
US$13.2 million: three for solid waste collection and disposal (US$5
million) and five for roads and bridges (US$8.2 million). The solid
waste subprojects would include procurement of collection, transport
and disposal equipment;
*c)   Community Facilities would include six subprojects costing about
US$4.2 million: two for markets (US$2.3 million), three for parks
(US$1.6 million), and one cemetery (US$0.3 million). Most of these
subprojects include land acquisition (which will be financed
locally), and the park and cemetery subprojects include procurement
of specialized equipment. Two projects for slaughterhouses are in
preparation; and
(d)   Neighborhood Improvement, only one subproject costing US$0.85 million
has been approved so far.
6.          Of the above subprojects three costing about US$10 million are for
Quito: a combined drainage-sewerage collector for the historical center of the
city (US$1.8 million); widening of the southern access to the city (3 kilometers)
from two to four lanes (US$3.8 million); and a solid waste project including
improvement of waste collection, conversion of present open disposal areas to
transfer stations, transport equipment to, and construction of a sanitary fill
27 kilometers north of Quito in an environmentally adequate location (US$4.4
mlllion). A further subproject to modernize the obsolete cadastre system is
under preparation.
Studies, Supervision and Auditing Component (US$25 million or 8% of
program cost) finances feasibility and engineering studies (2%), general and
works supervision (4%, including payment of an administration fee to BEDE), and
auditing of municipal expenditures, of BEDE's project accounts and of the Special
Account (2%).



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 7.1
Cost of Subprograms Selected for the Ftrst Year
Subsector                                Million Sucros
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Million
City                Civil                   Design                             Dollars
Works      Equipment   Studios  Supervision   Total    Total (1)
Water, Sewerage, and Drainage
-----_-----------------------
Water Supply                  4,770.42      1,002.04     143.00     230.90   6,142.88        9.09
Quininds                        762.33        186.64      67.00      37.16   1,029.13        1.52
Catamayo                        699.40       272.81       23.00      38.89   1,034.10        1.53
Ibarra                        s,s30.69       682.59       53.06     154.8s   4,079.18        6.04
Sewerage                      4,381.49     1,528.13      114.70     236.61   6,237.83        9.24
Pedro Carbo                     631.58        148.86      82.00      31.22      843.s6       1.25
Milagro                       3,233.40     1,216.01      65.00      177.98   4,682.39        6.94
Ventanas                        498.51        161.27      27.70      26.31      711.79       1.06
Storm Drainage and
Combined Sewage               3,628.40       489.39       70.00     164.63   4,350.42        6.44
Milagro                       2,483.47       489.39       20.00     118.91   3,111.77        4.81
Quito (2)                     1,142.93         -          50.o0      46.72   1,238.65        1.83
Subtotal                       12,7S8.31      3,017.58     827.70     631.04  16,730.61       24.77
Other Infrastructure
Solid Waste                   1,229.01     1,757.59      364.38      41.74   3,392.70        5.03
Huaqullas                       17.94        129.49      18.50       0.72      164.65       0.24
Sucre                            16.86       239.68       16.56       0.67      273.70       0.41
Quito                         1,194.22     1,388.42      831.38      40.86   2,954.36        4.88
Roads                         S,231.62         6.00       S3.08     218.385   5,02.93        8.15
Center of Aebato                699.10        -            3.00      29.15      731.25       1.08
Suburbs of Ambato             1,822.38         -           7.28      56.14   1,384.78        2.05
Latacunga                       451.06         -           2.85      18.81      472.22       0.70
Antonio Ante                    122.84         -           0.58       5.11      128.83       6.19
Cuanca Bridge                   17S.89         -          10.65       7.04      193.46       0.29
quito Access                  2,480.50        -           29.30     103.10   2,692.96        3.84
Subtotal                        6,460.63      1,757.59     417.42     260.09   8,89s.63       13.18



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 7.1
Cost of Subprograms Selected for the First Year                 Continued
Million Sucres
…M--------___-----------------------------------------  million
C?vil                 Design                            Dollars
Works      Equlpment  Studies Suporvislon   Total   Total (1)
Cctmmunity Facilities
Markets                      1,180.43        88.11     54.33      289.15   1,662.02       2.31
Milagro                        628.86 (a    21.66      26.83      149.23    826.07        1.22
Portovlejo                     661.68 (a    16.46      28.00      139.92    736.96        1.09
Parks                          784.72       207.03     42.49       38.S1  1,072.76        1.69
_____                          ------       ------      -----      -----   --------       ___-
Jipljapa                        87.06         7.99      6.31       11.96     62.81        0.09
Cuenca Park                    616.33 (a   171.40      33.16       23.69    843.58        1.26
Cuenca Nursery                 132.83 (a    27.64       4.02        2.87     168.88       0.25
Cemeterles                     160.32         7.84      5.67       32.14     206.97       0.31
_________                      ______--       ----      ----       -----     ------       ----
Latacunga                      160.32 (a      7.84      6.87       32.14     206.97       0.31
Subtotal                       2,126.47       252.98    102.49      369.80  2,840.74        4.21
________              ------ ______           ----_
Neighborhood Improvements        518.14        23.49      16.00      21.67     678.30       0.86
…--        ------    --           -----------                       --------
San Alejo Portovlejo           518.14        23.49      15.00      21.67     578.30       0.85
Total                         21,862.45     6,061.62    862.61   1,272.60  29,046.28       43.01
Notes: (1) USSI a S/876
(2) Historical center of Quito.
(a) Including cost of land acquisition.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Methodology for Economic and Financial Evaluation of Proiscts
1.          Economic  and  financial analysis of a subproject will  include
verification that: (a) it is the least-cost technical option; (b) its economic
rate of return is higher than the opportunity cost of capital (determined to be
12% in Ecuador); and (c) its financial rate of return is acceptable with all
grants to compensate lifeline rates to be up-front and transparent. This section
presents the methods used and the results for the projects that were approved
for the first year.
2.          The dimensioning of the project is based on balancing the supply to
be offered by the project with the projections of demand. To find the least cost
solution, the project engineer must compare the alternatives to determine which
has the lowest net economic costs of investment, operation, and maintenance.
Economic costs and benefits should be calculated adjusting the market values by
eliminating subsidies, taxes, debt servicing and depreciation, as well as using
shadow pricing where relevant. In these analyses, market prices were multiplied
by the following factors (calculated using the standard methodologies) to obtain
the shadow prices for domestic markets: unskilled labor (0.45), fuels (1.68),
electricity (2.1), and foreign exchange (1.05).
3.          Table 8.1 shows the different methods to be used in the economic
evaluation for projects of various costs. Full-scale cost-benefit analysis is
used only for more expensive projects and less costly and time-consuming methods
for projects of lower cost. Contingency evaluation was used in the analysis of
the benefits for many of the projects for which market prices were not readily
available.11  The SIMOP model was used for estimating water benefits.12 Benefit
estimates are done based on willingness to pay, including both sales revenues
11    Contingency valuation has become one of the most widely used and accepted
methods of measuring benefits for these kinds of projects. See:
Office of Water Regulations and Standards, Economic Analysis Staff,
Benefits Analysis for Water Quality Programs: Principles and Practices,
U.S.  Environmental  Projection Agency,  Washington,  D.C.  1984.   Dele
Whittington, et al., "Estimating Willingness to Pay for Water Services in
Developing Countries: A Case Study of the Use of Contingent Valuation
Surveys in Southern Haiti," Economic Development and Cultural Change, 1990,
pp. 293-311. J. Briscoe et al., "Towards Equitable and Sustainable Rural
Water Supplies: A Contingent Valuation Study in Brazil, The World Bank,
Xerox, February 6, 1990.
12    Inter-American Development Bank, SIMOP Urban Water Model:  User Manual:
A Model for Economic Appraisal of Potable Water Proj3cts in Urban Areas,
IDB, Washington, DC, July 1980.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
and the consumer surplus.
4.          Table 8.2 shows the Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) for 24 projects
selected for the first year of project implementation, representing approximately
10% of the proposed project's total cost. The evaluation involved an analysis
of the market demand to determine the dimension of each project; an analysis of
alternatives to ensure that the  minimum cost alternative is selected; an
analysis of the economic return to ensure internal economic rates of return
(ERRs) over 12%. Preliminary results indicate that the weighted average of the
ERR estimates for all components is 31.1%. If the solid waste project in Quito
is excluded, tho ERR drops to 21.1%. The average ERRs by sector are: water
supply (17.4%); sewerage (19.3%); storm drainage (22.9%); solid waste (93.8%);
roads (24.5%); and community facilities (18.0%). A sensitivity analysis was done
by varying the variable to which the ERR for each project is most sensitive
(e.g¢, costs, elasticity of demand, coverage, willIngness to pay, etc.) by 25%
to ascertain the negative impact on the ERR.  Following this procedure, the
overall rate of return for these projects dropped to 15.4% (excluding the solid
waste project in Quito).
Financial Analysis of the Project and the Enterprises
S.          In the case of public utilities, the impact of the project on the
financial condition of the company will also be analyzed using the financial
internal rate of return in which market prices of both the services and costs
will be used. An internal rate of return would have to be at least equal to the
cost of borrowing to show adequate cost recovery. In addition, the financial
analysis of the company must also be done to ascertain its viability and capacity
recover costs (for sample indicators, see page 3 of Annex 11).



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 8.1
Methodologies Used for Economic Evaluation of Projects
Subcomponent                              Methodology
Cost Limits
Regions
Water
>USS2 million                          Cost-Benefit (C-B) analysis using SIMOP
USS2 million or less                   Must meet specified cost per m3 or per Inhabitant se-ved
Sewerage
>USS2 million                          C-B analysis using contingency valuation
USS2 million or less
Costa                          Estimate of per capita benefits
Sierra                         Average willingness to pay for the region
by contingency analysis
Storm Sewers
>USS600,000                            C-B analysis using contingency valuation
USS600,000 or leSS                     Minimum cost solution
Solid Waste
>USS1 uillion                          C-B analysis using contingency valuation
USS1 million or loss
Costa                          Estimate of per capita benefits
Sierra                         Average willingness to pay for the reglon
by contingency analysis
Road Projects
>USSS00,000                            Standard C-B analysis
USS600,000 or less                     Evaluation using standard indicators
Community Facilities
Projects with market prices            Standard C-B analysis
(e.g., markets, teminals, etc.)
Projects without prices                Contingency valuation
(e.g., parks, environmental Imp.)
Neigborhood Improvement                   Contingency valuation



ANNEX 8
ECUADOR                                         Page 4 of 5
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 8.2
Economic Cost and Rates of Return of Subprojects Selected
for the First Year
E.R.R. (1)
Sensitivity
Economlc            E.R.R.             Analysis
Cost                                     -
(in        All       Excluding       Excluding
million   Projects       Quito          Quito
dollars)               Solid Waste    Solid Waste
-------------------------------------------------------------_-____----------__
Water, Sewerage, and Drainage
Water Supply                     6.95      17.38        17.38           12.71
Quininde                         1.10      14.30        14.30           12.60
Catamayo                         0.45      18.90        1C.90           13.30
Ibarra                           4.40      18.00        18.00          12.70
Sewerage                         8.15      19.26        19.26           12.44
________                         ----      -----         -----          -----
Pedro Carbo                      0.76      17.00        17.00           12.60
Milagro                          6.46      19.20        19.20           12.40
Ventanas                         0.96      21.40        21.40           12.60
Storm Drainage                   6.90      22.91        22.91          16.24
--------------          ~~~~~~~----  - - -
Milagro                          4.30      24.70        24.70          17.70
quito (2)                        1.60      18.10        18.10          12.30
Subtotal                          20.00      19.78 (a        78 (a       13.64 (a
Other Infrastructure
Solid Waste                      5.26      93.80        356.7           14.87
-----------             ~~~----- - -- - -
Huaquillas                       0.26      32.00        32.06          16.30
Sucre                            0.40      38.10        38.10          14.60
Quito                            4.60     102.00       102.00 (b         -   (b
Roads                            7.29      24.48        24.48          21.36
_____-  ---                                _____         ____           _____
Center of Ambato                 1.10      18.33        18.33          18.30
Suburbs of Ambato                2.20      16.80        16.80          13.80
Latacunga                        0.70      26.40        26.40           18.60
Antonio Ante                     0.20      33.40        33.40          25.30
Cuenca Bridge                    0.29      37.40        37.40          26.10
Quito Access                     2.80      31.50        31.60          28.40
Subtotal                          12.54      53.60 (a    26.40 (a         20.82 (a



ANNEX 8
Page 5.of 5
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Table 8.2
Economic Cost and Rates of Return of SubproJocts Selected
for the First Year                          Continued
E.R.R. (1)
Sensitivity
Economic             E.R.R.              Analysis
Cost …           …-…
(in         All        Excluding       Excluding
million   Projects        quito           Quito
dollars)                Solid Waste    Solid Waste
Community Facilities
Markets                            2.29      14.83         14.33           13.13
Milagro                            1.20      13.00         13.00           11.70
Portoviejo                         1.09       16.80        16.80           14.70
Parks                              1.67      23.03         23.03           18.01
Jipijapa                           0.17      33.00         83.00           26.00
Cuenca Park                        1.26      23.20         23.20           16.00
Cuenca Nursery                     0.25      15.40         16.40            9.30
Cemeteries                          0.3         -            -               -
Latacungs                           0.3         -   (b       -   (b          -   (b
Subtotal                             4.26       18.00 (a      18.00 (a       14.85 (a
Neighborhood Improvements            0.80       26.70         25.70          10.60
Son AleJo Portovitjo               0.80      26.70         26.70           10.60
Total                          ?   37.60        81.05         21.07          16.40
===   ==
Note:  (1) Done using the variable with the highest Impact on ERR (cost
increases, rates of growth of demand, coverage, demand elasticities,
etc.).
(2) Historical center of Quito.
(a) Average weighted by total cost.
(b) Not included in weighted average.



ANNEX 9
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Recovery Policy
1.          As a general norm, user charges (e.g., tariffs, fees and betterment
levies) and taxes should cover all costs of operation, administration,
maintenance, and investment. In the cases of water, sanitary and storm sewers,
solid waste disposal and neighborhood improvement, where the technical studies
show that the final users will not be able to cover the entire investment cost,
part of this can be covered by grants from the Municipal Investment Fund. The
cost recovery policy by sector is as follows:
Water, Sanitary and Storm Sewers, and Solid Waste Disposal.  All costs
(with the exception of the portion of the investment cost subsidized for
low-income families) will be recovered from tariffs or betterment levies.
Road Projects. Investment and maintenance costs will be recovered from
tolls, betterment fees, and increases in general municipal revenues.
Markets and Transport Terminals. All costs of investment, maintenance,
and operation to be recovered via fees and/or rent of space.
Parks. All costs to be recovered via betterment fees and increases in
general municipal revenues.
Neighborhood  Improvement.    For on-site  improvements of  residential
properties, investment costs not subsidized by the Municipal Investment
Fund would be recovered from loan payments for loans onlent to the final
beneficiaries under the same terms as for municipalities.   For public
services, cost recovery would be as stated for each of the above sectors.



ANNEX 10
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements, FY 1991-97
(In million US$)
Disbursed In         Cumulative
Calendar    Fiscal        Quarter               _
Year       Year          Ending      Quarter       FY   Disbursement    X
1991                                   7.0
1991                March 31, 1991       6.0                 6.o       5.8
June 30, 1991        1.0                 7.0       6.7
1992                                  16.0
Sept. 30, 1991       4.0                11.0      10.6
Dec. 31, 1991        4.0                15.0      14.4
1992                March 31, 1992       4.0                19.0      18.3
June 30, 1992        4.0                23.0      22.1
1993                                  18.0
Sept. 30, 1992       4.6                27.5      26.4
Dec. 31, 1992        4.5                32.0      86.8
1993                March 31, 1993       4.6                38.5      36.1
June 30, 1993        4.6                41.0      39.4
1994                                  19.0
Sept. 30, 1993       4.5                46.5      43.8
Dec. 31, 1993        4.5                60.0      48.1
1994                March 31, 1994       5.6                56.0      52.9
June 30, 1994        5.6                66.0      67.7
1996                                  18.0
Sept. 30, 1994       4.5                84.5      62.0
Dec. 31, 1994        4.5                89.0      68.3
1995                March 31, 1995       4.5                73.6      70.7
June 30, 1995        4.6                78.0      76.0
1996                                  1S.6
Sept. 30, 1996       4.6                82.6      79.3
Dec. 31, 1996        4.5                87.0      83.7
1998                March 31, 1996       4.5                91.5      88.0
Jun. 30, 1998        4.5                96.0      92.3
1997                                   8.6
Sept. 36, 1996       4.0               100.0      06.2
Dec. 31, 1998        2.0               102.0      98.1
1997                March 31, 1997       2.0               104.0    100.0
June 30, 1997        0.0               104.0    100.0



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators13
BEDE
Project Evaluation
Number of participating municipalities
Number of subloan applications received
Number of applications evaluated/Total applications received
Number of applications approved/Total applications evaluated
Average subloan appraisal time
Total subloans approved
Average subloan size
Ope. stions
Number of disbursement requests received per month
Disbursement processing time (days)
Number of subborrowers with overdue payments
Average period of delinquent payments
Municipalities
Financial
Current Account Surplus with Grants (Saving)
Current Account Surplus without grants (Own Saving)
Own Savings/Current Revenues
Own Source Revenues (taxes and user charges)/Current Revenues
Debt Service/Current Revenues
Personnel Expenditures/Total Expenditures
Institutional
Descriptions of most important changes in:
Laws, regulations and ordinances
Organization and methods
Selection, administration and evaluation of personnel
Community participation in project formulation and implementation
Improvements in financial management and tax administration
Operational
Number and type of institutions participating in each municipality
Number of project proposals received
13    These examples are indicative of the kind of indicators that might be
incorporated into the participation agreements between BEDE and the
subborrowers.



AmuxX 11
Page 2 of 3
Average project proposal preparation tim
Total amount of proposals
Average of amount of the proposals
Training
Number of technicians trained and lncorporated ln staff
Number and type of training events
Numbex of staff particlpatlng ln events by type
Municipal or ReQional EnterprLses
General
FLnancial
Operating expenses/operating revenues
Debt/Total Revenues
Operational/InstLtutional
Number of Consumers/Number of employees
Coverage
SUBCOMPONENT SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Each subcomponent would have performance Lndlcators specified ln the contracts
between BEDE and the subborrowers.   The followlng are target pertormance
indicators for water and sewage entities a/
Servlce Coverage
Total Populatlon
PopulatLon Served
Water (%)
House ConnectLons b/
other
Sewerage (%)
House Connections b/
Other
CommercLal
Water ConnectLons (000)
Metered
Non-metered
Sewerage Connections (000)
Water Billed (000 m3/month)
Metered
Non-metered
Average Water Consumption (M3/conn./month)
Ratio Collection to Blllings >.9
Monthly Sales in Accounts Recelvable <2.5 months



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
Operational
Water Production (000 m3/month)
Zietered
Estimated
Average production (m3/conn./month)
Bacteriological and physico-chemical water tests to meet quality standards set
by the Ministry of Health c/
Preventive maintenance program in place c/
Administrative
Number of employees per 1,000 water connections <5
Adequate training programs in place c/
Management information system producing timely reports d/
Financial
Operating Ratio <.6 (operating revenue/operating costs before depreciation) Cash
Flow (operating revenues sufficient to meet operating costs, working capital
needs, debt service, and contribution to investment)
Revenue ($/m3 sold)
Cost ($/m3 sold)
Compliance with revenue covenant
Reporting
Progress Reports
Timeliness
Quality
Annual Audited Financial Statements
Timeliness
Auditor's opinion
a/    Targets to be established  in accordance with the entity's  initial
conditions and the expected results of its plans. The values in front of
some of the indicators are generally associated with satisfactory
performance of water and sewerage companies.
b/    A house connection can serve more than one service account.
c/    Type of indicator to be tailored to specific situation.
d/    specify type of reports and acceptable time lags for its issuance.



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Selected Documen.ts in the Project Vile
Selected documento and data available in project files (Institutional Development
and Training).
1. Programa de Desarrollo Institucional y Capacitaci6n. Coordinacidn Central
(Working Paper). SENDAS, mayo 1990.
2.  Tablas de Costo.  Programa do Capacitacifn Personal Municipal  (Working
Paper). AMN, mayo 1990.
3.  Plan do Capacitaci6n, Asistencia Tdcnica y Desarrollo Institucional (Working
Paper). AME/ZNFODEM, febrero 1990.
4. Plan de Asistencia T6cnica para los Municipios. BEDE, noviembre 1989.
5. Propuesta Inicial Plan de Fortalecimiento Municipal. BEDE/GTZ, enero 1990.
6. Ajuste a la Propuesta Inicial Plan de Fortalecimiento Municipal (Working
Paper). BEDE/GTZ, mayo 1990.
7. Programa de Capacitaci6n y Asistencia T6cnica a lo Municipios. Arq. Cleon
Ricardo Doe Santos. Mayo 1990.
8. E1 Desafio Local.  El Municipio como Agente de Desarrollo.  Mario Rosales,
Jorge Puebla, Marco Velaeco. IULA/CELCADEL, 1988.
9. La Planificidn y Gesti6n del Desarrollo Nacional. E1 Rol de lo Gobiernos
Locales. IULA/CELCADEL, noviembre 1988.
10. Desarrollo Local. CELCADEL, junio 1987.
11. Manual do Administraci6n de Proyoctos Locales. Hector Sanin. IULA/CELCADEL,
noviembre 1988.
12. Proyecto Instituto y Programa de Capacitacidn Municipal. Municipalidad de
Quito, julio 1989.
13. Procedimientos Administrativoe y Financieros - Municipalidad de San Fernando.
Univorsidad Cat6lica de Cuenca. IERSE, 1988.
14. Las Finanzas de l10 Gobiernos Seccionales en Ecuador. A. Humberto Petrei.
Abril 1989.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
15. Ley do R#gqmen Munlolpal. Rouador, 1989.
16. SLstama de Presupuesto por Programa para Municlpios. IERSE, Cuenca 1980.
17. Roglamonto Org6nico FuncLonal do la NunLiolpalLdad de Cuenca. 1985.



5-nfoc.c F-                  (-             L~ l   (       M       B      I 
ESMERALDAS . ''
Suo  X                                ,      <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E, A       t/   t
d                           ? ,          tRA    Sg t^k,
O.                                Inde    nclo \        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tos (wonc Co ci    .                                                     g_  Ag-
JAMA                            @                         dINC P.            oy                                                       N      0
_f 4- q\u-n zSon lobuSo s wf Son~~Sm Sebst-g del c-sT___
MUA  NA   81:SiAoo                                                                                N    A      P   D         It
S. Jocmf bne:{_ ;sotv  bopu
C O  O P  X | IACDl <1 
Pt.~~~~~~ de CP,Re-y.gl 
PbY°  \_PcllinvN+inls           CA  N R   A\<AoI-                  / 
re9t0l   ,                                                                  PASTAZ>vlaeo , ,   CADO
MACHALA  |2~~                              ~         ~~~~            ~        ~ I 'tes6      Grle
A              Yk  A ev                                                        M-9 0./*5+              cto
>~~~~A                                  R> wj;et/. ol
jag  er. \w)\C  nvrsRvr
<   Mors70 . 0 , CH116CHiPE ~~~~~~~~~~~0P.od2 O40r C
It.w 01
P  E  R  U       \   '                                                  >> *  _ _ >                    V _S5 w =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rilcm
< 5f 5w 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ,  o nsa
j  OZ.Jnbo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,



