Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19984
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3285-EC)
April 13, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit LCC4C
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/.)
EXCHANGE RATES FOR US$1.00
1989  665
1990  898
1991  1,310
1992  1,846
1993  2,046
1994  2,270
1995  2,925
1996  3,635
1997  4,428
1998  6,825
1999  16,000
2000  24,960 (January)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =        0.62 mile (ml)
1 square kilometer (km2)      =       0.386 square mile (sq ml)
1 hectare (ha)      =       2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =       2,205 pounds (lbs)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Andres Solimano
Sector Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:      Thakoor Persaud



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AME            Asociacion de Municipalidades Ecuatorianas
(Association of Ecuadoran Municipalities)
BEDE           Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador S.A.
(Development Bank of Ecuador)
CONADE         Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
FIM            Fondo de Inversiones Municipales (Municipal Investment
Fund)
FODESEC        Fondo de Desarrollo Seccional
(Local Government Development Fund)
FONAPAR:    Fondo Nacional de Participacion
(National Revenue Sharing Fund)
FONAPRE:    Fondo Nacional de Pre-inversion
(National Pre- investment Fund)
FONEN    :   Fondo de Emergencia Nacional
(National Emergency Fund)
GTZ       :   Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German
Technical Assistance Organization)
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
INEC           Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos
(National Institute of Statistics and Censuses)
LGDL           Local Government Development Law
SENDA    :   Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Administrativo (National
Secretariat of Administrative Development)
This docment hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwinse be disclosed wiioig
World Bank auithorization.



I



Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .....................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................                                              ii
PART I:  Project Implementation Assessment ...................................................1.
A. Background ....................................................1
B. Project Objectives ...................................................1I
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ....................................................2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................6
E. Project Sustainability ....................................................8
F. Bank Performance ....................................................9
G. Borrower Performance ....................................................11
H. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................11
I. Future Operation ....................................................11
J. Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                                12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...................................................                       15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ...................................................                           16
Table 3: Project Timetable  ....................................................                          16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                                 . .   17
Table 5A: Project Financing (Sources) ...................................................                 17
Table SB: Project Financing (Components) ...................................................               1 8
Table 6: Number of Subprojects Supported by Sector .                          ............................................ 19
Table 7: Number of Subprojects Supported by Region .                           ........................................... 20
Table 8: Amount and Number of Subprojects by Province .                           ..................................... 21
Table 9: Project Impact on Municipal Finances                       ................................... 22
Table 10: Training Undertaken under the Project                       .................................. 23
Table 1 1: BEDE Income Statements                         ............................................ 24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions                         ........................................... 25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                       ......................................... 27
Table 14: Status of Legal Covenants                       ............................................ 28
APPENDIXES: ...............................................                                                          31
A.              Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.              Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C.              Borrower's Comments on the Bank's ICR
Map: IBRD No. 28022
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3285-EC)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Municipal Development and
Urban Infrastructure Project in Ecuador, for which Loan 3285-EC in the amount of US$104.0
million equivalent was approved on December 20, 1990, and became effective on July 1, 1991.
2.    The loan was closed on June 30, 1999, two years later than the original closing date. At
the Borrower's request there were two partial cancellations of loan funds during project
implementation. The first, for US$14.9 million, occurred in June 18, 1998 and the second, for
US$5.1 million on April 30, 1999. The final disbursement took place on July 21, 1999.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Thakoor Persaud, (Sr. Economist), and Emmanuel Njomo (Sr.
Finance Analyst), Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department (LCSFP), Latin
America and the Caribbean Region. The ICR was reviewed by Messrs. A. Solimano, E.
Wallentin, (LCC4C) and Krishna Challa (LCSFP). The Borrower provided comments which are
included as Appendix C to the ICR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's supervision mission of March 1999 and
the final supervision/completion mission in November 1999. It is based on material in the
project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing input reflected
in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project execution and initial
preparation process, and commenting on the draft ICR.
5.    The Executive Summary of the Borrower's report is attached as Appendix B. The full
report is available in the project files.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3285-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    During 1975-1981, the GDP of Ecuador grew at a 6.5% annual rate; however, during the
1982-1986 period it averaged only 1.5%. Problems such as deficient infrastructure, weak
municipal institutions, large public sector deficit and high dependency of sub-national entities
upon central government transfers surfaced in the later part of 1980's. As it became apparent
that urban growth was beginning to outstrip the ability of municipalities to keep pace with the
increasing demand for services, the Municipal Development and Urban Infrastructure Project
(PDM 1) was proposed to address some of these problems. The project was identified, prepared
and financed jointly by the GOE, IDB, GTZ and the Bank.
Project Objectives
2.    There were seven project objectives as follows:
(i) making the national/local revenue-sharing system more transparent, equitable,
predictable and effective in mobilizing local revenue;
(ii) reducing discretionary fiscal transfers to municipal governments;
(iii) helping municipalities to generate current account surpluses by increasing own-
source revenues and by reducing expenditures;
(iv) increasing the capacity of municipalities to plan and execute efficient, equitable,
and environmentally sound projects, as well as to maintain existing physical
assets;
(v) improving targeting of benefits to the lower income population;
(vi) strengthening BEDE as a reliable source of financing and technical assistance for
municipal governments; and
(vii) enhancing training of municipal employees.
3.    These goals were to be achieved through various reforms in the national revenue-sharing
mechanism, along with technical assistance and training programs for municipal staff as well as
the extension and rehabilitation of basic municipal services. These project-supported activities



iii
and reforms were to culminate in the increase of the fiscal autonomy of municipal governments
and the strengthening of their capacity to mobilize resources and to spend efficiently.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The Government of Ecuador was the Borrower and the Banco Del Estado (BEDE) was
the implementing agency. Through subsidiary agreements, BEDE was to be assisted by several
other entities which were active in the sector. Apart from technical assistance which was
provided on a grant basis, BEDE on-lent project funds to qualifying municipalities at market-
based rates, with repayments being gaaranteed by national revenue-sharing funds.
5.   In spite of a basically sound preparation and appraisal process during 1989/90, there
were still several start-up problems. These stemmed primarily from lack of final agreement on
the precedence of Bank procurement procedures over local laws, problems in applying Bank and
IDB procurement procedures for project-financed items that were to be jointly financed, and
difficulty in getting the needed volume of well-prepared sub-projects on time. This created
delays, and as pressure grew for the project to commence, BEDE began to assume a greater role
in various subproject identification, designs and contracting tasks. The pace of project
implementation was also very much influenced by several national events which included: five
changes in national presidents, three municipal election campaigns, eleven general managers in
BEDE, six Bank task managers, low petroleum prices, border conflicts with Peru, the El Ninio
phenomenon, and more recently, a severe economic and political crisis. The project was
categorized as a Problem Project in late 1994 because of the slow disbursements. Bank and IDB
missions worked with varying levels of success with the different groups in the Government and
BEDE to help advance project tasks. After the problem-project classification, tight time-bound
action plans were used to get the project on track. The Bank cancelled US$20 million while IDB
re-allocated US$4 million to the El Nifo reconstruction effort. When recent management groups
took over and showed positive results, two one-year extensions were granted.
6.    Even though the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not contain details on baseline data or
how to quantitatively determine to what level the project should achieve its goals, there is strong
evidence showing that the project successfully met its objectives. Furthermore, there were
several other ancillary benefits which were not foreseen during appraisal. Approximately 489
infrastructure subprojects were financed in entities in all 22 of the country's provinces, with the
two provinces having the largest number of subprojects being the province of Guayas (14.9%)
and Manabi (12.3%). About 128 municipalities (or 68% of total) benefited from the technical
assistance program. Some of the results are as follows:
*   Creation of the FODESEC system for revenue sharing, in May 1990, allocating 2%
of the national budget for a formula-based sub-national revenue sharing program.
In March 1997, GOE passed a Decentralization Law and a new revenue-sharing
system, which called for the allocation of 15% of the national budgetary revenues to
sub-national entities.
*   Passage of Constitutional Amendment in August 1998 making it illegal to provide
discretionary funds to sub-national governments.



iv
*   In a sample of 99 municipalities receiving credits and technical assistance under the
loan, there was an increase in their own revenue, in real terms, from US$30 M in
1990 to US$75 M in 1998. Own-income in real terms, as a share of total income,
increased from 30% to 45% between 1990 and 1998. In 24% of the municipalities
surveyed, they recently completed staff-reduction programs aimed at lowering their
operating costs and facilitating efforts to privatize various services such as the
provision of potable water, solid waste management and markets. Several entities
are seeking loans to finance retrenchment programs along with technical assistance
for privatizing municipal services under a follow-up loan, which IDB is currently
preparing with BEDE and GTZ.
*   In a random sample of 17 of 99 municipalities, 53% of them had undertaken
administrative reform programs and they now have functioning public works
management, environmental, planning and budgeting and public relations units.
Several mayors have attended and made presentations on their work at both local
and international forums and many of them have provided assistance (both in
equipment and TA) to weaker neighboring municipalities.
e   To help the poor, the project provides upfront lifeline subsidy for sanitation
services. About 54% of the investments financed under the project were for water
and sanitation works. The majority of these was subprojects targeted in areas
inhabited by the poor. The percentage of urban poor residing in areas benefiting
from the project ranged from 22% - 49%.
*   When the project began, BEDE was charging a negative real interest rate. It now
has a market-based system and is gradually recapitalizing itself. It has reduced its
staff from 550 to 300, decentralized and privatized many functions, updated its
operation manuals and recruited qualified staff for all key positions. A law to
transform BEDE to a more autonomous entity fully under the Superintendent of
Banks is now before Congress. About 71% of the municipalities have been
computerized and BEDE is in the process of providing a common network access
for better communication, both within BEDE's field offices as well as with its
clients throughout the country. BEDE has been the de-facto official repository of
data on inter-government transfers in Ecuador between 1990 and 1999. It plans to
create a municipal performance-indicator database to help create both a rating
system for municipalities as well as a municipal indicators program to facilitate
inter-municipal comparisons of efficiency and operation.
*   BEDE/GTZ teams evaluated about 240 municipalities, public enterprises and
institutions and prepared diagnoses and recommendation reports for short, medium
and long-term improvements. About 7,700 staff (vs. 7,056 planned) were trained
over the project period in municipal finance, project analysis, municipal
development, tariff and cadastre.



v
Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.    Factors beyond the control of the borrower and with favorable impact included the
popular vote in favor of a constitutional amendment making discretionary transfers illegal. The
current GOE liquidity problem, though negative, also has a positive side inasmuch as it served to
strengthen the message that municipalities should strengthen their own resource-mobilization
capabilities, if they are to avoid severe disruptions when national resources are low.
8.    Factors beyond the control of the borrower and with adverse impact included  low
petroleum prices (during project implementation) which resulted in a severe decline in
government revenues and thus undermined the revenue sharing mechanism; long delays in
awarding contracts because of automatic appeals by losing bidders, resulting in adverse impact
on prices in a high inflation environment; disruptions from border conflicts; damages from the
El Nifio phenomenon; disruptions from five national presidential changes, three municipal
elections, eleven general managers of BEDE and six Bank task managers; the current deep
economic and political crisis; and disruptions from two active volcanoes.
9.    Factors under the control of the borrower and with favorable impact included the new
decentralization law and its mechanism to use 15% of the national budget resources for revenue-
sharing; the financial and technical assistance provided by BEDE, GTZ, AME and other sector
entities; appointment by the government of a very able and professional team of high and mid-
level staff in BEDE with an appropriate practical experience
10.  Factors under the control of the borrower and with adverse impact include the inability of
the GOE to resolve various procurement issues (including both the issue of precedence of Bank
Guidelines and automatic appeals of losing bidders) after over a decade of discussions with key
IBRD and IDB procurement staff; frequent management changes in BEDE as well as several
(previous) appointments of senior-level staff without appropriate skills and experience and the
practice of approving the creation of new municipalities (from 162 to 214 over the past decade)
without considering viability issues.
Project Sustainability
11.  Based upon the results obtained thus far, it appears that BEDE and the municipal entities
have shown remarkable resiliency to the adverse factors faced during much of the
implementation period and they are now poised to continue to build upon this base. Project
sustainability is rated as likely, primarily because the FODESEC and the Decentralization Laws
are now in operation; discretionary transfers have been outlawed; municipalities continue to
implement more measures to increase their own resources and to increase their capacity to plan
and execute projects and enhance the quality of their staff, and many mayors are being re-elected
and using longer-term planning horizons, including privatization plans. While several elements
in the transformation of BEDE are still underway, even without additional external funding,
BEDE now has the ability to continue operating for the foreseeable future, albeit with constraints
and lesser resources. The planned follow-up IDB loan will assist in further advancing several
initiatives and consolidating and institutionalizing the process to such a degree that reversals by
later administrations may not be easy or popular.



vi
12.  The above positive analysis should be tempered somewhat by the fact that the GOE is in
arrears with its transfer payments to the municipalities and to BEDE (for past investments and
obligations) and the economic and political crises has worsened as the president was replaced.
This has implications for both BEDE and the entities which receive revenue from the GOE. The
IDB is currently preparing a follow-up loan for BEDE and as part of the GOE/IMF negotiations,
IDB is considering provision of a quick-disbursement loan to the GOE to help clear these debts.
Bank Performance
13.   Viewed in context of the time when the events took place ten years ago, this project could
be seen as rather typical for such operations in terms of size, focus, goals, implementation
arrangements and general conditions. Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. A noteworthy
feature in the preparation and appraisal phase was the high degree of inter-institutional
coordination among the Bank, IDB, GTZ and the GOE. Another important feature was the
degree of participation of senior-level staff from both the Bank and IDB in the process and the
policy letter and action plan prepared by the GOE. The Preparation Team showed creativity in
making use of BEDE's ongoing relationship with the municipalities to create a more integrated
and efficient system for sector lending.
Borrower Performance
14.    To the Government's credit, it undertook a major reform of the transfer system before
project implementation began. FODESEC was created to replace FONAPAR. Specific targets
were set for the amounts to be distributed annually to local governments and indices for
determining the automatic revenue sharing levels were agreed. The Government strengthened
this process with the passage of the Decentralization Law in March 1997 increasing the
proportion of the national budget to be subject to revenue sharing to 15%. In August 1998 the
Government passed a constitutional amendment barring the provision of discretionary funds to
subnational Government. On the project level, the operations of BEDE and participating
municipalities were strengthened through technical assistance and training. The one glaring
failure was the inability of the Government to resolve the issue of the precedence of the Bank's
procurement guidelines over the local practice. The automatic appeals of contract awards by
losing bidders was also a great obstacle. These resulted in unnecessary delays in construction
and lower subproject benefits as well as cost-overruns due to the high inflationary environment.
Project Outcome
15.   The assessment of the project outcome is rated satisfactory. Even though the pace of
project implementation was adversely influenced by several national events (Government and
economic crises, high staff turnover, El Nifno, etc.), all project objectives were satisfactorily
attained. National/local revenue-sharing system was made more transparent, equitable,
predictable and effective through the creation of the FODESEC system for revenue sharing in
May, 1990, under which it allocated 2% of the national budgetary for a formula-based sub-
national revenue sharing program. In March 1997, as part of a national decentralization initiative,
the GOE passed a Decentralization Law clarifying the roles of various national and sub-national
entities and granted greater autonomy to sub-national entities. Evidence that the project objective



vii
to help municipalities generate current account surpluses by increasing own-source revenues,
was provided in the analysis of a sample of 99 municipalities which received credits and
technical assistance under the loan. The analysis indicated an increase in their own revenues, in
real terms, from US$30 M in 1990 to US$75 M in 1998. The objective of improving the
targeting of benefits to the lower income population was accomplished through BEDE's
financing projects in provinces with significant concentration of the urban poor (e.g. 73
subprojects or 15% of total subprojects were funded in the Guayas province which has the
highest proportion of urban poor).
16.   BEDE was strengthened financially by supporting its move away from a low, fixed
interest rate system (negative in real terms) to a market-based system (positive in real terms) as
well as its gradual recapitalization. Furthermore, apart from recruiting highly skilled and
experienced staff, BEDE has also reduced its staff from 550 to 300 and it plans further
reductions under the second PDM loan. It has already privatized several of its administrative
functions and it plans to continue this program under the IDB follow-up loan. Finally, the
objective of improving the quality of municipal staff has also had significant success. AME and
SENDA have trained a total of about 7,700 key municipal and other staff, in such areas as
municipal finance, project analysis, municipal development, tariff and cadastre. Under the
project, BEDE/GTZ teams evaluated about 240 municipalities and other entities and prepared
diagnoses and recommendation reports for short, medium and long-term improvements.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons
17.   Overall, the project met the seven stated objectives of the SAR. The improvements
supported under the project are expected to be sustained in the future because the IDB and GTZ,
with some possible assistance from the Andean Fund (CAF) are currently preparing a follow-up
project to help the GOE in consolidating the gains of the first project and to address some of the
weaknesses identified during ex-post reviews. The Bank is also contributing to this effort by
financing, with a US$192,000 PHRD grant, studies aimed at helping to identify ways through
which municipalities could have greater private sector participation in the provision of municipal
services. Among the key lessons are the following:
(i) Municipal development/decentralization projects are much more complex than
normal infrastructure or sector investment operations; successful municipal
projects invariably result in substantial changes in the political and economic
power centers of a country. As such, there tends to be perceptions of "winners"
and "losers". To the degree that lenders do not properly identify all of the
affected groups and work with them to see the "win-win" aspects of such
operations, success may be limited. In the early phase of this project, there were
several instances of both central-local and intra-local conflicts related to this
problem.
(ii) While decentralization and municipal development projects have great potential
for improving the way urban areas are managed and the service provided, it
should be made explicit that the elimination of revenue-sharing practices is not a
goal; few sub-national entities, irrespective of their location in developed or
developing economies, can totally survive on their own resources. Similarly, it



viii
should be clarified that maybe only the largest 5-10% of sub-national entities may
ultimately have access to commercial credit sources; others may have to unify
their forces and find creative ways of sharing specialized resources which they
cannot afford individually. In this project the Bank and the IDB could have made
this point clearer and tried more actively to discourage the continued creation of
new municipalities.
(iii) There should be a clear distinction made between project-specific issues (design,
administration, etc.), and country-endemic ones (contracting, counterpart funds,
audits, etc.). The former should be the responsibility of the TM while the latter
should be addressed at the country level. In this project, national contracting
issues had to be addressed at the project level which lowered considerably the
probability of success.
(iv) Traditional project launches may not be the most cost-effective or efficient tools
to orient borrowers, clarify roles and responsibilities, procedures, etc. Such
launches tend to create an information overload and more often than not, the
message does not reach key counterpart staff. Additionally, with the high staff
turnover at various levels, there is little continuity. Perhaps a better approach is to
program several strategic on-site "mini-launches" and add TA for intemet access
to the needed information. Supervision mission meetings with groups of mayors
and technical staff proved to be very useful in getting this project back on track.
(v) Inter-institutional coordination among lenders and donors can be a very useful
tool if employed properly; however, they could create problems if a bottoms-up
attempt is made to go beyond a basic level. In the project, the early preparation
and appraisal phase benefited enormously from the combined forces of the Bank,
IDB and GTZ. However, the operating structure of the Bank and IDB did not
allow for a common set of project administration, approval and related
contracting procedures. Untangling these contributed to startup delays.
(vi) Use of revenue-sharing funds as sub-loan guarantees by municipalities is a good
device for first-generation municipal lending operations; however, while it has
generally contributed to satisfactory sub-loan repayments record, sub-national
borrowers and lenders need to quickly move to instruments which more closely
link investments with their associated costs, benefits and risks. A greater private-
sector role should also be envisaged from the outset and be an integral part of the
project design.
(vii) Sub-project lending which only focuses upon the investments to be financed are
usually of limited institutional value; they often yield contradictions. Many
municipal development projects have conditions for sub-national entities to agree
to (a) conduct economic and other analyses only for those investments financed
by project funds (i.e., ignoring those funded from other sources) and (b) maintain
these investments to a standard which is generally above the usual maintenance
system of the concerned implementing agency or municipality. As a practical
matter, this is not easy to do. Even if it can be done, it may not make sense for a



ix
municipality to have, for example, one market being well maintained while the
others are not.
(viii) Higher recognition and more resource allocation for supervision work are still
lagging. Adequate supervision resources for appropriately-constituted missions
should be provided, especially for complex projects and in cases where TMs have
to address a variety of project and country issues in the course of project
implementation. TMs can, and do find creative ways of compensating for
shortfalls (Trust Funds, joint missions, etc.); however, without adequate
resources, the task is not easy.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3285-EC)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    During the period 1975-1981 Ecuador's GDP grew at a rate of about 6.5% per
year, fueled primarily by petroleum and agricultural exports. However, during the 1982-
1986 period, the annual GDP growth rate averaged only 1.5%, with an annual inflation
rate approaching 100% in late 1980s. The public sector deficit was over 5% of GDP in
1988 and the country was experiencing rapid urbanization with deteriorating
infrastructure, qualitative and quantitative deficiencies in basic services, inefficiency,
high dependency of sub-national entities upon Central Government transfers and poor
administrative capacity at the sub-national level. The Municipal Development and Urban
Infrastructure Project (PDM 1) was identified as one of the tools available to address
some of the problems highlighted under an IMF Agreement with Ecuador. The project
was identified in September 1989 and it was prepared jointly by the GOE, IDB, and GTZ.
The Bank provided a PPF of $974,000 to finance its share of the preparation of the
project.
B. Project Objectives
2.    As stated in the loan-preparation documents and the SAR, this project was
conceived as a single-intervention operation aimed at resolving several national as well as
sub-national problems encompassing various legal, financial, administrative, investment
and related issues.  It shared several of the basic diagnostic and prescriptive
characteristics of many of the urban development projects of that period. The overall
objective noted in the SAR was "...to increase the fiscal autonomy of municipal
governments, as well as their capacity to deliver services efficiently and equitably" thus
contributing "... directly to the attainment of the Government's macroeconomic goals of
reducing the public sector deficit and increasing sector efficiency." There were seven
specific project goals as follows: (i) making the national/local revenue-sharing system
more transparent, equitable, predictable and effective in mobilizing local revenue; (ii)
reducing discretionary fiscal transfers to municipal governments;  (iii) helping
municipalities to generate current account surpluses by increasing own-source revenues
and by reducing expenditures (preferably by increasing efficiency); (iv) increasing the
capacity of municipalities to plan and execute efficient, equitable, and environmentally
sound projects, as well as to maintain existing physical assets; (v) improving targeting
of benefits to the lower income population; (vi) strengthening BEDE as a reliable source



2
of financing and technical assistance for municipal governments; and (vii) enhancing
training of municipal employees.
3.    These goals were to be achieved through various reforms in the revenue sharing
system, along with several technical assistance and training programs and a program of
physical investments for basic municipal services.
4.    The Government of Ecuador was the Borrower and the Banco Del Estado (BEDE)
was the implementing agency. The original project-financing plan was as follows: Bank
(US$104 M); IDB (US$104 M); GOE (US$88.0 M) and GTZ (4.0). A special Project
Implementation Unit was created within BEDE, which had primary responsibility for
evaluating credit applications from municipalities and other sub-national entities and
supervising and monitoring compliance by these entities with loan conditions. Through
subsidiary agreements, BEDE was to be assisted by other project-implementation entities
as follows: (a) the pre-investment fund (FONAPRE), was responsible for screening and
facilitating preparation of viable sub-projects by borrowers in accordance with BEDE
guidelines (economic, financial, environmental, technical, etc.); (b) the National
Secretariat of Development (SENDA), was responsible for coordinating administrative
reforms and training needs of the borrowing entities; (c) the Association of Municipalities
(AME) had responsibility for training programs for municipal staff, and (d) the German
Technical Assistance Agency (GTZ) was responsible for providing Technical Assistance
to BEDE and other sub-borrowers. Additionally, there was a Project Committee to help
facilitate overall coordination among all Government entities involved in urban sector
development. It was made up of representatives of the various participating entities and
chaired by a representative of the Finance Ministry.
5.    Apart from technical assistance which was provided on a grant basis, BEDE on-
lent project funds to qualifying municipalities at market rates and with repayments being
guaranteed by revenue-sharing funds. Several documents and guidelines were prepared
to assist the various implementation entities in their tasks. These included manuals on:
(a) Eligibility; (b) Operations; (c) Follow-up and Supervision; (d) Economic and
Financial Evaluation of Subprojects; (e) Technical Evaluation; (f) Environmental
Evaluation; (g) Municipal Administration Fund (FIM) Administration; (h) Institutional
Development and (i) Cadastre.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
6.   In spite of a sound preparation and appraisal process, there were still several
start-up problems. These stemmed primarily from lack of final agreement on the
precedence of Bank procurement procedures over local laws, problems in applying joint
Bank/IDB procurement procedures and difficulty in getting the needed volume of well-
prepared sub-projects on time. This created delays, and as pressure grew for the project
to commence, BEDE began to assume a greater role in various subproject identification,
designs and contracting tasks. The pace of project implementation was also very much
influenced by several national events which included: five changes in national presidents,
three municipal election periods, eleven general managers in BEDE, six Bank task
managers, low petroleum prices, border conflicts with Peru, the El Nifno phenomenon,
and more recently, a severe economic and political crisis. The project was categorized as



3
a Problem Project in late 1994 because of the slow disbursements. Bank and IDB
missions worked with varying levels of success with the different groups to help advance
project activities. After the problem-project classification, tight time-bound action plans
were used to get the project on track. The Bank cancelled US$20 million while IDB re-
allocated US$4 million to the El Nifio reconstruction effort. When recent management
groups took over and the project showed positive results, two one-year extensions were
granted.
7.    Even though it has been a relatively short time since many of the sub-projects and
Technical Assistance programs were completed and the SAR did not contain details on
baseline data or how to quantitatively determine to what level the project should achieve
its goals, there is strong evidence showing that the project successfully met its objectives,
perhaps to a lesser degree than the level implied in the appraisal documents.
Furthermore, indications are that there were several other ancillary benefits which were
not foreseen during appraisal. A point-by-point evaluation of the project achievement is
presented below. In addition, Tables 6-9 also give greater details on the subprojects
financed under the project as well as the project's impact on municipal finances.
8.    Project Objectives (i) and (ii):  Making the national/local revenue-sharing
system more transparent, equitable, predictable and effective in mobilizing local revenue
and reducing discretionary fiscal transfers to municipal governments.
9.    Project Achievements:  The GOE created the FODESEC system for revenue
sharing in May, 1990, under which it allocated 2% of the national budget for a formula-
based sub-national revenue sharing program (using weights of 60% for population, 30%
for unsatisfied basic needs and 10% for efforts to increase own-resources). With this
system, between 1990 and 1998, 99 of the country's sub-national entities received
approximately US$349 million equivalent to help meet current expenditures and about
US$772 million to help meet capital expenditures.  Additionally, the Municipal
Investment Fund (FIM) received approximately US$73 million to be used as project
counterpart resources and to help support a lifeline tariff rate (in the form of up-front
subsidies) for low-income users of water and sanitation services.
10.  In March 1997, as part of a national decentralization initiative, the GOE passed a
Decentralization Law clarifying the roles of various national and sub-national entities and
granting greater autonomy to sub-national entities. Included in this law was a mechanism
to help finance the decentralized responsibilities. It was based upon a formula to
gradually increase the share of the national net income transferred to sub-national entities
until it reached 15%. This system commenced operation in 1998, with 9% being
transferred and it operates in addition to the FODESEC system.
11.   While the FODESEC and the Decentralization Law went a long way toward
eliminating discretionary transfers by various Government and other officials, there were
still some leakages. These were completely halted in August 1998 with a constitutional
amendment which made it illegal to provide any discretionary transfers to municipal or
other sub-national entities.



4
12.   An analysis of a random sample of 70 municipalities indicated that municipalities
that participated in the project were able to raise on average about 21.1% of their revenue
requirements between 1990-1998 while municipalities that did not participated were able
to raise only about 13.9%. Similarly central Government transfers over the same period
averaged 20.9% for the municipalities participating in the project, but averaged 25.3% for
non-participating municipalities. Comparable data were obtained for capital transfers
(40.1 % for participating municipalities vs. 49.6% for non-participating municipalities).
13.   Project Objective (iii): Helping municipalities to generate current account
surpluses by increasing own-source revenues and by reducing expenditures (preferably
by increasing efficiency).
14.   Project Achievements: In a sample of 99 municipalities which received credits
and technical assistance under the loan and for which BEDE has complete data over the
past nine years, there was an increase in their own revenue, in real terms, from US$30 M
in 1990 to US$75 M in 1998. As discussed further below, the technical assistance
program for cadastre has been a primary source of increased municipal income. For the
municipalities in the sample, own-income in real terms, as a share of total income,
increased from 30% to 45% between 1990 and 1998. In the municipalities surveyed,
24% of them had recently completed staff-reduction programs aimed at reducing their
operating costs and facilitating efforts to privatize various services such as water, solid
waste management and markets. One municipality sought and received a loan from
BEDE to compensate retrenched workers and there are currently several other
municipalities seeking similar loans along with technical assistance for privatizing their
services under a follow-up loan, PDM II, which IDB is currently preparing with BEDE
and GTZ.
15.   Project Objective (iv): increasing the capacity of municipalities to plan and
execute efficient, equitable, and environmentally sound projects, as well as to maintain
existing physical assets.
16.   Project Achievements: In a random sample of 17 of 99 municipalities for which
BEDE has data, 53% of them had undertaken administrative reform programs with TA
from SENDA and AME. These entities now have functioning public works management,
environmental, planning and budgeting and public relations units. In several field visits
and discussions with beneficiaries, contractors and municipal officials, there seems to be
a significant change in the way municipal officials view their role and in the willingness
of beneficiaries to pay for improved services. With the macro-economic crisis and
liquidity problems that the country is currently facing, most mayors are seeing the
benefits of depending more upon their own resource-base and many have actively sought
BEDE/GTZ assistance to involve beneficiaries, Community Based Organizations
(CBOs), Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), trade unions and opposition groups
in order to arrive at a consensus regarding investment priorities, cost recovery,
redundancies, greater private sector participation, etc. Several mayors have attended and
made presentations at both local and international forums on these issues and many of
them have been actively providing assistance (both in equipment and TA) to weaker
neighboring municipalities.



5
17.   Project Objective (v): Improving targeting of benefits to the lower income
population.
18.   Project Achievements: It is estimated that Ecuador has about 22% - 48% of
urban households currently living at or below the poverty line, depending on the
province. Most of these families are in the growing peripheral zones where water,
sanitation and several other basic services are not easily accessible or of low quality.
Project statistics show that about 54% of the investments financed under the project were
for water and sanitation works. The project has a provision for subsidizing lifeline
sanitation services financed by the loan. The project supported 73 subprojects (or 15% of
total subprojects) in the Guayas province with the highest proportion of urban poor. The
data indicates that this project goal is being met and IDB, BEDE and GTZ are working
with sub-borrowers to incorporate more targeting mechanisms in the follow-up loan.
19.   Project Objective (vi): Strengthening BEDE as a reliable source of financing
and technical assistance for municipal governments.
20.   Project Achievements:  There are several indicators showing success in
achieving this goal. First, by moving away from a low, fixed interest rate system
(negative in real terms) to a market-based system (positive in real terms), BEDE is
gradually recapitalizing itself and it has become a much stronger institution. With
outside consultants (Deloite), a new group of financial and strategic-planning staff has
been recruited to help in transforming BEDE from a state-dominated entity to an
autonomous one which would be fully under the Superintendent of Banks. With technical
assistance from GTZ and IDB, BEDE hired consultants to help draft a reform law which
is currently in Congress. Apart from recruiting highly skilled and experienced staff,
BEDE has also reduced its staff from 550 to 300 and it plans further reductions under the
second PDM loan. It has already privatized several of its administrative functions and it
plans to continue this program under the IDB follow-up loan. With project finances,
BEDE contracted studies aimed at identifying administrative bottleneck areas, and
mainly as a result of this, it has decentralized many key functions, giving the four
regional offices greater autonomy in responding to credit and TA requests of
municipalities. Additionally, about 71% of the municipalities have been computerized
and BEDE is in the process of providing a common network access for better
communication, both within BEDE's field offices as well as with its clients throughout
the country.
21.   After finding it time-consuming, difficult and costly to obtain reliable data to
analyze the financial capacity and operation of potential clients, BEDE began to build its
own data base on inter-governmental transfers, municipal investments, operation costs,
service level and general finances. As a result of this initiative, it has been the de-facto
official repository of data on inter-government transfers in Ecuador between 1990 and
1999. As part of the follow-up project, BEDE plans to expand the data base on inter-
governmental transfers and it also plans to create a municipal performance-indicator
database which it hopes to use later on to create both a rating system for municipalities as
well as a municipal indicators program to facilitate inter-municipal comparisons of
efficiency and operational indicators. In another area, with IDB financing, BEDE has
updated and simplified all of its operational manuals, reflecting the experience gained



6
from PDM 1, and it has defined and clarified the respective roles of all participants over
the project cycle. The environmental manual was updated with assistance from a Spanish
firm and BEDE is sharing this with the Environment Ministry for county-wide
application.
22.   GTZ has worked very closely with BEDE to help in several project management
and community-participation initiatives. One area of special importance is TA and
financing of several studies in support of the GOE's decentralization initiative. Apart
from such assistance, GTZ has been assisting several national governmental entities as
well as AME and BEDE in addressing such topics as municipal debt-capacity, inter-
institutional coordination and greater community participation. In follow-up activities,
GTZ is assisting BEDE with an ex-post pilot study of how municipalities are operating
and maintaining the assets financed under the project. As this study continues, it is
expected that BEDE, with assistance form GTZ and the follow-up IDB loan, would have
a detailed ex-post analysis for each sub-project and it will prepare a joint program with
the affected municipality for continued operation and maintenance of the asset.
23.   Project Objective (vii): Enhancing training of municipal employees.
24.   Project Achievements: The objective of improving the quality of municipal staff
has also had significant success. AME and SENDA have trained a total of about 7,700
key municipal and other staff, in such areas as municipal finance, project analysis,
municipal development, tariff and cadastre. Under the project, BEDE/GTZ teams
evaluated about 240 municipalities and other entities and prepared diagnoses and
recommendation reports for short, medium  and long-term  improvements.  Work
programs were also prepared for about 138 of these entities and about 124 (58% of the
total) received training in cadastres.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.   Factors Beyond the Control of the Borrower and With Favorable Impact
(i)   Perhaps the most important factor in this category was the popular vote in
favor of a constitutional amendment making discretionary transfers illegal.
This halted many of the roundabout ways that politicians were finding to
undermine the newly-established FODESEC system.
(ii)   While the current liquidity problem of the GOE had general negative
impacts, it has also had at least one positive indirect impact insofar as it
has pushed sub-national entities to seek more local funding to finance their
needs. Many local officials have now learned that they could increase
their own resources without jeopardizing their access to revenue-sharing.
26.   Factors Beyond the Control of the Borrower and With Adverse Impact. There
have been several significant factors during the 1990-1999 project-implementation
period. Among these were:
(i)   low petroleum price over most of the period and consequent low GOE
revenue receipts and expenditures;



7
(ii)   automatic appeals by losing bidders resulting in contract-award delays
which in some cases, lasted over a year, causing significant cost-overruns
in an environment of high inflation;
(iii)  border conflicts with Peru which diverted national resources and
contributed to inflation and high interest rate;
(iv)  the El Ninfo phenomenon is estimated to have caused about US$ 230
million in losses to public infrastructure and about US$ 300 million to
private sector productive assets, causing municipalities to divert resources
to emergency reconstruction works and weakening the repayment capacity
of beneficiaries;
(v)  five national presidential changes including the ousting of a president in a
period of turmoil;
(vi)  three municipal election periods with changes in mayors and councilors
and the usual hiatus in activities, attempts by newcomers to discard or
ignore actions of their predecessors, and other such factors which
accompany such events;
(vii)  eleven general managers of BEDE contributing to a high level of
uncertainty, lack of strategic planning capability and continuity;
(viii)  six Bank task managers, contributing to continuity problems;
(ix)  current deep economic, financial and political crisis with widespread bank
failures and defaults on international debts; and
(x)   two active volcanoes which have displaced thousands of families and are
causing serious human suffering and financial and economic losses.
27.   Factors Under the Control of the Borrower and With Favorable Impact
(i)   The new decentralization law and its mechanism to use 15% of the national
budget resources for revenue-sharing is a very important step toward
making sub-national entities more self-sufficient and in the consolidation of
project gains made so far.
(ii)  At the same time, at various levels within municipalities and in many
communities, there has been a new awareness of the benefit of the financial
and technical assistance provided by BEDE with assistance of GTZ, AME
and other entities.
(iii)  The appointment by the government of a very able and professional team
of high and mid-level staff in BEDE with an appropriate practical
experience has helped immensely in reversing several negative impacts and
establishing the basis for institutionalizing these positive elements.



8
28.   Factors Under the Control of the Borrower and With Adverse Impact
(i)   One of the most prominent element in this category is the inability of the
GOE to resolve various procurement issues. After over a decade of
discussions with key IBRD and IDB procurement staff, several
fundamental procurement issues are still to be fully resolved. Among these
is the basic question of precedence of Bank Procurement Guidelines over
local laws.  In this project, it took several meetings among high-level
IBRD/IDB/GOE staff for several months before there was agreement on
this issue to permit contracting activities. Several times during project
implementation, questions on this issue continued to surface from the
Contraloria General's office and cause delays. This resulted in cost
overruns.
(ii)  Satisfactory resolution of the issue of automatic appeal by losing bidders
remains a very serious threat to efficiently implementing affordable
investments. BEDE is currently discussing a proposal to create a special
panel to quickly screen out frivolous claims and to arbitrate others.
(iii)  The frequent management changes in BEDE as well as several (previous)
appointments of senior-level staff without appropriate skills and experience
has also been a problem area. Additionally, with the frequent changes, it
was difficult to have any long-term perspective or to build upon previous
interactions and agreements.
(iv)  The practice of approving the creation of new municipalities has had, and
will continue to have a debilitating effect on efforts to promote self-
sufficiency among them. Over the past decade, for example, it is estimated
that the number grew from 162 to 214 municipalities. Many are too small
to be viable and instead of creating new ones, the GOE should be seeking
ways of consolidating them.
E. Project Sustainability
29.   Likely. The following are some of the primary reasons why it appears that project
sustainability is likely in terms of the seven project goals.
(i)   The FODESEC and the Decentralization Laws are now in operation and
discretionary transfers have been prohibited by law. While there may be
some adjustments to the system (e.g., perhaps consolidating FODESEC and
the 15% systems), it is not easy to return to the old system of discretionary
transfers.
(ii)   The goal of making municipalities more self-sufficient seems to be gaining
ground, especially since the GOE is finding it more and more difficult to
provide national revenue for all of the local needs and a most of the
municipalities have implemented improved systems to collect more local
revenues. Such actions, coupled with the existing revenue-sharing systems,



9
are expected to help the majority of municipalities to continue to improve
their operations.
(iii) In terms of the goals of increasing the capacity of municipalities to plan
and execute projects and enhancing the quality of municipal staff, these
appear to be well-established, especially among the larger municipalities.
With mayors now being allowed to have multiple terms in office and many
of them doing so, there is greater interest in longer-term planning horizons
and operational efficiency measures such as privatization, improved service
levels, etc.
(iv)   The goal of converting BEDE to an autonomous entity is still to be
approved by the Congress. However, even without additional external
funding, BEDE has the ability to continue operating for the foreseeable
future, albeit with constraints and lesser resources.  With the planned
follow-up IDB loan, many of the advances noted in BEDE and the sector
institutions are likely to be consolidated and institutionalized further to
such a degree that reversing them through later administrative actions may
not be easy or popular.
30.   Based upon the results obtained thus far, it appears that BEDE and the municipal
entities have shown remarkable resiliency to the adverse factors faced during much of the
implementation period and they are now poised to continue to build upon this base. At
the same time, it should be noted that the GOE is in arrears with its transfer payments to
the municipalities and to BEDE (for past investments and obligations) and the economic
and political crises have worsened as the president was replaced. This has implications
for both BEDE and the entities which receive revenue from the GOE. BEDE needs the
funds to finance its administrative costs and to continue its lending program while the
municipalities need their portion of the revenue-sharing proceeds to meet their
administrative and capital investments and to repay BEDE. The IDB is currently
preparing a follow-up loan for BEDE and as part of the GOE/IMF negotiations, IDB is
considering provision of a quick-disbursement loan to the GOE to help clear these debts.
F. Bank Performance
31.   The analysis of Bank performance is done in the context of the time when the
events took place ten years ago. Viewed in that context, this project would have been
rather typical for such operations in terms of size, focus, goals, implementation
arrangements and general conditions.
32.   During Project Identification and Preparation. Satisfactory. One very noteworthy
feature in the preparation and appraisal phase of this project was the high degree of inter-
institutional coordination among the Bank, IDB, GTZ and the GOE. This was a special
case of a truly joint preparation and appraisal exercise where the tasks were divided
among the participating institutions and they shared the output for their respective
reports. Another important feature was the degree of participation of senior-level staff
from both the Bank and IDB in the process and the extensive use of consultants, with
some efforts made to obtain greater beneficiary participation. During project preparation,



10
Bank staff at several levels actively participated in the process and got the GOE to
prepare a policy letter along with other actions. Several key procurement staff, including
the then-Regional Procurement Advisor, were intensively involved in the process. This
reflected both in the attempt being made to harmonize Bank and IDB procurement
requirements as well as the thorny procurement issues associated with the country.
Similarly, for the financial aspects, a Director participated in the field review of the
financial operation of BEDE and several municipalities.
33.   The Preparation Team showed creativity in taking the basic elements of an
existing structure where BEDE had an ongoing relationship with the municipalities, and
it tried to transform this into a more integrated and efficient system for sector lending.
Perhaps, a possible weak point in the identification and preparation phase could be the
apparent willingness to believe that the entities would easily adapt and quickly implement
the project and that the changes required under the project were not too difficult to make.
While the risks section of the SAR noted some of these potential problem areas, the Bank
and IDB staff seemed to believe that among the studies, technical assistance and GOE
policy letter and matrix, these obstacles and other shortcomings would be addressed,
given the commitment of the GOE.
34.   During Appraisal: Satisfactory. As with the earlier preparation phase, the
appraisal process was consistent with Bank practices of the time. Additionally, the active
participation of senior level staff from both the Bank and IDB continued and the missions
made special efforts to ensure that counterpart staff had the opportunity to work jointly
with the appraisal mission to conduct test runs of the financial model, some sub-project
analysis and various preparatory activities. When GOE officials reopened the issue of
procurement, there were intensive exchanges aimed, at resolving the problems. Perhaps,
at that juncture, there should have been some more efforts made to get other key GOE
officials from the Finance Ministry involved and putting more efforts toward avoiding
any future questions on this and similar procurement issues.
35.   During Supervision: Satisfactory. While the overall supervision evaluation
process has been satisfactory, there were many periods when this was not so. In terms of
early positive supervision actions, as the project began and it became apparent that the
idea of a joint Bank/IDB procurement, financing and sub-project reviews was not feasible
because of institutional differences, the Bank took steps to untie these arrangements.
This contributed to a Bank disbursement record which was ahead of IDB's for most of
the implementation period. Also, in spite of several changes in the Department and Sector
Unit responsible for operations in Ecuador within the Bank (from LA41E to LA3EU to
LCC4C/LCSFP), efforts were made to keep the project moving. Bank supervision
missions were very frequent during the start-up phase.  However, the degree of
coordination with IDB for supervision was not as high as for the preparation and
appraisal. Part of the reason was that IDB was supervising from the field office; the other
was that it was apparent that the tying arrangement was not feasible and so each entity
began to work more on an individual basis. One of the main shortcomings in the early
phase was when FONAPRE failed to deliver the required sub-projects to BEDE. Instead
of trying to find another entity to do the task, there was pressure from both the Bank and
IDB to have greater disbursements. To do so, BEDE gradually began to fill the gaps in



11
sub-project preparation, designs, contracting and several other areas where, for various
reasons, it should not have entered.
36.   Another case of partially-appropriate response was the recommendation by
project staff for restructuring but inaction on this recommendation, perhaps in the
interest of country-relations. Partly as a result of this, the project was classified as a
Problem Project. This action had a sobering effect upon the borrower and several new
initiatives were taken to reinforce the need for improved borrower performance. Among
these were a renewal of joint supervision missions with IDB, close cooperation with GTZ
and agreement on new time-bound performance targets, reinforced by two cancellations
when it became apparent that the targets could not be met.
G. Borrower Performance
37.   During Project Identification and Preparation. Satisfactory.  The GOE was
experiencing a very difficult economic period and it was very interested in having a
project which promised to reduce a large part of its financial burden, while assisting in
decentralization plans. In addition to preparing a Policy Letter, the GOE quickly took
several actions, including the passage of the FODESEC Law and a law allowing
municipalities to recover both capital and O&M costs.
38.   During Project Implementation: Satisfactory. The GOE cooperated with the
Bank and the IDB and until the most recent economic crisis, it provided all of the
promised counterpart and transfer funds which were needed by BEDE and the
municipalities for the project.  To a large extent, most of the different political
administrations tried to abide by their legal commitments; however, there were instances
where appointments were made without due consideration of the requirements of the job
and this resulted in several periods of difficulty during project implementation.
H. Assessment of Outcome
39.   Overall Rating: Satisfactory. Overall, the project successfully met its stated
objectives of increasing the fiscal autonomy of municipal governments, halting
discretionary transfers, improving the capacity of municipalities to deliver services
efficiently and equitably and contributing directly to the attainment of the Government's
macroeconomic goals of reducing the public sector deficit and increasing sector
efficiency.
I. Future Operations.
40.   The improvements supported under the project are expected to be sustained in the
future because the IDB and GTZ, perhaps with some assistance from the Andean Fund
(CAF) are currently preparing a follow-up project to help the GOE in consolidating the
gains of the first project and to also address some of the weaknesses identified during the
first operation.  The Bank is also contributing to this effort by financing, with a
US$192,000 PHRD grant, studies aimed at helping to identify ways through which
municipalities could have greater private sector participation in the provision of
municipal services. In light of current macro-economic conditions and lessons learned



12
from the first project, it would not be advisable for all lenders to once again lend a large
amount at the same time to the country. If the country can reach an agreement with the
IMF and it can clear up its outstanding debts to BEDE and the municipalities, a second
IDB operation could be used to help in continuing the first program and build the basis
for some of the larger municipalities to seek credit from traditional market-based lenders.
Future Bank urban lending could help in this goal or in some other complementary areas
of need in the sector.
J. Key Lessons Learned
41.   To a large degree, because of the relatively long implementation period, most of
the lessons of this project have already been taken into account by the Bank and have
been incorporated into current lending practices (e.g., use of LILs, APLs, Logframe
system, quantified and measurable targets, community participation, etc.). The following
are some additional lessons from this project:
(i) Municipal development/decentralization projects are much more complex
than normal infrastructure or sector investment operations; successful
municipal projects invariably result in substantial changes in the political
and economic power centers of a country. As such, there tends to be
perceptions of "winners" and "losers". To the degree that lenders do not
properly identify all of the affected groups and work with them to see the
"'win-win" aspects of such operations, success may be limited. In the early
phase of this project, there were several instances of both central-local and
intra-local conflicts related to this problem.
(ii) While decentralization and municipal development projects have great
potential for improving the way urban areas are managed and the service
provided, it should be made explicit that the elimination of revenue-
sharing practices is not a goal; few sub-national entities, irrespective of
their location in developed or developing economies, can totally survive
on their own resources. Similarly, it should be clarified that maybe only
the largest 5-10% of sub-national entities may ultimately have access to
commercial credit sources; others may have to unify their forces and find
creative ways of sharing specialized resources which they cannot afford
individually. In this project the Bank and the IDB could have made this
point clearer and tried more actively to discourage the continued creation
of new municipalities.
(iii) There should be a clear distinction made between project-specific issues
(design, administration, etc.), and country-endemic ones (contracting,
counterpart funds, audits, etc.). The former should be the responsibility of
the TM while the latter should be addressed at the country level. In this
project, national contracting issues had to be addressed at the project level,
which lowered considerably the probability of success.
(iv) Traditional project launches may not be the most cost-effective or
efficient tools to orient borrowers, clarify roles and responsibilities,



13
procedures, etc. Such launches tend to create an information overload and
more often than not, the message does not reach key counterpart staff.
Additionally, with the high staff turnover at various levels, there is little
continuity. Perhaps a better approach is to program several strategic on-
site "mini-launches" and add TA for internet access to the needed
information. Supervision mission meetings with groups of mayors and
technical staff proved to be very useful in getting this project back on
track.
(v) Inter-institutional coordination among lenders and donors can be a very
useful tool if employed properly; however, they could create problems if a
bottoms-up attempt is made to go beyond a basic level. In the project, the
early preparation and appraisal phase benefited enormously from the
combined forces of the Bank, IDB and GTZ. However, the operating
structure of the Bank and IDB did not allow for a common set of project
administration, approval and related contracting procedures. Untangling
these contributed to startup delays.
(vi) Use of revenue-sharing funds as sub-loan guarantees by municipalities is
a good device for first-generation municipal lending operations; however,
while it has generally contributed to a satisfactory cost-recovery record,
sub-national borrowers and lenders need to quickly move to instruments
which more closely link investments with their associated costs, benefits
and risks. A greater private-sector role should also be envisaged from the
outset and be part of the project design.
(vii) Sub-project lending which only focuses upon the investments to be
financed are usually of limited institutional value; they often yield
contradictions. Many municipal development projects have conditions for
sub-national entities to agree to (a) conduct economic and other analyses
only for those investments financed by project funds (i.e., ignoring those
funded from other sources) and (b) maintain these investments to a
standard which is generally above the usual maintenance system of the
concerned implementing agency or municipality. As a practical matter,
this is not easy to do. Even if it can be done, it may not make sense for a
municipality to have, for example, one market being well maintained
while the others are not.
(viii) Higher recognition and more resource allocation for supervision work are
still lagging. Adequate supervision resources for appropriately-
constituted missions should be provided, especially for complex projects
and in cases where TMs have to address a variety of project and country
issues in the course of project implementation. TMs can, and do find
creative ways of compensating for shortfalls (Trust Funds, joint missions,
etc.); however, without adequate resources, the task is not easy.



I



PART II:
STATISTICAL ANNEXES






15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievemt - -i.              Sb                                          No-::u- -an-ii  i   i:gligib-  N
Applical
Macro Policies                                    |
Sector Policies                                   Vt
Financial Objectives                              /
Institutional Development                         I
Physical Objectives                               Vt
Poverty Reduction                                 |
Gender Issues                                                                 V
Other Social Objectives                                                      /
Environmental Objectives                          V
Public Sector Management                          |
Private Sector Development                                                    /
B. Susit- a                                                              . i -n.bi. . ityi.  Lik  - . yi likel  U-i-- -e
C. Bak Perormince                                                       Def isfc 1) - .int
Identification
Preparation                                              Vt
Appraisal                                                J
Supervision                                              |
0.D.Borower PerfomMantel.-
Preparation                                              V
Implementation                                           A/
Covenant compliance                                      |
EL Assessiiit of Qtcme;           li iati- i- -                             -igly
8~ti~~ctoy  i~cay ~   Actory      w~ati$fi~ctwy
- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~t- i,--i-E,..-..iiiUvi  --



16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK/CREDITS
1776-EC               Guayaquil Urban        25.8         1979       Completed in June
Development                                        1987
2135-EC                 Urban Devt II        33.7         1982       Completed in 1988
2774-EC                Guayaquil Water       29.4         1986        Completed in June
1997
2898-EC              National Housing II     59.9         1988        Completed in June
1994
36090-EC             Private Sector Devt     75.0         1993       To be completed in
June 1999
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
September 12, 1989           September 12, 1989
November 13, 1989            November 13, 1989
4j   jjjR                             April 20, 1989               April 20, 1990
November 15, 1990            November 15, 1990
December 20, 1990            December20, 1990
~ 7February 15, 1991                                     February 15, 1991
*SlC~::       May 15, 1991                 July 01, 1991
'~~ '1"' ~~       June 30, 1997                June 30, 1999



TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ MILLION)
F F+. + ............ W ;: v ..... ..... : 09$. w * . . ............ 1i,=. :. I3wt + s~~~~~~~~~~~ . .......
f.~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :::                                  .. '..:.:E3.-: ::.
7.0         16.0         18.0          19.0          18.0          18.0           8.0            _             _
At          - i a 1 . v   .u9.  .        0.0         5.03          4.99         12.39          15.8         22.16          6.84          8.57          8.22
A.t~1'~a % of31.4              27.7           65.2          87.8        123.1          85.5            _             _
DW=ffi~iat . -    -. ~nrnt                                                             July 21, 1999
TABLE SA: PROJECT FINANCING (SOURCES)
IBRD                                                       104.0                                       84.00
IDB                                                        104.0                                       98.17
GTZ                                                          4.0                                        4.00
Local                                                       88.0                                       88.46
Total                                                      300.0                                      274.63



TABLE 5B: PROJECT FINANCING (COMPONENTS)
Local    External    Total          Local    External    Total
Institutional Development                3.40      16.00      19.40          7.06      18.54      25.60
Training                                3.60       4.00       7.60      r    0.40-   1.38          1.78
Sub total                               7.0        20.00      27.00          7.46      19.92      27.38_
Infrastructure Investments              81 00     192.00     273.00         81.00      162.25    243.25         00
(of which Engineering & Supervision)     0  (-)    (25)       (25)          (4.81)    (49.54)    (54.35)
El Ninio Assistance                "    0.00       0.00       0.00           0.00       4.00      4.00
Total                                   88.00     212.00     300.00         88.46      186.17    274.63



TABLE 6: NUMBER OF SUBPROJECTS SUPPORTED BY SECTOR
(Amounts in US$'000)
__==m                                                             u                _ A
,                                                        ,   .  , ,,, , ,,, , ,,s ,   -  , ,,, ,   ,  ,   , , \ # : e 9,,,,,#,,, ....................................... 1 ...... ' t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ......
Potable Water                             3    3,370.58      1      714.82        7     8,221.46      56     40,859.29    33      8,524.45
Sewerage & Latrines                       2     1,321.98                         6      9,676.91      40     15,005.23     16    15,336.21
Solid Wastes             2   2,711.93    1      224.49       1       73.02       4       1,704.09     30     3,172.80      18     4,820.13
Urban Streets                             3    8,829.06     3      5,550.64      4      9,797.86      29     11,793.21     22     18,097.05
Parks & Com. Centers                                                                                  2       1,534.51      1      317.75
Markets                                   2     1,796.36                         2       1,579.52     14      1,530.70     4       213.59
Terminals                                                                         1      641.37       4       2,634.93
Others '                                  2      917.42      1      433.37       2        149.37      39      8,614.33     13     6,575.56
TOTAL                    2   2,711.93    13   16,459.83    6       6,771.84      26    31,770.58    214    85,144.99    107    53,884.68
b               k   k                                                    '''T-'.t  a=t;; 2
Potable Water            7    1,591.81    16   5,784.96    12   2,782.20    10    1,716.30   145    73,566.4
Sewerage & Latrines      5    4,445.18    9    1,730.06    10   2,545.51    3       845.83    91    50,906.9
Solid Wastes             8     855.10     4      394.18     3     551.43      -        -       71     14,507.2
Urban Streets            7    8,102.65    2      531.99     3     911.54      1      22.74     74    63,636.0
Parks & Com. Centers
Markets                  3     830.15      5     326.57     1      34.69      1     144.49    32       6,456.0
Terminals                4    1,311.54    1      35.70                                         10      4,623.5
Others ''                2     479.34     4      245.75                                        63     17,415.1
TOTAL                   35   17,615.76   41    9,049.4    29   6,825.36    1 5   2,729.86   489   232,964.04
1/ Others include cemetries, bridges, cadastres, roads, touristic centers, flood control, slaughter houses, agricultural subprojects.



TABLE 7: NUMBER OF SUB PROJECTS SUPPORTED BY REGION
(Amounts in US$'000')
Costa      41       350.73        6       4,593.48     1       3,288.48      1       7,925.14      95      48,408.71
Insular                          __4                                                                         301.91 
Oriente                                                  1433.37                                    1 8   <6,022.66
Sierra      1       2,352.20      7      11,866.35      33049.99             17      23,845.44     97    |30,411.72|
Oriente     16      2,.9           5      1,177.76       9       899.63       3        200.52        1        59.13
Sierra      46     21,014.50      13     12,892.11 |   12    | 1,657.06      13      4,076.77       8       648.47
Total      107     53,884.67     36      17,615.77     41      9,049.29      29      6,825.36      15      2,729.86
WM;
_9
p:;  Tw:%       489        2 2,9.644J4



TABLE 8: AMOUNT AND NUMBER OF SUBPROJECTS BY PROVINCE
.    .'.",F'-. .S'bY.....
AZUAY               15,582,067         6.7%               34              7.0%            318,680            22.2
BOLIVA              1,746,580          0.7%               11              2.2%            48,188             23.1
CHIMBORAZO          2,418,018           1.0%              17              3.5%            169,446            23.8
PASTAZA             1,558,997          0.7%               8               1.6%            26,378             24.8
TUNGURAHUA          10,372,609         4.5%               28              5.7%            212,718            25.3
MORONA              2,432,207          1.0%               14              2.9%            52,055             29.5
EL ORO             20,909,185          9.0%               37              7.6%            416,958            30.1
COTOPAXI            5,422,677          2.3%               20              4.1%            98,415             31.3
ZAMORA              1,539,107          0.7%               12              2.5%             35,101            33.9
IMBABURA            10,350,694         4.4%               24              4.9%            190,768            35.3
CARCHI              4,390,509           1.9%              13              2.7%             77,425            35.6
MANABI              18,929,685         8.1%               60             12.3%            661,598            35.6
LOJA                4,098,620           1.8%              21              4.3%            210,036            36.0
ESMERALDAS          5,378,237          2.3%               17              3.5%            198,295            37.3
PICHINCHA           52,431,370         22.5%              35              7.2%           1,896,800           38.7
GALAPAGOS *          354,932           0.2%               5               1.0%             14,418            39.6
NAPO                1,229,529           0.5%              7               1.4%             31,772            40.7
FRANCISCO DE
ORELLANA            3,870,914           1.7%              5               1.0%             22,492            40.7
LOS RIOS            16,805,588         7.2%               27              5.5%            340,550            41.5
CANAR               5,001,501          2.1%               14              2.9%             81,039            44.5
SUCUMBIOS            526,193           0.2%               7               1.4%            44,739             47.3
GUAYAS              47,614,864         20.4%              73              14.9%          2,846,488           48.8
TOTAL              232,964,084         100%              489
* Fuente: Sistema Gerencial BEDE y Geografia de la Pobreza
Elaborado por: GRNI



TABLE 9: PROJECT IMPACT ON (1990 - 1998) FINANCES FOR 70 MUNICIPALITIES
X             22E  ^   19.5%  20.2%    27.4%       19.1%        20.3%      20.6%       22.0%     124.7%       21.5%       21.1%
a   |   i 0 i  g     -- 14.60%      14.4%        16.3%        13.0%       12.7%       12.3%      13.9%        14.2%        14.4      139
w ~~~~~ ~22.4%                      23.7%        27.9%        19.1%       16.8%    2 1.8%/       22.8%       115.4%      117.8%      20.9%
M 22.0%           30.3%       34.9%        21.3%       21.3%       25.4%       28.7%       19.1%      24.5%       25.3%
46.9%       41.4%        34.3%       44.8%       41.1%       37.3%       31.3%       44.7%      38.8%       40.1%
57.8%       46.8%        39.5%       52.9%        51.9%      49.3%       42.4%       58.4%      47.8%       49.6%
11.2%       14.8%        15.4%       17.1%       21.7%       19.9%       23.9%       15.3%      21.9%       17.9%
6.2%        8.5%         9.3%        12.8%       14.1%       13.0%       15.0%       8.3%       13.3%     11.2%



TABLE 10: TRAINING UNDERTAKEN UNDER THE PROJECT
Municipal Finance                        1,222               123                1,345
Public Sector Investment Planning
Administration and Implementation        2,680               283                2,963
Municipal Development Organization
and Administration                       2,367                88                2,455
Municipal Legislation, Tariffs
Cadastres                                 903                 59                 962
TRAINING UNDERTAKEN BY YEAR
Municipal Finance              0        212       327        573       167        66       1,345
Public Sector Investment
Planning Administration &
Implementation                138       322       263        753      1,221       266      2,963
Municipal Development
Organization and
Administration                135       676       425        827       290        102      2,455
Municipal Legislation Tariff
Cacastres                     89        144       267        206       238        18        962
Total                        362       1,354      1,282     2,359     1,916      452       7,725
P1 d               A                  ".'.         '.             ;; .  V  .  .. _........ .T. 5  TJ .  7,.  :__.



TABLE 11: BEDE INCOME STATEMENTS
(in millions of current Sucres)
BANCO DEL ESTADO
Income
Earned Interest               21,189     49,985    79,026    100,893    244,007    320,671    298,245    609,864
Commissions                   2,745      3,177      3,029      4,292     2,072       989        754       1,052
Earned & Accrued Adjustments   _                                                    1,242     30,133     47,482
Other Ordinary Income           11         5         10         6         787       6,907      7,954      334
Extraordinary Income           827      10,529     64,419     5,776      1,950      2,089     25,054     7,504 
Total Income                     24,772    63,697    146,484    110,967    248,817    331,898    362,139    666,236
Expenses
Paid Interest                  754       1,895      3,698      3,669     56,738    129,773    157,067    186,193
Commissions Paid               182        556       1,397       2         201       4,244      2,145      2,734
Personnel Costs                4,097     6,680      8,873     12,026     16,028     22,697    21,953     31,343
Operational Expenses           667       1,019     41,769   3,187        6,608      6,078     15,292     31,188
Depreciation & Amortization    108        558        844       1,608     2,152      2,591     14,443    103,155
Extraordinary Expenses          9       115,475    93,034     76,332       76        400      20,284     14,363
Total Expenditures               5,817     126,183    149,615    96,824    81,802    165,783    231,185    368,976
Profit                           18,955    -62,486    -3,132     14,143    167,014    166,115    130,955    297,260
Source: BEDE Audit Reports.



TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating_         _
Stage of               Menthi,        iNumber        Days in    -Soeelize Staff        Imptenientathin     Development        Type of
ProkjectCycle             Year          of Persons      Field             skilis              Stattus          ObJetiY         Problenis
Rejprseutated
Identification through       February 1989         8             19        C,L,M,N,M,O,P,Q
appraisal
Appraisal through Board       April 1990           9             14            Q,B,A,Fl
approval
Board approval through      December 1990          3             8              B,D,C
effectiveness
Supervision   I               March 1991           3             9              A,B,C                   I                 1
2                May 1991             3            12              A,B,C                  1 I
3               August 1991           3            12              C,D,C                  1                  1
4                April 1992           4            12             A,B,C,C                 I                  1
5              February 1993          2            12               A,C                   2                  1
6                 July 1993           >3            18             C,E,F                  2                  1
7              November 1993          4             11            A,E,F,F                 2                   1
8                 June 1994            3            5              A,F,H                   2                  2         Mgt/Monit/E
val
9              November 1994           2            13               A,C                   U                 U            Imp/Proc



TABLE 12 Contd.: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
10                June 1995            I             7                A                    S                  S
11                March 1996           2             8               A,C                   S                  S
12              November 1996          2             6              A,C                    S                 S
13                 May 1997            4             9             A,G,I,K                 S                 S
14              September 1997         2            12              A,K                    S                 S
15                June 1998            2             9              A,C                    S                 S
16                March 1999           2             6              A,C                    S                 S
Completion          November 1999          2             10              A,L                   S                  S
1/ Key to specialization
D. Sr. Urban Infra. Proj.                            K. Cons. Financial Analyst
(I) S = Satisfactory                                 E. Urban Specialist I=Cons. Urb. Spec                L. Sr. Financial/Economist Analyst
(2) Counterpart Funds                               F. Financial Spec.                                    M. Sr. Project/Operations Officer
(3) U = Unsatisfactory                              G. Sr. Highway Engineer                               N. Country Officer
A. Mission Leader                                   H. Operations Analyst                                 0. Sr. Housing Specialist
B. Mun./Dev. Spec.                                  1. Cons. Urb. Specialist                              P. Intergovernmental Finance Specialist
C. Consultant                                       J. Urban/Financial Spec.                              Q. Sr. Training Officer



TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
. .' "  :? '  ' '   ' ',. ' '  :  '   ' .    ' ' ." ':   M'. ,v, ., a. ,.D . :,''':E'''".-'''V.,.v'.' g,, X .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ....  .  .. .. 
Identification through appraisal                                    96.6                         227.6
Appraisal-Board                                                     39.8                          92.6
Board-effectiveness                                                 6.0                           15.6
Supervision                                                        152.8                         425 .4
Completion                                                          8.4                           38.1
Total                                                              303.6                         799.3



TABLE 14: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Ecuador, Municipal Development Project 3285-EC
2.01                 13          Loan for US$104 Million in various currencies                                                     OK        US$14.86 cancelled 6/98
2.02 (a)             13          Loan withdrawals according to Schedule I of L.A.                                                  OK        Funds re-assigned 6/98
2.02 (b)             I           Borrower to open and maintain Special Account in dollars in BEDE. Deposits and withdrawals from   OK
Special Account to be governed by Schedule 4 of L.A.
2.02 (c)             13          After effective date Bank to discount Project Preparation Advance and cancel any PPF balance.     OK
2.03                 13          Closing Date to be June 30, 1997, or later date set by Bank.                                      OK        Loan Closing date extended to
6/30/99
2.04                 13          Borrower will pay 3/4 of 1% Loan Commitment Fee                                                   OK
2.05 (a)             13          Borrower will pay interest on amount withdrawn equal to cost of Qualified Borrowing plus 1/2 of 1%  OK
according to Section 2/06 of L.A.
2.05 (b)             13          Bank will notify Borrower of cost of Qualified Borrowings per semester.                           OK
2.05 (c)(i)          13          "Interest Period" defined                                                                         OK
(c)(ii)          13         "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" defined                                                             OK
(c)(iii)        13          "Semester" defined.                                                                                OK
2.05 (d)             13          On date set by Bank no less than 6 months prior notice, paragraph (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this section shall be  OK                            oo
amended as follows:
2.05 (d) (a)         1 3         On dates specified in Section 2.06 Borrower must pay accrued interest on Qualified Borrowings plus 1/2 of  OK
1%.
2.05 (d) (b)         13          After end of each quarter, Bank to notify Borrower of cost of Qualifying Borrowings for that quarter.  OK
2.05                 13         'Quarter' means a 3 month period starting January I, April 1, Julyl, and Oct. 1.                   OK
(d)(c)(iii)
2.06                 13         Interest and charges to be paid semiannually on April I and Oct. I of each year.                   OK
2.07                 1 3         Borrower to pay loan according to Schedule 3 of L.A.                                              OK
2.08                 13          BEDE designated as authorized representative of Borrower according to Section 2.02 of L.A. and Article V  OK
of General Conditions.
3.01 (a)             13          Borrower declares commitment according to Schedule 2 of L.A. and cause BEDE to perform in accordance  OK
with provisions.
3.01 (b)             3           Borrower to relend BEDE proceeds of loan of Part B of Project through a Subsidiary L.A.           OK       SLA signed 6-3-91
3.01 (b)(i)          3           Subsidiary loan will be in Sucres and repaid according to Schedule 3 of L.A. Repayment Schedule to be  OK
same as that of loan.
3.01 (b)(ii)         2           Subsidiary loan to carry annual interest rate specified in Annex of Schedule 2 less 4 percentage points  OK  Amended 3-29-94 and 8/15/97.
spread and Bank conditions (related to Free Lending Rate).
3.01 (c)             4           Borrower to make available to BEDE loan proceeds for Part A (TA for BEDE, AME and SENDA) through  OK       Grant Agreement signed 6-3-91
a Grant Agreement under terms and conditions satisfactory to Bank.
3.01 (d)             5           Borrower to protect its and Bank's interest under Subsidiary and Grant Agreements and not to modify them  OK
I unless Bank agrees.                                                                          I



L.A.         Type of                                               Summary of
Section          Cov.                                             Action/Covenant                                              StatuMs              Comments
3.02                 10          Procurement of goods, works and services financed by loan to be done under provision of Section 2.03 of  OK
P.A.
3.03                 5           Insurance, use, plans etc. to be carried out by BEDE according to section 2.03 of Project Agreement.  OK
3.04                 5           Steering Committee for Part A. Participating Agencies to provide advice in policy, coordination,  OK       Amendment of 6-3-91 eliminated
implementation, evaluation and financing matters related to training under Part A.                         Steering Committee. BEDE using
bilateral contacts to achieve same
goals.
3.05                 4           Borrower to make equity contributions to BEDE equivalent to 25% of amount paid by BEDE to Borrower  OK
according to subsidiary L.A. reviewed by Bank and Borrower taking into account Section 2.13 of P.A. (on
finance study of BEDE's needs).
3.06 (a)             5           (a) Borrower and BEDE to review and submit to Bank by March 31 for each year of Project, progress  OK
reports including (i) borrowing capacity and creditworthiness of Part B beneficiaries; (ii) compliance to
provisions of L.A., P.A., and Sub loan Agreements; (iii) Financial performance of BEDE and Part B
beneficiaries; (iv) BEDE's financial plan referred to Section 2.07 (b) of P.A.; (v) resource allocation by
region, type of beneficiary, nature of investment; (vi) pace of disbursements vis-a-vis total project costs.
3.06 (b)             5           Corrective action to be taken recommended by Bank to achieve objectives of Program and Project.   OK
4.01 (a)              I          For all expenditures regarding Loan Account withdrawals on SOE basis, the borrower shall: (i) maintain  OK
record and accounts reflecting expenditures; (ii) retain all records at least one year after Bank has received
audit report of last withdrawal; (iii) enable Bank representatives to examine records.                                                           1.
4.01 (b)             1           Borrower shall (i) have SOE records and those in Special Account audited for each fiscal year by  OK        1997 report from Price Waterhouse    so
independent auditors acceptable by Bank; (ii) Borrower to furnish to Bank no later than 4 months after end  received and being reviewed.
of fiscal year (April) audit report; (iii) furnish to bank other information on records, audits, etc. Requested
by Bank.
5.01                 13          General Conditions Section 6.02 (k) additional events specified for disbursement suspension       OK
5.02                 13          General Conditions Section 7.01 (h)                                                               OK
6.01                 5           Additional effectiveness conditions of L.A.: (a) Borrower and BEDE subsidiary agreements executed; (b)  OK  By amendment of 2-10-93 Project
IDB agreements executed; (c) Project committee appointed and exercising duties; (d) operational procedures  Committee (c) eliminated.
established for FODESEC fund distribution; (e) Technical Cooperation agreements executed; (f) FONAPRE      By amendment of 6-94, recognition
and SENDA agreements executed; (g) Manual issued by BEDE; (h) terms of reference prepared for career       of dissolution of FONAPRE (f) with
development; (i) directive issued for organizational changes of P.A.                                       SENDA remaining
BEDE requested elimination of (h)
due to parallel actions of CONAM.
6.02                 13          General Conditions Section 12.02 additional matters.                                              OK
6.03                 13          Section 12.04 clause of General Conditions (Termination if not effective by May 15, 1991)         OK
Sch. 2
Part A               5           Institutional development and training program for BEDE to be carried out.                         OK
Part B               5           Project to be completed December 31, 1996.                                                         OK       Loan closing date extended to
6/30/99.
Sch. 4
Part 1.              13          Explanation of terms                                                                               OK
(a)(b)(c)
Part 2                           Payments from Special Account exclusively for eligible expenditures.                               OK



I A.         Tp  fSniay~
<      1                                                  3        t    ;                                       ;ti='i'=A'0 0 0 '\00 'l gmeifi:    ^.-<t Qlfi
Part 3               1          Special account withdrawals                                                                    OK
(a)                 1          Borrower to fumish Bank a request for deposit of amount no greater than Authorized Allocation   OK
(b) (i)             1          Replenishment of Special Account to be done on intervals specified by Bank with proper request.  OK
(b) (ii)             I          Borrower to fumish Bank with documentation corresponding to each replenishment.                OK
Part 4               1          Upon request of Bank, Borrower to provide documents to show evidenec of payment.               OK
Part 5               1          Bank not required to make further deposits into Special Account: (a) if Bank determines that Borrower  OK
should make withdrawals directly from Loan Account; (b) the unwithdrawn amount is equal to twice
Authorized Allocation. Withdrawal shall follow procedures set by Bank.
Part 6 (a)           I          Bank will not deposit any funds in Special Account unless Borrower provides evidenec of payments.  OK
6 (b)             I          Upon request from Bank, any outstanding amount in the Special Account will be refunded.        OK
6 (c)             I          Upon request from Bank, Borrower may refund any portion of funds on deposit in Special Account.  OK
6 (d)            I          Refunds to Bank will be credited to the Loan Account.                                          OK
Key to compliance:
OK = Full Compliance; Soon = Compliance Underway;
ACT = Formal Remedy Needed.
NYD = Not Yet Due; NR = Not Reviewed during this mission; AM = Aide Memoire
NA= Not Applicable
Covenant Types:
I= Accounts/audits                                               8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                        10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency        12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                                     13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



APPENDICES



I



Ecuador: Proyccto de Desarrollo Municipal. Prestamo 3285-EC.
Ayuda-Memoria de la Misi6n del Informe de Terminaci6n del Proyecto (ICR).
- Desde el 8 al 17 de Noviembre de 1999.
1. Una misi6n del BIRF, integrada por los seniores Thakoor Persaud y Emmanuel
Njomo, visit6 Ecuador entre el 8 y 17 de Noviembre, con el fin de obtener la
informaci6n necesaria para la preparaci6n del Informe de Terminaci6n del Proyecto
(ICR), del Prestamo 3285-EC. Durante su estancia en Ecuador. Ia misi6n mantuvo
reuniones con los fuincionarios del Banco del Estado (BEDE) en Quito, Cuenca y
Guayaquil. Tambien se reuni6 coin los Alcaldes de Gualaceo. Paute, Gir6n. Santa
Isabel, en la Sucursal Cuenca; y. Naranjal y La Troncal. de la Sucursal Guayaquil:
adicionalmente. se reuinieron con el Gerente de la Emipresa de Alcantarillado y Agua
Potable de Guayaquil. (ECAPAG). Tambi6n visitaron  v arias obras en estos
municipios y empresa. La mision expresa su a-radecimiento a los funcionarios del
Banco del Estado por su colaboraci6n. asi como tambien a los alcaldes y funcionarios
municipales con quienies se tuvieroni reuniionies de trabajo. En el Anexo I se presenta
Lin listado de las personas coIn quienes la Misi6n sostuvo reuniionies. asi collmo de los
proyectos visitados.
2  A confinuaci6n. se presentan los prinicipales temas tratados v las observaciones.
decisionies v recomenidacioines. Esta entendido que. el conitenido de este a% uda -
memoria. esta suieto a la aprobacion de la gerencia del 131RF. quc deb clbl ser
expresada mediianite unla carta posterior al re-reso de la Misi6n a Washington.
3. Datos Basicos del Proyecto. El proyecto fue preparado en 1989 y evaluado ell 1990.
El costo estimado durante la evaluaci6n fLe US$300 M. con financiamiento del BIRF
(US$104 M): BID (US$104 M); GTZ (US$4 M) y el Gobierno (US$88 M). En
cuanto al prcstamo del BIRF, este fue aprobado por su gerencia en diciembre de
1990. La fecha de firma del acuerdo legal para este prestamo fue Febrero de 1991 y
la fecha de efectividad fue Julio de 1991. La fecha de cierre inicial fue el 30 de Junio
de 1997 pero se posterg6 dos veces: la primera. hasta el 30 de Jtnio de 1998 y la
segunda, hasta el 30 de Junio de 1999. Durante el periodo de implantaci6n de este
proyecto, existieron 5 Presidentes de la Reptiblica, 3 grupos de alcaldes electos por
voto popular v 11 Gerentes Generales del Banco del Estado.
4. Objetivos del Proyecto. De acuerdo con el informe de evaluacion de este proyecto,
su principal objetivo fue incrementar la autonomia fiscal de los gobiernos
municipales y sus capacidades de proveer servicios con eficiencia y equidad.
Constan siete objetivos especificos:  (a) crear un sistema de transferencias mas
transparente. equitativo, predecible y eficiente en la movilizaci6n de recursos locales;
(b) reducir las transferencias discrecionales fiscales a los gobiernos locales; (c)
ayudar a los mnticipios a generar superavit en sus cuentas corrientes. a traves de
instrumentos para incremnentar recursos de sus propias fuentes y reducir sus gastos;
(d) mejorar la capacidad de los municipios tanto para planear y ejecutar proyectos que
sean eficientes. equitativos y ambientalmente bien preparados como para mantener su
infraestructura: (e) mejorar la capacidad de enfocar los servicios a estratos de bajos
I



ingresos; (f) fortalecer al Banco del Estado como una fuente confiable de
financiamiento y asistencia t6cnica para los municipios; y, (g) mejorar la calidad de
entrenamiento de los funcionarios de los municipios.
5. Observaciones Sobre los Objetivos. La definici6n del objetivo principal, asi como
de los objetivos especificos, fue coherente y consistente con la estrategia de
desarrollo para el pais. Sin embargo, no se consideraron varios aspectos relevantes
tales como, la alta tasa de inflaci6n, ei bajo precio del petr6leo, el marco politico y,
especialmente, no se fijaron metas cuantitativas que permitan una evaluaci6n objetiva
de cumplimienito del Programa. En cuanto al tiempo programnado para el pleno
cumplimiento de los objetivos al parecer fue mnuy optimista. dado el estado de los
mullicipios cuando empez6 el proyecto. Ia experiencia inicial del BEDE y de las otras
entidades inmnersas en el Prourama.
6. Alcance de los Objetivos del Proyecto. A pesar de (a) la ausencia de metas ex-ante
cuantificadas para medir los resultados del proyecto; (b) muchos obstaculos y
dificultades que afectaron el proyecto de diferentes maneras y durante diferentes fases
de SU implantaci6n: y (c) la a-uda crisis econ6mica. social asi como los fen6menos
naturales  sufridos por el pais durainte los  1utimos anios. se puede interir que hav
cumplimniento sustancial de las nmetas originales del proyecto y ademas que estas son
sosteniibles. colllo a continuacion se analiza:
i)    Obietivos (a). Crear Ull sistema de transferenlcias nmas transparente v
e_juitativo. v (b) reducir las transferencias discrecionales.  Respecto del
cumplimiento de estos objetivos, mediante Ley 72 del 8 de mayo de 1990. se
cre6 el Fondo de Desarrollo Seccional (FODESEC), como un mecanismo
predecible. trasparente y equitativo de asignaci6n de transferencias de
recursos a los (gobiernos seccionales y a su vez como contraparte nacional del
PDM. a traves del Fondo de Inversiones Municipales FIM; posteriormente.
en marzo de 1997. se promulg6 la Ley de Descentralizaci6n en la cual se
plantea un sistema de transferencias progresivo hasta Ilegar al 15% de los
ingresos del Presupuesto del Estado. Por otra parte, el Articulo 135 de la
Constitucion Politica de la Republica del Ecuador, que entr6 en vigencia a
partir del 10 de agosto de 1998. elimina las transferencias discrecionales a las
municipalidades del pais.
(ii)    Objetivo (c). Avudar a los municipios a generar superavit en sus cuentas
corrientes. a traves de instrumentos para incrementar recursos de sus propias
fuentes v reducir sus gastos. En cuanto al cumplimiento de este objetivo. el
Banco del Estado. conjuntamente con la GTZ, realizaron importantes
actividades de asistencia tecnica en los municipios del pais, especialmente en
el area de las finanzas municipales, permitiendo mejorar su posici6n
financiera y generaci6n de recursos. como se puede apreciar en los siguientes
indicadores obtenidos en una muestra de 99 municipios con creditos PDM: el
estudio de la evoluci6n de los ingresos propios indica que estos pasaron de
U.S.D. 30 millones en 1990, a U.S.D. 75 millones en 1998 (en valores
2



constantes). Complemnentariamente. analizando  el indice de autonomia
financiera de los municipios, (ingreso propio/ingreso total) este pas6 del
30,1% al 45,2% en este mismo periodo, para una muestra de 17 municipios
que participaron en el PDM (credito y asistencia t6cnica). Adicionalmente, el
24% de los municipios de la muestra redujeron su personal a traves de varios
mecanismos. aspecto que incide en la reducci6n del gasto corriente.
(i i i)   En este aspecto, es importante resaltar la participaci6n de la GTZ en el PDM.
Inicialmente aport6 con US 4.0 millones y posteriormente increment6 a US
8.0 millonies. La asistencia tecnica brindada por la GTZ se orient6 hacia los
Programas  de  Fortalecimiento  Institucional  PFI,  cuyas  principales
actividades se resumen en los siguientes indicadores: reconocimientos y
recomendaciones (RR) en 240 mrunicipios, consejos provinciales y otras
entidades.  planes de trabajo en 138 municipios, asistencia tecnica en
proyectos aprobados en 120 muinicipios, asistencia tecnica en catastros
brindada en 124 municipios. Estas acciones permitieron identificar los
distintos problemas en las municipalidades del pais en los aspectos
financieros. institucionales. de gesti6n de servicios e institucional municipal
v delinear nuevas politicas de asesoramiento y asistencia tecnica del
Programa. obteniienido importanites resultados. los cuales se menicioinan en la
presenta AyLuda PI leimior-ia.
En la preparaci6nc del flDM II. Ia G-lZ esta prestando tin valioso aporte en la
elaboraci6n de las (Luias para la formulaci6n y evaluacil6n del componente
institucional y comunitanio. asesoria para el desarrollo de los casos
demostrativos de Vesti6n de servicios en los municipios de Riobamba.
Esmeraldas, San Lorenzo e Ibarra. entre los mas destacados.
(iii)   Objetivo (d). Mejorar la capacidad de los municipios tanto para planear y
eiecutar provectos que sean eficientes. equitativos y ambientalmente bien
preparados como para mantener su infraestructura. Respecto a este objetivo.
en el 53% de los muiicipios de la muestra de 17, se efectuaron reformas
administrativas, con apoyo de la Secretaria de Desarrollo Administrativo
(SENDA) y de la AME. permitiendo la creaci6n de areas indispensables
como: direcci6n de obras publicas. medio ambiente, relaciones publicas.
planeaci6n y presupuesto. Adicionalmente. el 70.5% de municipios cuentan
en sus estaciones de trabajo con sistemas de contabilidad y automatizaci6n de
su gesti6n.
(iv)   Objetivo (e). mejorar la capacidad de enfocar los servicios a estratos de baios
ingresos. En cuanto a este objetivo, del total del credito PDM para obras, el
54%  se   destino  al sector de saneamiento. esto  es, agua potable.
alcantarillado/letrinizaci6n y residuos s6lidos. actividades de gran impacto en
sectores poblacionales de bajos ingresos.  Cabe destacar que para estas
inversiones los municipios tarnbien recibieron subsidios adicionales para
promover acceso a los estratos bajos.



(v)   Obieto (f). fortalecer al Banco del Estado como una fuente confiable de
financiamiento v asistencia tecnica para los municipios. Con relaci6n al este
objetivo, antes del programa, la tasa de interes que cobraba el Banco del
Estado por sus operaciones de credito era fija (9%-17%) en funci6n de la
situaci6n financiera de sus prestatarios, sin considerar variables como la
inflaci6n (alrededor de 30%), costo de administraci6n y operaci6n, riesgo
crediticio. Con la implantaci6n del programa la tasa de interes, partiendo del
37%, se fue ajustando paulatinamente hacia tasas reales de mercado
(actualmente. alrededor del 75%).
(vi)   Por otra parte, a traves del componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional, el
Banco del Estado redujo su personal de 550 a 300 funcionarios.
Paralelamnente. mediante una estricta selecci6n (a traves de la empresa de
consultores Deloite ) se contrat6 funcionarios de primera calidad. con el fin
de trasformar el BEDE en una entidad agil. oportuna y eficiente. Se contin6ia
con el proceso de descentralizaci6n de muchos de las funciones a las cuatro
regioniales con el fin de promover la estrecha relaci6n con sus clientes y hacer
nmas eficiente el proceso. Adicionalmente. lha sido presentada ante el
Congreso Nacional para SLI aprobaci6n. Ia nueva Ley del Banco del Estado
que permitira dar mayor agilidad y eficiencia en la toma de decisiones. con la
visi6n de ampliar operacionies. productos y portafolio de negocios y
facultandole la realizaci6n de operaciones activas y pasivas del sistemna
financiero. Se cuenta ademrns con una nueva propuesta del reglamento de
operaciones del Banco. acorde con la nueva visi6n instittucional. Se Ilan
desarrollado  guias metodol6gicas para la fornulaci6n, seguimiento  v
evaluaci6n de proyectos. incluyendo temas como la participacion comunitaria
y la gesti6n de los servicios. Se han reestructurado las deudas de los
municipios. Se esta trabajando en todo lo concemiente al sistema de
administraci6n finianciera del Banco. Se han reducido ostensiblemente los
tiempos de evaluaci6n de los proyectos gracias a las reformas administrativas
implementadas y las metodologias de evaluaci6n, asi como tambien a los
sistemas de seguimiento de las finanzas municipales, estructuradas por el
Banco, como el Sistema de Informacion Municipal SIM, que es una base de
datos que contiene informaci6n financiera de 206 municipios, 20 consejos
provinciales y 10 empresas municipales del Ecuador, del periodo 1990 -
1998. Este sistema se constituye en la unica base de datos financieros en el
ambito nacional. con la cantidad y calidad de informaci6n correspondiente al
periodo.
(vii)  Objeto (a). Mejorar la calidad de entrenamiento de los funcionarios de los
municipios. En cuanto a esto, el PDM, a traves de la Asociaci6n de
Municipalidades del Ecuador (AME) y la Secretaria de Desarrollo
Administrativo (SENDA) brind6 capacitaci6n en Finanzas Municipales,
analisis de proyectos. desarrollo municipal y tarifas y catastros, a 12,500
funcionarios municipales.



7. Lecciones Aprendidas e Impactos. Preparaci6n. En la fase de su preparaci6n. se
puede mencionar la baja calidad de los estudios debido a la falta de metodologias
claras de preparaci6n de proyectos, problemnas en el Fondo Nacional del Preinversi6n
(FONAPRE) que culminaron con la eliminaci6n de esta entidad y cuyo rol fue
asumido por el Banco del Estado, sin la debida preparaci6n. Desconocimiento de
metodologias de evaluaci6n de proyectos, problemas en la contrataci6n de los
estudios, debil participaci6n comunitaria. empezando desde la definici6n de la
alternativa tecnica viable.  En cierta medida, la presi6n de los prestatarios para
arrancar el proyecto y efectuar desembolsos tambien impact6 negativamente esta fase
del proyecto.
8. Ejecuci6n. En la ejecuci6n del proyecto. no se discrimin6 entre grandes y pequen-os
municipios en cuanto a las metodologias de evaluacion de los subprestamos y
contratacion de obras. bienes y servicios, baja capacidad de los municipios en
actividades de seguimiento y ejecuci6n de las obras; reglas de contrataci6n
complicadas y diferentes, tanto para el BID como para el BIRF; desconocimiento de
los procedimientos de contrataci6n de los bancos interniacionales por parte de los
equipos mLunicipales encargados de estas tareas: continuos reclamos. que en la
mayoria de los casos no resultaron correctos. por parte de las companlias que
paarticipaban en ull proceso de contrataci6n 'v no resultaban adjudicadas rapidamenite:
no se realiz6 la gesti6n suficiente para la recuperacidn de los creditos a traves de tasa.
taiifas. contribuci n especial de mejnoras.
9. Opeeraci6n. En la operaci6n. no existia Lin seguimiento oportuno de las obras lo que
ha generado una reducci6n del horizonte de vida del proyecto: en muchos casos. Ia
calidad de los servicios y las coberturas no han alcanzado las metas planteadas
originalmente. Sin embargo de esto. se ha iniciado una fase de recolecci6n de
informaci6n de los proyectos terminados para realizar una evaluaci6n ex-post para
verificar el cumplimiento de las metas establecidas en los proyectos, asi como de las
clausulas de los creditos. con el fin de retroalimentar los procesos. Actualmente, se
encuentran, tanto el BEDE como la GTz, trabajando con los municipios para mejorar
sus operaciones en general (no solamente hacia aquellas obras financiadas bajo el
programa) a traves de programas de asistencia tecnica y coordinaci6n con el sector
privado.
10. Impactos. Se ha generado un cambio total en la cultura de proyectos en el pais. En
todas las etapas del ciclo del proyecto. desde los estudios, ejecuci6n y operaci6n, se
pudo apreciar. en las distintas visitas efectuadas por la Misi6n, el cambio de
mentalidad de alcaldes, tecnicos municipales y beneficiarios. Para muchos de ellos.
Ia posibilidad de privatizaci6n o acciones similares son alternativas viables. Se ha
desarrollado una importante cultura de pago de los usuarios de los servicios. reflejada
en mejoras en la recuperacion de los ingresos por servicios.
I1. Aspectos ambientales tambien aparecen como un elemento muy importante. Con
asistencia de una compafnia Espaniola. el BEDE ha actualizado su manual ambiental
de evaluaci6n de proyectos y actualmente, se encuentra compartiendo esta



experiencia, tanto con municipios como con el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente del
pais.
12. Los recursos del componente Linea de Credito del Programa, fueron destinados
exclusivamente a inversi6n para el desarrollo local, focalizando basicamente los
sectores mas necesitados. satisfaciendo necesidades basicas insatisfechas como agua,
alcantarillado, recolecci6n y disposici6n final de residuos s6lidos. En cuanto a
cobertura, los 339 proyectos financiados bajo el programa incrementaron tal
cobertura en aproximadamente 19% (provisional). Tambien, a traves de las mejoras
del sistema existente, se beneficiaron aproximadamente en 44% (provisional) de los
usuarios existentes.
13. Actualmente. el pais dispone de una clase tecnica capacitada en la formnulaci6n.
evaluaci6n  y seguimienito de proyectos. Ia cual se a ido conformado durante el
desarrollo del PDM. los municipios, Banco del Estado. consultores y contratistas.
Paralelamente, se ha generado una base de oferta de servicios de consultoria.
4. Uno de los temas de mayor importancia es la incorporaci6n del Banco del Estado
conmo ulla ftiente de financiarinienito del desarrollo local. lo que iimplica basicamente la
superaci6n del criterio paternialista de que el estado lo finanacie. generando utn
concepto de cubrir necesidades coIn base a la propia gesti6n de los n unicipios y la
sostenibilidad de los proyectos a trav&s del pago de tarifas. tasas y contribuciones
especiales.
I 5. Operaci6n Futura. En todo el pais se puede apreciar mejoras en los municipios que
recibieron prestamos y asistencia tecnica bajo el proyecto. Sin embargo. con la
situacion macroecon6mica tan dificil. esto ha generado un significativo
endeudamiento de los municipios a pesar de sus esfuerzos para generar mas recursos
propios. Se debe buscar un mecanismo que permita al Gobierno reanudar sus pagos
de transferencias y otras deudas que tiene frente al BEDE y los municipios. Esto.
conjuntamente con una reprogramaci6n de las deudas de los municipios que toman
acciones complementarias para resolver sus problemas, puede ayudar mucho en la
institucionalizaci6n de un sistema de transferencias que permita consolidar las metas
del PDM II. Tambien se considera en el financiamiento municipal, la participaci6n
activa de los bancos comerciales en conjunto con el BEDE, los municipios y las
comunidades. Los proyectos: MEJORA TU BARRIO en la ciudad de Cuenca y el de
Fortalecimiento Institucional de Quevedo son dos ejemplos de esto.
16. Un aspecto que se debe resaltar es el cambio institucional que el BEDE ha
desarrollado en el ultimo afno, respondiendo a la experiencia del PDM  I y a la
situaci6n macroeconomica actual. Como se ha notado, estos cambios generan una
mejor posici6n institucional frente al nuevo desaffo que el BEDE se enfrentara en el
pais.
17. La misi6n apoya iniciativas para la articulaci6n del Banco del Estado con el
PRAGUAS. con la finalidad de aprovechar la experiencia y capacidad instalada del
Banco del Estado en la Administraci6n de los recursos. asi como sus adelantos en las



bases de informaci6n que maneja y las metodologias que ha desarrollado en la
preparaci6n, evaluaci6n y seguimiento de proyectos.
18. ICR del Gobierno. El primer borrador del Informe Final de Cumplimiento del
Programa sera remitido al Banco Mundial para su revisi6n a mediados de diciembre
de 1999. Las gufas para preparar este documento ya fueron recibidos por la gerencia
del BEDE en marzo de 1999. Tambien se revis6 todas las etapas de este proceso y la
Misi6n aclar6 varios puntos con el BEDE.
r. Ramiro Viteri Guerrero                   Econ. Alh    V       Maeno
Gerenite General                             Gerente d      I ns Nacionales e
~~~~~ ~~~I niterzve
BANCO DEL ESTADO
Dr. Thakoor Persaud
BANCO MUNDIAL
7



LISTADO DE PERSONAS CONTACTADAS POR LA MISION DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
REALIZADA DEL 8 AL 17 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 1999
ENTIDAD                                        CARGO
BANCO DEL ESTADO (BEDE)
MATRIZ QUITO
Dr. Ramiro Viteri Guerrero                     Gerente General
Dr. Gustavo Vasconez                           Vicepresidente de Credito
Econ. Darwin Zavala                             Vicepresidente Financiero
Econ. Alfredo Villacres Mancheno               Gerente de Relaciones Nacionales e
Internacionales.
Dr. Felipe Iturralde                           Gerente de Asesoria Juridica
Eco. Francisco Bolanos                         Gerente del PDM II
Dr. Patricio Rubio                             Asesorfa Juridica
Dr. Francisco Poveda                           Asesorfa Juridica
Arq. Piedad Chavez                             Gerencia de Relaciones Nacionales e
Internacionales.
Eco. Francisco Rubianes                        Gerencia de Relaciones Nacionales e
Internacionales.
Eco. Maria del Carmen Espinosa                 Evaluaci6n Ex Post de proyectos
SUCURSAL MAYOR GUAYAQUIL
Econ. Julio Molina Flores                      Gerente Sucursal Mayor
Arq. Patricio Rivero                           Coordinador Guayas 1
Ing. Jarman Ullaguari                          Coordinador Guayas 1
SUCURSAL CUENCA
Dr. Omar Alvarado                              Gerente Sucursal Cuenca
Ec. Carmen Valarezo                            Coordinadora de Operaciones
Ing. Mauricio Ochoa                            Jefe de Grupo Polifuncional
Ing. Rosalfa Merchan                           Tecnico Gualaceo
Ing. Viadimiro Tobar                           Tecnico Paute
Ing. Mauro Tapia                               Tecnico Gir6n Sta. Isabel
MUNICIPIOS VISITADOS
Sucursal Cuenca (11 - 12 noviembre)
Prof. C6sar Leon                               Alcalde de Gualaceo
Ing. Favio Vasquez                             Jefe de Servicios Sanitarios Gualaceo
Lcdo. Reynaldo Tapia                           Alcalde de Paute, encargado
Ing. Luis Patino                               Director Obras Publicas Paute
Dr. Patricio Guaricela                         Alcalde de Gir6n
Ing. Alfonso Samaniego                         Director Obras Publicas Gir6n
Sr. Alejandro Rosales                          Alcalde de Santa Isabel
Ing. Isidro Astudillo                          Director de Obras Publicas Sta. Isabel
Ing. Eulalia Ortfz                             Directora Financiera Sta. Isabel
Ing. Cesar Arevalo                             Director T6cnico Empresa de Aseo de
Cuenca
Sucursal Mayor Guayaquil (15 -16 noviembre):
Prof. Ruperto Espinosa                         Alcalde de Naranjal
Dr. German Encalada                            Alcalde de La Troncal
Ing. Jose Luis Santos                          Gerente de la ECAPAG



APPENDIX B: SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
* Entorno Regional
I.    Am6rica Latina ingresa a la decada de los afios 90 con serios problemas que resolver y retos que
cumplir, ya sea en los diferentes campos: politico, econ6mico, social, institucional, etc. a traves de la
aplicaci6n de determinadas reformas estructurales importantes como son: Apertura Comercial
Generalizada, Simplificaci6n Tributaria, Liberaci6n Financiera, Privatizaciones. Es importante senalar
que estas reformas se aplicaron en cada uno de los paises de America Latina con diferente intensidad e
inicio de las mismas, sin embargo, es posible establecer que las reformas estructurales aplicadas en la
decada de los 90 produjeron un indudable crecimiento de las economias de los paises de la regi6n; pero a
pesar de ello, los niveles de pobreza se han mantenido o su reducci6n ha sido poco significativa; el
desempleo ha aumentado y los salarios reales apenas se han recuperado de los niveles alcanzados en los
ochenta. El balance al final de los 90 no es satisfactorio auin para la regi6n, a pesar de que las reformas
han ido en la direcci6n deseada, sin ser suficientes para alcanzar los objetivos de crecimiento, estabilidad
y equidad social.
* Entorno Local
2.    La transici6n entre las d6cadas de los 80 a la de los 90, estuvo caracterizada por importantes
medidas econ6micas tendientes a mejorar los indicadores macroecon6micos del pais. Las medidas
tomadas estaban acompafiadas por el acuerdo con Fondo Monetario Internacional (FMI} para el periodo
septiembre de 1988 a febrero de 1991, cuyas metas principales pretendian: a) reducir la tasa de inflaci6n
de cerca del 90% registrada a diciembre de 1988 a un 50% para finales de 1989 y a un 25% a finales de
1990; b) reducir en el mismo periodo, el deficit del sector publico de un 5.1% del PIB observado a fines
de 1988, a un 3.4% a fines de 1990. Los resultados de estas politicas macroecon6micas se evidenciaron
en: a) la tasa de inflaci6n a diciembre de 1989 fue del 54% y del 47.6% a junio de 1990; b) el deficit fiscal
a diciembre de 1989 fue del 2.2%, mucho mejor de lo esperado. A partir de la decada de los 90, la
economia ecuatoriana, particularmente en los uiltimos 5 afios, se ha caracterizado por una inestabilidad
macroecon6mica generalizada, en raz6n de un bajo crecimiento del PIB, de altas tasas de inflaci6n y de
depreciaci6n de la moneda, desequilibrios importantes en el sector fiscal, un proceso de deterioro del
sector financiero y un sector externo debil.
a Descentralizaci6n
3.    Ecuador se encuentra en un nivel de descentralizaci6n fiscal relativamente bajo, comparado con
otros paises de la regi6n. En el periodo 1993-1997 los gobiemos seccionales en Ecuador han participado
en cerca de un 10% del gasto publico del pais, con la mayoria de este gasto (8%) concentrado en los
gobiernos municipales. Los ingresos tributarios de los municipios han permanecido alrededor del 5%
desde 1990 con respecto a los ingresos tributarios del pais. Los ingresos corrientes municipales estan
cerca del 12% del PIB en Ecuador, un nivel bajo comparado con Chile (26%), Venezuela (17%), y Costa
Rica (16%).i El marco normativo de la politica de descentralizaci6n esta integrado por una amplia
legislaci6n, cuyas piezas fundamentales son las siguientes: El Fondo de Desarrollo Seccional
(FODESEC) creado en mayo de 1990; Ley de Modernizaci6n del Estado, Privatizaci6n y Prestaci6n de
Servicios por parte de la Iniciativa Privada (diciembre de 1993). La Ley Especial de Distribuci6n del 15%
(marzo 20 de 1997); La Ley Especial de Descentralizaci6n del Estado y de Participaci6n Social (octubre
de 1997); y la Constituci6n vigente desde Agosto 1998
I E. Wiesner (1999) "La Descentralizaci6n, el Ajuste Fiscal y el desarrollo Municipal en Ecuador" BID.



2
SITUACION DEL SECTOR URBANO A INICIOS DEL PDM
4.    La poblaci6n ecuatoriana sufri6 un cambio sustancial en su composici6n urbana - rural, durante
el periodo 1950 - 1990, asi en 1950 la poblaci6n rural alcanzaba el 71.5% del total nacional y la urbana
llegaba al 28.5%. Para 1990, la poblaci6n urbana represent6 el 55.4% de la poblaci6n total del pais y la
rural el 44.6%. Para el afio 2000, segun estadisticas del Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos del
Ecuador (INEC), la poblaci6n urbana del Ecuador alcanzara el 64.3% del total, (total de habitantes, 12.6
millones), mientras que la rural el 35.7%. Uno de los factores para el acelerado crecimiento del sector
urbano fue el proceso migratorio campo - ciudad ocurrido en varias ciudades principales del Ecuador.
SITUACION DEL SECTOR MUNICIPAL A INICIOS DEL PDM (1990)
5.    En 1990, los municipios tenian como principal fuente de ingresos a las transferencias del
Gobierno Central, provenientes basicamente de los ingresos por exportaciones de petr6leo. Para el
periodo 1982-1988, estas transferencias alcanzaron el 51.2% del total. Por ingresos provenientes de la
gesti6n de la entidad, recaudaban el 34.1%; y, el 14.7% restante, correspondia a prestamos. Con respecto
a los gastos, para igual periodo, la distribuci6n fue la siguiente: salarios, 27.8%; transferencias corrientes
(seguro social) 6.4%; otros gastos 5.4%; obras publicas 39%; otros gastos de capital 8.8%; y, servicio de
la deuda, 12.6%.
6.    Cabe mencionar los principales problemas de indole financiero del sector municipal y que se
resumen en: alta dependencia de los municipios respecto de las transferencias del Gobierno Central, poco
o ningun incentivo de los municipios para movilizar sus propios recursos, tendencia a una disminuci6n de
los ingresos y gastos municipales.
7.    Los problemas de e indole administrativo e institucional se sintetizan en: Carencia de
planificaci6n de las inversiones, falta de personal capacitado en las instituciones de apoyo tecnico y
financiero (BEDE, AME, FONAPRE), asi como en las propias municipalidades, especialmente en las
pequenas y medianas, falta de una verdadera politica y estrategia de desarrollo de sus recursos humanos
que les permita afrontar con exito los requerimientos y necesidades crecientes del sector.
8.    El rapido proceso de urbanizaci6n, acompafiado de la migraci6n de la poblaci6n rural hacia las
principales ciudades del pais, gener6 un acelerado crecimiento de barrios marginales en las principales
ciudades del pais, con el consecuente incremento del deficit y deterioro de servicios basicos como agua
potable, alcantarillado, vias y en general equipamiento urbano.
OBJETIVOS DE EL PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO MUNICIPAL E INFRAESTRUCTURA
URBANA PDM
9.    En este contexto, el Gobierno Nacional se plante6 varias estrategias, las cuales se recogen en el
Programa de Desarrollo municipal e Infraestructura Urbana PDM. El objetivo fundamental del PDM es el
de apoyar al Gobierno Central en su esfuerzo por establecer un nuevo marco de desarrollo municipal
mediante reformas de caracter legal, administrativas e institucionales; el fortalecimiento de entidades
gubernamentales de apoyo municipal y de los municipios; y, provisi6n de recursos necesarios para
inversiones en sectores prioritarios, basicamente saneamiento ambiental y equipamiento urbano. Para la
consecuci6n de los objetivos fundamentales se fijaron siete objetivos especificos:
/ Implantar un sistema de transferencias mas transparente, equitativo, predecible y eficiente en la
movilizaci6n de recursos locales;
/ Reducir las transferencias discrecionales fiscales a los gobiernos locales;



3
/ Ayudar a los municipios a generar superavit en sus cuentas corrientes, a traves de instrumentos para
incrementar recursos de sus propias fuentes y reducir sus gastos;
V  Mejorar la capacidad de los municipios tanto para planear y ejecutar proyectos que sean eficientes,
equitativos y ambientalmente bien preparados como para mantener su infraestructura;
v/ Mejorar la capacidad de enfocar los servicios a estratos de bajos ingresos;
/ Fortalecer al Banco del Estado como una fuente confiable de financiamiento y asistencia tecnica para
los municipios; y,
V Mejorar la calidad de entrenamiento de los funcionarios de los municipios.
Entidades participantes
10.   Para cumplir con las estrategias propuestas, el Gobierno design6 a las siguientes entidades:
v  Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico como administrador central de los recursos provenientes de
las transferencias a los municipios;
Banco del Estado BEDE (antes Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador), como el organismo ejecutor del
Programa, el cual canalizaria en forma ordenada y racional los creditos a los municipios.
Adicionalmente, con el apoyo de la GTZ, ejecutaria el componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional;
V Fondo Nacional de Preinversi6n FONAPRE, para asistir a los municipios en la preparaci6n de los
proyectos de inversi6n;
V  Secretaria de Desarrollo Administrativo SENDA, para la coordinaci6n central de la capacitaci6n de
los municipios; y,
V  Asociaci6n de Municipalidades Ecuatoriana AME, a traves del INFODEM, para la ejecuci6n d la
capacitaci6n a los municipios.
Cr&Sditos concedidos
11.   Desde su inicio en 1990 hasta el 31 de agosto de 1999, el PDM concedi6 489 creditos por un
valor de 219.5 millones de d6lares constantes, para financiar 339 proyectos, de los cuales 293 se
encuentran concluidos, 44 en ejecuci6n y 2 liquidados.
- Desembolsos por sectores y actividad economica
12.   El sector de saneamiento ambiental que comprende las actividades de agua potable, alcantarillado
sanitario, pluvial y letrinizaci6n; y, desechos s6lidos, concentr6 el 58.4% del total de desembolsos del
programa que representa 118.1 millones de d6lares constantes. La actividad de pavimentaci6n urbana, que
concentr6 el 28% de los desembolsos del periodo, equivalente a 56.6 millones de d6lares constantes. Para
las actividades de mercados y centros comerciales, terminales terrestres y parques y plazas, se entregaron
desembolsos por 11.6 millones de dMlares constantes, equivalente al 5.8% del total. Finalmente, para otras
actividades como puentes, carreteras y autopistas, camales, catastros, entre las principales, se
desembolsaron recursos por 15.8 millones de dMlares constantes, equivalente al 7.8% del total.
* Desembolsos por fuentes de financiamiento
13.   Durante el periodo analizado, se desembolsaron 71.2 millones de d6lares constantes con fondos
del BID, que representan el 35.2% del total. Con fondos del BIRF se desembolsaron 69.9 millones de
d6lares constantes (34.5 del total); y, con fondos FIM se desembolsaron 61.2 millones de d6lares
constantes, que representan el 30.3% del total. Como se puede apreciar, se cumpli6 con el pari pasu
establecido para el PDM.



4
* Desembolsos por sectores econ6micos
14.   Durante el periodo analizado, el PDM desembols6 para el sector social 176.8 millones de d6lares
constantes, equivalente al 87.5% del total.Para el sector econ6mico, el PDM concedi6 desembolsos por
25.3 millones de d6lares constantes, equivalente al 12.5% del total. Para el sector mu?ltiple apenas se
concedieron desembolsos por 95.400 d6lares constantes que representan el 0.05% del total.
*  Desembolsos por regiones geogrificas
15.   Considerando que la mayor cantidad de poblaci6n y por consiguiente de necesidades se
concentran en las Regiones Costa y Sierra, durante el periodo analizado PDM desembols6 para la Costa
93.5 millones de d6lares constantes, que representa el 46.3% del total. Para la Regi6n Sierra desembols6,
99.1 millones de d6lares constantes que representan el 49.0% del total.Para la Regi6n oriental , el PDM
desembols6 9.2 millones de dMlares constantes, que representa el 4.6% del total; y, a la Regi6n Insular o
Galapagos se canalizaron 317.600 d6lares constantes, que significa el 0.16% del total.
* Cr&ditos por niveles de pobreza
16.   El impacto del PDM puede medirse tambien por los creditos concedidos en las regiones y
ciudades con altos niveles de pobreza y que contribuye a mejorar el nivel de vida de la poblaci6n. En el.
periodo 1990-1999 el PDM aprob6 creditos por un monto total de US$ 232'964.084 (en terminos
corrientes), distribuidos en cada una de las 22 provincias en forma diferente, en las cuales se destacan dos
provincias, Pichincha y Guayas, que han ocupado en forma conjunta el 43% de los creditos aprobados, en
d6nde se ubican los municipios mas grandes del Pais que son Quito y Guayaquil, cabe mencionar que
estas dos provincias concentran el 66.4% de poblaci6n pobre urbana a nivel nacional, lo que resulta un
impacto importante del PDM al destinar casi la mitad de sus recursos a proyectos de infraestructura
urbana en ciudades que agrupan a las dos terceras partes de poblaci6n pobre urbana.
17.   Existen otras provincias que se encuentran en un porcentaje intermedio de captaci6n de creditos
aprobados, entre 4.5% y 9%, todas ellas con sus capitales de provincia que han ocupado la mayor parte de
estos creditos, como Azuay 6.7%, capital Cuenca; Tungurahua 4.5%, capital Ambato; El Oro 9%, capital
Machala; Manabi 8.1%, capital Portoviejo, Los Rios 7.2%, capital Babahoyo, Imbabura 4.4%, capital
Ibarra, que en conjunto suman alrededor de 40%, lo que deja un 20% para las restantes provincias. Estas
cifras permiten indicar que el PDM ha desarrollado una importante contribuci6n a] mejoramiento del
nivel de vida de la poblaci6n, pues el tipo de proyectos que financia el PDM, nos permite concluir que su
aporte ha sido significativo en este sentido.
PROBLEMAS Y SOLUCIONES EN LA EJECUCION DEL PDM I
18.   De acuerdo a la experiencia obtenida por el Banco se pueden identificar determinados problemas
en cuanto al ciclo de proyectos, que se toman recurrentes en todos ellos, ya sea en saneamiento ambiental,
equipamiento urbano, vialidad, etc.; asi podemos senialar las siguientes:
*  Formulaci6n. La mayor debilidad que se ha presentado en la etapa de formulaci6n de los proyectos,
se debe a la inadecuada identificaci6n del problema, falta de participaci6n ciudadana, intereses
creados por las entidades y falta de experiencia de las consultorias. Sin embargo, se debe resaltar el
hecho de que el PDM se constituy6 en una importante instancia de capacitaci6n y entrenamiento de
las empresas consultoras, asi como de fortalecimiento institucional de las mismas.
*  Ejecuci6n. Los mayores problemas se deben a los procesos precontractuales y contractuales, por las
exageradas demoras, las mismas que se debian a la multiple diversificacion de documentos



5
sistematizados, los cuales implicaban diferentes tipos de concursos, ya sea por montos, fuentes de
recursos; asi como distintas instancias de aprobaci6n de los procesos, en los organismos de control
del Estado y de solicitudes de no objecion en el BID y el BIRF.
Operaci6n. No han iniciado la operacion del servicio en los tiempos previstos, no se han cumplido
las recomendaciones tecnicas y los manuales de operaci6n, falta de personal tecnico y debida atenci6n
de las entidades. Adicionalmente se debe senalar que a mas de los problemas anteriormente descritos
en las etapas de formulaci6n y ejecucion, en la administracion, operacion y mantenimiento de las
instalaciones ha demandado mayor asistencia tecnica y se ha tenido que conminar al establecimiento
de un buen sistema de control en la recuperaci6n tarifaria para que el proyecto sea autosostenible
19.  Existen determinadas acciones que el Banco del Estado se encuentra lievando a cabo en el ambito
de la operaci6n de los proyectos PDM, a traves de la supervisi6n tecnica y financiera de los mismos, asi
podemos senialar las siguientes:
/  Supervision de condicionantes de credito, especialmente en la implantaci6n de sistemastarifarios que
permitan dar autosostenibilidad a los proyectos. Adicionalmente a la supervisi6n, los grupos
polifuncionales del Banco realizan labores de apoyo a las iniciativas de aplicaci6n de sistemas
tarifarios .
/ El Banco ha realizado con su propio equipo de tecnicos mas de 10 planes de fortalecimiento
institucional (PFI) y supervisado 21 planes similares, realizados por consultoria, en Municipios
considerados criticos por su alto endeudamiento y debilidad en sus finanzas, que comprometen su
capacidad de pago de los creditos otorgados por el Banco. Es importante resaltar que en estos planes
de fortalecimiento institucional se han considerado alternativas de gesti6n de los servicios, que
posibiliten la participaci6n del sector privado o de modalidades mixtas. Actualmente el Banco del
Estado realiza un seguimiento al cumplimiento de las metas establecidas en los PFI.
20.   Adicionalmente a lo expresado y con el fin de garantizar al BID/BIRF la oportuna ejecucion de
los proyectos mas grandes que representaban cerca del 90% del total de recursos por desembolsar del
PDM, a junio de 1998, el BEDE suscribi6 sendas actas de compromiso y garantia de cumplimiento de
actividades, con alcaldes, constructores y fiscalizadores de los siguientes proyectos:
v  Proyectos BID
1. Construcci6n del plan emergente de agua potable de Machala.
2. Construcci6n de la I etapa del sistema de alcantarillado sanitario de Machala.
3. Adquisici6n de hidrosuccionadores a cargo de la ECAPAG,
4. Ampliaci6n y mejoramiento del sistema de agua potable de Quevedo
5. Construcci6n de la I etapa del sistema de alcantarillado sanitario de Montalvo
6. Pavimentaci6n flexible, obras accesorias, instalaciones electricas, telef6nicas ehidrosanitarias de la
ciudad de Cuenca.
7. Construcci6n y equipamiento del Camal de Ambato
/  Proyectos Banco Mundial
I. Construccion de los sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado sanitario de La Troncal
2. Construcci6n de la I etapa del sistema de agua potable de La Mana
3. Pavimentaci6n de las vias urbanas de Pasaje
4. Ampliaci6n y mejoramiento del alcantarillado sanitario de Ventanas
5. Construccion del terminal terrestre de Latacunga



6
6. Construcci6n de redes de agua potable para Guayaquil
El BEDE, en cumplimiento de las obligaciones derivadas de las diferentes actas de compromiso, realiz6
un seguimiento puntual de las actividades acordadas por alcaldes, contratistas y fiscalizadores para la
ejecuci6n de los proyectos mencionados, facilitando y solucionando oportunamente problemas de orden
tecnico, legal, contractual, administrativo y financiero (desfinanciamientos), permitiendo, de esta manera,
la conclusi6n de  I proyectos y la utilizacion o cancelaci6n de los saldos por desembolsar de los restantes
2 proyectos (alcantarillado sanitario de Machala y pavimentacion de Cuenca, respectivamente).
IMPACTOS EN SANEAMIENTO AMBIENTAL
AGUA POTABLE
21.    De los analisis realizados en el documento principal se desprende que hay un incremento
importante en los porcentajes de cobertura reales, sin liegar a los niveles previstos, pero con un evidente
impacto en la poblaci6n beneficiaria. En cuanto al impacto en terminos de porcentaje de beneficiarios de
los proyectos, se puede indicar que para la situaci6n inicial, el porcentaje es de 23.1 % de la poblaci6n
urbana de las ciudades de la muestra y para la situaci6n real la poblaci6n urbana beneficiaria de los
proyectos es de 32 %. En este caso los impactos son superiores a lo estimado inicialmente. En lo que se
refiere a la reducci6n de los niveles de dotaci6n y perdidas es evidente que con los proyectos se logra una
racionalizaci6n del consumo y un mejor control de perdidas de agua, y que a pesar de no llegar a niveles
6ptimos y estimados, los impactos en estos aspectos resultan significativos, sin descartar el hecho de
continuar con la asistencia tecnica necesaria para mejorar principalmente la operaci6n de los sistemas.
Alcantarillado Sanitario
22.   Con los proyectos de la muestra se obtiene que el nivel de cobertura promedio del servicio de
alcantarillado para la situaci6n prevista se incrementa en 59 % y para la situaci6n real, en los tres
proyectos en los cuales se obtuvo datos de la situaci6n real es del 53 %. Es importante resaltar que en
aquellos proyectos d6nde se puede realizar comparaciones con los datos completos en cada situaci6n
(inicial, prevista y real), los resultados obtenidos son positivos, en cuanto a los niveles de cobertura
alcanzadas con los proyectos, aun si no lIlegasen a los porcentajes previstos. En lo referente al impacto de
los proyectos en la poblaci6n beneficiada se puede observar que para la situaci6n prevista la cobertura es
de 68 %, lograndose una cobertura de la poblaci6n beneficiaria de 55 % como situaci6n real, lo que
tambien nos indica que los proyectos alcanzaron un aceptable nivel de cobertura.
Desechos s6lidos
23.   Del analisis efectuado este tipo de proyectos solucionan parcialmente el problema ya que no se ha
implementado una administraci6n tecnica de los botaderos. En general, se diria que han generado un
mayor nivel de satisfacci6n a la poblaci6n. Existe un menor porcentaje de la poblaci6n que no esta
contenta con el servicio y que corresponde a aquella situada cerca de los rellenos sanitarios o de los sitos
de almacenamiento temporal. Con los proyectos, el nivel de cobertura promedio del servicio de desechos
s6lidos para la situaci6n prevista es del 65% en el anio 0 y del 83% para el affo 5. Para la situaci6n real los
promedios alcanzados son del 65% y 76%. Los mayores niveles de incremento en la cobertura se
presentan en las ciudades de la costa. De los resultados presentados es factible concluir que los niveles de
cobertura realmente logrados con los proyectos PDM en el sector de saneamiento ambiental, han
alcanzado porcentajes que son menores a los estimados, pero que sin embargo de ello, son cifras
significativas que muestran que si se han incrementado significativamente las coberturas a la poblaci6n
beneficiaria.
Equipamiento Urbano
24.       En proyectos de terminal terrestre, existe un conflicto de intereses con los transportistas
(cooperativas de buses interprovinciales), que prefieren la no utilizaci6n del terminal terrestre por cuanto



7
la entrada al mismo implicaba un costo y ademas al hecho de no establecer un cambio cultural que
obligue la utilizaci6n del terminal terrestre a los usuarios. La poblaci6n entrevistada considera que el nivel
de congesti6n en el centro de la ciudad es menor y estan de acuerdo con la ubicaci6n del terminal (86%).
De las encuestas a pasajeros consideran que el terminal presta un buen servicio aunque no todos ingresan
al mismo y se evitan el pago de tarifa por ingreso al terminal. En el caso de los mercados, los proyectos
son considerados importantes para la comunidad, pese a que no se cont6 con su participaci6n en la
definici6n de su prioridad y con niveles de consenso para su realizaci6n. Los cuestionarios de percepci6n
aplicados a la poblaci6n, determinan que no son obras totalmente exitosas, aunque sus beneficios sean
evidentes y tangibles.
Vialidad
25.    La aceptaci6n de estos proyectos en general es positiva por que perciben en mejoramiento del
ordenamiento urbano y desarrollo de sus ciudades. Sin embargo, el costo tarifario que demandan los
proyectos tienen resistencia al pago por parte de los beneficiarios. No se ha inducido una cultura de pago
previamente a la realizaci6n de las obras y el deterioro de las condiciones econ6micas de las familias
inciden en agravar este problema.
* Resultados del PDM I en las Finanzas Municipales
Las principales conclusiones a las que se Ilega luego del analisis de cada rubro que integra el Ingreso de
las Municipalidades pueden ser resumidas en las siguientes:
26.    Existe un crecimiento real en los Ingresos propios de las municipalidades que participaron en el
PDM, superior al crecimiento de las que no participaron en 6l. Este crecimiento es atribuible a una
revisi6n de tarifas por aplicaci6n de clausulas del contrato de credito, que obligan a los municipios a
mejorar sus recaudaciones; por tanto es posible aseverar en concordancia con lo expresado, que el PDM
constituy6 una exigencia en la gesti6n municipal para mejorar sus ingresos propios en terminos reales.
Existe una mayor dependencia de las municipalidades que no participaron en el PDM, frente al Estado
ecuatoriano para financiar sus gastos corrientes, el analisis nos permite concluir que aquellos Municipios
realizaron un menor esfuerzo fiscal.
27.   El Credito Publico y el Saldo de Caja, para  los Municipios con participaci6n en el PDM,
representan un mayor porcentaje de participaci6n en la estructura presupuestaria, frente a los que no lo
hicieron. Ello es l6gico ya que los niveles de endeudamiento en los primeros es superior por los proyectos
financiados por el PDM
28.    Los Municipios con participaci6n en el PDM, tienen mayor capacidad de financiar sus
remuneraciones con su propios ingresos debido al incremento real de sus ingresos propios, y a una
racionalidad de sus gastos, especialmente de sus salarios, rubro que se constituy6 en un tema fundamental
de la asistencia tecnica del PDM, para apoyar el fortalecimiento institucional de las municipalidades.
29.    La aplicaci6n de determinadas politicas de racionalizaci6n del gasto, entre las cuales se incluye la
disminuci6n de la planta de empleados, que en muchos casos alcanzaba cifras exorbitantes han permitido
que este indicador sea ampliamente favorable a las municipalidades que participaron en el PDM
30.    Los municipios que tienen una mayor relaci6n entre sus ingresos totales y sus gastos totales, son
aquellos que han participado en el PDM, sin embargo vale la pena sefialar que aquellos que no
participaron en el PDM, es precisamente por no tener una estructura financiera que les hubiese permitido
ingresar en el PDM como sujetos de credito.
* Resultado del PDM en Asistencia tecnica



8
31.   La asistencia tecnica dentro del PDM I se ejecut6 bajo la coordinaci6n del Banco del Estado, por
medio del componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional Banco del Estado-GTZ. La GTZ tuvo la misi6n
de apoyar en todo el disenlo del PFM. Se destacan resultados en Fortalecimiento en el area financiera,
planificaci6n urbana y en el area administrativa. Se evidencia un mejoramiento en la capacidad de gesti6n
de los servicios, especialmente en los sectores de agua, alcantarillado, desechos s6lidos, y en menor
medida en equipamiento. Ademas existen resultados en catastros, como la actualizacion de registros de
predios y ampliaci6n de coberturas. Hay avances en el area administrativa de las Municipalidades a traves
de la reorganizaci6n de unidades administrativas. Ademas, gracias a la intervenci6n de la asistencia
tecnica se mejoraron los registros, la emisi6n y lectura de consumos, aspectos que se reflejan en el
mejoramiento de los ingresos y la racionalizaci6n de los gastos en los municipios que trabajaron con
PDM.
Resultados en Capacitaci6n
32.    Durante el periodo 1991 - 1996 la AME inicio un proceso de capacitaci6n al personal tecnico y
administrativo de las municipalidades del pais, cuyo objetivo fue preparar a los funcionarios en temas
relacionados con la gesti6n municipal. En este periodo se logr6 capacitar a 7.172 personas vinculadas al
sector municipal y a 553 personas particulares, en temas de finanzas municipales, administraci6n de
recursos y manejo de cuentas. En otros temas como proyectos de servicios publicos, inversi6n,
planificaci6n, administraci6n, organizaci6n y legislaci6n Municipal, tarifas y catastros, se lleg6 a un total
de 7.725 personas capacitadas, en 242 eventos efectuados. Durante el periodo 1997 - 1999, La AME
inici6 el Programa Nacional de Gesti6n Local, el mismo que se ejecut6 hastajunio de 1999. Se realizaron
cinco subprogramas, correspondientes a 97 proyectos y se logr6 un avance superior al 85 %. Se
ejecutaron eventos asociados a los subprogramas, bajo la modalidad de talleres y capacitaci6n en
servicios. En el periodo junio-1998 / junio-1999 se realizaron 64 eventos, capacitandose a 1.937 personas,
entre directivos, empleados municipales y miembros de la sociedad civil.
33.   La Secretaria de Desarrollo  Administrativo, SENDA  logr6 implementar procesos de
reclasificaci6n y valoraci6n de puestos en 156 municipios, sin determinar el impacto cualitativo de esta
gesti6n Ademas, se realizaron diagn6sticos institucionales a 35 municipalidades cuyos informes fueron
presentados por la SENDA. A base de estos informes se ha brindado asistencia tecnica a 20 municipios en
materia de ordenanzas de caracter tributario y que tienen relaci6n con los contratos de credito suscritos
con el Banco del Estado para obras o mejoramiento de los servicios municipales. Las Areas en las cuales
ha intervenido la entidad son agua potable, alcantarillado, aseo publico y desechos s6lidos, camal, uso de
via publica, cementerio y terminal terrestre, poniendose a consideraci6n del Banco del Estado 28
ordenanzas.
34.   La Secretaria General de la Presidencia de la Repuiblica a traves de la OSCIDI encargada de la
Racionalizaci6n y Eficiencia Administrativa en el Area de estructura administrativa. ha efectuado
actividades en 5 municipios. El proceso de Fortalecimiento Institucional presenta una propuesta de
estructura organizacional que contiene una justificaci6n tecnica basada en una matriz de procesos, y el
calculo de los costos aproximados de indemnizaci6n de los funcionarios. El diseflo de la matrizposicional
se desarrolla tomando en cuenta el levantamiento de los procesos, los que permiten determinar el numero
de personal que se requiere para la ejecuci6n de cada proceso. Se concluye que es necesario continuar con
el proceso de reducci6n de personal.
CONCLUSIONES
Objetivos (a), Crear un sistema de transferencias mAs transparente y equitativo, y (b) reducir las
transferencias discrecionales.



9
35.   Mediante Ley 72 del 8 de mayo de 1990, se cre6 el Fondo de Desarrollo Seccional (FODESEC),
como un mecanismo predecible, trasparente y equitativo de asignaci6n de transferencias de recursos a los
gobiernos seccionales y a su vez como contraparte nacional del PDM, a traves del Fondo de Inversiones
Municipales FIM. Se promulg6 la Ley de Descentralizaci6n en la cual se plantea un sistema de
transferencias progresivo hasta Ilegar al 15% de los ingresos del Presupuesto del Estado. Por otra parte, el
Articulo 135 de la Constituci6n Politica de la Republica del Ecuador, que entr6 en vigencia a partir del 10
de agosto de 1998, elimina las transferencias discrecionales a las municipalidades del pais.
Objetivo (c), Ayudar a los municipios a generar superavit en sus cuentas corrientes, a traves de
instrumentos para incrementar recursos de sus propias fuentes y reducir sus gastos.
36.   El PDM  permiti6 una mayor participaci6n de los Ingresos Propios de los Municipios que
accedieron al PDM, cuyo promedio en el periodo es del 21%, a diferencia del promedio de los Municipios
que no participaron en el PDM, que es del 14%; es decir, no han existido cambios importantes en la
participaci6n de los Ingresos Propios al interior de la estructura de los Ingresos Municipales. Esto se
corrobora con las tasas de crecimiento de esta partida, que es de 1.2% en el periodo, para los Municipios
que si participaron en PDM y de apenas 0.3% para las entidades que no participaron, lo cual nos permite
concluir que el PDM tuvo un impacto real sobre el crecimiento de los Ingresos Propios del Sector
Municipal. De los datos expresados los Municipios con participaci6n en el PDM, tienen mayor capacidad
de financiar sus remuneraciones con su propios ingresos llegando a un maximo de 183% en 1998 y cuyo
comportamiento en el periodo es de constante crecimiento.
Objetivo (d), Mejorar la capacidad de los municipios tanto para planear y ejecutar proyectos que
sean eficientes, equitativos y ambientalmente bien preparados como para mantener su
infraestructura.
37.        Respecto a este objetivo, en el 53% de los municipios de la muestra de 17, se efectuaron
reformas administrativas, con apoyo de la Secretaria de Desarrollo Administrativo (SENDA) y de la
AME, permitiendo la creaci6n de areas indispensables como: direcci6n de obras publicas, medio
ambiente, relaciones publicas, planeaci6n y presupuesto. Adicionalmente, el 70.5% de municipios
cuentan en sus estaciones de trabajo con sistemas de contabilidad y automatizaci6n de su gesti6n.
Objetivo (e), mejorar la capacidad de enfocar los servicios a estratos de bajos ingresos.
38.   El sector de saneamiento ambiental que comprende las actividades de agua potable (30.9% del
total, equivalente a 62.5 millones de d6lares constantes), alcantarillado sanitario, pluvial yletrinizaci6n
(21.2% del total, equivalente a 42.9 millones de d6lares constantes); y, desechos s6lidos (6.3% del total,
equivalente a 12.7 millones de d6lares constantes) concentraron el 58.4% del total de desembolsos del
programa (202.2 millones de d6lares constantes), que representa 118.1 millones de d6lares constantes.
Actividades de gran impacto en sectores poblacionales de bajos ingresos. Cabe destacar que para estas
inversiones los municipios tambi6n recibieron subsidios adicionales para promover acceso a los estratos
bajos.
Objeto (f), fortalecer al Banco del Estado como una fuente confiable de financiamiento y asistencia
tecnica para los municipios.
39.        Con la implantaci6n del programa la tasa de interes, partiendo del 37%, se fue ajustando
paulatinamente hacia tasas reales de mercado (actualmente, alrededor del 75%). Reducci6n del personal
de 550 a 300 funcionarios. Se continuia con el proceso de descentralizaci6n de muchos de las funciones a
las cuatro, regionales con el fin de promover la estrecha relaci6n con sus clientes y hacer mas eficiente el



10
proceso. Adicionalmente, ha sido presentada ante el Congreso Nacional para su aprobaci6n, la nueva Ley
del Banco del Estado que permitiri dar mayor agilidad y eficiencia en la toma de decisiones, con la visi6n
de ampliar operaciones, productos y portafolio de negocios y facultandole la realizaci6n de operaciones
activas y pasivas del sistema financiero. Se han reducido ostensiblemente los tiempos de evaluaci6n de
los proyectos gracias a las reformas administrativas implementadas y lasmetodologias de evaluaci6n, asi
como tambien a los sistemas de seguimiento de las finanzas municipales, estructuradas por el Banco,
como el Sistema de Informaci6n Municipal SIM.
Objeto (g), Mejorar la calidad de entrenamiento de los funcionarios de los municipios.
40.        En cuanto a esto, el PDM, a traves de la Asociaci6n de Municipalidades del Ecuador (AME)
y la Secretaria de Desarrollo Administrativo (SENDA) brind6 capacitaci6n en Finanzas Municipales,
analisis de proyectos, desarrollo municipal y tarifas y catastros, a 12,500 funcionarios municipales. El
tiempo programado para el pleno cumplimiento de los objetivos fue muy optimista, dado el estado de los
municipios cuando empez6 el programa, la experiencia inicial del Banco del Estado y de las otras
entidades inmersas en el Programa.
* Impactos.
41.   Se ha generado un cambio total en la cultura de proyectos en el pais. En todas las etapas del ciclo
del proyecto, desde los estudios, ejecuci6n y operaci6n, se puede apreciar un cambio de mentalidad de
alcaldes, tecnicos municipales y beneficiarios. Para muchos de ellos, la posibilidad de privatizaci6n o
acciones similares son alternativas viables. Se ha desarrollado una importante cultura de pago de los
usuarios de los servicios, reflejada en mejoras en la recuperaci6n de los ingresos por servicios. Los
recursos del componente Linea de Credito del Programa, fueron destinados exclusivamente a inversi6n
para el desarrollo local, focalizando basicamente los sectores mas necesitados, satisfaciendo necesidades
basicas insatisfechas como agua, alcantarillado, recolecci6n y disposici6n final de residuos s6lidos.
Actualmente, el pais dispone de una clase tecnica capacitada en la formulaci6n, evaluaci6n y seguimiento
de proyectos, la cual se a ido conformado durante el desarrollo del PDM, los municipios, Banco del
Estado, consultores y contratistas. Paralelamente, se ha generado una base de oferta de servicios de
consultoria.
42.   Uno de los temas de mayor importancia es la incorporaci6n del Banco del Estado como una
fuente de financiamiento del desarrollo local, lo que implica basicamente la superaci6n del criterio
paternalista de que el estado lo financie, generando un concepto de cubrir necesidades con base a la
propia gesti6n de los municipios y la sostenibilidad de los proyectos a traves del pago de tarifas, tasas y
contribuciones especiales.
43.   En todo el pais se puede apreciar mejoras en los municipios que recibieron prestamos y asistencia
tecnica bajo el proyecto. Sin embargo, con la situaci6n macroecon6mica tan dificil, esto ha generado un
significativo endeudamiento de los municipios a pesar de sus esfuerzos para generar mas recursos
propios. Se debe buscar un mecanismo que permita al Gobierno reanudar sus pagos de transferencias y
otras deudas que tiene frente al BEDE y los municipios.
44.   Un aspecto que se debe resaltar es el cambio institucional que el BEDE ha desarrollado en el
ultimo afio, respondiendo a la experiencia del PDM I y a la situaci6n macroecon6mica actual. Como se
ha notado, estos cambios generan una mejor posici6n institucional frente al nuevo desafio que el BEDE se
enfrentara en el pais.



APPENDIX C: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE BANK'S ICR
Los objetivos planteados en el PDM respondieron a las necesidades del sector urbano en 1990,
anio en el cual se origin6 el proyecto, tales como: falta de infraestructura basica, dependencia de
recursos de los municipios con el Gobiemo central, poca capacidad institucional de los
municipios para estructurar sus propios planes y proyectos, personal municipal carente de
preparaci6n suficiente.
Respecto a los principales problemas que se presentaron en la preparaci6n y ejecuci6n del PDM
el documento hace menci6n a varios de ellos, los cuales coinciden con el parecer del Banco del
Estado y que a continuaci6n se comentan:
1. Existi6 una falta de proyectos bien concebidos y estructurados, susceptibles a ser financiados
por el Programa.
2. Durante la ejecuci6n del Programa se presentaron problemas en la fase contrataci6n tanto en
estudios como en obras, pues no se dieron acuerdos entre los organismos internacionales de
credito y el Banco del Estado que pennitan configurar documentos sistematizados que
unifiquen los procesos ya sea por fuente de financiamiento como por rangos de concurso.
Esto dos aspectos citados obligaron al Banco del Estado a asumir grandes responsabilidades
en la preparaci6n y contrataci6n de estudios y obras del PDM, sin la necesaria transferencia
del conocimiento a los municipios.
3. Se hace enfasis en el documento que los problemas referidos a las reclamaciones en las
contrataciones no se han resuelto en 10 anios de discusiones. Al respecto se debe mencioanr
que el Banco del Estado ha insistido, como alternativas, en la presentaci6n de una garantia
por parte de los reclamantes, con la finalidad de reducir las mismas, sin embargo, los
organismos internacionales de crddito se opusieron. No obstante, en las uiltimas reformas a la
Ley de Contrataci6n Publica constantes en la Ley de Transformaci6n Econ6mica, se ha
previsto una garantia equivalente al 7% del monto del contrato, para cada reclamaci6n.
Aspecto que debera ser considerado por el BID y Banco Mundial para futuras operaciones.
4. La inestabilidad politica del pais manifestada por el cambio de cinco presidentes, tres
elecciones seccionales, asi como institucional en el cambio de doce gerentes generales en el
Banco del Estado, seis coordinadores del Programa, afectaron la normal ejecuci6n y
continuidad del Programa.
5. Factores climaticos como el fen6meno del Nifio, retrasaron considerablemente la ejecuci6n
de las obras, especialmente en la costa ecuatoriana.
6. Estos dos ultimos factores ocasionaron que el Banco del Estado solicite ampliaciones de
plazo por dos afios cada una para la terminaci6n del Programa; asi como, a renunciar recursos
por US$ 25.83 millones.



2
7. No existi6 informaci6n de base que permita iniciar una adecuada ejecuci6n del Programa.
Adicionalmente, el Programa no cont6 con un proceso de sistematizaci6n de la informaci6n,
que permita un adecuado seguimiento y evaluaci6n expost de proyectos y del Programa.
Cabe mencionar que lo citado, se debe a la falta de una planificaci6n del Programa que
configure un marco l6gico que estructure en su interior los procesos a desarrollarse, sean
estos operacionales, institucionales, de credito, de relaciones con la comunidad, los
resultados y las metas.
8. La falta de planificaci6n y participaci6n de la Comunidad en el conocimiento del proyecto y
sus objetivos, por lo que no siempre el proyecto gener6 ganancia en toda la zona de
influencia.
Respecto a los logros obtenidos por la ejecuci6n del PDM y que se citan en el documento del
Banco Mundial, podemos expresar que el PDM caus6 varios impactos muy importantes, el
Programa constituy6 un gran aporte al desarrollo del pais. Entre los principales podemos
comentar los siguientes:
1. Crear un sistema de transferencias mas transparente y equitativo, y (b) reducir las
transferencias discrecionales. Respecto del cumplimiento de estos objetivos, el FODESEC,
como un mecanismo predecible, trasparente y equitativo de asignaci6n de transferencias de
recursos a los gobiernos seccionales y a su vez como contraparte nacional del PDM, a traves
del Fondo de Inversiones Municipales FIM; posteriormente, en marzo de 1997, se promulg6
la Ley de Descentralizaci6n en la cual se plantea un sistema de transferencias progresivo
hasta Ilegar al 15% de los ingresos del Presupuesto del Estado. Por otra parte, el Articulo 135
de la Constituci6n Politica de la Republica del Ecuador, que entr6 en vigencia a partir del 10
de agosto de 1998, elimina las transferencias discrecionales a las municipalidades del pais.
2. El PDM permiti6 una mayor participaci6n de los Ingresos Propios de los Municipios que
accedieron al PDM. Adicionalmente, de los datos analizados por parte del Banco del Estado
coinciden en indicar que los Municipios con participaci6n en el PDM, tienen mayor
capacidad de financiar sus remuneraciones con este tipo de ingresos.
3. De acuerdo a los analisis realizados en el Banco del Estado, el Prograina tuvo un importante
impacto a traves de la concesi6n de sus creditos en estratos de bajos ingresos al financiar
proyectos en el sector de saneamiento ambiental que comprende las actividades de agua
potable, alcantarillado sanitario, pluvial y letrinizaci6n y, desechos s6lidos. Cabe destacar
que para estas inversiones los municipios tambien recibieron subsidios adicionales para
promover acceso a los estratos bajos.
4. El PDM si mejor6 la capacidad de los municipios tanto para planear y ejecutar proyectos lo
que se corrobora con la acci6n de la asistencia tecnica que promovi6 la creaci6n de
importantes areas en los municipios como contabilidad, recaudaci6n de tasas, tarifas,
planificaci6n y presupuesto, que incidieron notablemente en la gesti6n de estas entidades. Se
han dado experiencias en el asesoramiento de reducci6n de personal, para reducir sus gastos
corrientes y adicionalmente para obtener nuevas formas de concesi6n y gesti6n de los
servicios.



3
5. Con la implantaci6n del prograrna la tasa de interes, partiendo del 37%, se fue ajustando
paulatinamente hacia tasas reales de mercado. Adicionalmente al interior del Banco del
Estado se han realizado varios cambios positivos como una reducci6n del personal de 550 a
300 funcionarios. Se continiia con el proceso de desconcentraci6n de funciones a las cuatro
regionales con el fin de promover la estrecha relaci6n con sus clientes y hacer mas eficiente
el proceso. Se han reducido ostensiblemente los tiempos de evaluaci6n de los proyectos
gracias a las reformas administrativas implementadas y las metodologias de evaluaci6n, asi
como tambi6n a los sistemas de seguimiento de las finanzas municipales, estructuradas por el
Banco, como el Sistema de Informaci6n Municipal SIM.
6. Se ha generado un cambio total en la cultura de proyectos en el pais. En todas las etapas del
ciclo del proyecto, desde los estudios, ejecuci6n y operaci6n, se puede apreciar un cambio de
mentalidad de alcaldes, tecnicos municipales y beneficiarios. Para muchos de ellos, la
posibilidad de privatizaci6n o acciones similares son altemativas viables. Se ha desarrollado
una importante cultura de pago de los usuarios de los servicios, reflejada en mejoras en la
recuperaci6n de los ingresos por servicios.
7. El documento resalta la coordinaci6n interinstitucional entre las entidades participantes, lo
cual efectivamente es un aporte importante del PDM, que permiti6 crear una excelente
relaci6n, especialmente con el BID, Banco Mundial, GTZ, sobre la base de un grupo
gerencial y tecnico de alta calidad.
8. Las Misiones de los organismos intemacionales, se constituyeron en un importante apoyo
para el Banco del Estado en las diferentes fases del programa, ya que permiti6 una relaci6n
directa entre los tecnicos del proyecto y la realidad de la ejecucion del mismo, permitiendo
siempre mejorar y canalizar el desarrollo del proyecto hacia el cumplimiento de sus
objetivos.



I



IBRD 28022
81'                     80'                     79'                      78'                     77'                     76'
ESMERALDAS.     ~        .   -                                                                                             1'
_  -    ESMERALD<_    \<, 9   >;C 0 L 0 M B I A
7. '    I F[ C                         ESMERALDAS'&<                   C cARC HVJ)    ,
C      A  N                Zy\ rf'_'ABU  IBARR
-                   Logo Agrio S      *W
BCarmenbq                   0.
]~~~~~~~~~~-PCIC    Coo -'N.                                                                                / -
-'--I 4                   ~         ->    8/, Putumayo
elosnCo Domig                                              )Sh),s,ufindiO
.K   CRT                                                               A AiXo R   7  , SNe0
Colceto  .                            L \UNGA                       ISLANDS    -PAVED R ocoD
p~~~~ ~~~~ ,'    Velo o(tar              cesedoCYI                      -ACIlW-OHR  L-ETE   OD
. . _ / * \ : Hl W ERX fSf~~~A                                        fP                  Q ti CononLRO   A     DS
M*nto 1-~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'o
ARO         B MBAX Po2)' W  /   /  "}SLA       EpASTA   A PO
?~~~~- 6IO ,O VX Nn /xPCFCOfA                                                  tRVR
2-                     G   U A                   'Ys
2alina              GUA--                                                                               1
KIOETR   MORSNA ,                            o te 7    s  
ar5n i0 f                       /ANtA G               -9 E                           76'
81l    80                    KILOMeeRS                            ,            77AJ 1ECUADOR
GAAPAGOS ISLANDS                  - PAVED ROADS
z  ~             '      tRHiLG    EOOS-OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
eH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'---RAILROADS
o~f~tococha                                          tSLA MAtRCHENA                            AROT
L 0 J A ~~~~~~~~ISAGENOVESA                                       tPORTS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
_v          (-     --           SLA>SAN SALVADOR                     - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
P  E  R  U                 ~~~~~~FERNANDINA                 $SLA SANTA CRULZ
-    ISLA                 -'2          ~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denominotions
)5LA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,and any other information shown on
0    25   50   75  too                                  tSBL                SLA SAN' CR/St6#AdL          this mop dlo not imply, on the part of
________________________                                               1 ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ The World Book Group, any judgment
KILOMETERS                                               tSLA                                      on the legal status of any territory, or
SANTA MARIA-                     ~~~~~~~any endorsement or oscceptonce of
.  .  I  I                          C~~~~~~~__SL   SAN Lsuhboundaries.
81'                           80'                    KILOMETERS       91,                 90'
MAY 1996



