Page  1
                                              February  10,   1993
Mr. Martin Costa March
Gerente General
Banco del Estado
Paez 655 y Ramirez Davalos
Quito, Ecuador
            Re:   Loan No. 3285-EC (Municipal Development and Urban
                  Infrastructure Project) Amendment to the Project
                  Agreement
Dear Sir:
      Please refer to the Project Agreement between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador S.A. (BEDE), dated February 15,
1991.
      We address you as the authorized representative of Banco del
Estado (BDE), the institution which has assumed, pursuant to Decree
Law No. 02 published in the Republic of Ecuador's Registro Oficial
on May 7, 1992, all rights and responsibilities of BEDE under said
Project Agreement.
     We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to our discussions
on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend said Project Agreement as
follows:
Schedule 1
     A.     The first paragraph in Section II of this Schedule is
hereby amended by replacing the words "In order to assist" at the
very beginning of that paragraph with the words "1.  In order to
assist".
     B.     The first paragraph in Section II of this Schedule is
hereby further amended by replacing the amount "$30,000" with the
amount "$100,000".
Schedule 2
     C.     The introduction to paragraph 4 of this Schedule is
hereby amended by inserting the words "in conformity with the Manual
and" immediately after the words "Sub-loans shall be made".
     D.     A new paragraph 5 is hereby added immediately after
paragraph 4 to this Schedule to read as follows in its entirety:
"Sub-loans for Sub-projects affecting rural areas within the
jurisdiction of a Municipality shall be made through Sub-loan
Agreements separate from Sub-loan Agreements for Sub-projects
affecting urban areas within the jurisdiction of a Municipality.".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the space provided below.  This
amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return
one fully executed original to us.
     The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective
upon: (i) receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this
amendment letter; and (ii) effectiveness of the amendment letter
(Amendment Letter I) of even date herewith from the Bank to the
Republic of Ecuador (the Borrower) pertaining to amendment of the
February 15, 1991 Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
Page  2
     Please note that, by signing this letter, BDE agrees with the
Bank that the indicators for Part B Beneficiaries set forth in the
Financial Performance Indicators letter (signed by the Borrower and
BEDE and agreed to by the Bank on February 15, 1991) shall, to
account for the cost recovery policies regarding Sub-projects
affecting rural areas, be modified as set forth in the amended
Manual required for effectiveness of Amendment Letter I.
     Because of his interest in this matter, we are sending a copy
of this letter to the Minister of Finance.
                         Very truly yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                    /s/  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                          Acting Director
                       Country Department IV
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
BANCO DEL ESTADO
By: /s/ Martin Costa March
      Authorized Representative
Date: February 16, 1993
cc: Mr. Mario Ribadeneira, Minister of Finance
