Page  1
                                                  February 10, 1993
Mr. Mario Ribadeneira
Ministro de Finanzas y Credito Publico
Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
Quito, Ecuador
            Re:   Loan No. 3285-EC (Municipal Development and
                  Urban Infrastructure Project) Amendment to the
                  Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Ecuador (the Borrower) an International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), dated February 15, 1991 as amended (the Loan
Agreement), and to the Project Agreement of even date therewith
between the Bank and Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador S.A. (BEDE)
(the Project Agreement).
     We are pleased to inform you that, as a result of your request
and our recent discussing on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend
the Loan Agreement as follows so as to reflect assumption by Banco
del Estado (BDE) of all rights and obligations of BEDE under the
Project Agreement, as well as to reflect the possibility of carrying
out Sub-projects affecting rural falling within the jurisdiction of
Municipalities:
General
1.    In addition to the other amendments listed herein, the words
"Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador S.A." and "BEDE", wherever they
appear in the Loan Agreement (except in the last WHEREAS clause in
the Preamble to the Loan Agreement and in Section 1.02 (b), (g),
(j), (l), (r), (w), (z), (dd), (ee) and (ff) of the Loan Agreement),
shall hereby be replaced by the  words "Banco del Estado" or "BDE",
respectively.
Section 1.02
2.    Section 1.02 (g) is hereby amended by inserting the words
"(including such agreement subsequent to the assumption by BDE of
BEDE's rights and obligations thereunder)" immediately before the
semi-colon at the end thereof.
3.    Section 1.02 (j) is hereby amended by inserting the words
"(including such agreement subsequent to the assumption by BDE of
BEDE's rights and obligations thereunder)" immediately before the
semi-colon at the end thereof.
4.    Section 1.02 (l) is hereby amended by inserting the words "as
applicable at assumption by BDE of BEDE's rights and obligations
under the Project Agreement" immediately after the words "and its
annexes," and the words "(distinguishing between the cost recovery
policies for Sub-projects affecting rural areas falling within a
Municipality's jurisdiction and those for Sub-projects affecting
urban areas falling within a Municipality's jurisdiction)"
immediately before the words ", Sub-project selection criteria".
5.    Section 1.02 (p) is hereby amended by inserting the words
"(which may include a Provincial Council)" immediately after the
words "provincial enterprise".
6.    Section 1.02 (r) is hereby amended by inserting the words
Page  2
"(including such agreement subsequent to the assumption by BDE of
BEDE's rights and obligations thereunder)" immediately before the
semi-colon at the end thereof.
7.    Section 1.02 (w) is hereby amended by inserting the words
"(including such agreement subsequent to the assumption by BDE of
BEDE's rights and obligations thereunder)" immediately before the
semi-colon at the end thereof.
8.    Section 1.02 (z) is hereby amended by inserting the words
"(including such agreement subsequent to the assumption by BDE of
BEDE's rights and obligations thereunder)" immediately before the
semi-colon at the end thereof.
9.    Section 1.02 (dd) is hereby amended by inserting the words
"(including such agreement subsequent to the assumption by BDE of
BEDE's lights and obligations thereunder)" immediately before the
semi-colon at the end thereof.
10.   Section 1.02 (ee) is hereby amended by deleting the word "and"
at the end thereof.
11.   Section 1. 02 (ff) is hereby amended b replacing the period at
the end thereof with the words "(including such agreement
subsequent to the assumption by BDE of BEDE's rights and obligations
thereunder); ".
12.   A new Section 1.02 (gg) is hereby added immediately after
Section 1.02 (ff) to read as follows in its entirety: "Monetary Law"
means the Borrower,s Ley de Regimen Monetario y Banco del Estado
(Monetary Regime and State Bank Law), published in the Borrower's
Registro Oficial on May 7, 1992; and".
13.   A new Section 1.02 (hh) is hereby added immediately after
Section 1.02 (gg) to read as follows in its entirety: "'Provincial
Council' means a Consejo Provincial governed by the Borrower's Ley
de Regimen Provincial (Provincial Regime Law), published in the
Borrower's Registro Oficial on February 10, 1969.
Section 3.01
14.   Section 3.01 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the words "a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BEDE (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)" with the words "the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement".
15.   Section 3.01 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the words "a
grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BEDE
(the Grant Agreement)" with the words "the Grant Agreement".
Section 5.01
16.   Section 5.01 (c) is hereby amended by inserting the words "or
BDE's statutes referred to in the 21st Transitional Provision of the
Monetary Law" immediately after the word "Statutes".
      17.    Section 5.01 (h) is hereby amended by deleting the word
"and" at.the end thereof.
      18.   Section 5.01 (i) is hereby amended by replacing the
period at the end thereof with a semi-
colon.
19.   A new Section 5.01 0) is hereby added immediately after
Section 5.01 (i) to read as follows in its entirety: "the statutes
referred to in the 21st Transitional Provision of the Monetary Law
shall have not come into effect within a month after the time period
described in such Transitional Provision or shall be deemed by the
Bank to be incompatible with BDE's obligations under the Project
Agreement;".
20.   A new Section 5.01 (k) is hereby added immediately after
Page  3
Section 5.01 0) to read as follows in its entirety: "the Monetary
Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of BDE
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;".
21.   A new Section 5.01 (1) is hereby added immediately after
Section 5.01 (k) to read as follows in its entirety:  "BDE shall
have ceased to apply the provisions of the operating procedures
referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, or the provisions
of the Manual; and".
22.    A new Section 5.01 (rn) is hereby added immediately after
Section 5.01 (l) to read follows in its entirety: "until the
statutes referred to in the 21st Transitional Provision of the
Monetary Law enter into effect, BDE shall have ceased to apply the
provisions of the Statutes as if the were its own and still in
effect.".
Section 5.02
23.    Section 5.02 (b) is hereby amended by inserting the words "or
(j) or (k) or (1) or (m)" immediately after the words "or (g)".
Schedule 1
24.    Paragraph 3 (b) is hereby amended by inserting the words "and
unless the withdrawal application clearly identifies the
expenditures as being either for a Sub-project affecting rural areas
(if such is the case) or for a Sub-project affecting urban areas (if
such is the case)" immediately before the semi-colon at the end
thereof.
25.   Paragraph 3 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the period at
the end thereof with the word ";and".
26.   A new paragraph 3 (d) is hereby added immediately after
paragraph 3 (c) to read as follows in its entirety: "expenditures
incurred under Part B of the Project for Sub-projects affecting
rural areas and/or under Part A of the Project for the benefit of
Provincial Councils which shall exceed, in the aggregate, an amount
equivalent to $3,500,000.".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This
amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of
which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return
one fully executed original to us.
     The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective
as of the date the Bank notifies the Borrower in writing that: (i)
the Bank has received one fully executed original of this amendment
letter; (ii) the Bank has received one fully executed original from
BDE of the amendment letter of even date herewith regarding the
Project Agreement; (iii) the Bank has received from the Borrower the
original of an amendment to the Policy Letter defined in WHEREAS
Clause (B) of the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, such amendment to
reflect, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the policies
regarding Sub-projects affecting rural areas falling within the
jurisdiction of Municipalities and the assumption by BDE of all
rights and obligations of BEDE; (iv) the Bank has received from BDE
an amended Manual, as defined in Section 1.02 (l) of the Loan
Agreement, such amended Manual to reflect, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank, the policies and procedures regarding cost recovery
for Sub-projects affecting rural areas falling within the
jurisdiction of Municipalities, as well as the procedures and
requirements for designing, approving, financing and administering
such Sub-projects; and (v) the Bank has received the original of a
legal opinion, satisfactory to the Bank, issued on behalf of BDE,
that, immediately upon the coming into effect of the Monetary Law
referred to in paragraph 12 of this amendment letter, BDE assumed
and continues to assume, and is obligated to carry out and fulfill,
all of the covenants and obligations of BEDE contained or referred
Page  4
to in the following agreements:
A)     Project Agreement (including the Financial Performance
Indicators letter signed by the Borrower and BEDE and agreed to by
the Bank on February 15, 1991);
B)    Grant Agreement;
C)    Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
D)    FONAPRE Agreement;
E)    SENDA Agreement;
F)    Technical Cooperation Agreement; and
G)    Sub-loan Agreements
(all as defined in the Loan Agreement and referred to collectively
herein as the BEDE Agreements), and that, therefore, all actions
taken, rights acquired or obligations incurred under the BEDE
Agreements by BEDE are valid and binding on BDE as though BDE had
been BEDE and the coming into effect of said Monetary Law has not
affected and shall not affect the consequences of any action taken
or omitted to be taken by BEDE under the BEDE Agreements.
      Please note that, by signing this letter, the Borrower agrees
with the Bank that: (i) the Bank may, if the requirements for
effectiveness of the provisions of this amendment letter listed in
items (i)-(v) in the prior paragraph are not met by June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank may specify, suspend the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Account on the basis, inter
alia, of Section 5.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement as it read prior to
the amendments contained in this letter; and (ii) the indicators for
Part B Beneficiaries set forth in the Financial Performance
Indicators letter (signed by the Borrower and BEDE and agreed to by
the Bank on February 15, 1991) shall, to account for the cost
recovery policies regarding Sub-projects affecting rural areas, be
modified as set forth in the amended Manual referred in item (iv) of
the prior paragraph.
      Because of his interest in the matter, a copy of this
amendment letter is being sent to the General Manager of BDE.
                         Very truly yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                          Acting Director
                       Country Department IV
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By:/s/ Mario Ribadeneira
Authorized Representative
Date:  February 16, 1993
cc: General Manager, Banco del Estado
Page  5
