Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4950 
Project Name 
EFA-FTI Support to the Education Sector Program 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Primary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P116437 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF CAMEROON 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Basic Education, Cameroon 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
September 28, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 20, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
N/A 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The multi-donor Catalytic Trust Fund was established in November 2003 within the framework 
of the Education for All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI). The Catalytic Fund (CF) Grant is 
managed by the World Bank on behalf of the 18 donors that provide support to this fund. The CF 
Grant provides financial assistance to FTI countries in the implementation of their education 
sector strategies. The strategies, endorsed by local donors, outlines the countries’ plans, activities 
and budgets for improving the sector. The CF Grant assists countries to implement this Strategy 
and thereby, set a track record of good implementation and progress on key educational 
outcomes. Specifically, the Cameroon CF Grant is supported by the European Commission. 
 
The government of Cameroon (GoC) expressed its interest in joining the EFA-FTI partnership in 
2004 and, subsequently, developed the Education Sector Strategy (ESS). Following donor 
endorsement of the ESS in July 2006 and the identification of the financing gap, Cameroon 
received a CF Grant of US$47.3 million (US$22.5 million for the first year and US$24.8 million 
for the second year) at the EFA-FTI Steering Committee held in Cairo in October 2006. The 
first-year grant (Year I) of US$22.5 million for contract teachers’ salaries was implemented 
satisfactorily, contributing to discernable progress in key educational outcomes.  
 
The EFA-FTI support is aligned with Bank’s “Cameroon: 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 
for FY04-06
,” presented to the Board in September 2003. The CAS based on the Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper’s (PRSP) goal of poverty reduction, and includes two pillars, 
strengthening the institutional framework and private sector development. While a new PRSP, on 
which, the next CAS (FY09-12) will be based, is being compiled, IDA and IFC have prepared an 
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for FY07-08 that extends the FY04-06 CAS for two years. The 
involvement of Cameroon in the EFA-FTI initiative is in line with the Interim Strategy. In the 
Interim Strategy, the Bank reiterates its commitment to strengthen partnerships and 
harmonization of donor activity (a hallmark of the EFA-FTI) in Cameroon and to improve 
capacity in the education sector.  
Page  2
Sector Issues
:
Referring to the Millennium Development Goals, one of the main objectives of the 
ESS is to attain universal primary education by 2015 by reducing repetition, increasing teacher 
recruitment and reducing pupil teacher ratios (PTRs). Since joining the FTI in 2006, Cameroon 
has made progress in key educational indicators especially in primary education. Actual primary 
education enrollment has increased from 2.9 million in 2005/06 to 3.2 million in 2007/08. Net 
enrollment rates are now 88.34% for boys and 77.31% for girls. Though, there is clear progress, 
girls’ enrollment increase is not as high as expected. Completion rates are low at 77.57% for 
boys and 66.37% for girls. More importantly, the PTR due to increased enrollment in the last 
year has risen. Furthermore, there is considerable variation in the range of PTRs across provinces 
in Cameroon from 152:1 to 37:1. Based on these ranges, the PTR of 40/1 suggested by the FTI 
indicative framework for universal and quality primary schooling is yet to be achieved.  
 
The GoC has shown strong commitment to sustaining the progress made in the education sector 
reflected in the increase in the national budget, which had reduced to 14 .4 percent in 2008, and 
is now 17.5% (in 2009).  To reduce PTRs, it will be necessary for GoC to recruit additional 
teachers in the forthcoming years. By 2015, the Ministry plans to hire a total of 37,200 contracts 
teachers by 2015. GoC hired 13,300 contract teachers in 2007; 5000 teachers in 2008; and 
another 5000 will be hired in 2009.  The first CF Grant implemented satisfactorily, supported 
contract teachers hired in 2007. While the Ministry of Basic Education ensures the sustainability 
of salary payments to contract teachers with the Ministry of Finance, additional resources are 
essential for Cameroon to consolidate the progress achieved so far under the first-year grant. The 
second-year grant (Year II) of US$24.8 million will continue to provide salary payments to 
contract teachers. 
 
2. Proposed objective 
 
The higher level development objective of the Year II Grant is progress made toward reaching 
universal primary school enrollment by 2015. The specific development objective of the Year II 
CF Grant will be to improve the quality of primary education by ensuring an adequate number 
and distribution of trained teachers. The indicators for this Grant will be the reduction in PTRs 
and further reduction in the randomness of teacher allocation across provinces. Specific goals for 
these indicators will be finalized during appraisal. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Component I: Support for the salary payments of contract teachers 
 
The Year II CF Grant will support one component namely the payment of contract teachers’ 
salaries. It will pay the salaries of 13,300 teachers supported through the Year I Grant and an 
additional 5000 teachers recruited in 2009. The Manual of Procedures developed with technical 
support from AFD for the hiring and payment of teacher salaries will be used for the 
implementation of the Year II CF Grant. The Grant will also be used to finance two annual audits 
-
the first audit will occur after the first tranche disbursement and the second after the final 
tranche disbursement. In addition, the Grant will finance one programmatic evaluation after the 
disbursement of the second tranche. The evaluation will be a sample assessment and will include 
Page  3
the quality of recruitment, regularity of salary payments to teachers and teachers’ presence and 
instruction in the classroom.   
 
It is expected that the Grant will become effective by June 2009 and the closing date will be in 
September 2010. The Cameroon team in the government that was responsible for the Year I CF 
Grant will continue to be in-charge of the implementation of the Year II CF Grant.  
 
Implementation Arrangements
:
A
deposit account was created with the Ministry of Finance and 
disbursement was done in two tranches for the Year I CF Grant. The lending instrument for the 
Year II CF Grant will be a Specific Investment Grant (SIG) dedicated to financing the contract 
teacher salaries. Reimbursements will also be made in two tranches. The Grant will be managed 
by the Ministry of Basic Education. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
No safeguard issues are evident with regard to the implementation of the Year II CF Grant. The 
SIG would fall under Category C for environmental assessment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Recipient 0 
EFA-FTI  CF Grant 
24.8 
Total 24.8 
6. Contact point: 
 
Contact: Michel 
Welmond 
Title: 
 
Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 
 
202 473 0900 
Email:  
Mwelmond@worldbank.org
 
