Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5737 
Project Name 
Education for All-Fast Track Initiative 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Primary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P116437 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF CAMEROON 
Implementing Agency 
PASE Project Coordination Unit 
PO Box 25627 
Yaoundé 
Cameroon 
Tel: (237) 764-5102 
Fax: (237-2) 220-1724 
atchameni@yahoo.fr 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
June 17, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 23, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
July 16, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
(a) The evolution of the Cameroon education system has been uneven. Up until the 1990s, 
equitable access to quality primary education was amongst the top in the Africa region.  
However, following drastic budget cuts, primary education gross enrollment ratio (GER) 
fell approximately ten percentage points during the 1990's from 94 to 84 percent and the 
teacher corps was also greatly affected. Pupil-teacher ratios grew to over 60 students per 
class, with considerable variations between regions. Communities and regions resorted 
to their own strategy for addressing the growing need for teachers in schools, which led 
to the creation of three parallel teacher corps: civil servant teachers, temporary teachers 
(
Enseignants vacataires
)
and community teachers (
Maîtres des parents
).  
 
(b) Over the last decade, with the assistance received through Cameroon's HIPC status, 
education indicators have steadily improved. In spite of the progress made, the Country 
Status Report published in 2003 indicated that critical interventions would be required if 
Cameroon was to meet the MDGs of universal primary enrollment (UPE) by 2015.  For 
example, completion rates were low at 65.4 percent for boys and 53.9 percent for girls 
(CSR, 2003). More importantly, the Pupil Teacher Ratio (PTR) rose from 51:1 to 58:1 
between 1990/93 and 2001/02 due to increased enrollment in primary education.  
 
(c) The GoC prepared an Education Sector Strategy (ESS) to map out the future direction of 
the education system.  To specifically meet the MDGs of universal primary enrollment 
Page  2
(UPE), gender equity, and completion rates of 100 percent by 2015, the ESS included 
the following options reduction in repetition; expansion of the number of teachers, 
reduction of teacher/pupil ratios; increase in pedagogical resources and improvements in 
the system of governance in education.  One of the key strategies was the recruitment of 
contract teachers who follow a different career path and are remunerated according to a 
different salary scale than civil servant teachers.  The expansion of this teacher corps 
was meant to ensure medium term financial sustainability. 
(d) After taking into consideration budget resources and contributions from other partners, 
the government calculated that there would be a financing gap of US$47 million to 
finance the implementation of the ESS.  On the basis of this assessment, the ESS served 
as a basis for the GoC request to join the Education for All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-
FTI) and prepared a proposal to the Education for All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) 
Catalytic Fund.   The EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund Committee agreed to provide a US$47.3 
million grant to be distributed as two annual grants (Year I - US$22.5 million and Year 
II - US$24.8 million).  The grants would finance the remuneration of contract teachers, 
whose salaries would eventually be integrated into the national budget.  The strategy 
received the endorsement of local partners in July 2006 and was approved by the 
Catalytic Fund Committee in October 2006.  The World Bank has been the supervising 
entity of this grant since then.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
(a) The EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund Grant aims to reduce class sizes by recruiting and retaining 
more teachers in the public education system, as well as deploying them in an equitable 
manner.  
 
(b) The indicators for this Grant are the reduction in pupil-teacher ratios (PTR) and reduction 
in the variation of PTR across regions. PTRs are measured by dividing the number of 
teachers by the number of students within regions and for the nation. The variation of 
PTR is calculated by regressing the size of specific schools against the number of 
teachers in each specific school. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
(a) 
The ESS is aligned with Bank’s “Cameroon: Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 
FY10-13,” presented to the Board in March 2010. The CAS emphasizes that human 
capital production and mobilization are binding constraints to economic growth in 
Cameroon. In addition, membership to EFA-FTI is in line with the Bank commitment to 
strengthen partnerships and harmonization of donor activity (a hallmark of the EFA-
FTI). 
 
(b) As supervising entity of the CF Grant to Cameroon, the World Bank signed an initial 
grant agreement with the government in 2007 for Year I of the Catalytic Fund Grant.  
This grant was disbursed in two tranches in 2007 and 2008.  The Year II CF Grant will 
Page  3
help consolidate the progress achieved so far.  The GoC intends to use the second-year 
grant of US$24.8 million to continue to support salaries to contract teachers. 37,200 new 
contract primary teachers were hired between FY07 and FY10  and the government 
intends to increase the total number of contract primary teachers to 37,000 by 2011.  No 
other partner is prepared to assume the responsibilities of CF supervising entity at this 
time.  Without the Bank’s continued involvement in the program, the overall 
sustainability of the implementation of the ESS could be compromised. 
 
4. Description 
 
(a) The project consists of one component.  The Year II CF Grant will be fully used to 
support the Government’s contract teacher program. It will contribute to the payment of 
the salaries of 37,200 primary public school contract teachers recruited during FY07, 
FY08, FY09 and FY10 during (a) the period from January 2010 through the date which 
is four months after the Effective Date, and (b) part of the remainder of the 2010 and 
2011 school year. The instrument will be a Specific Sector Investment Grant (SSIG), 
implemented via governmental institutions. The instrument and implementation 
arrangements provide efficient financing to a program that forms an integral part of the 
Government's Education Sector Strategy.  
 
(b) The monitoring and evaluation system put in place for the Year I CF Grant provided 
detailed and consistent information on the implementation of activities.  Consequently, 
the Year II CF Grant will use the same system. Achievement of the Project Development 
Objectives will be measured by a reduction in pupil-teacher ratios (PTR) and a reduction 
in the variation of PTR across regions. PTRs are measured by dividing the number of 
teachers by the number of students within regions and for the nation. The variation of 
PTR is calculated by regressing the size of specific schools against the number of 
teachers in each specific school. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative 
24.8 
Total 24.8 
 
6. Implementation 
 
(a) The Ministry of Basic Education (MINEDUB) is responsible for the overall 
implementation and monitoring of the contract teacher program.  Several government 
entities are involved in the CPT program: (i) the Prime Minister's office, which gives 
prior approval to proceed with the contracting process; (ii) the Ministry of Public 
Function and Administrative Reform (MCS), which signs the contract; and (iii) the 
Ministry of Finance (MoF), which is responsible for budget allocations and salaries 
payment. To ensure efficient coordination between these actors, the government 
Page  4
established a Monitoring Committee (MC) within MINEDUB .  The MC includes 
representatives from the above ministries, has a Permanent Secretariat headed by the 
Human Resources Director of MINEDUB, and is assisted by a Technical Secretariat. 
 
(b) The MC is responsible for (i) ensuring the coordination of the activities of the Project; (ii) 
preparing and organizing the overall recruitment process for CPTs; (iii) managing the 
recruitment and deployment of contracted teachers, especially verifying teacher presence 
in schools; (iv)  
monitoring the quality of the teaching; and (v) keeping records and 
reporting to the development partners on all aspects of the Program. In addition, the MC 
reports to the development partners on all aspects of the contract teacher program. The 
development partners also participate in the MC's working sessions. 
 
(c) The MoF and the MCS are jointly responsible for the administrative management and 
disbursement, under the Project.  As such, the MCS shall be responsible for (i) the 
identification and selection of the contract teachers to be paid under the Program; and 
(ii) the signing of the contracts with CPTs. The MoF shall be responsible for (i) 
identification of the payments to be made under the Program; and (ii) issuance of wire 
transfer orders to the relevant central, regional, and prefectural level entities for the 
processing of payments. 
 
(d) An Operations Manual guides the implementation of the contract teacher program. The 
Manual specifies the procedures, roles and responsibilities of the actors involved in the 
process.  It also specifies the administrative, financial and accounting mechanisms.  The 
Manual was updated in March 2010 to reflect the recommendations of 2008 Technical 
Audit and that of the financial audit of Year I CF Grant, as well as new disbursement 
procedures to reimburse government payments. 
 
(e) Fiduciary arrangements are aligned with the Government's mechanisms and procedures 
already in place for contract teachers. In particular, the country system will be partially 
used for the payment of teachers' salaries. In view of certain weaknesses in the PFM 
system, highlighted by the recent PEMFAR, these arrangements will be supplemented 
with the financial management system of the existing Bank-financed PASE project. The 
PASE FM Unit will appoint an accountant who will record and report on Year II CF 
Grant transactions, e.g. teachers' salary payrolls. In addition, PASE's Internal Auditor 
will review and clear the requests for disbursement of the project as part of his annual 
work program. Finally, the PASE external auditors will certify the eligibility of teachers' 
salaries claimed by the Monitoring Committee for the Project (MC) and audit the 
Project's Financial Statements issued at the end of the project implementation. The 
external auditors' contract will be updated accordingly. No prior audit for this project or 
for any other project managed by the PASE is outstanding. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
(a) The systemic sustainability of the program supported by the CF Grant results from the 
new teacher management policy framework that includes the establishment of a contract 
teacher corps.  First, contract teachers have rights, responsibilities and career 
Page  5
opportunities.  This will contribute to the stability of the teacher corps over time, which 
in turn will enable authorities to develop plans for improvements in performance.  
Second, contract teachers are more easily posted and reposted to different schools than 
civil service teachers.  This ensures a more efficient and effective deployment of 
teaching staff, and thus a more equitable distribution of education opportunities. Third, 
because all new teachers are recruited as contract teachers and given the attrition of civil 
servant teachers over time, there is little risk that the differences in pay and working 
conditions between the two corps will constitute a demotivating factor.  
 
(b) The ability of the Government to eventually take over external funding is a key factor in 
ensuring the sustainability of the program. The GoC has shown strong commitment to 
sustaining the progress made in the education sector and intends to gradually absorb the 
salary of contract teachers into the national budget. The share of education in total public 
expenditure exceeded 17 percent between 2007 and 2009, in spite of the decrease in 
revenues in 2009.  The government plans to increase this share to 19.5 percent in 2011. 
In parallel, the share of basic education in total expenditure on education increased 
dramatically, from 32.5 in 2007 to 38 percent in 2009, with a peak at 41 percent in 2008. 
These increases portray the priority given to education by GoC. If the budget for 
education increases to around 20 percent as suggested in the FTI indicative framework, 
GoC will be in a position to absorb contract teachers cost by 2011. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
(a) A key issue associated with the hiring of contract teachers has been addressed while the 
CF Grant (Year I) was implemented.  Contract teachers were hired without adequate 
policies in place that defined their status and future career paths in the system. Cameroon 
has addressed this issue by establishing clear policies that govern the hire, salary scales, 
benefits and career development in the system. 
 
(b) In addition the recommendations of the pilot and financial audits carried out during Year 
I
of
the Grant have been satisfactorily implemented including an effective reconciliation 
of CPT data between SIGIPES and ANTILOPE. The existing Operations Manual was 
updated in March 2010 to take into account the recommendations of the audits and the 
lessons learned during the CPT Phase 1.   
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[
X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Page  6
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
(a) 
Document de Stratégie Sectorielle de l'Éducation, République du Cameroun 
(b) Rapport d'évaluation technique du Document de Stratégie Sectorielle de l'Éducation au 
Cameroun, en vue de son endossement par les partenaires techniques et financiers à 
l'Initiative Fast-Track, Yaoundé 9 juin 2006 
(c) Manuel des procédures de mise en œuvre du programme de contractualisation des instituteurs 
de l'enseignement général (2007-2011) 
(d) Audit report of Yr. 1 Catalytic Grant  
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Michel J. Welmond 
Title: Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-0900 
Fax:  
Email: mwelmond@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
