Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER TF097256
 
Education for All 
–
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Support for the Education Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
acting as Administrator of the Education for All 
–
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund 
 
Dated November 11, 2010 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF097256 
 
EDUCATION FOR ALL 
–
FAST TRACK INITIATIVE CATALYTIC FUND 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated November 11, 2010 entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
CAMEROON (“the Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (collectively, “the World Bank”), acting as 
administrator of the Education for All – Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund (“the Trust 
Fund”). The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”) with the modifications set 
forth in Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement, constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
Article II 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
Standard Conditions. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to twenty-
Page  3
-2- 
 
four million eight hundred thousand United States Dollars ($24,800,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project.  
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds. 
Article IV 
 
Article IV 
Effectiveness-Termination 
 
4.01 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the execution and 
delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient have been duly authorized 
by all necessary governmental action. 
 
4.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.02, there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank 
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a 
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Recipient, 
showing that this Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed and 
delivered, on behalf of the Recipient and is legally binding upon the Recipient in 
accordance with its terms. 
4.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement 
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the 
Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 4.01 
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any Project-specific breach or 
other event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to 
exist. 
4.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.
 
This Agreement and all obligations 
of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect by the date 
90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after 
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose 
Page  4
-3- 
 
of this Section.  The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
Article V 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is its Minister at the time in charge of economy and planning. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development  
Yaoundé 
Republic of Cameroon 
Facsimile: 
(237) 22 22 15 09 
 
5.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  5
-4- 
 
AGREED at Yaoundé, Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By /s/ Louis Paul Motaze 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
and  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
acting as Administrator of the Education for All 
–
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund 
 
By /s/ Mary Barton-Dock 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce class sizes by recruiting and retaining 
more teachers in the Recipient’s public education system, as well as deploying them in an 
equitable manner. 
The Project consists of the following part: 
1. Remuneration
 
Provision of teaching services rendered by 37,200 primary public school contract 
teachers recruited during FY07, FY08, FY09 and FY10 during: (a) the period 
from January 2010 through the date which is four months after the Effective 
Date, and (b) part of the remainder of the 2010 and 2011school year.
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain throughout Project implementation the Monitoring 
Committee within MINEDUB in accordance with the terms of the MC Decree and with 
composition, functions and resources satisfactory to the Association. The Monitoring 
Committee shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
ensuring the coordination of the activities of the Project; 
(ii)  
preparing and organizing the overall recruitment process for CPTs;  
(iii)  
managing the recruitment and deployment of contracted teachers, 
especially verifying teacher presence in schools;  
(iv)  
monitoring the quality of the teaching; and  
(v)  
keeping records and reporting to the development partners on all aspects 
of the Program.   
2. 
The MINEDUB shall be responsible for overall Project and Program 
implementation and monitoring. As such, MINEDUB shall: 
(i)  
submit to the World Bank bi-annually reports on the number and 
distribution of contract teachers who were hired, the observations of 
government missions to the regions within the territory of the Recipient, 
and financial information on the amounts spent by region on CPT 
salaries under the Program; 
(ii)  
prepare the progress reports of the Project; and 
(iii)  
be responsible for the preparation for the reports under Section II.B of 
this Schedule, with the support of the PASE PCU. 
3. 
The MoF and the MCS shall be jointly responsible for the administrative 
management and disbursement, under the Project.   
Page  8
-7- 
 
(a)  
As such, the MCS shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
the identification and selection of the contract teachers to be paid under 
the Recipient’s Program; and 
(ii) 
the signing of the contracts with such relevant contract teachers; and 
(b)  
the MoF shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
identification of the payments to be made under the Project; and 
(ii) 
issuance of wire transfer orders to the relevant central, regional, and 
prefectural level entities for the processing of said payments. 
4. 
For purposes of processing of the payments referred to in paragraph 3 above, the 
MCS shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, an electronic database 
(SIGIPES), in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of all CPTs and 
provide access to the MINEDUB, the MoF and the PASE PCU at least once a 
month to the updated list of CPTs generated by said database and in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
5. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PASE PCU be maintained throughout 
Project implementation and shall be responsible for: (i) adequate bookkeeping 
of the supporting documentation for CPT salary payments, and (ii) providing 
support to the MINEDUB for the generation of the financial reports referenced 
under Section B.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
 
B. Manual 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Operations Manual; and shall not amend, 
abrogate, repeal, suspend, waive, or otherwise fail to enforce, or permit to be 
amended, abrogated, repealed, suspended or waived, the aforementioned, or any 
provision thereof. In case of inconsistency between the Operations Manual and 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and 
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
Page  9
-8- 
 
dated October 15, 2006
 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”) , with the modifications 
set forth in Section II.B of the Appendix to this Agreement.
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set 
forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
(i)  
Pupil-teacher ratios; and  
(ii)  
Variation in pupil-teacher ratios across regions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than June 30, 2012. In order to 
assist the Recipient in preparing the Completion Report, the Recipient shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are 
acceptable to the World Bank. 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the entire period during 
which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made. The audited Financial 
Page  10
-9- 
 
Statements for such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Consultant Guidelines.  
All services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in: 
(a) 
Sections I (excluding paragraph 1.24) and IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 
and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ 
services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III , as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan”). 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in the Consultant Guidelines for their use: 
Least Cost Selection, Selection of Service Delivery Contractors and Selection of 
Individual Consultants which have been found acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
C. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review. . All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed 
in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Services under Part 
1(a) of the Project  
$14,880,000 100% 
(2) Services under Part 
1
(b) of the Project  
$9,920,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$24,800,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
(a)  
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,960,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after January 1, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1); and  
Page  12
-11- 
 
(b)  
payments made under Category (2) unless the World Bank is satisfied in 
its sole discretion with the conclusions of the Specific Audit performed 
under Section V.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
December 31, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
Not later than two months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall employ the 
independent auditors for the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to (i) perform the audits required under 
Section II.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and (ii) perform a specific audit of 
the eligibility of the payments made under Category (1) of the table set forth in 
Section IV of Schedule 2 of this Ag
reement (the “Specific Audit”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the independent auditors recruited pursuant to 
Section V.1 above carry out the Specific Audit. 
 
Page  13
-12- 
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
 
I. Definitions 
 
(a) 
“CPT” means the Recipient’s primary public school contract teachers. 
(b) 
“FY” means the fiscal year of the Recipient starting January 1 through December 
31. 
(c) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual updated by the Recipient in March 2010 
outlining the administrative, financial management and accounting arrangements 
for the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the prior written consent of the World Bank, and such term includes 
any schedules to such manual. 
(d) 
“MC Decree” means the Decree No.274/B/1464 of the Recipient , dated July 23, 
2007. 
(e) 
“MCS” the Recipient’s Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform 
(
Ministère de la Fonction Publique et de la Réforme Administrative
). 
(f) 
“MoF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance (
Ministère des Finances
). 
(g) 
“MINEDUB” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Basic Education (
Ministère de 
l’Education de Base
). 
(h) 
“Monitoring Committee” or “MC” means the committee set up pursuant to the 
MC Decree.  
(i) 
“PASE DCA” means the Development Credit Agreement for the PASE Project 
(No.4070-CM), dated August 1, 2005 between the Recipient and the 
International Development Association, as amended and restated. 
(j) 
“PASE Project” means the Education Development Capacity Building Project of 
the Recipient , implemented pursuant to the PASE DCA. 
(k) 
“PASE PCU” means the financial management unit for the PASE Project. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
(l) 
“Program” means the Recipient’s Education Sector Strategy, dated June 2006. 
(m) 
“Specific Audit” means the audit referenced under Section V.1 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement required to be carried out under Section V.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
II. Modifications to the Standard Conditions and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
Section A.
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
1. 
The provisions of Section 4.02 (c) of the Standard Conditions are deleted in their 
entirety. 
Section B.  
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
Page  15
-14- 
 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, 
for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the 
Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. 
In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the 
process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, 
and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
