                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00002369



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-97256)



                                   ON A

                         CATALYTIC FUND GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                  TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                   FOR A

             EDUCATION FOR ALL – FAST TRACK INITIATIVE:
                 SUPPORT TO THE EDUCATION SECTOR




                                June 28, 2012




Human Development: Education
Central Africa (AFCC1)
Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 7, 2012)
                        Currency Unit = FCFA
                        499.50 FCFA = US$ 1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD          Agence Française de Développement
ANTILOPE     Application nationale des traitements informatiques et logistiques des
             personnels de l’Etat
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CF           Catalytic Fund
CSR          Country Status Report
CTP          Contract Teachers Program
C2D          Le contrat de désendettement développement
EFA-FTI      Education for All—Fast Track Initiative
ENIEG        Ecoles normales des instituteurs de l’enseignement général au Cameroun
ESS          Education Sector Strategy
FTI          Fast Track Initiative
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GER          Gross Enrollment Rate
GoC          Government of Cameroon
HIPC         Highly Indebted Poor Country
IDA          International Development Association
MC           Comité de suivi pour l’opération de Contractualisation
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs         Millennium Development Goals
OECD         Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PASE         Projet d’Appui au Système Educatif
PDO          Project Development Objective
PTA          Parents-Teachers Association
PTR          Pupil-Teacher Ratio
SIGIPES      Système Informatique de Gestion Intégrée des Personnels de l’Etat et de
             la Solde
UPE          Universal Primary Education
UNESCO/UIS   UNESCO Institute of Statistics
ZEP          Zone d’Education Prioritaire

                       Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                     Country Director: Gregor Binkert
                      Sector Manager: Peter Nicolas Materu
                 Project Team Leader: Shobhana Sosale (from March 2012)
                    ICR Team Leader: Shobhana Sosale
                           REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
                  EDUCATION FOR ALL – FAST TRACK INITIATIVE:
                      SUPPORT TO THE EDUCATION SECTOR



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Education for All-Fast
Country:               Cameroon                Project Name:
                                                                         Track Initiative
Project ID:            P116437                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-97256
ICR Date:              06/24/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         THE GOVERNMENT
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         OF CAMEROON
Original Total
                       USD 24.80M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 24.56M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 24.80M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Basic Education (MINEDUB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Government Republic of Cameroon
 Agence France de Développement

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/13/2009   Effectiveness:                               01/12/2011
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/25/2010   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                  12/31/2011         12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                  Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:              Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing             Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:         Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower         Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:             Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                                       100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                       100                  100

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                            At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Gregor Binkert                         Mary A. Barton-Dock
Sector Manager:            Peter Nicolas Materu                   Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader: Shobhana Sosale (from March 2012) Michel J. Welmond
ICR Team Leader:           Shobhana Sosale
                           Shobhana Sosale
ICR Primary Authors:
                           Andreas Blom


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to reduce class sizes by recruiting and retaining more
teachers in the public education system, as well as deploying them in an equitable manner.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective remained the same over the project period (2010-
December 31, 2011).
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduction in Pupil-Teacher Ratio (PTR) in the public education system.
Value
quantitative or             50:1                   48:1                               45:1
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/01/2009            01/01/2012                      12/05/2011
                  Achieved and exceeded. The target of 48:1 was set based upon a baseline of
Comments          50:1. This baseline was from 2006/07, which was the most up-to-date
(incl. %          information at the time of approval. The targeted improvement in PTR was 2
achievement)      points. The project resulted in an improvement of 3 points. Hence, an
                  achievement of 150%.
Indicator 2 :     Reduction in degree of randomness in teacher deployment.
Value
quantitative or             0.43                   0.42                               0.48
Qualitative)
Date achieved             09/01/2009             01/01/2012                        10/01/2011
                  Partly achieved. This indicator was designed to measure an equitable deployment
                  of the recruited contract teachers to underserved regions. 42% of recruited
                  teachers were placed in the underserved regions. This is equal to the share of
Comments
                  enrolment 42% and compares favorably with the share of teachers placed there in
(incl. %
                  the previous project (33%). However, based upon incomplete data from the
achievement)
                  Education Management Information System covering around 70% of the schools,
                  the overall teacher deployment was less explained by enrolment than in the start
                  of the project.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of qualified primary teachers increases by 37,200.
Value
(quantitative               0.00                  37,200                             37,200
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             09/01/2006            09/01/2010                         01/01/2012
                  The target was achieved. Contract teachers comprise the largest cadre (62
Comments
                  percent) of primary school teaching staff in Cameroon, and the majority of them
(incl. %
                  (around 60 percent) are females, young with professional qualifications, and
achievement)
                  often in rural areas.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                                           Actual
            Date ISR
 No.                                          DO                                    IP                 Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                                                       (USD millions)
   1       04/03/2011                   Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory                      0.00
                                        Moderately                        Moderately
   2       12/27/2011                                                                                           15.46*
                                       Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
Note: * The final $9.3 million was disbursed during the 4 months grace period after project closing.




H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design1

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       Country context. Cameroon is the largest country in Central Africa. At the time of appraisal in
2010 the country had a population of about 19.4 million, and the school age population was around 26.7
percent of total population2. At the time the EFA-FTI support for the education sector was appraised,
Cameroon’s economic development fluctuated with periods of GDP growth and decline. In 2000, the high
level of external debt had qualified the country to become a “Highly Indebted Poor Country (HIPC)?3 and
eligible for corresponding financial provisions. Since that time, macroeconomic stabilization and
structural adjustment had served to improve the fiscal situation and had provided a framework for
development. The real gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate had declined from 4.2 percent between
2000 and 2002 to 3.3 percent between 2003 and 2007. Revenues declined in 2009. The GDP per capita
based on purchasing power parity was US$2,120. Economic growth had been predicted to decline further
in the years 2008 and after due to the fuel and financial crises. From 1996 to 2003, poverty had declined
by some 13 percentage points. An estimated 40 percent of the population was below the poverty line. The
government intended to reduce poverty levels to 25 percent by 2015.

2.      Sector context. Four ministries are respectively responsible for primary/basic, secondary,
technical and higher education. The education system is structured in a slightly different manner in the
Francophone and Anglophone parts4 of the country. In both parts, primary education comprises six years
with unified objectives and curriculum. Subsequently, all students can choose between general and
technical secondary education. Whereas the first cycle of general secondary education is five years and
the second cycle two years in the Francophone regions, it is respectively four and three years in the
Anglophone regions. In the 1990s the then National Assembly passed a law to make the Francophone and
Anglophone secondary education sub-systems uniform. However, the law has never been promulgated by
the President. After secondary education, students can choose to attend university or attend post-
secondary technical education.

3.       The evolution of the education system has been uneven. Budget cuts during the 1990s resulted in
a ten percentage points (94 to 84 percent) decline in primary education Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER).
The budget contraction affected the teacher corps. Civil servants salaries saw drastic cuts in 1993, and
there was a mandated restriction of teacher recruitment. Consequently, pupil-teacher ratios (PTR) grew to
over 60 students per class, with significant variations between regions. Regions and communities resorted
to differing strategies for addressing the growing need for teachers in schools. This led to the creation of
three parallel teacher corps: civil servant teachers, temporary teachers or the enseignants vacataires and
community teachers or the maîtres des parents.




1
  This ICR has been prepared with contributions from Ramahatra Mamy Rakotomalala (Senior Education Specialist), Vincent Perrot
(Consultant/Education Specialist), Fadila Caillaud (Education Economist) and Sandra Beemer (Senior Operations Officer).
2
  On average the population of Cameroon grew by 2.6 percent between 2005 and 2010 (Source: La population du Cameroun en 2010, 2011 and
the National Institute for Statistics, 2005.
3
  The first Poverty Reduction Strategy Plan was produced in 2003, and the second for 2010-2019 was under preparation during the time of
project appraisal.
4
  At the end of World War I, different parts of Cameroon were occupied by the French and the British. The Republic of Cameroon received its
independence from the French in 1960 and the parts controlled by the British merged with it in 1961. English and French are Cameroon’s official
languages. With a population of approximately 20.1 million (2011 data), Cameroon has 200 linguistic and ethnic groups. The country is made up
of ten regions (eight Francophone and two Anglophone). Strategically located in west and central Africa, its neighbors include Nigeria, Chad, the
Central African Republic, Congo, Gabon and Equatorial Guinea. Since independence Cameroon has remained a stable country with President
Paul Biya in power since 1982.



                                                                       1
4.      Cameroon’s HIPC status and assistance has helped to improve education indicators. Between
2001 and 2007 literacy rates among the 15 years and above population grew by 7 percentage points. The
Country Status Report (CSR) published in 2003 indicated that critical interventions would be required if
Cameroon was to meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of universal primary enrollment
(UPE) by 2015. The increase in girls’ enrollment was not as high as expected especially in some of the
most disadvantaged regions. Completion rates were low at 65.4 percent for boys and 53.9 percent for girls
(CSR, 2003). The PTR rose from 51:1 to 58:1 between 1990/93 and 2001/02 due to increased enrollment
in primary education. The suggested Fast Track Initiative (FTI) indicative framework global benchmark
PTR of 40:1 for universal and quality primary schooling was not achieved. The 2003 CSR estimated
school-age population to increase from 2.5 million to 4 million by 2015. This served as the background to
consider doubling the number of teachers at the primary schools level.

5.     The government had prepared an Education Sector Strategy (ESS) in 2006. It covered the period
2006-2015. At a joint review of the four ministries of education in 2008 the ministries affirmed their
ownership for and commitment to the ESS. Each ministry had created a committee to monitor the
implementation of its respective part of the ESS. Work plans, with annual work programs from 2009 to
2011 had been established to guide actions towards achieving the ESS goals.

6.      Annual statistics for primary education have been produced, together with the analysis of trends.
The Ministry of Basic Education (MINEDUB) with guidance from the National Statistics Institute,
UNESCO Institute of Statistics and OECD has been producing annual statistics. The results of an audit in
2008 were used to strengthen the data collection and compilation process. There is a broad acceptance of
the use of statistics. This has helped to address the issue of education coverage, more so than the
assessment of learning. The MINEDUB has been working with partners to establish a quality assessment
system. However, the data inconsistencies and resulting calculations have continued to be problematic.

7.      With the specific objective of attaining the goal of UPE, the ESS stressed gender equity, and
completion rates of 100 percent by 2015. In 2006/7 the completion rate was 63 percent. Further, the
following options were outlined: reducing repetition, expanding the number of teachers, reducing PTR,
increasing pedagogical resources and improving the system of governance in education.

8.       The economic crisis in the 1980s made it impossible for the Government of Cameroon (GoC) to
hire civil servant teachers. This led to serious shortages in primary schools throughout the country.
Communities and regions had to resort to hiring their own teachers. As a consequence, three types of
teachers co-existed in primary schools: regular civil servant teachers, teachers, teachers hired by parents
(Maîtres des parents) and temporary teachers (Instituteurs Vacataires). In order to address teacher
shortages and very high PTRs within ongoing budgetary constraints, the GoC introduced the Contract
Teachers Program (CTP) in the 1990s. However, the program was not well defined leading to inequitable
deployment, high attrition and uneven performance. In 2000 the system was revamped. A more
sophisticated contract teacher model was adopted. The policy outlined salary scales5, benefits and a career
path for contract teachers.

9.       The share of education in total public expenditure exceeded 17 percent between 2007 and 2009,
in spite of the decrease in revenues in 2009. The government had planned to increase this share to 19.5


5
  The salary of contract teachers was set at approximately three times the average GDP per capita and two-thirds of regular civil servants salary.
The GoC also established a career development strategy for contract teachers, including several levels of promotion. The GoC provides an
additional payment to contract teachers in lieu of a guarantee of a pension. Contract teachers are also given similar benefits as regular civil
servants, such as 18 days of leave during the school year. Teachers with children are entitled to two additional days of leave per child. If leave is
not taken during the school year, contract teachers are allowed to cumulate the leave (civil service teachers, however, are not allowed to cumulate
leave).



                                                                         2
percent in 2011. At the same time, the share of basic education in total expenditure on education had
increased markedly, from 32.5 percent in 2007 to 38 percent in 2009, reaching a peak of 41 percent in
2008. The increased education budget portrayed the priority given to education by the government.
Reaching the FTI indicative framework education budget target of around 20 percent in 2011 would have
enabled the government to fully absorb the cost for the contract teachers.

10.      Project Context. With the introduction of the CTP, the teacher workforce has increased
significantly, responding to the teacher shortage problem and reducing the inequity in the distribution of
teachers across regions. The strategy of expanding the teacher corps was intended to ensure medium-term
(up to 2015) financial sustainability. Based on the calculation of the budget resources and contributions
from partners, the government estimated a financing gap of US$47 million to finance the implementation
of the CTP within the ESS. The EFA-FTI project is directly linked to the 2006 ESS pillar (page 62 and
71) on attaining universal primary education, strategic activity number (ii). The Project was also set in the
context of Cameroon’s targets to reach the MDG of universal primary education by 2015.

11.      The ESS served as a basis for the GoC to submit its application to join the Education for All-Fast
Track Initiative (EFA-FTI)6, and subsequently for preparing the request to the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund
(CF) 7 . The local education partners endorsed the request in July 2006 and the EFA-FTI Committee
approved the funding in October 2006. Cameroon was endorsed to receive a US$47.3 million grant for
the government’s CTP, to be disbursed as two annual grants: (i) Year I financing in the amount of
US$22.5 million for the payment of salaries for teachers hired in 2007 and 2008 (disbursed in 2008); and
(ii) Year II financing in the amount of US$24.8 million for reimbursing the government for part of the
2010 salaries for contract teachers recruited between 2007 and 2010, and for 2011. After 2011, the
salaries of these teachers were envisaged to be fully covered by the national budget.

12.     The objective of the grant was to contribute towards remunerating primary school contract
teachers, with the aim that these salaries would eventually be integrated into the national budget. In
conjunction with the EFA-FTI grant, Government and the Agence Française de Développement (AFD)
also provided parallel financing as remuneration for primary school contract teachers. Government and
development partners endorsed the World Bank to be the Supervising Entity for the EFA-FTI grant. The
Year I grant was much like a Development Policy Operation (DPO). By the time the Year II grant
financing was approved, there had also been changes in the Bank’s processing requirements for all EFA-
FTI operations and changes in the FTI procedures. At the project design stage, a Sector Investment Loan
(SIL) seemed to be the best fit for the EFA-FTI project. The lessons from the Year I grant informed the
design of the Year II support.

13.      Governance. The risk of fraud and corruption in the country has been high in general. The 2006
Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review identified substantial fiduciary
risks: (i) the absence of controls of the materiality of expenditures in the administrative phase of
spending; (ii) the lack of adequate controls at the payment phase of spending; (iii) recurrent risk related to
the payroll; and (iv) excessive use of exceptional procedures in budget expenditures. The combination of
weak internal controls and weak financial reporting was seen as leading to a high overall country
fiduciary risk. For the contracted teacher program, the 2008 technical audit and the financial audit of the
Year I grant had revealed deficiencies in the CTP. At the time the Year II EFA-FTI grant was designed in
2010, there was consensus that an appropriate system of internal controls, including checks and balances
had to be put in place.


6
  The EFA-FTI was renamed as the Global Partnership for Education (GPE) in 2011.
7
  The Catalytic Fund was established in November 2003 as a Trust Fund within the framework of the EFA-FTI. The Catalytic Fund provides
financial assistance to EFA-FTI endorsed countries to support the implementation of their education sector strategies. The strategies, endorsed by
local partners, outline the countries’ plans, activities and budgets for improving the sector.



                                                                        3
14.     Rational for EFA-FTI assistance and World Bank as the Supervising Entity. The Cameroon
EFA-FTI Support to the Education Sector was a central project of the ESS. The support also correlated
with the Bank’s FY10-13 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The CAS emphasizes that human capital
production and mobilization are binding constraints to economic growth in Cameroon. The Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) cited the following rationale for EFA-FTI and World Bank supervision
support: (a) the ESS was in line with the World Bank’s overall program in Cameroon; (b) the program
financed by the Project complemented efforts under another Bank-financed project (Programme d’Appui
au Système Educatif—PASE); (c) the supervision of the project by the World Bank would prevent any
interruption in ESS implementation more generally, and more specifically the Bank-financed project; (d)
no other partner was prepared to assume the responsibilities of supervising entity at the time of design and
implementation; and (e) without the World Bank’s continued involvement in the program, the overall
sustainability of the implementation of the ESS could have been comprised. Cameroon’s membership to
the EFA-FTI was in line with the Bank’s commitment to strengthen partnerships and harmonization of
donor activity (a hallmark of the EFA-FTI).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

15.     The project development objective was to reduce class sizes by recruiting and retaining more
teachers in the public education system, as well as deploying them in an equitable manner. The Project
financed a portion of the government’s CTP which was central to the ESS. A parallel funding mechanism
(Table 1), with contributions from the GoC, the French Development Cooperation (Agence Française de
Développement—AFD through the C2D Program—Contrats de Désendettement Développement) and the
EFA-FTI was developed. The FTI grant was governed by conditions set out in a Grant Agreement. The
partners participated in the parallel financing arrangement for the two-year (2010 and 2011) project
implementation period.

                             Table 1. Program and Project Teachers and Related Financing
                                                                                                      Total
                                             2007       2008       2009       2010        2011      2007-2011     Percentage *
    Number of new teachers                   18,485      5,125     6,490       7,100           -       37,200
    Total number of teachers in the          18,485     23,610    30,100      37,200     37,200        37,200
    program (cumulative)
    Program Cost                              39.3       58.7        76.9      96.6       120.9          392.4
    Financing sources (data from the PAD) (USD millions):
    Catalytic Fund (CF)/ Grant                11.3       11.3           -      24.8            -           47.5       12
    AFD (C2D)                                 18.0       13.5        11.2       9.0          3.6           55.3       14
    Government                                10.1       33.9        65.7      62.8       117.3          289.8        74
   Note: Appraisal data from the PAD and actual financing for the program (annexes 2, 5 and 6) vary slightly.



16.      The key indicators were: (i) reduction in pupil-teacher ratios (PTR); and (ii) a reduction in the
variation of PTR across regions as measured by the degree of randomness in teacher deployment
(calculated by regressing the enrolment of pupils at each school against the number of teachers in each
school).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

17.      The Project Development Objective remained the same over the project implementation period.




                                                                     4
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

18.     Based on the project development objective and the project activities, the intended direct
beneficiaries of the project’s financing can be identified as: (i) primary school-aged children, since a
reduced PTR would benefit them by improving the learning process; (ii) existing and recruited contract
teachers since the program helped to improve their employment conditions and career stability and
created jobs for new graduates from the teacher training centers; and (iii) schools, Parent Teachers’
Association (PTA), and communities. The latter would also have benefited since their out-of-pocket
expenses to hire additional community teachers would have been saved. Finally, the country as a whole
would also benefit in terms of higher number of teaching staff and higher number of trained teachers,
among other benefits.

1.5 Original Components

19.     Supporting the Government’s Contract Teachers Program (US$24.8 million, 100 percent of
total project financing). The Project had one component. The financing was used to support the
Government’s CTP which comprised part of the ESS. It contributed to the payment of salaries for 37,200
public primary school contract teachers who had been recruited during the government’s fiscal years 2007,
2008, 2009 and 2010 for (a) the period from January 2010 through the date which was four months after
the Effective Date; and (b) part of the remainder of the 2010 and 2011 school year. (Project costs and
financing are in Annex 1).

1.6 Revised Components

20.      The component was not formally revised.

1.7    Other Significant Changes/Factors

21.      Two external factors, civil servant teacher attrition and increased enrolment, affected the
public education system during the implementation. Civil service teachers constituted at the time of
design the majority of the teacher force. As the PDO was formulated and results framework designed, the
evolution of the civil service teacher force and the growth of enrolment would affect the achievement of
the project as well as the PDO indicators. The civil service teacher force decreased annually by 13%
while the enrolment increased annually by 4% with a higher growth in the priority (under-served) regions
of the country.

2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.      Project preparation and design (technical and financial). The Bank had prepared the project to
closely link up with the ESS. The design was simple (one component), and this was a strength of the
project. The Bank team strengthened partner relations in working with the government and AFD. The
project design was partially appropriate. The PDO was defined to encompass a broad objective for the
entire public school system (reduction in class size) and a narrower objective (recruitment, deployment,
and retention of contract teachers) that were relevant to the medium and long term objectives of the
overall ESS. The EFA-FTI Project was set within the context of the ESS. The Project was part of a multi-
year program, and was relevant to the development objectives set out in the Government’s ESS which had
mapped the future direction of the education system. The Project financed a “slice? of the government’s
five-year program, and covered two years of contract teachers’ recruitment and salary.



                                                   5
23.      The Bank ensured that the Year II EFA-FTI grant benefited from the lessons and systems from
the Year I grant. During the previous grant period contract teachers had been hired without adequate
policies in place that defined their status and future career paths in the system. During the Year I grant,
the government had addressed the issues by establishing clear policies that began to govern the hiring,
salary scales and benefits, and career development in the system. The contract teachers’ policies were
distinctly different from those which were applicable to regular civil servants. The Year II grant benefited
from a more stable environment for contract teachers.

24.     The Bank team had exercised due diligence in defining appropriate monitoring and evaluation
measures. The risks at entry had been reviewed and adequate mitigation measures had been introduced.
The Bank team had identified: (i) the risk of ghost teachers being paid under the contract teachers’
program. However, the risk was considered to be moderate for the Project activities based on the results
of the 2008 Technical Audit of Year 1 CF grant, which found that there was no proven evidence of ghost
teachers in the personnel listing cleared by the MC; and (ii) the risk that contract teachers may not be
deployed where they were most needed.

25.      The design of the results framework associated with the PDO was relatively simple, but the
measurement required detailed school level data on enrolments and other variables. Further, the PDO was
subject to significant influence from exogenous factors not linked to the project financing. Specifically,
the two outcome indicators (pupil-teacher ratio PTR, and the degree of randomness in the PTR) were both
directly influenced by the project activities (recruiting, retaining, and deploying teachers), but they were
also affected by: (i) the attrition among civil service teachers and community teachers (paid by the
communities/PTAs), which were both outside of the control of the project; (ii) attrition albeit to a
relatively small extent, and absenteeism among contract teachers themselves; and (iii) pupil enrolments
that was largely exogenous to the project financing.

26.     Quality at Entry. A quality at entry review had been undertaken by the Africa Region Quality
Assurance team during the project preparation process. The substantive comments related to the quality at
entry of the monitoring and evaluation aspects. The Bank preparation team was requested to include an
intermediate indicator on number of additional qualified primary teachers resulting from project
intervention. In addition, the preparation team was requested to add the measurements of the PTR and the
randomness of teacher deployment indicators. The team followed through to include the two elements in
the results matrix.

27.      Governance and fiduciary matters. The fiduciary arrangements were aligned with the
Government’s mechanisms and procedures which were already in place for contract teachers. The
prevalent internal controls were to be applied. These controls encompassed the entire system of control
(financial, operational or otherwise) that had been established by the Permanent Secretariat of the
ministry. An operations manual for the CTP described the procedures. The manual was updated to take
into account the recommendations of the 2008 Technical Audit. The IDA-financed project financial
management unit was required to provide technical assistance and support by: (i) expanding its
computerized accounting systems to record and report on the EFA-FTI Project transactions, especially,
the teachers’ salary payrolls; (ii) using the internal auditor for the IDA-financed project to review and
clear the requests for reimbursements; (iii) amending the internal auditors terms of reference to include a
Specific Audit to ascertain the eligibility of the disbursements claimed; and (iv) submitting the audit
reports of the Project financial statement to IDA no later than six months after the end of the Project
implementation period (December 31, 2011).

28.    The Bank team had benefited from the lessons learned from the previous year’s grant
administration. While the MINEDUB had proven experience in managing the Year I grant, it had not
been equipped to account for and report separately on the project transactions in accordance with IDA


                                                     6
fiduciary requirements. The Bank team took the decision to use the government’s public financial
management systems supported by: (i) the Système Informatique de Gestion Intégrée des Personnels de
l’Etat et de la Solde (SIGIPES) and the Application nationale des traitements informatiques et logistiques
des personnels de l’Etat (ANTILOPE); (ii) the budgeting system to pay for teachers’ salaries; and (iii)
specific accounting, reporting and auditing measures relating to contract teachers’ program and the
Project transactions.

29.      Under the Year I grant, the ministry’s MC Permanent Secretariat had failed to (i) maintain sound
accounting; (ii) prepare financial reports; and (iii) ensure adequate internal controls. The IDA-financed
project’s financial management unit provided technical support to the MC’s Permanent Secretariat. The
technical support comprised: (i) maintaining sound accounting records; (ii) preparing and submitting
timely financial reports by maintaining separate accounting ledgers to permit the generation and
submission of reliable financial reports. Further, the recommendations of the 2008 technical audit and that
of the financial audit were being satisfactorily implemented. This included the effective reconciliation of
contract program teachers’ data between the SIGIPES and the ANTILOPE. Under the MC’s leadership,
the government was satisfactorily implementing the key recommendations of the 2008 Technical Audit,
and that of the financial audit of Year 1 grant, including a reconciliation system between the SIGIPES and
the ANTILOPE systems.

30.     Finally, the fiduciary risk for the Project was considered to be moderate. It was specified that an
audit would be carried out to certify the eligibility of the first two tranches of payment under the Project.
The audit was to be informed by the 2010 Technical Audit which had been carried out to assess whether
there were any leakages in the contract teachers’ program. A dated covenant within two months after
project effectiveness was introduced to amend the contract of the then external auditors to carry out a
Specific Audit comprising a technical and audit of the financial statements of the contract primary
teachers.

2.2 Implementation




                                                     7
31.   Country environment. The 2009-2011 period was relatively stable both from political and
economic perspectives.

32.      Project implementation structure. A relatively complex implementation structure was set up
for the CTP:

       The MINEDUB was responsible for the overall implementation and monitoring of the
        government’s CTP.
       The Prime Minister’s office provided prior approval to proceed with the contracting process.
       The Ministry of Public Function and Administrative Reform (MCS) signed the contracts.
       The Ministry of Finance (MoF) was responsible for budgetary allocations and salary payments.
       The government established Monitoring Committee (MC) within MINEDUB to manage the day-
        to-day functions. Membership of the MC included representatives from the above ministries, a
        Permanent Secretariat headed by the Human Resources Director of MINEDUB assisted by a
        Technical Secretariat. The MC was responsible for
            o Ensuring the coordination of the activities of the Project.
            o Preparing and organizing the overall recruitment process for contract teachers.
            o Managing the recruitment and deployment of contracted teachers, especially verifying
                teacher presence in schools.
            o Monitoring the quality of the teaching.
            o Keeping records and reporting to the development partners on all aspects of the Program,
                and
            o Reporting to the development partners on all aspects of the contract teacher program. The
                partners also participated in the MC’s working sessions.
       The MoF and the MCS were jointly responsible for the administrative management and
        disbursement under the Project.
            o The MCS was responsible for: (i) the identification and selection of the contract teachers
                to be paid under the Program; and (ii) the signing of the contracts with contract teachers.
            o The MoF was responsible for: (i) the identification of the payments to be made under the
                CTP; and (ii) the issuance of wire transfer orders to the relevant central, regional, and
                prefectural level entities for the processing of payments.

33.     An Operations Manual guided the implementation of the CTP. It specified the procedures, roles
and responsibilities of the actors involved in the process. It also specified the administrative, financial and
accounting mechanisms. The Manual was updated in March 2010 to reflect the recommendations of the
2008 Technical Audit and that of the financial audit of the Year I grant, as well as new disbursement
procedures to reimburse government payments.

34.      Project at risk status. During the first six months of the project, progress was being made
towards achieving the development outcomes and hence judged to be Satisfactory. In keeping with the
Operations Manual the 37,200 contract teachers had been recruited and mainly deployed in the regions
with high PTR, the government financing had come through, and the system to monitor changes in PTRs
was judged to be satisfactory. Implementation progress, however, was rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
This was primarily due to the elapsed time in receiving the first reimbursement request from government
(further discussed in Section 3.1).

35.     By December 2011, both (project development objectives and implementation progress) ratings
had been downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory. The first two tranches of the EFA-FTI grant were
disbursed only on November 8, 2011. The disbursement of the final tranche was at risk since the Special
Audit of the first two tranches had to be completed. Despite the recruitment of a dedicated accountant, the



                                                      8
government’s capacity to consolidate the data necessary to process the withdrawal application was
challenged. Further, the government had failed to provide regular, detailed implementation reports on the
deployment of teachers. This reflected the inefficiency in the monitoring system for managing teachers.
Over time, the increasing enrolments had exerted opposing pressure on the CTP, challenging the
achievement of the targeted PTR. At Project closing the final data for school year 2010/11 had not yet
been available to judge the extent to which the PTR had declined. The Bank supervision team, therefore,
had to rely on information on PTR and randomness of teacher deployment calculation provided by the
MINEDUB. The information had been based on uncleaned data. The development objective rating of
moderately unsatisfactory had been contingent upon final project data analysis based on the 2010/11 data.
The 2010/11 raw data became available during the ICR preparation stage. The implementation progress
rating of moderately unsatisfactory was reassessed.

Challenges/Shortcomings

36.      Rapid recruitment of contract teachers relative to management capacity. The recruitment
process had unfolded quite rapidly. It challenged the capacity of the related government agencies to
coordinate effectively. This was particularly so in the area of monitoring the deployment of teachers and
in reporting on the same. The challenges were three-fold: (i) organizationally, the decision about who
would manage the documentation among the different ministries in charge of teacher recruitment; (ii)
with respect to archiving, which ministry would be responsible for filing the paperwork; and (iii)
financially, which ministry would be in charge of purchasing the consumables (paper, ink) linked to the
activities. There was no dedicated unit to coordinate the work of the three principal ministries incharge of
the contract teachers program. The files of the newly recruited contract teachers could not be reviewed in
time and thoroughly. It took time to set up the dedicated unit.

37.      Adaptation difficulties among women contract teachers especially in the priority zones.
There were delays in recruitment, difficulties in deployment, and problems of absenteeism. Data reveal
that there has been attrition (18%) in the CTP. However, teacher attrition is normal in all countries. A
World Bank study (2008) in three African countries estimated teacher attrition to be around 5 percent on
an annual basis. The attrition issue in Cameroon requires a more in-depth study which was not undertaken
during the project implementation period. A mitigation measure was introduced through the Project. A
Special Audit (technical and financial) prior to the disbursement of the final tranche was required to
permit close monitoring of the appropriate deployment of contract teachers. This helped to mitigate the
likelihood of misalignment of teachers’ allocation with local needs.

38.      Disbursement lags. The financing arrangements were as follows: (i) a retroactive financing of
up to 20 percent for salaries paid before the signature of the grant but on or after January 1, 2010; (ii) a
second installment estimated at 40 percent of the grant; and (iii) a last installment that was conditioned on
the conclusion of a Specific Audit on the eligibility of the salaries claimed by the Department of Human
Resources of the MINEDUB and the Monitoring Committee (MC; Comité de suivi pour l’Opération de
Contractualisation), and paid by the World Bank/International Development Association (IDA) under the
first and second installments. The IDA-financed project’s external auditor (Deloitte) was required to
perform the Special Audit which comprised technical and financial components based upon an
amendment of the auditor’s contract and based on terms of reference agreed during Project negotiations.
The government had been assessed to possess the capacity to ensure sound financial management. An
accountant had been recruited to handle the reimbursement process with support from the fiduciary staff
of the IDA-financed project. Within this timeframe, there was an elapsed time of six months between
negotiation with the government and actual implementation, a further six months to receive a revised
reporting format on the list of teachers before the MINEDUB could become eligible for disbursement.




                                                     9
39.      There was a lack of coordination within the government in ensuring that the request for
reimbursement was submitted according to schedule, and quality control of listings especially the
verification of teacher absence, whether each teacher had the requisite matriculation information, etc.
were not adequate. The delay in receiving the first withdrawal request of 20 percent and the absence of
appropriate supporting documentation when the request was finally received resulted in a decision to
cancel the delayed request. Instead, the government was requested to prepare one withdrawal request
which combined the first (20 percent or approximately US$5 million) and second tranches (40 percent or
approximately US$10 million). The combined withdrawal request was received by the Bank only in
October 2011, and the disbursement was effected only in November 2011. However, the MoE having
already paid the teacher salaries out of its budget was being reimbursed, so the delay did not cause
disruptions in teacher salaries or teacher presence, and it seemed not have caused noticeable fiscal
constraint to the government. Further, the short implementation period, only two years, magnified the
relative disbursement lag.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

40.      M&E Design. The PDO was to reduce class sizes by recruiting and retaining more teachers in the
public education system, as well as deploying them in an equitable manner. The two outcomes indicators
identified for the project were: (i) a reduction in pupil-teacher ratios (PTR); and (ii) a reduction in the
degree of randomness in teacher deployment. The one intermediate indicator specified was that the
number of qualified primary teachers increases by 37,200. Given available data, at the time of project
design, the M&E system which had been put in place for the Year 1 CF grant was intended to provide
detailed and consistent information on implementation activities. The same system was used for the Year
II CF grant. Three sources of information served as the basis for the M&E:

       (i) The MINEDUB was the primary source of information. On a bi-annual basis the Ministry was
           required to submit the names of teachers who were hired, and the reports from government
           teams visiting the regions, and financial information on the amounts spent on contract
           primary teachers’ salaries by region.

       (ii) The second source of information was to come through regular independent technical and
             procedural audits, as well as by financial audits required under the Grant. The technical and
             procedural audits were required to assess whether: (a) the rules for recruitment and payment
             of salaries were being followed; (b) whether teachers were present in the classrooms; and (c)
             whether salaries were paid regularly. The financial audit had to examine the financial
             management of the project including the internal controls aspects and discussed any ineligible
             expenditure.

        (iii) The third source of information was to come from the bi-annual supervision missions
             conducted by the Bank task team in collaboration with the other development partners. One
             of the bi-annual missions occurred at the time of the annual ESS review.

41.     M&E Implementation: Regular reporting from MINEDUB did not take place smoothly as
envisaged: (a) there had been implementation problems with the new education management information
system (EMIS) and it caused problems/delays in getting credible data from the EMIS system for the ICR
evaluation; (b) there were delays in receiving the required technical reports; (c) the quarterly IFRs/FMRs
were not submitted at all. This could be attributed to the delays in project implementation and
disbursements; (d) real-time data from the MINEDUB’s education management information system was
not available, and often contradicted the annual statistical yearbooks which were published by the
National Institute of Statistics. There was a real problem with the credibility of the data that were being
provided by the MINEDUB; (e) various official reports expressed data in a manner which showed the


                                                    10
CTP in a positive light without fully analyzing the underlying issues about attrition, difficulties for young,
newly graduating female contract teachers to fill posts in the ZEP and other remote areas. Attrition of
contract teachers was not systematically tracked by the MCS; (f) inter-ministerial coordination was more
challenging than anticipated, and (g) there were problems related to the format for verification of
disbursements.

42.    The required technical audit was undertaken with slight delays. The audit found small ineligible
expenditures. Although delayed, steps were taken to verify the audit information and validate the data
with government. The findings of the technical audits were acted upon and ineligible expenditures, for
example, for non-registered teachers were reimbursed.

43.     M&E utilization. Based on available information, appropriate data were evaluated and used to
inform decision-making and resource allocation for the recruitment of contract teachers. It was not
evident, however, that the government had put in place a system to track contract teachers’ attrition, and
had adopted an appropriate replacement recruitment policy. As a result, it was difficult to accurately
calculate the randomness of teacher deployment (second outcome indicator). Together with increasing
student enrolments in public primary schools, this resulted in the PDO indicators not being fully achieved.
Further analysis of the M&E issue is provided in section 3.2.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

44.      From the environmental and social safeguards perspective, the Project was a category “C? rating,
and therefore did not require any safeguards inputs.

45.      The FTI grant account was to be monitored through: (i) quarterly Integrated Financial Reports
(IFRs)/Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) prepared by the IDA-financed project Secretariat which was
providing technical assistance to the MINEDUB and the unit in charge of the CTP; (ii) audits of the
financial statements; and (iii) a Special Audit (technical and financial) of the 2010 and 2011 salary
reimbursements which were effected in October 2011.

46.      Fiduciary compliance was an issue under the Project. The difficulty for the government to present
a satisfactory withdrawal request with an appropriate reporting format resulted in a year’s delay in the
disbursement of the grant. However, since the salary payments were not in real time, and were
reimbursements to the fiscal budget of the MINEDUB, the delay did not affect program implementation.

47.       The Special Audit of the 2010 and 2011 payments was finalized a month after project closing in
December 2011. The results revealed that overall the recruitment procedures had been respected and that
the majority of the contract teachers had been hired in 2010 and 2011. Nevertheless, from a technical
perspective the auditors found that: (i) there were weaknesses in the monitoring procedures to identify
contract teachers who had not yet received their matriculation, and in some cases even, that the presented
background documentation had anomalies, for example 25 cases of contract teachers having resigned or
had deceased, but still on the ministry’s roster; (ii) there was non-compliance with a sizeable number of
candidates’ records especially in the Central region. For instance, 3 teachers who had not yet graduated
but were on the regular payroll and 5 cases of non-validated teachers who were on the regular payroll; and
(iii) in some cases, recruitment documents for some contact teachers were missing (13 cases of contract
teachers who had been paid even though their contracts had not yet been issued to them for signature).The
financial irregularities resulted in the auditors declaring US$217,686 (or about 109,931,424 FCFA) as
ineligible expenditures. This constitutes only 0.06% of the total program costs. It is also important to note
that only 11.4 percent (US$24,821) of the total ineligible expenditure amount related directly to the EFA-
FTI grant, and 5.8 percent (US$12,611) of AFD funds. The Government’s portion was estimated to be the



                                                     11
largest at 82.8 percent (US$180,254) since the largest share of the financing for contract teachers was
from the government.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

48.     Appropriate technical, financial and institutional provisions have been made to ensure effective
project operation. Yet, there are some caveats:

        (i)   The CTP has been institutionalized within government. Its operations and maintenance
              arrangements are likely to continue unhampered. The reforms and institutional capacity is
              also likely to be sustained through the government’s processes;

        (ii) Since the EFA-FTI grant reimbursed payments already made by government to contract
             teachers, the transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
             the EFA-FTI grant is unlikely to pose significant issues. The MINEDUB has expressed its
             desire to use at least a portion of the 2012-2014 EFA-FTI indicative allocation for contract
             teachers’ salaries. However, from the outset of the Year II grant project preparation it was
             agreed that the EFA-FTI financing would be on a declining basis, with government taking
             on the fiscal responsibility for the payments over time. The rationale for the agreement
             continues to be relevant for the 2012-2014 indicative allocation. The financing would need
             to depend on a fiscal analysis of the continued relevance and outcomes of the Year II
             financing, and on technical and financial efforts to strengthen the student learning
             achievements;

        (iii) The internal control issues raised in the Special Audit would also need to be fully addressed;

        (iv) The Project support team that was implementing the IDA-financed operation and was also
             providing technical and fiduciary support to the EFA-FTI project needs to be perpetuated
             with adequate staffing and management. The team has received significant capacity
             development through the IDA-financed project.

49.      The CTP is central for the Government of Cameroon’s ESS. It is also a key aspect of the World
Bank’s 2010-2013 Country Assistance Strategy which underscores improved governance and service
delivery to promote competitiveness and growth. The CTP is institutionalized through the teacher
management and deployment policy of government. The global MDG priorities relate to universal
primary education for all, but this is premised on access to quality schooling. The quality dimension is
linked directly to the numbers of trained teachers in the system, their ability to impart knowledge, their
interaction with students who are ultimately the beneficiaries of the education system. The missing link in
Cameroon’s education system is a national assessment framework which serves to provide formative and
evaluative assessment of students and feedback to teachers to improve pedagogy and learning. Ultimately,
the test for improved service delivery is measuring student learning achievement. This could be a major
ingredient in the 2012-2014 EFA-FTI grant request that Cameroon is preparing to receive. Continued
financing support would help to harness the respective comparative advantages of government and
development partners to address fiscal constraints in the CTP in the short-run, and to possibly tackle the
establishment of a national assessment framework.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation



                                                    12
50.      Based on the country education sector’s development priorities and circumstances, the
Project objectives (partially), design (partially), and project implementation were modestly relevant.
The PDO was broadly defined to encompass a medium-term (reduction in class size) and a short-term
objective (recruitment, deployment, and retainment of contract teachers). Both were relevant to the
medium and long term objectives of the overall ESS. The EFA-FTI Project was set within the context of
the ESS. The Project was part of a multi-year program, and was relevant to the development objectives
set out in the Government’s ESS which had mapped the future direction of the education system. The
project was simple in the sense that it financed a “slice? of the government’s five-year program, and
covered two years of contract teachers’ recruitment and salary. The CTP was a program which also
received support from government and the AFD. The success of the CTP, therefore, cannot be attributed
solely to the EFA-FTI. In closing of the financing gap for the government’s CTP, the Project was a short-
term measure to alleviate the fiscal pressure to recruit and retain contract teachers. The volume of
financing (11.4 percent of total CTP) was less relevant than the strategic timing and purpose of the project
financing.

51.     There was government’s strong commitment to the program, and to sustaining the progress made
in the education sector. Further, the government had intended to gradually absorb the salary of contract
teachers into the national budget. This helped development partners to vest confidence in the contract
teachers’ program and to provide short-term support. There was strong donor coordination and alignment.
The EFA-FTI as a catalytic grant was an incentive that fueled government commitment.

52.      The Bank team had taken into consideration that the country/sector risk that the program could be
jeopardized by a decrease in government allocations to the education sector as a direct consequence of
fiscal crisis and decreased revenues. The mitigation measure introduced was to use the local development
partners to closely monitor the allocations to the education sector. Further, the risk of political resistance
as a potential threat to the implementation of the CTP had also been considered. This, however, did not
happen. With unemployment being a real threat, the CTP continued to receive political attention and
support.

53.      The choice of a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) was appropriate since the financing was not
intended to elicit policy reform as it had already taken place. The use of a parallel financing arrangement
was the appropriate choice considering that the government and AFD had already commenced financing
the CTP in 2007. It helped to: (i) entrench the CTP in government systems; (ii) avoid the establishment of
multiple institutional processes and a parallel system to government’s efforts; (iii) strengthen government
and pooling partners commitment to the program, to focus on establishing a credible and consistent set of
norms and to better monitor the system and vest confidence in the government system; and (iv) to
establish an approach for development partners to gradually reduce financing for the program and for
government to assume full fiscal responsibility over time. The Bank task team had identified the
country/sector level, implementing agency level, and project level risks and mitigation measures had been
put in place.

54.     The Project specified and implemented the most appropriate and direct path to support
government’s efforts. The implementation arrangements via governmental institutions provided efficient
financing to a program which was an integral part of the Government’s ESS. There were no institutional
layers added to implement the project. The Project Secretariat for the Bank-financed PASE provided
technical assistance to the MC. The shared institutional arrangement had been established in 2007. The
Project was central to institutionalizing the CTP and in codifying it in an operations manual, and to
building institutional/managerial capacity through appropriate and timely technical assistance. The IDA-
financed project which was being implemented at the same time helped to put in place a fiduciary due
diligence mechanism. The project design had incorporated risk mitigation measures in the areas of
budgeting, accounting, internal control, flow of funds, financial reporting, auditing, and fraud and


                                                     13
corruption. These helped to ease implementation risks, reducing it to a moderate level. Further, the
project disbursement arrangement was designed as reimbursements for payments already made by the
government. This was also a good feature of the project design since it required full government
commitment to the CTP.

55.      With respect to project design, there were some shortcomings. The PDO could have been more
closely aligned with the single activity of supporting the government for contract teachers program. The
results framework and the outcome indicators should also have been specified more narrowly to link up
with this singular activity. So both the PDO and the results framework had been too broadly defined. The
achievement of the PDO and PDO indicators were influenced in a substantial way by factors exogenous
to the project, notably the change in stock of other kinds of teachers (civil servant teachers, contract
teachers paid by the region or the municipality, and Community teachers), for which there were no
activities in the project. These resulted in complicating the calculation and the assessment of progress
towards achievement of the PDO outcome indicators. Lastly, the inherent political economy challenges in
deploying contact teacher had not been fully taken into consideration during project design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

56.     The PDO was moderately satisfactorily achieved. The PDO was to reduce class sizes by
recruiting and retaining more teachers in the public education system, as well as deploying them
in an equitable manner. There were two parts to this objective associated with the one project
component. These two parts were: (i) reduce the class sizes by recruiting and retaining more
teachers in the public education system. This would principally be measured through a reduction
in pupil-teacher ratio (PTR). This first part was fully achieved and the project activities were
clearly the main factor causing the achievement; and (ii) deploying the recruited (and retained)
teachers in an equitable manner as measured by a reduction in the variation of PTR across
regions, which specifically would be measured by the degree of randomness in teacher
deployment. This second part of the PDO was only partially achieved in the sense that the
recruited teachers were deployed in an equitable manner across regions, but with important
shortcomings. Further, there was only one component output reflected in one single intermediate
indicator: the number of qualified primary teachers resulting from the project. This was fully
achieved.

57.      The analysis below is based on data from three sources: (i) the Statistical Yearbook from
Government of Cameroon, which provides information about enrolment and the number of teachers in the
system other than the contract teachers financed by the project. This source is not available for the latest
project year (2010/11). For this year, the number of teachers has been extrapolated from the previous
years. Further, the information in the Statistical Yearbook on contracted teachers financed by the project
does not include teachers hired during the school year: (ii) the MINEDUB program information about
Contract Teacher Program and the government’s implementation completion report, which supply the
information about the number of contract teachers financed by the project. This information was
triangulated and overall found reliable with two independent evaluations: an external technical evaluation
of the CTP and its outcomes; and the technical findings of the Special Audit (see paragraph 49 for
details); (iii) the MINEDUB Education Management Information System, which contain the school-level
information on enrolment and teachers. This database was recently implemented and covers only around
70% of the schools. The outputs and outcomes details including supporting data are provided in Annex 2
with detailed notes on source and methodology for each indicator.




                                                    14
58.      First part of the PDO – Reduction in the class-size as measured by a reduction in the PTR
was achieved. The baseline available at the time of approval was from 2006/07 and it was 50:1. The
baseline against which the project should be measured is at the beginning of the project in 2008/09, which
was 48:1. The target was a 2-point improvement to 48:1 (from the 2006/07 baseline). At the end of the
project (2010/11), the country average PTR was 45:1. Hence, an improvement of 3 points (150%
achievement of the target). This improvement can directly be related to the project activities of recruiting
13,600 additional contract teachers and retaining the already recruited 23,600 contract teachers during
2006/07-2008/09. Thus, bringing the total number of contract teachers financed by the CTP to 37,200. At
the end of the project, the CTP financed 60 out of each 100 teachers in the country compared to 44 at the
project start. The reduction in the PTR had been bigger if the attrition among civil servants and
community teachers had been lower. The number of civil servant teachers declined by 5% annually and
the number of community teachers declined by 14%. The PTR would have been 41:1. It is difficult to
assess the degree to which the increased recruitment of contract teachers within the CTP caused the
decrease in civil servant teachers and community teachers. Further, enrolment increased by 3.7% annually
during the project. If enrolment had remained constant the PTR would have been 4-points lower (41:1).
Two counterfactuals can be considered: (i) The “most impact? case: Absence of the project leading to all
contract teachers leaving their position because of no salary, while enrolment increased and the number of
other types of teachers evolved as observed. In this case, the PTR would have been 110:1, or (ii) The
“least impact? case: No additional contract teachers, the government would have paid the already
recruited contracted teachers, no additional enrolment and no civil servant teacher and community teacher
attrition, which is identical to the 2008/09 situation of a PTR of 48:1.

59.     Second part of the PDO – Deploying the teachers in a more equitable manner as indicated
by a reduction in the variation of the PTR measured by a reduction in the degree of randomness in
teacher deployment) – was partly achieved. Recruited contracted teachers in the project period were
equitably deployed across regions. This caused a decline in the PTR in the regions with above average
PTRs during the project. However, the PDO indicator (reduction in the degree of randomness in teacher
deployment) is likely not to have been achieved, since the best available estimate is 0.48 for 2010/11 (48
percent of the variation in the number of teachers in each school is not explained by the number of pupil
in each school). This represents deterioration over both the PAD baseline of 2006/07 of 0.43 and the
updated baseline from 2008/09 of 0.42. However, the estimation of this indicator relies upon data from a
database over pupils and teachers at the individual schools that only cover an estimated 70 percent of the
schools, and it is plausible that the change in randomness is just as much driven by changes in data
coverage as a “real? change in randomness of deployment. This paragraph is detailed below.

60.     The recruited contract teachers were deployed in an equitable manner across regions. The
Government made efforts to address regional disparities in the deployment of contract teachers. 5635
teachers (42 percent) of the 13,568 recruited teachers during the project were deployed in regions with
above national-average PTR in 2008/09 (Adamaou, Extreme-North, and North). In 2008/09, these regions
enrolled 38 percent of the pupil population and only had 26 percent of the existing teacher force. Hence,
these regions received a more than equitable share of the recruits. Further, the 42 percent share of recruits
represented a significant increase over the share that these regions received in the first EFA-FTI project
(33 percent).

61.      The PTR decreased in all regions with above national-average, but this also happened in a
few regions with a PTR below the national average. Even though enrolment increased most in the
regions with a higher PTR, these regions still received sufficient recruited teachers to experience a decline
in the PTR. In particular, in the Extreme North and North regions did the PTR decline by 6-points 71:1
and 60:1. The standard deviation of the distribution of regional PTRs (another measure of variation of
PTRs across regions) declined marginally from 15.4 in 2008/09 to 15.1 in 2010/2011. This implies that
the distribution of new teachers has benefited all regions almost equally. Further, the distribution off-set


                                                     15
the negative impact of an above national increase in enrolment in the under-served regions, and an uneven
attrition of teachers across regions. However, the deployment of teachers could have had a further
equalizing impact on teacher deployment. For example, the Littoral and South-West region, which
already had the lowest PTR among the regions in 2008/09 (33:1) received 9 percent and 10 percent of the
recruited teachers, respectively (slightly above their shares of teachers in 2008/09 which were 8 percent
and 9 percent, respectively). Compared with lower teacher attrition and growth in enrolment, this resulted
in a decline in the PTR to 26:1 and 27:1, respectively, in these two regions. It is worthwhile noting the
counterfactual situation that, in the absence of the deployment of the recruited teachers, and all other
things equal, PTRs of over 100:1 would have been the average in many regions of the country.

62.      The best available, but still incomplete data indicate that variation of the PTR across
regions as measured by a reduction in the degree of randomness in teacher deployment increased.
The Project target was to reduce the percentage of randomness by 1 percentage point from 43 in 2006/07
to 42 by the end of project implementation period. Chart 1 shows the estimated randomness of teacher
deployment (the dispersion calculated as 1-R2 = 1-0.5173 = 48 percent) for the country using the available
2010/11 data. Chart 2 shows the estimated evolution of randomness in teacher deployment from 2006/07
to 2010/11. This evolution shows considerable variation between years. This variation is likely to be a
result of two main factors. First, difference across years in the coverage of the database. For 2010/11, the
database only covers about 70 percent of the schools. The indicator is likely to change as a result of the
variation in coverage. Second, “real? change in the deployment of teachers compared to pupil enrolment.
Notably, three factors could be distinguished, distribution of teachers across regions (which improved
somewhat during the project as discussed above), distribution of teachers within regions, and evolution of
enrolment of pupils. The varying coverage and quality of the database does not allow for decomposition
of the above three factors across time.8

     Chart 1. Cameroon: Randomness in Teacher Deployment (2010/11)                        Chart 2. Cameroon: Randomness in Teacher Deployment (2007-11)


                        30                                                                     0.49
                                                                                               0.48                                                          0.48
                        25
                                                                                               0.47                      0.47
                        20
          Enseignants




                                                                                               0.46
                        15                                                                     0.45
                                                                                               0.44
                        10
                                                                                               0.43         0.43
                         5                                    y = 0.0115x + 1.1883                                                              0.42
                                                                                               0.42
                                                                   R² = 0.5173                                                  0.42
                         0                                                                     0.41
                             0   500   1000            1500     2000       2500                0.40
                                              Elèves                                           0.39
                                                                                                      2006/07      2007/08      2008/09   2009/10      2010/11

     Source : MINEDUB, DPPC database, 2012.




63.     The difficult in achieving a more equalizing deployment of the recruited teachers is likely to have
been affected by: (i) the political economy of teacher deployment, in the sense that well-off regions often
have more political influence than less well-off regions; (ii) teachers are rarely interested in taking up




8
  As reported in the implementation status report of the Bank for May 2011, The MINEDUB data showed that the randomness of teacher
deployment was to 34 in 2011. However, this estimate was very preliminary and relied upon an unverified database of an incomplete coverage.
This data uncertain was a contributing factor to a downgrade in the project ratings to Moderately Satisfactory. Following project closure in
December 2011, and during the ICR preparation process, the ICR team used a more complete and verified database from MINEDUB (but still
incomplete), to arrive at the above estimate of 0.47.




                                                                                     16
rural teaching positions, and/or request quick transfers from such posts; and (iii) the incentives of taking
up rural teaching positions. The project could support the government in specifying regulations regarding
which administrative layer of government could hire contract teachers, and supported conveniences such
as hostels and hospitals or increased remuneration in the under-served regions to serve as incentives for
teachers to take up and stay in more remote positions.

64.      The single intermediate indicator - number of qualified primary teachers increases by
37,200 – was achieved. During the 2007-2011 period, a total of 37,200 qualified contract teachers were
hired (60 percent females). This was a massive undertaking. Contract teachers are the largest cadre (62
percent) of primary school teaching staff in Cameroon. The contract teachers’ profile shows that the
majority (60 percent) of contract teachers are females and young with recently acquired professional
qualifications, often teaching in primary schools in rural areas, and with more than 50 students per
primary class. Over the long run, the impacts of gender equity in the teaching profession and the impact
of contract teachers in relation to learning achievements needs be reviewed. Of note is also that there is
likely to have been a direct substitution effect in the sense that the CTP hired teachers previously financed
by the regions, the municipality or the parents. Further, it is also plausible that the government, in the
absence, of the project could have hired more civil servant teachers (which declined by 5% annual during
the project). The net effect was that the number of qualified primary teachers in the public education
system did not increase by the number of recruited contract teachers (13,200), but by 7,900.

3.3 Efficiency

65.     Overall, the project’s efficiency in achieving the project’s objective was Substantial due to: ;
(i) promotion of the efficient use of resources by putting in place fiduciary and procedural mechanisms to
streamline contract teacher recruitment, (ii) adoption of the least cost approach to supporting
government’s efforts through the government’s existing program and efficient parallel financing and
donor coordination, (iii) lower cost of educational provision to the country by supporting quality teachers
with a more flexible and less expensive pay-package than civil servant teachers; and (iv) a modestly
increased allocative efficiency in the deployment of teachers and thereby increased efficiency of
educational services

66.      Through the EFA-FTI support the government and partners were together able to increase
efficiency through better fiduciary policies and mechanisms. The fiduciary due diligence requirements
through the Project helped to institute a degree of fiduciary oversight and reporting in the CTP. The value
of the technical and financial audit was that it helped to identify some internal control issues resulting in a
relatively small amount (US$217,686, about 0.06% out of a total financing of US$392.6 million for the
CTP. Further, the Project helped the government to plan more systematically. The audits of the Year I
and Year II grants were specifically helpful in assessing the continued technical robustness and the
financial management efficacy of CTP. That being said, several governance challenges and delays were
encountered in the implementation, but these were successfully resolved.

67.     From a cost effectiveness perspective, the least cost approach to financing contract teachers
had been adopted. Development partners’ (EFA-FTI through the World Bank and AFD) decision to
provide sector budget support ensured the least cost option for financing contract teachers. The
counterfactual is that parallel recruitment and payments to that of the government’s system would need to
have been set up. This would have resulted in higher implementation costs and lower sustainability.

68.     Expansion of the Contract Teacher program implied a lower average cost of each qualified
teacher compared to an expansion of civil servant teachers. At the time of appraisal, the benefit
package for a contract teacher was estimated to be around 2/3 of the was lower cost of educational
provision to the country by supporting quality teachers with a more flexible and less expensive pay-


                                                      17
package than civil servant teachers

69.      The allocation of recruited teachers became more equitable across regions as part of the
project, which has increased the efficiency of educational services. Given that the education production
functioning features declining returns to scale, a more equitable deployment of teacher across regions all
other things increases the marginal return to additional teachers compared to a less equitable deployment
of teachers. Therefore, the likely impact on learning from each of recruited has increased compared to the
previous deployment of teachers.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.     The overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory based on a composite assessment of
relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. The project was relevant and simple. The PDO was substantially
relevant albeit over-specified to include short-term and medium-term objectives. Overall, the CTP was a
successful program which ensured that qualified primary school teachers were recruited and deployed,
and the Project seen in this light and having contributed financially and from a capacity enhancing
perspective could also be considered to have been a success. The Project had contributed to a sustainable
and effective strategy to relieve the short-term fiscal constraints for government, and likely some of the
longer term out-of-pocket expenses for communities and parents. The fiduciary due diligence
requirements through the Project helped to institute a degree of fiduciary oversight and reporting in the
CTP. The project helped to strengthen the CTP by putting in place mechanisms for improved inter-
ministerial coordination and streamlining of CTP processes. The Project was central to institutionalizing
the CTP and in codifying it in an operations manual, and to building institutional/managerial capacity
through appropriate and timely technical assistance. There is government’s strong commitment to the
program, and to sustaining the progress made in the education sector.

71.      The project design to make the PDO achievable was partially suitable. While the risks were
assessed to be high, the mitigation measures especially the due diligence and improvements to financial
internal controls and inter-ministerial coordination helped to reduce the risk to a moderate level. The
design of the results framework was complex and included composite measures that challenged the
assessment of the achievement of progress towards the PDO. Project design did not address the financial
reporting and withdrawal arrangements prior to implementation. This resulted in significant difficulties
during the implementation/supervision stage.

72.     The Project specified and implemented the most appropriate and direct path to support
government’s efforts. The implementation arrangements via governmental institutions provided efficient
financing to a program which was an integral part of the Government’s ESS. There were no institutional
layers added to implement the project. The Bank-financed PASE Secretariat assisted with the fiduciary
due diligence aspects. Through project implementation, considerable capacity was developed in the
various responsible ministries in the areas of financial management and reporting.

                        Relevance           Efficacy             Efficiency            Project
        Rating                                 MS               Significant             MS
                         Moderate




                                                    18
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As noted above, Satisfactory progress was made towards gender equity. The majority (60 percent) of
contract teachers hired was female, and hired to work in rural areas. While most of them remained in their
posts, there was attrition in the Far North region due to the absence of hostels and hospitals, remoteness,
distances for their families, intercultural differences including language, life events such as marriages, etc.
in the sub-regions where the female teachers were deployed. The increased presence of female teachers is
likely to have contributed substantially to girls' participation rate, especially in the ZEP areas. The gender
parity ratio (girls:boys) improved from 0.63 in 2006/07 to 0.89 in 2010/11 according to government
statistics.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Satisfactory progress was made in achieving longer-term capacity and institutional development impacts.
The CTP was institutionalized and there is government commitment to the program. Institutional capacity
was developed through appropriate technical assistance and on-the-job training. Systems and processes
were developed and institutionalized for the CTP in general with a large impact on improved financial
management. Further, inter-ministerial coordination was improved, an operations manual development.
The project design had incorporated risk mitigation measures in the areas of budgeting, accounting,
internal control, funds flow, financial reporting, auditing, and fraud and corruption. These helped to ease
implementation risks, bringing it to a moderate level. The Bank supervision team followed up consistency
to ensure that the mitigation measures were tracked. In the area of internal controls, however, there were
some problems that became evident through the Special Audit which was concluded only after project
closing. Hence institutional strengthening measures could not be put in place to address the issues prior to
project closing.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

73.     The Project is likely to have contributed to reducing the out-of-pocket expenses for parents since
        some of the Community teachers were converted to contract teachers or the CTP has indirectly
        substituted for contract teachers paid by the community. This has reduced the direct cost to
        parents, which in turn have led to an increase in enrolment of out-of-school children, in particular
        children from poor families.

74.      The impact of the CTP is being felt across the system:
        (i) The training requirement in the Ecoles normales des instituteurs de l’enseignement general
            (ENIEG) for contract teachers has introduced an evaluation system. This has raised the bar
            for all teachers, including the training needs civil servant teachers. It is emerging that the
            teachers being financed by parents are often the least well trained. The government, therefore,
            needs to continue the process of hiring more contract teachers to replace parents financed
            teachers. There is, however, a difference of opinion between the evaluation of the school
            inspectors and the beneficiary survey results; and

        (ii) Other positive trends have been observed. With more teachers in the classrooms, greater
             numbers of children are being enrolled in school. The perception seems to be that the quality
             of education has improved. The impact seems to have also resulted in a decrease in dropout
             and repetition rates between 2006 and 2010. Finally, primary completion rates also appear to
             have registered an upward trend.




                                                      19
75.      It is also important to note that during the EFA-FTI project period, a Bank-financed operation and
other development partners projects were also under implementation. The combined efforts could have
served to improve access to schooling, and reduce repetition rates, and an increase in primary completion
rate. Both the positive and the negative impacts cannot, therefore, be attributed solely to the EFA-FTI
project.

76.     Finally, budget allocations for education overall and for primary education particularly appear to
be falling. There appears to be a substitution effect with the government reducing the budget for
education and primary education specifically, and using the EFA-FTI and AFD grants to finance the gap.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

See Annex 8 for the findings of a beneficiary survey which was undertaken after the project had closed.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

77.      At appraisal, the Bank identified several risks to progress towards the development objectives.
Two technical level risks and two financial management level risks were assessed to have a high
probability of occurrence and the potential to pose significant risks: (i) the jeopardization of program
sustainability due to a decrease in allocations to the education sector resulting from exogenous factors
(potential fluctuations in global markets); (ii) the high risk of contract teachers not being deployed where
they were most needed; (iii) the country’s governance deficit being a major obstacle in achieving robust
rates of growth; and (iv) the lack of financial reports as revealed by the audit reports of the Year I grant.

78.      Overall, with respect to technical aspects, the Bank identified eight risks: (i) two at country/sector
level, one at the implementing agency level, and five at the project level. Regarding financial
management, the Bank identified nine risks: (i) three inherent risks at the country, entity, and project
levels; (ii) six control risks relating to budgeting, accounting, internal control, flow of funds, financial
reporting, auditing, and fraud and corruption. To some extent the technical and fiduciary risks overlapped,
with the technical risks requiring fiduciary mitigation measures to ensure the smooth functioning of the
CTP. Detailed analyses of the risks were conducted, and appropriate risk mitigation measures were
adopted. Social accountability and transparency measures were also introduced. From a technical
perspective, the risks of confounding data from the MINEDUB were also noted.

79.     Risk to Continuing the Operation. The primary schools CTP is institutionalized in the
MINEDUB. There is political commitment to perpetuating the program. The program is anchored in the
ESS and is being financed with public resources. The circumstances under which the program might not
continue or be slowed down considerably would be: (i) if the risk of budget cut for the education sector
becomes a reality; (ii) if the students enrollments continue to increase, and government does not step up
programs for teacher training, hiring and deployment; and (iii) teacher attrition policy is not actively
managed. The greater and real risks are associated with entrenched corruption, lapsing into inadequate
oversight and accountability, and political action to reverse the policy of contract teachers.

80.      The next phase of the EFA-FTI support could be potentially better harnessed if development
partners provide possible pooled financing through a Program for Results (P4R) approach. Continued
fragmented support to the education sector could jeopardize the gains made, and make it particularly
difficult to monitor and address the governance challenges in the country. The Paris Declaration
principles and the Accra Agreement measures warrant serious consideration if Cameroon is to stay on
track and reach the Millennium Development Goals in 2015.



                                                      20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

81.     The CTP was led by the Government and supported by development partners (the EFA-FTI and
AFD). The World Bank as the elected Supervising Entity for the EFA-FTI grant played a key role in
ensuring the quality of the analytical and fiduciary dialogue and design of the Project. Appropriate
technical expertise was brought in preparing the project. With respect to the results framework, the targets
set appeared to be realistic. However, the assessment of the causal relationship to achieving the targets
could have received greater attention.

82.      The Bank team drew specific lessons from Bank projects 9 in other governance challenged
environments. The lessons of the Year 1 EFA-FTI project were taken into consideration in designing the
Year II project. The technical and fiduciary risks were identified and appropriate mitigation measures
were put in place in collaboration with the government. There was agreement that the fiduciary system
had serious weaknesses and that it warranted greater scrutiny through period audits. Capacity was
developed among government staff to analyze the technical dimensions of the project, and to prepare
credible financial reporting documents. There were no conditions of effectiveness. However, there was a
dated financial covenant that within two months after effectiveness, the IDA-financed project team that
was providing technical and fiduciary support to the MINEDUB for the CTP would amend the contract of
the external/independent auditors for the IDA-financed project so as to include that a Special Audit
(technical and financial) of the CTP would be carried out for the EFA-FTI tranches 1 and 2 (see
paragraph 31) reimbursements to the Government). On a few critical preparation aspects there were
shortfalls that caused considerable difficulties during the project implementation period: (i) the PDO
specification was broad and the results framework indicators included measurement variables that
included major exogenous (outside the purview of the project financing). This resulted in complicating
the analysis of progress towards the achievement of the PDO; (ii) the implementation details had not been
precisely and fully specified. This resulted in significant delays in disbursements. The consequences had a
negative effect on the quality of supervision.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     The lapses in the project design were remedied to some extent during the implementation phase.
The World Bank as the Supervising Entity was diligent about undertaking periodic supervision of the
technical/sectoral, coordination, and fiduciary aspects of the Project. The day-to-day implementation
support was undertaken by the government, with the IDA-financed project secretariat playing a
supporting role. The annual review of the ESS provided an opportunity in the fiscal year to discuss at
length the CTP, and to assess progress. School visits also contributed to the fiduciary and technical
dialogue. The short implementation period of the project did not warrant a mid-term review. Coordination
with the AFD was undertaken on a regular basis, with each of the two co-financing partners taking turns
in financing audits of the CTP.



9
 The EFA-FTI project benefited from lessons from the Kenya Free Primary Education Support Project and the Kenya Education Sector Support
Project.




                                                                   21
84.     The fiduciary dimension received special attention. The World Bank had supervision
responsibilities for managing the FTI grant and undertaking: (i) the fiduciary aspects of the EFA-FTI
grant and coordination between the two partners (government and AFD); and (ii) the monitoring the FTI
grant portion of the CTP. The Bank executed its responsibilities effectively, taking action to strengthen
the government’s fiduciary processes and capacity. It also did not disburse the third and final tranche
pending the receipt of the results of the Special Audit. The Government submitted the audit report after
the project closing date in January 2012. The audit revealed some internal control problems which
resulted in approximately US$217,686 being declared as ineligible expenditure. The government
validated the findings. The Bank took immediate steps to seek reimbursement of the portions due to the
EFA-FTI and to AFD. The third and final tranche was then released towards the end of the four months
grace period after project closing. Despite the positive supervision efforts, the absence of consensus
among the various departments (especially disbursements and FM) of the Bank on an appropriate
reporting template resulted in significant disbursement lag.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85.      The World Bank is a trusted development partner in Cameroon. The Bank maintained positive
relations. Despite the governance challenges the Bank focused on open and progressive dialogue with the
MINEDUB. The Bank’s technical and fiduciary expertise, its comparative advantage to convene partners
and advance dialogue served to institutionalize the CTP. The Bank proactively identified the fiduciary
risks and introduced appropriate mitigation measures to address the risks. However, the quality at entry in
a few critical areas adversely affected implementation and supervision. Protracted efforts were required to
resolve project design weaknesses, and this resulted in significant elapsed time in disbursements. Further,
the project monitoring challenges (lags in data availability, absence of reliable data) resulted in the partial
monitoring of variables of the results framework. The preparation and brokering of a reporting template to
keep the contract teachers hiring and salary reimbursements on track warranted greater attention. The
lapse in this area had an effect on resulted in a prolonged disbursement lag which ultimately had a
negative impact on the quality of supervision. A second issue was the setting of the development outcome
indicator target at a level that did not factor the contributing and countervailing aspects of student
enrolments.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

86.      The Government displayed strong commitment to the CTP and ownership of the project
development objective, realizing their importance for the education sector. It is likely that the government
will continue to do so since there is high political risk with not supporting the program. The
Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper that was adopted in 2009/10 recognized the importance
of improving the institutional framework, administrative management and governance. The Government
had also prepared the Cameroon Governance Reform Program which contributed to mitigating the
specific risks to the CTP. Although counterpart funding for the program was relatively consistent and
reliable, the government did not keep to its commitment to take on an increasing share of budget for the
CTP. This could be partially attributed to the exogenous effects of global fuel and fiscal crises.
Procurement aspects were also satisfactory. Based on available information, by and large the contract
teachers had been hired in accordance to the Operations Manual. However, the technical report of the
Special Audit revealed that there were some lapses in ensuring that appropriate matriculation credentials
from some contract teachers were provided to the MC. During project implementation the single most
confounding issue was inter-ministerial coordination since three ministries were involved in the CTP.



                                                      22
Further, despite the recruitment of a dedicated accountant, the government’s capacity to consolidate the
necessary data for the processing of the withdrawal application was limited. These issues contributed to
considerably slowing down the implementation process.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

87.      The implementing agency also displayed commitment to the CTP and to the project throughout
the preparation and implementation stages as noted in section 2.3. It also demonstrated willingness to
strengthen the internal controls for technical and fiduciary reporting. However, this aspect required
considerable persuasion and leveraging from the World Bank and AFD. The real possibility of not
receiving the reimbursements could have contributed to some extent to pressure the government to
institute appropriate controls. Despite the efforts to systematize financial management and reporting, the
Special Audit revealed that some internal controls were still lacking. Reports were not received on time
and with appropriate data to verify financial data and teacher numbers. Specific difficulties also stemmed
from the lack of timeliness in cleaning and providing accurate data to track progress being made on the
CTP. Teacher attrition was not systematically tracked. The effect was that MINEDUB’s data and
calculations needed to be verified several times.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

88.     Government displayed commitment, ownership of the program, and to the project development
objective. Despite concerted efforts from the MINEDUB MC to put in place a system, there were
weaknesses in inter-ministerial coordination, persistent fiduciary internal controls and institutional
capacity constraints contributed to inertia and to slowing down project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

89.      Some project-specific lessons can be learned from the EFA-FTI operation. The lessons also have
wide and general applicability. The strengths, predominant weaknesses and the challenges of the Project
offer insights into appropriate financing support instrument, and the use of country systems in a high-risk
governance environment. The lessons are relevant to the future EFA-FTI support to Cameroon and other
African countries, and also to the World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy.

    (i)    Leadership is essential to the success of development operations. The main lesson here is that
           the client’s leadership capacity cannot be underestimated in development and implementation
           of successful projects. Integrity, dynamism, bold decision making, and vision characterize some
           of the leadership strengths in the Project. However, leadership capacity could have been
           improved in areas such as organizational management: (a) establishing and maintaining in a
           consistent manner, proper functions such as inter-ministerial coordination, financial
           management reporting, and auditing; and (b) evidence-based and data driven decision making,
           and increased capacity building among technical level staff including the adoption of clearer
           policies to provide incentives for institutional capacity development and skills acquisition.
           Overall, however leadership provided the key element to the successful implementation of this
           project. For the future, this aspect should be taken into greater consideration in project
           preparation and risk assessment.

    (ii)   Developing systems requires taking informed risks. During the project design phase there needs
           to be full awareness and acknowledgement of the country/sectoral, entity, project, internal



                                                    23
             controls, fiduciary capacity, and reporting levels risks. Within the existing environment the
             political and economic strengths and weaknesses need to be noted. Appropriate mitigation
             measures need to be put in place, and the task of strengthening the institutions and processes
             needs to follow. The systems development approach that was adopted was a strength of the
             Project. This is an advisable strategy in governance and corruption fraught environments.

     (iii) Matching up project/program structure with the budget structure, concerted collaboration, and
           predictable financing to be able to monitor total and disaggregated expenditures on priority
           programs are essential for successfully using country systems. A strength of the EFA-FTI
           Project was that the financing from development partners was disbursed for a single program
           using country systems. To this extent the Project structure was aligned with the budget structure.
           A positive aspect of the Project was also that the responsibility for ensuring that reliable
           financing rested on the government’s shoulders. This was an incentive for government to
           remain committed to strengthening transparent fiduciary reporting procedures.

     (iv)    Credible and robust data are fundamental to guide project/program design, implementation and
             financing. For the Project, the data from the MINEDUB, and other related ministries served as
             the baseline data for overall monitoring and evaluation. However, timely and accurate data for
             project implementation were not available. The analysis of the confounding factors to achieve
             project targets could not be undertaken efficiently. Further, the one year lag time in receiving
             the data made it impossible to assess project progress in real-time. Government could consider
             using an Open Data platform10 to house education data. With the introduction of the fibre optic
             cable, this would make data more readily available.

     (v)     Relative simplicity in project design helps to better supervise projects, to build related systems
             and processes, and to monitor outputs, outcomes and impact. The strength of the EFA-FTI
             project was its relative simplicity. It was designed to support a policy which the government
             had already put in place. It helped to accelerate and scale up government’s efforts, while
             focusing on systems development and institutional strengthening.

     (vi)    Inter-ministerial collaboration in government and timely inter-departmental communication and
             decision-making in the Bank help to facilitate project supervision and implementation. The
             weaknesses in this area caused significant delays in disbursements for the Project. The
             mitigating factor was that the disbursements related to salary reimbursements for payments
             already made by the government. However, this compromised the reliability of financial flows
             and introduced considerable delays for the government to appropriately account for the
             reimbursements.

     (vii) The reimbursement mechanism of teacher salaries implied that the government had to show its
           up-front commitment to the CTP. This is likely to have contributed to more commitment and
           sustainability.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies



10
   Open data platform offer the opportunity for government and line ministries to upload real time data onto a shared platform for easy access by
all. With the impending installation of the fibre optic cable and the backbone support in Cameroon, mobile technologies and applications could be
used to update mapping for results and using real time data for planning, budgeting, and decision-making, reporting, and social accountability.




                                                                      24
The Grantee/Implementing agency provided its own completion report. The full report is included in
Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
Comments of cofinancier AFD is in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
The beneficiary survey in Annex 5 includes views from NGOs and civil society.




                                                  25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                          Actual/Latest
                                                   Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
                Components                                                Estimate (USD
                                                    (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                             millions)
Public primary school contract
                                                             217.50            217.50               100
teachers’ salaries
                  Total Baseline Cost                        217.50            217.50               100
Physical Contingencies
                                                                0.00             0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                               0.00              0.00              0.00
                  Total Project Costs                        217.50            217.50              100
Project Preparation Costs                                      0.00              0.00              0.00
                                                               0.00              0.00              0.00
            Total Financing Required                         217.50            217.50              100


(b) Financing
                                                                          Appraisal
                                                                                     Actual/Latest
                                                              Type of     Estimate                 Percentage of
                 Source of Funds                                                       Estimate
                                                            Cofinancing    (USD                     Appraisal
                                                                                    (USD millions)
                                                                          millions)
                                                                               0.00         0.00       0.00
Trust Fund:
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative                      Parallel      24.80         24.80      100.00
Catalytic Fund
AFD (C2D)*                                                     Parallel      12.60         12.60      100.00
Government of Cameroon                                         Parallel     180.10        180.10      100.00
                                       Total:                               217.50        217.50
Note : * C2D Le Contrat de Désendettement Développement.
       The PAD Annex 3 shows the overall program cost and financing.




                                                                  26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.       The table below provides further information on the progress of the component activities against
the original project targets. The table is completed to the level of available data.

   Component/               Project             Target         Responsibility       Achievement/                        Outcomes/Impact
    Objective              activities          Output/                              Actual Output
                                              Beneficiary                                                    Outcomes                 Impact

 Support the           Reimbursement        - 37,200           The Prime         Salaries paid to        A decrease in        Contribution to
 contract teachers     of salaries of         public           Minister’s        37,200 public           PTR from 50:1 in     Increased student
 program in            additional 37,200      primary          Office            primary school          2006/07 and the      enrolments, reduced
 primary               primary public         school                             contract teachers       updated baseline     repetition, increased
 education             school contract        contract         Ministry of       recruited, deployed     48:1 from            learning and increased
 (US$24.8              teachers recruited     teachers         Public            across the country      2008/09 to 45:1      completion.
 million)              during FY07,                            Functions and     with a focus on the     in 2010/11
                       FY08, FY09 and       - Public           Administrative    ZEP area.               (table 2.2)          Reported improvement
 To support the        FY10 during            primary          Reform            (table 2.1)                                  in the gender parity
 Government’s                                 school                                                     Reduction in         index (girls:boys) from
 contract teachers     (a) the period         children.        Ministry of                               regional             0.63 in 2006 to 0.89 in
 program.              from January                            Finance                                   disparities with     2010 especially in the
                       2010 through the                                                                  respect to teacher   ZEP areas.
                       date which is                           Ministry of                               deployment
                       four months after                       Basic                                      (table 2.1 and      More female teachers
                       the Effectiveness                       Education                                 table 2.3).          were recruited and
                       date;                                   (MINEDUB).                                                     deployed, with a
                                                                                                                              majority of them in rural
                       (b) part of the                                                                                        areas.
                       remainder of the
                       2010 and
                       2011school year.

               Table 2.1. Cameroon: Recruitment* and Regional Distribution of Contract Teachers (2007-2011)
                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                           Contract       Total Public Primary
                 Region
                                            2006/07       2007/08   2008/09      2009/10     2010/11       Teachers       Schools Enrolments
                                              IC1           IC2       IC3          IC4         IC5        Recruited*           in 2010/11
 Adamaou                                         815          453       490           417         350          2,525                    179,107
 Central                                       2,720          655       620           217         903          5,115                    376,127
 East                                          1,115          436       470           425         291          2,737                    185,402
 Extreme North                                 1,681          666       590         1,336       1,411          5,684                    624,574
 Littoral                                        809          473       500           377         821          2,980                    138,511
 North                                           985          472       500         1,214         907          4,078                    364,527
 North West                                    1,165          556       580           566         842          3,709                    264,889
 West                                          1,337          569       590           687         777          3,960                    375,692
 South                                           809          536       560           408         229          2,542                    103,976
 South West                                    1,306          574       600           628         762          3,870                    168,527
 Total Contract teachers recruited           12,742         5,390       5,500       6,275       7,293          37,200
 Cumulative No. of Contract Teachers                     18,132      23,632       29,907        37,200
Notes: Total public primary school enrolments in 2010/11 were around 2.78 million.
        * The total number of contract teachers recruited is from Payroll data and. The figure excludes estimated attrition of 18%.
Source: Republic of Cameroon. May 2012. Rapport d’achèvement du Gouvernement sur le programme de contractualisation des
        Instituteurs (2007-2011). Secrétariat Technique de Suivi des Opérations de Contractualisation.




                                                                        27
                         Table 2.2 Total Public Primary School Teachers and Enrollment (2008-2011)
                                                     Contract
                                                      teachers       Contract      Community
                                                   (financed by       teachers      Teachers     Total Public
    End of                            Civil          region or     (financed by   (financed by      School
  School Year        Enrolments     Servants      municipality)    the project)      parents)      Teachers                             PTR
 2008/09               2,585,275       13,180                4,196        23,632          13,100       54,108                              48
 2009/10               2,719,294       12,479                3,993        29,907          11,210       57,589                              47
 2010/11 est.*         2,781,332       11,815                3,800        37,200           9,593       62,408                              45
 Annual                    3.7%         -5.3%                -4.8%         25.5%         -14.4%         7.4%
 growth rate
Source: Statistical Yearbooks for 2008/09 and 2009/10 for civil servant teachers, contract teachers financed by the regions or the municipality,
and Community teachers. The Statistical Yearbook is for 2010/11 is not yet available. Therefore, for 2010/11 the number of civil servant
teachers, contract teachers financed by the region or municipality and Community teachers is extrapolated assuming the same
percentage change as in the previous year (annual growth rate). For the Contract teachers financed by the project, the data source
is project data from “Rapport d’achèvement du Gouvernement sur le programme de contractualisation des Instituteurs (2007-
2011). Secrétariat Technique de Suivi des Opérations de Contractualisation“. The change in data source is necessary since the
statistical yearbook does not have the end of school year data and therefore underestimates the number of contract teachers.

2.      In general, table 2.2 shows the decreasing PTR in the Far Northern region as result of the relative
importance given by the government to deploying more teachers to the region. However, increasing
student enrolments are proving to be a challenge, as also are the difficulties for the largely young and
female teachers to adapt to the environment. This could be attributed to the completion of contract teacher
recruitment process, and to the increasing enrolments. Student enrolments are increasing at a higher rate
than the recruitment of trained contract and other cadres of teachers. The continued deployment
challenges will need to be addressed.

                                                  Table 2.3. Data for Far Northern Region
                                                                     2006/07     2007/08           2008/09      2009/10     2010/11
          Enrolments                                                              495,717          529,011       572,197    624,574
          Public primary school teachers                                            6,382            7,119         7,921      8,927
          Cumulative No. of Contract teachers                           1,681       2,347            2,937         4,273      5,684
          Contract teachers as a % of total primary school teachers                     31              45            56         65
          PTR                                                                        77.7             74.3          72.2       70.0
         Source: Ministry of Basic Education (MINEDUB), Secrétariat Technique de Suivi des
         Opérations de Contractualisation, May 2012.


3.       An analysis of the changes in PTRs across regions between 2009 and 2011 (table 2.4) shows that
the standard deviation has remained more or less constant over the period, despite a decrease in 2010.
Although some target regions have experienced an improvement in PTRs (specifically, the Far-North and
the North regions), PTRs in already well-off regions have also decreased significantly taking the net
effect (that is, taking into account estimated attrition and any substitution effect).




                                                                      28
                               Table 2.4 Pupil-teacher Ratios (PTRs) across Regions
                                  (2009 – 2011; project implementation period)
                                                   2008/09       2009/10        2010/11
                      Adamaoua                        55            52             53
                      Center                          40            43             37
                      East                            43            47             49
                      Far North                       77            74             71
                      Littoral                        33            32             26
                      North                           66            61             60
                      North-West                      45            43             40
                      West                            48            47             46
                      South                           30            29             27
                      South-West                      33            31             27
                              TOTAL                   48            47             45
                        Standard Deviation           15.4          14.1           15.1
                      Source: Similar to Table 2.2
                      Note: Shaded regions had above national PTR in 2008/09.

4.      The EFA-Indicators at ICR stage are provided below. Data show that gross enrolment rate (GER)
at Early Childhood Development (ECD) stage is growing rapidly. Further, the GER target of 100 percent
at primary education level has been reached. In fact, the GER has increased to 122 percent in 2011.
However, NER has not kept up. It has increased slowly. Repetition rates have registered a decline over
time. The Primary Completion Rate target of 88 by 2015 is far from being reached in all regions of the
country, especially in the ZEP.




                                                      29
                   Table 2.5. EFA-FTI Indicators: Data at ICR Stage and 2015 Target

 Year                                      2006/07          2007/08         2008/09         2009/10          2010/11        2015
                                                                                                             (Estimate)     Target
 EFA-FTI Indicators: Data at ICR Stage
 GER in Early Childhood               17.4                      21.5            25.3            27.2                            27.0
 Development (%)
 Total student enrollments in        3,100                     3,202            3,351           3,510           3,577
 primary education (‘000)                                     (2,470)          (2,585)         (2,712)         (2,781)
 (Public)
 GER                                   101                      104             107              110             109            100

 NER                                            76               82              87               88             88

 Access rate to primary education               102             112             115              123             118

 Repetition rate                                22               17              14               13             13             13.6

 Primary Completion Rate (PCR)                  64.3            71.5            72.6             73.0           74.2            88.0
 (Girls)                                       (59.5)          (65.3)          (66.4)           (68.8)                         (88.0)
 ZEP PCR                                        51.0            53.2            57.7             56.0                           88.0
 (Girls)                                       (38.0)          (38.1)          (42.2)           (42.6)
 Pupil-Teacher Ratio (PTR)                      50:1            52:1            48:1             47:1           45:1            44:1
 Total number of teachers in
 primary education                            72,827          69,544           72,634          76,665          79,184
 (Public)                                                    (47,611)         (54,108)        (57,589)        (62,408)
 Cumulative number of public
 primary school contract teachers             12,742          18,132           23,632          29,907          37,200
 recruited
Sources: Republic of Cameroon. Rapport Sectoriel de mise en œuvre de la stratégie de l’éducation. 2011; Government statistical yearbook
2011 show varying figures across tables.




                                                                 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
1.       The relevant analysis is contained in Section 3.3. Relevant trend data and analysis are presented
in this annex.

                              Table 3.1. Education Budget as a percent of National Budget and
                                             Allocations to Primary Education

                                              2007                2008           2009                2010           2011
   Education Budget as a percent of National Resources
   Expected at appraisal                         17.0                 17.6          18.2               18.8            19.5
   Actual at Project closing & ICR               15.0                 14.4          17.5               16.7            14.1
   % of Education budget allocated to Primary Education
   Expected at appraisal                         36.8                 38.4          40.1               41.7            43.4
   Actual at Project closing & ICR               32.5                 41.1          38.0               38.6            39.3

   Financing Source (Actual)                                                                                                 (FCFA & USD in millions)
                                                   2007           2008           2009                2010           2011         2012        Total
   Government
    Contract teacher salaries paid (FCFA) **        85,540         25,897         19,006             21,904         12,454                                164,801
    Contract teacher salaries paid (USD)               171             52             38                 44             25                                    330
   AFD C2D
    Contract teacher salaries paid (FCFA) **         8,000           6,000         5,000              4,000                799                              23,799
    Contract teacher salaries paid (USD)                16              12            10                  8                  2                2                 49
   EFA-FTI
    Contract teacher salaries paid (FCFA) **         5,650          5,650              0                  0          7,732                4,668            23,700
    Contract teacher salaries paid (USD)              11.3           11.3               0                  0          15.4                   9.3             47.3
                               Total (FCFA)         99,190         37,547         24,006             25,904         20,985                4,668           212,300
                                Total (USD)          198.3           75.3             48                 52           42.4                 11.3             426.3

  Notes: ** The total contract teachers’ salary payments for the period 2007-2011 were FCFA164,801 million or USD330 million. The
             annual calculations are based on the length of time a contract teacher has been hired on the program. The numbers of
             contract teachers hired in 2007 exceeded that in the following years. Hence, the declining payments. At the time of project
             closing 2,116 contract teachers had not yet been paid although they had been hired.
             Salary calculations: IC1 January 2007 – March 2012.
                                    IC2 September 2007 – March 2012.
                                    IC3 October 2008 – March 2012.
                                    IC4 September 2009 – March 2012.
                                    IC5 October 2010 – March 2012.
             Figures for 2012 pertain to EFA-FTI and to AFD C2D. They reflect audit related reimbursement of ineligible expenditures
                and outstanding disbursement during the grace period (4 months after closing of EFA-FTI project) in 2012.

  Sources: Aide-Mémoire de la revue conjointe du secteur d’éducation, 2011.
           Republic of Cameroon. Various Statistical Yearbooks.

90.      The Project can be said to have been efficient if
the financing of the CTP can be fully absorbed by the
government. This would depend on other exogenous
factors such as the level of government revenues to                                     Chart 1.2 : Trends in budget by sub-sector (2007-11)

sustain the program. However, over time there has been                                      250000

                                                                                                                                                   Education de Base
a net decline in resources for the education sector. See                                    200000

Charts 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 below. The emerging trend is                                        150000
                                                                                                                                                   Enseignements
                                                                                                                                                   Secondaires
contrary to the decisions taken in 2006 to raise the
budget for education of natural resources to reach 19.5                                     100000                                                 Enseignement
                                                                                                                                                   Supérieur
percent, and the percentage of the education budget to                                      50000
                                                                                                                                                   Emploi et Formation
primary education to reach 43.3 percent by 2011. The                                                                                               Professionnelle
                                                                                                0
proportion of the national budget that was allocated to                                               2007   2008   2009    2010   2011

the sector overall in 2011 witnessed a record decline                                   Source : Ministry of Finance Data, Various years.
                                                                                        DPPC graph from the 2011 Sector Review Report.
since the commencement of implementation of the
Education Sector Strategy (ESS). The decline was
around 3.5 percentage points. In addition, the percentage


                                                                      31
of education budget allocated to primary education fell in 2009 by 3.4 percentage points drop to 38
percent, and showing only small increases in 2010 and 2011 from the 2009 base. There are two likely
explanations for the shift: (i) Cameroon has been affected by the global fuel and fiscal crises; and (ii)
there has been a substitution effect with government budget being replaced with the EFA-FTI and the
AFD grants. This has manifested itself in a substitution effect with contract teachers replacing the attrition
of civil servants. The latter is likely to be the reason for the Government to seek continued EFA-FTI
support to continue financing the CTP. A final point is that following project closure, in April 2012, an
AFD team had observed that (i) about 35,084 CTs are registered and being paid; and (ii) taking into
account the deceased and those who had resigned, 1,299 CTs were registered and not yet being paid, and
only 84 are not yet registered.

     Chart 2.2 Cameroon: Estimated and actual Education                           Chart 2.3 Cameroon: Contract Teachers’ Program Financing
                   Expenditures (2007 -12)                                                               (2007 - 12)


   50.00
   45.00
   40.00
                                                                                                      250,000
   35.00
   30.00
   25.00                                                                                              200,000
   20.00
   15.00                                                                           Disbursed Amount
                                                                                                      150,000                                             EFA-FTI
   10.00
                                                                                                                                                          AFD C2D
    5.00
                                                                                                                                                          GoC
    0.00                                                                                              100,000
           2007         2008          2009          2010          2011

              Education Budget as a percent of National Resources
                                                                                                       50,000
              (estimated at appraisal)
              Actual Education Budget (actual at Project closing & ICR)

              % of Education budget allocated to Primary Education
                                                                                                           0
              (estimated at appraisal)
              % of Education budget allocated to Primary Education (actual                                      2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012
              at Project closing & ICR)




3.       Further, the deployment of young, female teachers in the ZEP areas seems to be having two
effects: (i) increasing girls’ enrolment in these areas. However, verifiable gender disaggregated trend data
are not available; and (ii) the deployment in favor of young female teachers is likely to cause a gender
imbalance overall. Finally, there appears to be a declining trend in budgetary allocation for the contract
teachers program. This requires government’s attention. Charts 3.1 and 3.2 show teacher deployment
across the country and by region using available data from April 2011 and May 2012.




                                                                             32
                                  Chart 3.1. Regional ratio of civil servant teachers                                              Chart 3.2. Regional ratio of all teachers
                                                   to enrolments                                                                                to enrolments

                          8,000                                                                                       12,000
                          7,000
                                                                                                                      10,000
    State paid teachers




                          6,000
                                                                                                                       8,000




                                                                                                       All teachers
                          5,000
                          4,000                                            y = 0.0083x + 2135.1                        6,000
                                                                                R² = 0.6611                                                                       y = 0.0125x + 1879.1
                          3,000
                                                                                                                       4,000                                           R² = 0.8042
                          2,000
                                                                                                                       2,000
                          1,000
                             -                                                                                            -
                                   -    100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000                                -          200,000       400,000        600,000           800,000
                                                        Enrolment public                                                                            Enrolment public




Source: Ministry of Basic Education (MINEDUB) data, May 2012;
graphs generated by the ICR team as supplementary information.




                                                                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                                     Responsibility/
                   Names                                 Title                     Unit
                                                                                                       Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
                                                                                              Task Team Leader/Ed.
 Michel Welmond                          Lead Education Specialist                AFTED
                                                                                              Policy and Development
 Nathalie S Munzberg                     Senior Counsel                           LEGAF       Project counsel
 Aissatou Diallo                         Finance Officer                          CTRFC       Disbursements
 Dung-Kim Pham                           Operations Officer                       AFTED       Operations
 Emeran Serge M Menang Evouna            Forestry Specialist                      AFTEN       Environmental safeguard
 Lucienne M M’Baipor                     Social Development Specialist            AFTEN       Social safeguard
 Kouami Hounsinou Messan                 Procurement Specialist                   AFTPC       Procurement
 Nestor Coffi                            Sr. Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM       Financial management
 Fadila Caillaud                         Education Specialist                     AFTED       Education
 Prema Clarke                            Consultant                               AFTED       Education
 Lisa Overbey                            Consultant                               AFTED       Education
 Natalie Tchoumba Bitnga                 Team Assistant                           AFCC1       Project assistance
 Josiane Luchmun                         Program Assistant                        AFTSP       Project assistance
 Norosoa Andrianaivo                     Program Assistant                        AFTED       Project assistance

Supervision/ICR
                                                                                              Task Team Leader
 Michel Welmond                          Lead Education Specialist                AFTED
                                                                                              (FY09-11)
                                                                                              Task Team Leader
 Fadila Caillaud                         Education Specialist                     AFTED
                                                                                              (FY12)
 Vincent Perrot                          Consultant                               AFTED       Education specialist
 Natalie Tchoumba Bitnga                 Team Assistant                           AFCC1       Project assistance
 Norosoa Andrianaivo                     Program Assistant                        AFTED       Project assistance


  (b) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost        Staff Time and Cost                       Total
                               (Bank Budget for             (Trust Fund for                  (Bank Budget &
                                P116437 Only)              TF098620 Only)                       Trust Fund)
                                                                        USD                         USD Thousands
                                        USD Thousands
                                                                     Thousands                      (including travel
     Stage of Project                     (including
                           No. of staff               No. of staff   (including        No. of staff and consultant
          Cycle                           travel and
                             weeks                      weeks        travel and          weeks            costs)
                                          consultant
                                                                     consultant
                                             costs)
                                                                        costs)
    Lending
      FY10                       9.62       29,995.02              8.57    26,709.37         18.19         56,704.39
      FY11                       0.00            0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00              0.00
             Sub-total:          9.62       29,995.02              8.57    26,709.37         18.19         56,704.39
    Supervision/ICR
      FY11                       4.56       13,445.07             26.27    77,468.50         30.83         90,913.57
      FY12                       0.02           30.82              0.00         0.00          0.02             30.82
             Sub-total:          4.58       13,475.89             26.27    77,468.50         30.85         90,944.39
                 Total:         14.20       43,470.91             34.84   104,177.87         49.04        147,648.78




                                                             34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1) Background of the study:

   To address the shortage of primary teachers, which resulted from structural adjustment plans and the
   crises of the 90s, and in order to achieve universal primary education, the government, with
   partnership support, decided to hire "contract-covered teachers" who have a different career path from
   that of the old government primary school teachers. This process has brought new problems, related
   to system outputs and the system’s ability to meet the challenge of universal and quality education at
   the primary level. These are the concerns that have prompted this study.

2) Objectives of the study:

   This study aims primarily to examine to what extent the operation of contract-coverage has
   contributed to improving the quality of education in primary schools.
   More specifically, the goals are to:
   - Specifically measure the impact of contract-covered teachers (CT).
   - Compare the impact of three types of teachers: government teachers, CT and PTA teachers.
   - Inform the strategy for monitoring the quality of primary education in the future, by describing
       education quality levels in primary schools across Cameroon.

3) Methodology:

   a) Sample

   The study focuses on government primary schools of the two subsystems (Anglophone and
   Francophone). Collection targeted schools that had at least one CT. The study covered all 10 regions
   of Cameroon, encompassing the urban and rural areas to ensure representativeness of the sample, for
   a total of 457 schools surveyed.

                                                       LOCATION
                                          URBAN                         RURAL
    REGION                                                                                   TOTAL
                                       SUB SYSTEM                     SUB SYSTEM
                              FRANCOPHONE ANGLOPHONE FRANCOPHONE ANGLOPHONE
    ADAMAWA                                5              2              32              0        39
    CENTRE                                17              2              46              1        66
    EAST                                   5              1              35              1        42
    FAR-NORTH                             13              1              85              0        99
    LITTORAL                              11              0              22              1        34
    NORTH                                  8              0              48              0        56
    NORTH-WEST                             1              1               1             26        29
    WEST                                  10              1              37              0        48
    SOUTH                                  1              0              19              1        21
    SOUTH-WEST                             1              1               1             20        23
    Total                                 72              9             326             50       457




                                                  35
           a) Data Collection
              At these schools, the sub-divisional inspector would fill an observation checklist on the
              teachers being interviewed. In addition, a representative of the school PTA would also be
              invited to give his opinion on the work of CT compared with that of government teachers as
              well as express their views on the quality of education provided by the school.
              Data collection was done from 1 November 2011 to 1 February 2012.

     4)      Key Findings:

           a) Overall impact of contract-coverage

                 - The current number of primary school teachers is just over 37,200 and they make up
                 the bulk of teaching staff working in government primary schools in Cameroon.

                 - Recent trends in the number of teachers in the primary section. They now number
                 76,600, private and public schools taken together. Among government school teachers we
                 find 37, 200 CTs (62%), 10, 000 government teachers (17%) and 13 000 PTA teachers
                 (21%). 11 The CTs currently represent the majority of teaching staff and continued hiring
                 based on the model adopted in recent years will only accelerate this trend.

                 - Teacher / Pupil Ratio: Overall, rising pupil numbers have absorbed the surge in the
                 teachers’ ranks: The pupil-teacher ratio rose from a national average of 54 in 2006 to an
                 average of 52 pupils per teacher in 2011. Pupil numbers in government schools have swelled
                 by an average 3.4% per year over the period. This led to a small change in the level of
                 supervision per pupil despite the recruitments made.

                 - There is however a downward trend of teacher-pupils ratio in the Far North owing to
                 relatively large numbers of leave periods granted with each wave of recruitment.

                 - Overstaffing persists due to poor distribution of teachers: 60% of teachers have at least 50
                 pupils in their classrooms, and 13% of teachers have in excess of 100 pupils in their
                 classrooms. In the Cameroonian primary section, teacher transfers cannot be accounted for by
                 the number of pupils in these institutions. In some areas, the degree of risk is very high: 74%
                 in the Southwest and West, 72% in the Northwest. In the North, it is 53% and 42% in the
                 Littoral.

                 - For the period running from 2006-2010, there was an improvement in several
                 educational indicators such as completion rates, decreased dropout and repeat rates.
                 Though it is not possible to estimate the share of credit due to CTs for the progress of primary
                 education indicators in Cameroon, it is however quite safe to say that this measure is a
                 corollary thereof.

                 - The quality of education remains a key concern: 7 out of 10 teachers have class 5 sets in
                 which close to half the pupils cannot read. 8 teachers in 10 have classes in which about half
                 the pupils cannot read and calculate.


11
    These figures from 2010/11 differ from the teacher force data analyzed in the rest of this report, which is based upon an extrapolation of
official is deemed more credible, since this beneficiary survey was not conducted to collect statistical information. However, it is included in this
annex to ensure a complete rendering of the executive summary of the beneficiary survey.




                                                                        36
a) Specific characteristics of CT:

    - The massive presence of CTs in the public primary school teachers has given rise to a new
    and increasingly emerging profile of primary school teachers in Cameroon: it is usually a
    woman, still young, with a professional qualification recently obtained from a Teacher’s
    Training College [TTC], working mostly in rural areas than in urban areas and having to
    grapple with groups of over 50 pupils.

    - Nearly half of CTs say they are satisfied with their working conditions. Some of the main
    reasons for dissatisfaction include: transportation and housing difficulties, living far from the
    family.

    - Virtually all teachers (94%) had taken a professional training course and this training has
    been an undeniable asset as stated by 93% of teachers. The requirement that CTs should
    have undergone professional training in a TTC to qualify for recruitment has greatly
    helped in establishing a culture of evaluation. This requirement has translated today
    into a situation where the CTs and government teachers are often found to be equal in
    terms of qualification levels. Where there are gaps, they are more common when comparisons
    are drawn with PTA.

    - Nearly 4 out of 5 teachers were visited in 2010/11 in their classrooms by their school
    principal. This proportion does not change when the teachers’ status was factored in. 87% of
    teachers reported that their principal checked their prepared class notes once a week. This
    frequency did not vary with the status of teachers.

    - According to the school inspectors, the CTs exhibit professional performance levels
    ranging from good (43%) to very good (53%). An analysis according to status showed no
    significant differences between CTs and government teachers.

    - The proportion of government teachers who dedicated extra time to pupils with learning
    difficulties was higher than that of CTs who did not (62% as against 47%). However, a higher
    proportion of CTs than government teachers were willing to organise remedial classes (70%
    as against 59%).

    - There is a teacher’s performance evaluation system in place though it is not tied to a
    career development plan.

    - The creation of this new status of employment known as CT was done in a context of
    financial constraint and absence of career plans. When this measure arrives at a more
    advanced, will this "new" teaching corps, made up for the most part of CTs, remain content
    with its current working conditions and career plans with no prospects?

    a) Physical conditions in the classroom:

    The mass hiring of CTs was not accompanied by an appropriate policy and measures to
    provide them with textbooks and teaching materials. The hazard rate in these areas is
    high, which results in teachers without manuals and teaching tools and pupils lacking
    places to sit and material to write on.




                                            37
            - 30% of teachers say their pupils do not have a French textbook. However, there are very
            few (5%) government teachers in this situation. This situation was reported mostly by the
            CTs and PTA teachers (31% and 44%).

            - 46% of teachers say their pupils do not have Mathematics textbooks. Depending on the
            status, this situation affects 30% of government teachers, 45% of CTs and 62% of PTA
            teachers.

            - 78% of teachers reported that they have a Teacher's manual in French and 72% a Teacher's
            manual in Mathematics.

            - The teaching equipment and aids (tables, desks, teachers’ desk, ...) are generally available in
            very inadequate numbers. Where the teaching equipment and facilities exist, in 50% of
            schools, they do not meet the educational needs of the schools.

            - Overall, 44% of teachers use ICTs as a teaching tool. 8 out of 10 primary schools in
            Cameroon do not have computers.

            - In the view of the principals, the pupils’ parents make the greatest efforts to help improve
            the study conditions of pupils.

            - Attendance of parents in school meetings is deemed unsatisfactory by 54% of directors.
            This trend is more pronounced in the francophone than the Anglophone section.

    1) Drawbacks of the study:

        - Sources not listed and sometimes difficult to verify for macro data.
        - No new calculation for the hazard ratio and the teacher / pupil ratio.
        - Sources often not consistent with the MINEDUB (Ministry of Basic Education) data.
        - Indicator Survey based solely on questionnaires, which entails several biases and does not allow
           For reliable results. In particular, in terms of lesson mastery by pupils, the methodology
           appears not to be robust enough and thereby producing questionable results.
        - Numerous generalizations and extrapolations.
        - Numerous incorrect comments or inconsistent figures.

Some interesting lessons came out of the teachers’ profile and the resulting changes, but it is difficult to
draw conclusions with any degree of accuracy.




                                                      38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                       39
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.      Introduction:

       The Cameroon’s education sector plan was completed and validated by technical and financial
development partners in June 2006. A primary school teachers recruitment programme was developed to
reduce the deficit of about 30,000 teachers. This was a shortfall identified based on the country’s
comparison to FTI standards. The estimated program cost was about US$45.7 million.

        It is worthy of note that Cameroon was committed to rationalizing the management of human
resources through geographical improvement of the deployment of teachers to primary schools. The
recruitment of 37,200 primary school teachers was to be carried out on the basis of an intermediate status
(Category 8 contract worker, 1st incremental position) allowing for government to sustain the operation
from a budget perspective. The operation was successfully carried out within a period of five years.

2.      GPE/FTI co-ordination

      This vast recruitment was funded by three sources: the Government, the French Development
Agency and the Fast-Track Initiative through the World Bank.

                 FUNDING SOURCES                                   PERCENTAGE PARTICIPATION
        GOVERNMENT                                                          75.60%
        FRENCH DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (C2D)                                     12.63%
        WORLD BANK (FAST-TRACK) (CATALYTIC
                                                                                  11.77%
        FUNDS)
            U
            a. The Government, beneficiary and EFA-FTI were the primary funding sources, and were
therefore equally committed to ensuring budgetary sustainability at the end of the operation. In concrete
terms, the State funded the program such that at no point there was to be a dearth of funding for the
programme. The development partners reimbursed the government for their respective portions over the
course of the programme.

          b. The French Development Agency, through the Debt Relief and Development Contract
(C2D) committed to annual payments as follows :

        YEAR            2007           2008            2009                2010                     2011
       AMOUNT
                      8,000,000    6,000,000,000   5,000,000,000      4,000,000,000   799,000,000      799,000,000
       IN CFAF
        TOTAL                                             24,598,000,000


        All these commitments were respected except for the last installment the payment of which was
imminent in May 2012. The diminishing payments were aimed at enabling Cameroon to save funds
during the first years in order to ensure budgetary sustainability towards the end of the programme.

               c. The Catalytic Fund of US$45.5 million, administered by the World Bank, was intended
to fill the financing gap of the sector-based plan for Education in Cameroon, that had been evaluated at 70
Billion CFA Francs. The Catalytic Fund was the first of its kind to be made available for the payment of
contract primary school teachers.




                                                     40
    3. Objectives, indicators and targets :

           a. Objectives: The contract teachers recruitment programme for primary schools in Cameroon
              was aimed at ensuring universal primary education as a specific Millennium Development
              Goal (MDG) through the improvement of management and system governance.

           b. Indicators: Through this programme, Cameroon was also committed to rationalising the
              management of human resources. In five years, the primary schools teachers deployment was
              expected to go down from 45 to 25.

           c. Targets: The following were targeted by the recruitment:

                 10 300 Active Part-time teachers;
                 12 000 Identified PTA teachers;
                 14 900 Holders of the Certificat d’Aptitude Professionnelle d’Instituteurs de
                  l’Enseignement Maternel et Primaire (CAPIEMP) [Certificate of Professional
                  Qualification for Nursery and Primary Education] and the Teacher’s Grade One
                  Certificate who had never before been recruited into government primary schools.

    4. Results:

        Several results were achieved through the implementation of the sector-based plan of education
in Cameroon and especially the recruitment of contract teachers.

         The most visible result was undoubtly the effective and timely recruitment of 37,200 primary
school teachers. The peculiarity of the recruitment carried out in Cameroon was that it took into
consideration trained teachers considering the country’s enormous need. Orientation seminars were
organized after wave of each recruitment with the aim of providing recruits with specific skills on
teaching methods in force.

            Recruitment was carried out as shown in the table below:

                                    2007        2008       2009          2010       2011
      N°           REGION                                                                     TOTAL
                                    IC1         IC2        IC3           IC4        IC5
      1       ADAMAWA                   815        453        490            417       350      2,525
      2       CENTRE                  2,720        655        620            217       903      5,115
      3       EAST                    1,115        436        470            425       291      2,737
      4       FAR-NORTH               1,681        666        590          1,336     1,411      5,684
      5       LITTORAL                  809        473        500            377       821      2,980
      6       NORTH                     985        472        500          1,214       907     4, 078
      7       NORTH-WEST              1,165        556        580            566       842      3,709
      8       WEST                    1,337        569        590            687       777      3,960
      9       SOUTH                     809        536        560            408       229      2,542
      10      SOUTH-WEST              1,306        574        600            628       762      3,870
                   TOTAL             12,742      5,390      5,500          6,275     7,293     37,200


        The drop in regional disparities in teacher allocation can also be considered as one of the benefits
of the programme. The new recruits were posted mainly to Priority Education Zones which had low
education levels. The Far-North and North regions for example were assigned the highest number of
teachers i.e., 5,684 and 4,078 respectively and in addition the image of schools in these regions were
greatly balanced and improved.



                                                     41
        As for pupils, equally remarkable results were recorded. The drop in gender disparity is worth
mentioning. In Priority Education Zones in particular, the girl: boy gender parity index grew from 0.63 in
2006 to 0.89 in 2010.

        Also, due to the presence of teachers in classrooms, the repetition rate decreased from 25% in
2006 to 15% in 2010.

          The success rate within the same period considerably improved from 55% in 2006 to 73% in
2010.

        It is also noteworthy that the contract teachers replaced a number of categories of teachers. PTA
teachers, Voluntary Teachers, Council Teachers, Teachers from Agro-Industrial Companies, Part-time
Teachers, etc. were progressively replaced by the Contract Primary School teachers. The contract teachers
began to enjoy a more stable status and a guaranteed salary.

        The pupil:teacher ratio went from 192 pupils per teacher to a national average of 53 and even 34
pupils per teacher in some regions.

         The rate of completion of curricula, as well as the success rate in official exams, which has
greatly increased today, is also credited to the contract teacher recruitment programme.

          Posting of teachers witnessed unstable growth as seen in the table below:

                                    YEAR                      PERCENTAGE
                                   2006-2007                      45%
                                   2007-2008                      37%
                                   2008-2009                      31%
                                   2009-2010                      43%
                                   2010-2011                      40%


        After sustained growth which led to 14-point increase in 2009, the curve fell again in 2010.
Rigorous measures were again taken to revert to the initial commitment. There is little doubt results will
be visible soon.

    5. Challenges faced:

          Some challenges arose during the recruitment of contract teachers into the primary education
system.

        One of the major hurdles faced when implementing Cameroon’s sector-based plan consisted in
launching recruitments without procedure manuals. This important document was drafted concomitantly
as the recruitment progressed. It was in 2009, precisely during the 4th phase of recruitment that the text
was finalized.

        Another difficulty was closing the regional gaps in teachers’ numbers. To this end, it was
necessary to post an adequate number of teachers in Priority Education Zones. The lack of teachers in
these regions was mitigated by the plethora of teachers from the Centre, West and Littoral regions.

       The problem of gender and management of female personnel also constituted a further challenge.
Judging by their number (60%), their status as well as workforce regulations, female personnel proved to




                                                     42
be challenging especially considering applications for transfer and instability at duty posts for varied
reasons. Up to this point we have maintained most of them at their posts.

        The table below presents the distribution of female personnel per recruitment programme:

                                       NUMBER TO BE         TOTAL           FEMALE
          N°            YEAR                                                                  %
                                        RECRUITED         RECRUITED        PERSONNEL
           1         January 2007         13,300             13,185           7,647           58
           2         August 2007           5,500              5,120           3,072           60
                      September
           3                                5,500            5,159            3,044           59
                         2008
           4         August 2009            6,800             6,275            3,828         61
           5        September 2010          7,100             7,461            4,850         65
                   TOTAL                    37,200           37,200           22,441        60.33

        The processing of the files of thousands of new personnel in a relatively short time to expedite
their deployment to duty and the payment of their salaries was another achievement.

        The contract teachers programme at MINEDUB involved four Ministries of the sector:
MINFOPRA, MINFI, MINEFOP and MINEDUB (in charge of co-ordination). Ensuring a synergy among
these four Ministries within the framework of this programme was a real challenge that was met with
success judging from the results.

        Finally, in order to check absenteeism of teachers in reputedly repulsive Priority Education Zones,
the State, after envisaging additional innovations and the construction of accommodation facilities for
teachers, is currently preparing a sensitization campaign due to start on 9 May 2012. Much hope is
equally placed on the application of sanctions provided by the new framework of decentralization of the
management personnel and salaries (cf. Decree N°2012/079 of 12 March 2012 on decentralization of the
management personnel and salaries).

    6. Governance-related difficulties:

      Most of the governance related difficulties were mainly due to administrative bottlenecks.
Examples of these included:
       Non-issuance of receipts upon presentation of application files;
       Non-publication of list of rejected candidates as well as reasons for their rejection ;
       Posting and maintaining teachers in Priority Education Zones ;
       Delay in payment of salaries of contract primary school teachers.

    7. Strategies envisaged for improvement of governance:

        Since the debut of the contract teachers’ recruitment process, and in a bid to attract candidates for
the jobs, the strategy was to provide choice to the potential candidates, that is, choice of three Priority
Education Zones in which they would like to work and it is to one of these that they were finally posted.

        In the same vein, regarding transfers and to avoid an exodus from Priority Education Zones to
other parts of the country, transfers were effected through permutation in such a way as to consider the
opinions of potential candidates, and to enable regions have a minimum number of teachers able to ensure
the functioning of schools (cf. Circular Letter on the 24.09.2010 bearing on transfers by permutation).




                                                     43
        During the fifth and last phase of recruitment of teachers, a major innovation was the issuance of
receipts upon presentation of application files.

        Through audits, it was also possible to correct lapses in the programme. The last two programs,
notably those carried out by the firms CAEAC and DELOITTE enabled the teams in charge of the
recruitment exercise to review and improve upon their working methods. There is little doubt that if the
operation were to continue, the results would be better.

8. Lessons drawn from the project:

        This project, by virtue of its importance and its scope of implementation brought out lessons at
different levels:

        (i)    Improvement of the system through more equitable distribution of delivery of education
               especially in Priority Education Zones.

        (ii)   After five years the implementation of the improved management and transparency in the
               system is noticeable, notably through the training of officials of central and decentralized
               services who acquired new working methods.

        (iii) The mass recruitment of teachers at sustainable costs.

        (iv)   The Cameroon government through these recruitments and training learned how to
               organize team work and save time.

        (v)    A procedure manual proved indispensable from the beginning of the programme. Its
               absence seems to have been at the root of lapses observed.

        (vi)   In the future, a Permanent Technical Unit equipped with a minimum amount of resources
               should be put in place for the implementation of such a project.

        (vii) Finally, mindful of the significant support it received in the implementation of this
              programme, the State has taken upon itself to continue this recruitment annually with its
              own funds, depending on budgetary availability.

        Finally, the Cameroon Government wishes to thank all partners who facilitated the
implementation of this programme, notably the World Bank, the French development Agency (AFD) and
the Programme d’Appui au Système Éducatif (PASE). To all these partners Cameroon conveys her
gratitude.




                                                    44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

1. Introduction:

The AFD [French Development Agency] supports the education sector in Cameroon through the debt
reduction and development agreement (C2D), a bilateral component of the HIPC debt cancellation
initiative. There are two financing agreements under implementation:

• The CCM 1159 convention (€ 40m), signed on 26 June 2007, which has a component for support to the
sector budget (€ 37.5 million) and serves to fill part of the financing gap of the Education Sector Strategy
(ESS) for contract-covered teachers and a component of project aid (€ 2.5m) to finance the first phase of
MINEDUB capacity building.

• The CCM 3017 convention (€ 50 million), signed on 10 February 2009, which has a project aid
component (€ 44 million) aims to improve education supply in priority education zones through the
construction and rehabilitation of classrooms, a project aid component (€ 3m) for the financing of a
second phase of MINEDUB capacity building and a component (€ 3 million) provided to support the
implementation of the new policy of contract-coverage with the private education sector and the partial
settlement of State subsidy arrears owed to faith-based schools.

NB: External evaluations of all components of these two C2D are envisaged. Since these external
evaluations have not yet been conducted, this report should not yet be considered as a final
evaluation of the programme. It is simply a brief progress report on AFD support for the contract-
coverage programme.

2. Objectives and targets of the contract-coverage programme for primary school teachers

This programme comes to buttress the policy of contract-coverage of teachers initiated by the Cameroon
Government. The idea was to stabilise and galvanise the primary school teaching corps and raise the
number of teachers to match the pace of growth in pupil numbers without overstretching State finances.
In this regard, the Government has envisaged the recruitment of teachers with contract status under
category 8 of the Public Service covering the integration of part-time teachers (in 2007) and PTA teachers
and the recruitment of young graduates from General Education Teachers’ Training Colleges (ENIEG).
The aim was to ensure: (i) immediate contract-coverage (in 2007) of 10,300 existing part-time teachers,
(ii) gradual contract-coverage of 12,000 PTA teachers parents identified in 2006 and (iii) recruitment of
14,900 new contract-covered teachers to make up a total of 36 900 contract-covered primary school
teachers (CT).

Funding for this operation was provided by: budget support from the AFD (€ 37.5 million), the Catalytic
Fund of the Fast Track Initiative administered by the World Bank (€ 47.5 million) and the Cameroon
Government.

3. Results:

Over a period of 5 years, close to 37,200 teachers were recruited with contract-covered status including
60.3% who were women. It was observed in April 2012 that:
- 35,084 CTs are now registered and are being paid;
- Taking into account the deceased and those who had resigned, 1,299 CTs were registered and not yet
being paid and only 84 are not yet registered.



                                                    45
A final audit was conducted with funding from the Catalytic fund administered by the World Bank. Its
findings were satisfactory on the whole with respect to compliance with recruitment procedures and
effective payment of a large majority of teachers whose contracts were signed in 2010 and 2011.
However, the auditors noted: (i) gaps in monitoring of those registered but not being paid and files with
irregularities, (ii) non-compliance of a large number of applications (9% in the region Centre for instance)
and (iii) Attestations of Assumption of Duty were absent from many files. The auditors also spotted the
following abnormalities in the IC4 and IC5 waves: 25 resigned and deceased cases who had not yet been
removed from the payroll, 13 cases of teachers being paid though their contract had not yet been signed, 5
cases of teachers with non-validated contracts who are being regularly paid, and 3 teachers who are not
registered but are being regularly paid. These irregularities resulted in some ineligible expenditure.

As of May 9, 2012, 97% of the € 37.5 million earmarked as aid for the sector budget by the AFD for the
contract-coverage of primary school teachers had been paid. In light of the status of payment of salaries to
the IC4 and IC5 groups and the findings of the audit report on the programme, the AFD has decided that
the final instalment of this component, amounting to 799 million CFA francs, will only be paid when the
portion of expenditure funded by the C2D initiative which the audit found to be ineligible, to the tune of
6.37 million CFA, has been reimbursed by Cameroon. Given that this refund has now been done, the last
payment of this component will be made as soon as possible.

4. Coordination between the AFD and the World Bank:

Coordination of the programme between the AFD and the World Bank proved exemplary in many
respects:
- Tripartite meetings held (AFD-World Bank-MINEDUB) during missions to monitor the programme;
- Systematic sharing of both partners’ monitoring checklists;
- Pooling of audits: audit of the first two waves of contract-coverage financed by the AFD and auditing of
the last two waves of contracts funded by the Catalytic Fund;
- Regular consultations between AFD and the World Bank on all matters related to the programme.

It is nevertheless deplorable that the AFD and the World Bank have not been able to fully practice the
principle of harmonised aid by failing to adopt rigorously identical regulations for justification of the use
of funding by Cameroon.

5. Challenges:

Key challenges included:
- Significant delays were noted in the registration and payment of CT. These delays may be imputed to
  budgetary constraints but also the difficulty in establishing a one-stop office (MINEDUB / MINFI /
  MINFOPRA) for expeditious processing of files of newly covered teachers.
- The majority of recruitments in priority education zones, the mass recruitment of women who may find
  it challenging to adapt to life in these remote areas, and delays encountered in the management of CTs,
  could result in problems of CT absenteeism. This issue of absenteeism would require a more in-depth
  study.
- A study funded by the C2D has made alarming discoveries in terms of the level of subject mastery by
  primary school pupils. Further studies are needed to better understand and assess the impact of the
  contract-coverage programme on the quality of education.
- Though an inter-ministerial platform involving MINEDUB-MINFOPRA-MINFI has been set up to
  endorse the continuation of the teachers contract-coverage programme at a rate of 1,000 recruitments
  per year, based on the same procedures as the current program, there are major uncertainties clouding



                                                     46
  the future of the programme. Yet the continuation of the operation is crucial to avoid rapid degradation
  in teaching ratios especially in the Priority Education Zones.
- State budgetary commitments have not been met. In 2011 the national budget allocated to education
  stood at 14% while the ESS had provided 18%. This decline in public funding allocated to the
  education sector could jeopardize the medium-term sustainability of the payroll.

6. Programme Governance:

Significant funds from the C2D initiative have been devoted to strengthening the governance of the
program by MINEDUB. Five interregional seminars on the management of contract-covered teachers
were held towards the end of 2010. These seminars gathered all administrative bodies concerned with the
contract-coverage programme, including sub-divisional inspectors. The seminars achieved the following:
i) establishment of 'contract-coverage' focal points in the regions, ii) raising awareness of the issue of
absenteeism and improving the system of sequential monitoring form, iii) organisation of school re-
opening, institution of a welcome and integration meeting for new teachers in collaboration with the
authorities and the local educational community.

7. Lessons learned and prospects for the AFD:

Despite implementation difficulties and quality problems currently facing the primary education sector in
Cameroon, the AFD believes this contract-coverage process, initiated by the Cameroon government, has
greatly helped to drive up the level of access to primary education and reduce the vagaries of the sector.

It is also an exemplary programme that mobilised the strong political will of the Cameroonian authorities,
sufficient implementing capacity on the part of MINEDUB, and well coordinated support from the two
development partners.

AFD may consider replicating this initiative in other countries it covers, but has no plans in the short term
to rerun the same programme in Cameroon.




                                                     47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Agence Française de Développement (AFD). May 2012. Cameroun : Rapport d’Etape relatif à l’appui de
         l’AFD à la Contractualisation des Enseignants de l’Education Primaire. Division éducation et
         formation professionnelle. Paris, France.
____________. July 2008. Cameroon : Mise en œuvre du programme de contractualisation des
         instituteurs vacataires et des maîtres des parents. Audit Test : Rapport Final.? 2AC (Associes
         Audit et Conseil), Paris, France.
Deloitt. Janvier 2012. Audit de la composante contractualisation des instituteurs : Exercices 2010 et 2011.
         Rapport final. Financement par la Banque mondiale. Yaoundé, Cameroun.
Républic du Cameroun. Ministère de l’éducation de base. Programme d’Appui au Système Educatif.
         Avril 2012. Etude portant sur l’impact du recrutement des instituteurs contractualises sur la
         qualité de l’enseignement primaire au Cameroun. Rapport final provisoire préparé par PRO
         INVEST : Au service du développement. Yaoundé, Cameroun.
Republic of Cameroon. Rapport mensuel du secrétariat technique du comité de suivi des opérations de
         contractualisation. Décembre 2011-Janvier 2012. Ministry of Basic Education (MINEDUB).
         General Secretariat. Follow-up Committee for the Recruitment of Contract Teachers. Yaoundé,
         Cameroon.
_______________. April 2011. Rapport sectoriel de mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de l’éducation.
         Technical Secretariat of the Ministries of Education. Yaoundé, Cameroon.
_______________. April 2011. Revue de la Stratégie Sectorielle de l’Education du 18 au 21 avril 2011.
         Aide-mémoire conjoint du Secteur de l’Education. Yaoundé, Cameroon.
_______________, 3e Rapport de présentation des résultats définitifs (RGPH). La population du
         Cameroun en 2010. Yaoundé, Cameroon.
_______________, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International
         Development Association acting as Administrator of the Education for All-Fast Track Initiative
         Catalytic Fund. Education for All-Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund Grant Agreement (support
         for the Education Sector Project). November 11, 2010. Washington, D.C., USA.
_______________. 2005. Etat structures de la population Indicateurs démographiques. Données national.
         Yaoundé, Cameroon.
World Bank. Education for All-Fast Track Initiative: Implementation Status and Results Reports.
         Sequence Nos. 1 and 2 dated March 10, 2011 and December 15, 2011 respectively. Washington,
         D.C., USA.
__________. Cameroon EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund Grant—Support to the Education Sector. Grant
         Funding Report 5905. June 2010. Washington, D.C., USA.
__________. August 2010. Education for All-Fast Track Initiative: Support to the Education Sector.
         Project Appraisal Document. Report No.48373-CM. Washington, D.C., USA.
__________. Request for Financing (Second top-up application): Africa Region Education Program
         Development Fund (EPDF-Africa). September 2007-2009. Washington, D.C., USA.
__________. Request for Financing (top-up application): Africa Region Education Program Development
         Fund (EPDF-Africa). September 2007-2008. Washington, D.C., USA.
__________. Request for Funding: Africa Region Education Program Development Fund (EPDF-Africa).
         September 2007-2008. Washington, D.C., USA.
__________. Cameroon: Grant Agreement for Trust Fund—European Commission for Grant
         No.TF05822 dated April 3, 2007 between the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the World
         Bank as administrator of grant funds. Washington D.C., USA.
__________. Aide-memoires for EFA-FTI Project supervision missions. Washington, D.C., USA.
__________. EFA-FTI Project Implementation Status Reports. Washington, D.C., USA.




                                                   48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33382
                                                                                              12º E                                               14º E                                                          16º E
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lake
       C A MER O O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by
                                                                                                                      1963 Level                                                                             the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                          Chad               World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                       1973 Level                                                                            colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                             any other information shown
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                               2001 Level                                                                          on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                             the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the
                 PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                               Fotokol                  Massaguet
                                                                                                                                                                                                             legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             or any endorsement or
                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                    Maltam                  acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                  To                                                         boundaries.
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                        Maiduguri                                                                                      12º N
                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Mandélia
                 MAIN ROADS                                          0        40         80        120      160 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                 To
                 RAILROADS                                                                                                                    Maiduguri
                                                                     0              40                80             120 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                         ts.
                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                         Mora               M
                                                                                                                                                             a




                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                             EXTREME




                                                                                                                                                 da
                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                         Maroua




                                                                                                                                           an
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Guelengdeng

                                                                          NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                          Yagoua
                                                                                                                                                                 NORD
                                                                                                                                                                           Kaélé
10º N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10º N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                              Figuil                                                             Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                      Pala
                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                 Leré
                             CAMEROON                                                                                                  Garoua

                                                                                                                           Touroua
                                                                                                                                                 Bé
                                                                                                                                                      no
                                                                                                                                                        ué
                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHA D
                                                                                                                                          NORD
                                                                                                                           Fa
                                                                                                                             ro

8º N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8º N
                                                                                                                                                                            bang.
                                                                                                                                           Mbé                       Mts M
                                                                                                                                                                         na    Vi            Ngai


                                                                                                                                           Ngaoundéré
                                                                                                         ts.
                                                                                                      M




                                                                                                              ADAMAOUA
                                                                                                   ua




                                                                                     Banyo
                                                                                              ao




                                                                                                                                                  m
                                                                                               m                                               ére
                                                                                                                                            Dj
                                           Wum                                            da                                         Ngaoundal
                                                                                      A                     Tibati
           To                                NORD-
6º N
          Ikom
                                             OUEST             Kumbo
                                                                                                                                                                                     To                                                        6º N
                                                     Bamenda                       Bankim                         Sangbé                                                            Bouar
                     Mamfe    Mb                                                                                                                  Garoua Boulai
                                 u
                                                                    Foumban
                                                        Bafoussam
                                     Dschang
                                                     OUEST                                                 Yoko                           Lo m                                            CENT RA L A F R I CAN
                   SUD-                              Bafang                        CENTRE                                                                                                     REPUBLI C
                   OUEST                     Nkongsamba
                                                                         Mb
                                                                           am
                                                                                                                                     Bélabo
                                                                                                                                                             Kadei




                          Kumba                                                                                                   Bertoua
                                                                                                             Nanga
                                             ou Yabassi
                                                Yabassi
                                                                                                             Eboko                                                       Batouri
                                       W




         Mt. Cameroon
             (4,095 m)                  LITTORAL
                    Buea                                                 Ntui
                              Tiko
4º N              Limbe           Douala                                                        Akonolinga                        Abong Mbang                                       Yola                                                       4º N
                                                     Edea        YAOUNDÉ

        EQUATORIAL
                                                                Eséka
                                                                                     Nyong                                                                   EST
                                                                                                                                                                               Bou
          GUINEA                                                                    Mbalmayo                                                                                       mb
                                                                                                                                                                                      a

                                                                                                                                                  Echambot
                                     Kribi                    Ebolowa                              Sangmélima
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lokomo
                                                                                   SUD
                                                                              Ambam                                                                              Dja
                                                                                          Kom

                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mouloundou
2º N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2º N
                                                                               To
                                                                              Oyem
       G ul f o f                             EQUATORIAL                                       GA BO N
       G ui n e a                               GUINEA                                                                                                                                    CO NGO
                                             10º E                                            12º E                                               14º E                                                          16º E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEPTEMBER 2004
