'- '        A-Al   Ž             Y(---%z-   .
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6108-ES
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL)
OF US$50 MILLION
TO TEF.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
AUGUST 23, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 6108 ES
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oaly in the perfomance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwi be disclosed without World Bank authoition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 30, 1993)
Currency Unit = CoI6n (c)
US$ 1.0        =    c 8.8
c 1.0          =   US$ 0.1136
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ANDA         =     National Water Company (Adnmnistracit5n Nacional de Acueductos y Alcanariiaos)
ANTEL              National Telecommunications Administration (Admnistracidn Nacional ei' Telecomwnicaciones)
BANAFI             !ndustrial Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Fomento Industn
BFA                Agricultural Development Bank (Banco de Fomento Agropecuanio)
CACM         =     Central American Common Market
CEL          =     National Power Company (Comisi6n Ejecuiva HidroeMctrica del RNo Lempa)
CETREX =           Export Processing Center (Centro de Trdmtes de Exportaciones)
CEPA         =     National Ports Authority (Comision Ejecutiva Pornaria Aua6non t)
CONAMA    =        National Council for the Environment (Consejo Nacional del Medio Ambiente)
CORSAIN    =       El Salvador's Investment Corporation (Corporacion saIvadorefa de Inversiones)
DGA          =     General Customs Directorate (Direccion General de Aduanas)
DGH          =     Internal Revenue Service (Direccion General de Impuestos Internos)
FAO-CP       =     UN Food and Agriculture Organization - Cooperative Program
FIGAPE             Small Business Development Fund (Fondo de Financlaniento y Garantfa para la Pequefa
Enmpresa)
FMLN               Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (Frente Farabundo Martf de Liberacid6n Nacional)
GAIT         =     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
IDB          =     Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          =      TInterational Monetary Fund
INAZUCAR  =        State Sugar Marketing Agency (Insuituto Nacional del Azaicar)
INCAFE       =     State Coffee Marketing Agency /nsdtuto Nacional del Caff)
EINPEP       =     Public Sector Pension Tnstitute anshtuto de Previsi6n de Empkeados P4blcos)
IRA          -     State Basic Grains Marketing Company ambrwuwo Regutador de Abastedmientos)
ISSS         =     Social Security Instute (Instituto de Seguridad Soial)
JVQF         =     Chemical and Pharmaceutical Products Review Commission (Junta de Vigilancia de Qufndcos y
Farmaceuticos)
MEC          =     Ministry of Economy
MED                Ministry of Education
MIFIN        =     Ministry of Finance
MIP kN       =     Ministry of Planning
MOH          =     Ministry of Health
MOST         =     USAJD-fiuanced Modernization of the Salvadoran Tax System Program
MTEP               Medium-Term Expenditure Planning
MT           =     Medium-Term Sectoral Budget
NAFTA        =     North American Free Trade Agreement
NRP          =     National Reconstruction Plan
NTBs               Non-Tariff Barriers
PSMAP        =     Public Sxctor Modernization Action Plan
SBIF               Superntendency of the Financial System (Superintendencia del Sistema Finanaero)
SSRP         =     World Bank Social Sector Rehabilitation Project
TA           =     Technical Assistance
USAID        =     United States Agency for International Development
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
Second Strural Adjustment Loan
Table of Contents
IOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Part 1. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ....                                ....... I
A. Historical Perspective and Recent Performance  ..........................  1
Background and Historical Perspective ..............................  1
Recent Economic Developments and Progress on Structural Adjustment ....             ..... 2
Political Background: A Country at a Turning Point .....................  4
B. Ihe External Environment  .......................................  6
C. Government Development Policies and Bank Assistance Strategy  ...............  8
El Salvador's Develkiment Challenges  .............................  8
The Bank's Objectives ........................................  9
Modernizing the Public Seor ..................................   10
Enabling Private Sector and Export-Led Growth  ......................  10
Reducing Poverty and Investing in Human Capital .....................  12
Strengthening Natural Resource and Environmental Management  ....              ........  14
Lending Levels ...........................................   15
Portfolio Implemention and Management ..........................  16
IFC and miGA Activities .....................................   18
Donor Coordination  ........................................   18
D. Creditworthiness and Bank Exposure ................................  19
E. Summary Assessment  .........................................  2Q
Part H. THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ......................  21
A. Public Sector Modernization  .....................................  21
Public Expenditure Management  ................................  22
The Civil Service ..........................................   24
Tax Reform ......                                                                        25
Privatization of Non-Financial Enterprises  ........           ..................  27
B. Market Efficiency Reforms ......................................   27
Financial Sector Reform   . ....................................   28
Privatization of Banks and Financial Companies ...................  28
Capital Markets .        ......................................  28
Rural Credit  ........................................   28
Hydrocarbon Sector ...........................                                           29
Trade Reform ...........................  29
Tariff Reform    ...........................   29
Non-Tariff Barriers  ..........                 .................   30
Export Regime  ............................   30
C. Social Sector Reform and Poverty Alleviation  ....        .....  ...  ............  31
D. Environmental Policy Reform   ............................. ...   32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Part m. THEPROPOSEDLOAN              ..................................  33
A.Background                 .............................   33
B.CoditionsforTraneole= ..............................33
C.Pocurement, Dnd Audting  ............................   36
D. Tecal Aist  .............................                                          37
E. Cofinancing  ..... ....... .................   38
F.ProgramlBenefitsandRism               ......................  38
PartIV.RECOMMENDATION ..................................                                    39
ANNEXES
A. Standard Tables (Economic Indkor) and Assumptions Underlying Eonmic Projections
B. Matrix of Policy Actions
C. Marix of Tax and Cusoms Admin          eActions
D. Sources of Technical Assisace
E. Letter of Development Policy
F. Stts of Bank Grmp Operations
G. Supplementary Loen Data Sheet
H. Balance of Bank Loas and Lending Composition
TEXT TABLES
Tablel:Key Macroomnomic ndicaton,1980-2002  .............................. 3
Table 2: Financing Requrements, Sources, and Bank Exposur Ratios 1990-98 ...........  19
Table 3: Central Government Revenues,1980      ..............................  26
Table4:TariffStructure,198&M2,1994-95 ................................. 30
TEXT BOXES
Box 1: Achievements under te Structural Adjustment Program  ...................... 2
Box2:TheNationa RecostructionPlan ....................................5 
Box 3: Key Medium-Term Development Policyrs  ............................ 9
Box4:ThePovertyChallenge ..........................................  13
Box 5: EDUCO - Community Based Education  ...............................  14
Box 6: Cmtnby Sector, FY49-93 and PY94-98  ..........................  16
MAP: IBRD 22824
Thas repot wa preard by ar Gaudi" (LA2 ). Conbutrs to thetqm wpr  ha Bannm, Nany Cooke,
Katen Tainds, Hrold Beda and Relisda Qulumis (LA2C); As Mar Aniepa  (LAH); HorsE
Campero (LAZE); Eugee Viyums (IHAWA); LaUra Thiy (LATi); Cdmes Thrn= (MD); SuphAn Anco, Ebrs
Kus, RimdoSilWa. ad ahpberJoubert (Conts). Ms Myrn bl y auinted wi the waoroeg of
this repo. The Diision Chief Is Robert La  and th Couy Depausa Drecr fI Edlbart Sepua



IL SALVADOR: SECOND SMTUCTURAL ADJUSTGMNT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borower:        Republic of El Salvador
Amounts          US$50 million equivalent
Term:           Standard IBRD tms wih repayment in 20 years and 5 years of grace.
Objecdve        The proposed loan would support the Govrnment's Stuctural Adjustment Program,
which is deigned to: (a) lay the analytical framework for a comprehensive public
sector moderizaon effort; (O) consolidate and deepen reforms supported by SAL
I in the areas of tax reform, privadzation, trade, financial sector reform, and social
sector reform and poverty alleviation; and (c) promote actions aimed at stegthening
public expenditure, civil service, and evmental management, and restrucuring
the hydrocarbn sector.
Decriplm        To achieve the above mentioned objectives the loan will support the following set of
reforms: (a) maintenace of a conducive macroeconomic framework to ensure
continued stability; (b) public sector reform, to reexamine the role and function of
the State, and establish the analytical basis for a comprehensive modernization effort
and to improve public expendire mnagement, the civil service, tax policy and
administrtion, and accelerate pivatization efforts; (c) market efficiency reforms to
complement public sector reform and foster private sector export-led growth,
including continued financid sector reform, further trade liberalization, and the
restuctuing of the hydrocarbon sector; (d) social sector reforms to improve the
efficiency of service delivery and reduce poverty; and (e) environmental policy
reforms to ensure the sustanability of the development effort.
Beneflts:       Successful implementation of the Goverment's program is essential to ensure
mnacroeconomic stability nd support a series of crucial adjustment measures during
the pre&election period and to promote conted growth while alleviating poverty.
Public sector reforms will lay the foundations for a comprehensive public sector
modernization effrt. Instiutional refboms will address structul weaknesses at the
root of the weak fiscal performance on both the expenditure and revenue sides.
Financial sector refrms will stimlate savigs and investment, and improve resource
allocation. Reforms in the hydrocarbon sector will reduce economic distortions.
Trade reform will encourage exports and industrial production, reducing extern
imbalances and increasing employment In the social sectors, the program . ill
improve the mna      and efficiency of social service delivery and maximize the
impact of the reallocation of resources to the social Ministries. Environment policy
refims will enhance the Govevnment's capacity to confront critical environmental
chlenges.



- ii -
Risks:          The principa risk are: (a) an incomplete reaization of the peace; (O) in the event
that second tranche conditionality is delayed and is let to the next Adm on,
the adoption of inWpropriate policies leading to inadequate economic perform;
(c) vulnerability to extema developments; and (d) weak implemation capacity.
El Salvador's 18 month track record of peace and the entrance of the Farabundo
Martf National Liberation Front (FILN) ito the politici ara, make a return to
armed warfare unlikely. The broad national consensus on the need for the refoams
supported In this program justifies an optimistic outlook. Further, the need to
main  donor support for the economic reform and national reconstruction
programs should deter policy rwersals. While the implementation capacity of the
country is weak, it has been improvi thanks to the efforts of the Bank and oher
donors. Moreover, the accompanying TAI will support institutional sitrngtnng
and implenation of the specific reforms included in SAL II. On the exer
front the Bank will continue to monitor economic performance with the IMP.
Disbu:  Loan proceeds would be disbursed in two tranches.  US$30 million upon
effectiveness and US$20 million upon meeting second tranche release conditionality,
expected by June 1994. Retroactive financing will be permitted for those eligible
imports made before the date of the loan agreement but not before July 1, 1993, up
to an amount of US$17.5 million.
Povety
Category:       Not applicable.
Schedule of
)s Bank Fsca Yean          FY94
US$ millions
Anua                       50
Cumulative                 50
Appraisa Report: This is a combined staff appraisa and President's Report.



REPORT AND RECOMM1NDATION OF THM PRESIDENT OF TBE
EITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMT
TO THE XECUlTIV DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTlME LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$50 MILLION
TO THE REPUBIJC OF EL SALVADOR
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed second
Structral Adjustment Loa  (SAL II) to the Republic of El Salvador for US$50 million to support
implementaion of the Governments stuctural adjustment program. This program is described in the
Letter of Development Policy (Annex E). The loan would be on standard IBRD terms, with repayir&nt
in 20 yeats and 5 years of grace.
PART I. COUNRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. HITRICAL P EIVE AND RECENT PERFORMANCE
2.    El Salvador is at a turning point-political and economic accomplishments over the past two years
have left it poised for a permanent turna ound in social and economic development. On the political side,
peace has rehtumed, while on fte econoric front, stabilization and adjustment measures taken since 1989
have laid the foundation for sustained growth. On both fronts, immediate pressures have been relieved,
but much renains to be done to address the social and political problems that ignited the conflict and to
turn recent progress into sustained and equitabie growth.
Bilunmd and Historical Perspecdve
3.    El Salvador is the smallest country in Central America, and with a population of about 5.4 million
people in an area of 21,000 sq. km., it is the most densely populated country in the western hemisphere.
With social indicators among the worst in Latin America and per capita income of US$ 1,170 in 1992,
it also ranks as one of the poorer countries in the region. El Salvador has a limited natural resource
endowment and virtually no remaining agricultural frontier. Almost 60 percent of the population lives
in rural areas and 87 percent of agricultural producers farm areas of less than 3 ha. However, during
the 1980s, about ore million people (practically 20 percent of the population) migrated to the US as a
result of the civil war and now provide signiflcant worker remittance.
4.    In the 1960s and 1970s, rapid real GDP growth (averaging 5.4 percent per year) stemmed from
faorable aictural commodity prices, expanding regional markets for manuftured products following
the creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM) and an accommdat  and expanding
itnational financial environment. The economy was charactrized by the absence of significant
domestic imbalances and low inflation. There were improvements in hedath and education, particularly
in urban areas. Nevertheless, gross inequalities in wealth, income and access to land severely exacerbated
socia tensions.
5.      In 1979 these tensions erupted into an open civil war. At the same time, the extnal
environment deteriorated sharply due to adverse terms of trade and a contraction of regional markets.
hese events led to severe macroeconomic imbalaices and a marked drop in income per capita. The
conflict also diverted public resources from infrastructure and the social sectors to military expenditures.
Inapproriate economic policies, including nationalization of the financial and export-marketing systems



-2-
at the beginning of the decade, also cotributed to the deterioration. Stabilization effons during this
peiiod focused largely on reducing public investment, while the balance of payments gap was closed
through more restrictive trade policies, inrased grats largely associated with the conflict, and higher
worker remittanc. As a result, the country's externa debt has remained relaively low. By 1989 a full
fledged economic crisis had emerged: a bad coffee harvest and expsionary        policies led to a rapid
decline in foreign exchange reserves and debt service to extenal creditors twas halted, leading to arrears
and suspension of disbursements by the World Bank and IDB.
Recent Economic Developments and Progsm on Strctnal A4dustment
6.    !9&9-93. In June 1989 the Cristiani Administration aissumed office and set for thr  primary
goals: to end the civil war; re-introduce market discipline Wi  the economy; and init-ate a systematic
attack on poverty. Impressive progress has been achieved on all three goals. The comprehensive
economic and social reform program has been successful in reactivating grh and laying the foundation
for a modern market economy (Box 1).
*  Tad., - a"   iMt   gos
_  , "  ' ' ,, ,,,"' "-"'';',,_ ""'",'"'" ";''      :'. .''  0 '     ,
u~~~~~ft ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ f
\'*  lwsl                                               _ w4ou~ta~i iei~~  *~pMib~ ~a*
* 1~~~~~IRM4~~~~~~W $sctwiri    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  -- qw
O    '
IacttPi  a twlOr S  a.nwtM4kIo 
19Lh dio,1[  *1S            ~    ~     5    M    d



.3.
_____ _____ _____ -rf, .B                                        ,                         i,, , ,5 i>.", :,  <9: :  .s. .. .  ..:.. ;-. e
GDP Grwtb Rate                                           Inflaton Rate
.s .s,iqm)                                     (Avwa  Anna % Change)
so 0                                                  35.0
~~~Kj  40 ~~~~~~~~~~~30.0
3.20                                                   20.0
W00' '1- 0=ffi"oL.0
! 83884 5867888990"91 92                              8384 85 86 7 8889 991 92
:              ~~~~Cwrent Account Deficdt                       Non-Elnandial Public Sector Deficit
2.0EF               (% efaDD                              8.0             (%ofODP)
*~~~~~  10.0 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    1.
! 8 0            6.2 6.                   6.6     6    .5 i . 6.0    2    S        
1 .0                    5.  50           .
0.0                                                    .
83 84 85 SC   S7 88  9 90 91  92                    83   84 85    86  87      88   89 90 91   92   ?
GDP                                           1.6       3.4 o.S                  4.6           4.3          4.6
P 0.0 Co GDP0.0                                   1.3         1.7          2.3           2.5          2.8
PSAapixP~baon_d.0.2         4.1         0.2         0.9            1.9     4     .1
hdb la(Av.rag.AnmzulCPI)                     23.3      24.0        14.4         11.2          t2.S          3.7
Ore Invetsn_ t                                 12.9       11.8       13.8         16.2          t17.5        18.4
ublic                *                      3.1        21.         2.5          3.            3.8          34
9                                                     9.5        113           12.8  13.7                 15.0
Nuliosl ngs                                   7.1        S.2        8.8          9.6           12.2         14.3
No.Iatl PubaSc tor 1se dan .1UF}
CuRruatlswm(lflbludinggtanlu)                15.4       13.2       13.4          13.7         tS.7          t6.2
of whdh Taxl.u1b                            10.1       8.1         8.5          8.7           I0.5         13.0
20 0xpe60a 13                                        hA         123          11.9          12.4          122
PublioSvh S&1a1nggr8Z                         2.2        1.8        1.1           1.8           3.2          3.9
-Public 8avna CicudInggrnt)                   0.7       403         4-7          0.2           1.2          3.8
-Captl B_x Nendi   Nt Leaing                   4.2        2.2        3.7           5.8           S.4          3.4
- Overail Balance  4ncl_S grimes)         -2.0 9      0.4         -2.5       -4.1           -2.2         0.6
Ibalace . Fiuat
iExpozsotof&NPS (ree gwmvh                   -SA        44.1       -1.6          11.2          6.6          6.8
GDipo  1afO S(rg8)                            0.7       0.4         42           14.6          4.8          4.2
Pivate Ih_ase (%GD1'N                         4.2        6A.        9.2          10.9          9.7          8.9
COurant Aeent (OD  ( dCi       2s)           -08                   616 4.4       16.5          -5.3         4.1
CGro  Aunt(%1 d              t)               04        -.          -2.0         -3.0          -22          -2.7
PubaDOD/D                                    43.        39.4        36.7         33.0         23.8          30.4
DODWiexpRt vas&S                             214.1      23S.5      233.5        228.8         166.6         151.4
Cal Debt SvJ                                 2S.5       23.6        2S.9         26.7          21.6         12.7
-:    SiWW vvm 2-  rs                                                1. -.                      3. _S3.9| 



- 4 -
7.    The economy began to recover as the adjus'anent program took hold and peace propects
improved. GDP growth rebounded strongly and, afer a temporary jump in 1990, inflation continued to
decline to an annual average rate of 11 percent in 1992 (Table 1). The current account deficit, although
still high, was reduced to a more manageable level of 5.7 percent of GDP in 1991-92. After a
considerable improvement in 1990, the fiscal deficit rose to 4.1 percent of GDP in 1992. This reflected
a combination of unforeseen events and structural factors. In 1992, the fiscal deficit worsened largely
due to an increase in the operating deficit of the power company (partly due to a drought), expenditure
overruns associated with a compensation scheme for coffee exporters, and unanticipated expenses related
to the Peace Accords. A shortfall in ffee taxes, due to lower international pric.s, and delays in
adjusting electricity tariffs and the ado, xon of certain tax measures also contributed to this deterioration.
In a broader sense, the fiscal difflculties also reflected an extremely low and inelastic tax base, and
structurally weak public sector management institutions and procedures. These factors have complicated
the Government's fiscal management and its ability to effectively deal with the emerging pressures of
peace snd a growing economy.
8.    The Government, aware of the importance of maintaining a prudent fiscal stance, took significant
corrective actions in the fall of 1992, including: adoption of a 10 percent VAT, expansion in its base,
adjustmen  in electricity and water taiffs, doubling of the motor vehicle registration fee, and the
enactment of tax fraud legislation. Expenditure measures focussed on public sector wage restraint and
cuts in non-peace related current spending. Over the medium-term, the p 1blic sector modernization
program to be supported by the proposed SAL II will begin addressing major constraints in public sector
management. The fiscal situation showed signiflcant improvements in the first half of 1993 and the fiscal
deficit is expected to be less than 3 percent of GDP by year-end. These improvements may not be easy
to sustain in an electoral year, but the Government has underpinned its commitment by reaching
agreement with the IMg on a Stand-by Arrangement through March 9, 1994 and requesting an extension
r'aOugh end-1994.
9.    Provided nmacroeconemic stability is maintained, the adjustment process deepened, and the
Giovernment succeeds in addressing key development challenges, there are good prospects for sustaining
the recent recovery in growth end improving the economy's intenal and external balances.
Macroeconomic projections for the period 1993-02 and a brief description of major assumptions
underlying them are included in Annex A and selected indicators are presented in Table 1.
Politica Background: A Country at a Turning Point
10.   The Peace Proce  and the National Rectnsutruton Plan. After two years of very difficult
negotiations, and 12 months of armed peace, the civil war was formally ended in December 1992.
Consolidation of the peace, now the overriding priority, requires attacking the economic and political
roots of the conflict. At the heart of this effort lies the National Reconstruction Plan (NIR) described
in Box 2. Although considerable progress has been made, and mechanisms for continuing dialogue and
negotiation established, the remaining NRP agenda is formidable: (i) facilitating the transition of ex-
combatants from both sides into civilian life; (ii) creating a civilian police service; (iii) building armed
forces that are trusted by society as a whole; QIv) stegthening democratic and judicial institions; and
(v) combating poverty.
11.   The NRP is complex and ambitious, and its first year has been affected by a mumber of
difficulties: (i) projects under the Plan have been slow in getting started, reflecting the strained capacity



of  implementing   agencies;  (ii)  the
Govement is facing  the chailenge  of    l   2: The National Reconthon Plan
implementing the Plan within tight fiscal
constdints, which is rendered more difficult    he NRlP is desied to lay the foundaton for nadonal
by the weak institutional base within the    untY whie cang the condon for economic and socil
public sector for allocating resources; (iii)    WOvet7 in th  115 Smunic*alities moat affeted by the
although pledged donor support for thc. NRP   co6ia. At an eomated coat of US$I.5 billan over 1992-
96, X* NRI! cvars sbou 40 pm of tits swuny and 20
has been generous, much of it has been in the    p'e' of d  1Ot about 40s being ompfoiad  20
form  of slow-disbursing project flnancing,    phase. Fis a sht-tem cowtingenaq phase, inidated
and most of it has not been directed toward    immnediay after the _e"f, desge to meet uge
the areas of highest political priority such as    meeds in heah, edction, emvoams and demnocrat
training and equipping the new  national    tizv    The sh emp8seisnowcoqpleted. Second,
police, facilitating land transfers, etc.; (iv)    a 5-yea medium-m phase now uway.
despite subsnial reliance on NGOs to            The NRP, which co _mmt  the Govenunets
implement parts of the NRP, their role has    ecnomic and Soc  DevepmePlan,h lia tre elements:
not been fully deflned, and their capacity to    (i i_;sblmn (H) sngthening of demoor  inttons;
design and manage programs is very uneven;    aod (iii) th    ascl e. It is mpleIenewd duough a
and (v) there has. been some inevitable    v         of oIiSWIInaludingcvW groups, N100, loea
..  .  .   .   .  gm h   iniines, and dt Soca tnvestmattFund.
politizatuon of the NRP, and the resulting    ncmw            _.apa fo. Mahon
differences of opinion on priorities and       ale    service needs   the  arga poion,
implementation modalities have hampered its    iW%tuc  reDbllitsou, productve setr atimuzkon,
effectiveness.                                md eg
12.   The Government is taking a number        fm e¢ diandrtee Accod.   uW ia and
"efora8medundwilbePowE Awordiai  anJuW d
of steps to confront these difficulties. FRst,    pua swm*  sects, cotiIonud   informs enactd in
it  is  reforming. public  expenditure         t9-92prde for  mm rreseAtve anw dependet
manaement and unifying the budget in a way    oemtsyat   a mo                 m eer sevice, an
which  should  f.cilitate  more  efficient    e    umw n  fte  *Av rndey Gral sad lb. Pubi
allocation of public resources. Second, it is
a Pubtc Suity Acadvay. Electrafrm  include
making major efforts to mcrease domestic    chan  in  e elecofl code, di. Elector Titwaal, and
resource mobilization through strengthening       dr        goerning ecton. Odthteform incude
the stucture, aIministration and enforcement    the  oef an independ          em  for humn
of the tax system. Third, it is intensifying its    rgs and mod of the    Code. lhe Econonic
outreach to the donor community and is        ad  SOci Pw as  ethdne
making efforts to obtain more balance of            ermeaagdaioraodcsommon oncern
pyments  support,  the  local  currency  -ad woz    deo p a nw soca pact. no bsica
counterpart of which can be used to finance    Edam                      an pogram 4mgn and
NRP expenditures. Fourth, it has begun to    bVUwwftdm  and  iul_   stehening  for
systematize the contribution of NGOs and to     q         t5 enci55, ,od  nos.
seek alenative delivery mechanisms for some
of the projects and programs under the Plan.
The Bank is supporting these efforts in several ways. Public expenditure management and tax reforms
are major components of the proposed SAL H. The Bank has organ zed two Consultative Group (CG)
Meetings to raise donor support for the NRP. The Government is also seeking cofnancing or parallel
financing for SAL II in order to increase the volume of rapidly disbursing funds for NRP implementation.



-6-
13.   Change in the Presideny, Natioral Assembly, and mayoral posts will take place on July 1, 1994.
The election period will be particularly significant because it will include participation of the Farabundo
Madf National Liberaion Front (PMLN) as a political party for the first dme. Under the tems of the
Peace Accords, efForts are underway to promote voter registration. Successfil execution of these
elections will mark a true post-war benchmak. The Bank has initiated a dialogue with major Presidential
candidates and members of the legislature on the development agenda and fimre Bank assistance.
Preliminary discussions indicte that all parties broadly agree on the critical issues facing BE Salvador-am
anachronistic public sector; widespread poverty; environmental degradation; and a deteriorated
infrastructur network. Further, all attest to the need to create a more competitive market strucre that
would sustai grwt and enable broader participation in the creation of wealth. We will contn  these
strategic discussions during the coming months and intend to prepare a set of Policy Notes on key
macroeonomic and sector issues for discussion with the incoming Administration during the transition
period.
14.   Although the Government is managing the transitional phase effectively and considerable progress
has been achieved in initiating national reconstruction and reactivating growth, a tunaround in social and
economic prospects is not assured. Three types of risks will determine whetier the country continues
along the path to peace and susinable growth or fals back into a conflictive society with a stagnant
economy: a possible breakdown of the peace process; a possible change in policy orientation under the
incoming A      n ; and unpredictable eternal shocks. If progress in democratic stengthening
stalls or key NRP programs prove indequate, it could lead to a deterioration of public security, a loss
of investor confdene, and diminished internaional support. If the next Administraion is leGs commited
to continuation of the reform and modenzation program, economic management could deteriorate and
grwth would faill. The picture is further cr'nplicated by the vulnerability of El Salvador's small, open
ecornomy to extera shocks, as discussed in aection B below.
15.   All indications are that the risks are acceptable. There is a growing political consensus on the
need to mainain macroeconomic stability, deepen suctul reforms, and substantially reduce poverty.
Moreover, policymakers realize that the goals of national reconciliation and reconstruction will be
impossible to attain without continued inernational support, and that further progress in stabilization and
adjustment is a necessary condition for this support (para. 58).
B. THE EXTERNAL ENVRON1N3T
16.   El Salvador's small, open economy is highly sensitive to developmens in the external
environment. Tnree areas are pardcularly critical: (i) foreign financing; (ii) worker remittane; and (iii)
eport prospects.
17.   Forerd Financing. The economy is vulnerable to: (1) a possible marked decline in bilawal aid
contribution following the post civil war "high water mark"; and (i) problems arising from a rigid
etnal debt strucure. Until the end of the 1980s, most official bilateral assistance came from the US,
which has remained the most importnt donor. Following the cessation of hostiliies, other bilatera and
multilatera donors siificany incrsd  commitments-about US$800 million was pledged at the CG
Meeti  in early 1992, and a similar amount was promised at the CG a year later. While little dificulty
is expected in adjusting to a gradual decline in these high levels of assistance, a sudden, marked reduction



-7-
in external support would increase significy the difficulties in abiding by the Pece Accords within
a stable macroeconomic framework.
18.   As explained in more detail in Section D, El Salvador's extra debt stuctue is highly
inflexible, with a high and rising share of prefefred creditors. This argely reflects the forgiveness of
substantial portions of the bilateral debt incurred efore 1989, most notably US debt (para. 54). Even
if feasible or desirable for other reasons, reduced or even zero IBRD lending over 1995-98 would leave
the prefierred creditor share virtully unchanged. The marked rise in the share of preferred creditor debt
is due to IDB's lending, which is expected to increase substantially in the coming years.
19.   These risks are manageable provided macroeconomic performance remains strong. Total extera
debt is relatively low-little commercial debt was incurred in the 1980s as a result of the war, while the
US debt forgiveness will bring total external debt down to 25 perct of GDP in 1993. Over the longer
term, the only realistic way out of the rigid debt structue is through greater reliance on foreign private
capital flows, which have been negligible to date. As confidence returns, El Salvador ought to be able
to attract increased private flows, especially direct investmet. There is, however, some uncerinty
regarding the potential impact of the North American Free Trade Ageement (NAFrA)-most studies
of NAFTA's regional effects suggest that it may have a more diverting ffect on foreign investment than
on trade. The Bank is sponsoring a regional study to andyze the potential impact of NAFTA,
particularly from the point of view of its implications on foreign private investment.
20.   Worker R _as. El Salvador's most important export during the 1980s was labor. Worker
remittanc  grew from 0.3 percent of GDP in 1980 (US$11 million) to almost 11 percent (US$683
million) in 1992. These funds have become an important source of income for many households,
especially in rural areas, where they act as an important safety valve. Two issues relate to these flows.
First, El Salvador is highly vulnerable to a sudden decline in remitc, which are equivalent to nearly
80 percent of exports. Second, although no detailed surveys are available, indications are that a very
high proportion of remittances fiance consumption, nearly all of it with a high import content.
21. Over the meditn term, it is expected that a strengthened and modernized financial sector,
supported by the Bank and IDB, will enable an increasing proportion of remttances to be channelled into
savings instmen. With regard to the country's vulnerability to sharp reductions in temittances, there
is no easy solution. Undoubtedly, a signifcant reversal of emigration, whether voluntary or not, would
produce a seere balance of payments crisis in the short term. However, experenc in other countries
suggests that these flows tend to be rlatively stable. In the long term, the only way to minimize the
impact of this uncerinty is by increasing revemnes from merchandise exports.
22.   Export Pspec. After averaging 25 percent of GDP in the early 1980s, expors represented
only 14 percent of GDP in 1992, an extremely low proportion for a small, highly open economy. This
poC result was largely compensated by worker remittans and high ad inflows. It reflects to a
considerable extent a continued high dependence on coffee exports (25 percent of merchandise export
revenues in 1992), which have been suffering from low international prces and war-rdated disruptions
in production. A fulrther cause for concem is the heavy dependence on the US market (which accounts
for approximately 45 percent of merchandise exports). About 80 percent of exports to the US benefit
from ft  Generalized System of Pfeces and the Caribbean Basin Iitiatve. Under both of these
schemes, preferential access to US markets is subject to annual reviews and can be unilateraly witdran
under specific circumstances (e.g., insufficient protection of worker rights).



- 8 -
23.   Improving export performance is clearly a top priority for the Government which is takng a
number of important actions. Frst, considerable progress has been made in correcting anti-exort biases
through trade liberalization and the adoption of a lower and more uniform tariff sucure. These e' rt
have been supported by the first Structura Adjustment Loan (SAL I) and the proposed SAL H. Sewed,
specific efforts are being made to increase non-traditional exports. The Salvadoran Foundation for Social
and Economic Development provides technical assistance in export promotion, and there are plans to
increase the number of export processing zones from four (three private and one public) to fourteen.
These measures need to be accompanied by efforts to reduce dependence on US markets. Together with
somewhat improved prospects for coffee (slightly higher international prices combined with an expected
recovery in output following consolidation of the peace in rural areas), these measures are expected to
result in a considerable improvement in merchandise export revenues in the 1990s.
C. GOVEPRNMET DEVELOPMET POLICIES AND BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
El Saladors Development Challenges
24. The immediate priorities of policymakers are to consolidate peace and deepen economic reforms
in order to achieve a pemaneurnaround in social and economic development. The Government's goal
is to transform society from a war-driven, highly-divided society, to one based on greater political,
economic, and social participation, with a dynamic market-based economy. The country possesses a
number of advantages: relatively low extenal debt; a dynamic private sector; relatively liberal financial
maets; and an improvig business climate stemming from peace and prudent economic management.
Nevertheless, much remains to be done to insutionalize the adjustment process and to promote sustaied
economic growth while addressing the inequities which led to the conflict. Growth is criical to the
achievement of greater equity. Over the past three years some important constraits have been lifted but
now growti must become sustainable. To do so, four principal challenges must be met: (i) modernizing
the public sector; (ii) creating an enabling environment for private sector and export-led growth; (lii)
reducing poverty and investing in human capital; and (iv) strengthenig environmeal and natura
resource management. Central to the achievement of this vision, will be an appropriate macroeconomic
framework which is necessary to allow the Governmen to deepen reforms and reduce unceaity in the
policy environment.
25. Ensuring a stable macroeconomic framework will be critical to the Government's goal of
sustainig growtah and alleviating poverty. A key element will be a prudent fiscal policy. Although tot
public eeditures are not excessive at about 18 percent of GDP in 1992, the revene base, especialy
taes, is low and has been declining steadily since the mid-1980s. Tax revenues, which accounted for
12.8 percent of GDP.in 1986, averaged 8.4 percent during 1990-92. The tax base shrunk during the war
yeas largely as a result of the breakdown in tax discipline, which in turn mirrored a more genal
erosion in the public's confidence in the Government and its institutions. Put simply, people stopped
paying taxus. The Government is now focussing efforts on rebuilding its tax base, both to finamce
reconstruction-related expenditures over the medium term, and to lay a solid foundation for an efficien
and modern State over the longer term. Implementation of the recently-approved tax fraud legislation
as well as the program to strengthen tax and customs admisration supported under the proposed SAL
II will be critical. In addition, under SAL II the Government will eliminate most remaining trade duty
exemptions and implement policies to rationalize the rate strure of taxes and reduce distortions in
economic incentives. These efforts are expected to result in an improved public savings performance in



-9-
the range of 2-2.5 percent of GDP, including tax shar  of 12 percent of GDP by 1995. A stronger fisal
effort will be a key criterion to judge progress in meeting the Goverment's development agentda and the
Dank's aistance strategy.
Du3:    MedlwwTenm Dvlopment Poliq Goals
*diWkb&*g a  paw*e0r               RMagpedve4rPWrV    ves*g lamas
t he rio of the sa     ng im&- *    me  rgelu an mwan oft
bou. opeaton   asuum to promote    ntos; paiwd  for qpeo  seeods of
"WOe  'W ad aie0fve goveonmnt      Wosun a"d most vulnerbl prow
:0 --Uin    elanoy  ad   eer  * Imrove deiy of prmy hed oe
prvatw    e   invotieaen  in the   and  basic  education  servies1,
'ww    of PA    SW*                 maxin ue of a' -'''tiv. d ierv_y
mechanisms  and  community
.. , ', ,-  h. ,, j ¢and  aui bVM    t*     fni
......    -Stenhe   d .cetaizt    and  0........... imroe fail plnin  dozia to
, > uni~pd*Us~oe                    rio&met -te=adl and inan mwoMi
. :* ximpement  a  huma   resource  * Stregh     the  planning  ond
* Is  .vbcaaoio  yn 'a                   -''inisbies atnd etah Wa_ moibi
dnevain pogramst
.~~~wm  OMA U_*X gpw  me  Imdd a  e4 O * a  . :"f
...~ ~ ~ -4 .saX............     d     and wuenw sysm, b key.-
* Deine and ile         a Povet
Afl.vWon Action Phan
KeaRe l~fr. Ss~d Groth    Swzingl VW,nt loa. ad o~
* C.ht . tx-afrdrtion of       of  anin _g Nv wwse Md :-  ;-n -
seater :                             pr aove e Aonlo tlad Wondiatan an.
1r De- l-p a pav_e. .....s.........e. Inus  registry........ --
.*. Stseeenuaul htindu maabts       * Develop tad     n          a       -.:
'     mrv "ndat* "euato "' "tatg ''arA TUhXliiventl Pbwotie  ''
* Consoldat td refi                   appropriate  regulatory .nd
'. IMOv    PAW utw   MOU"  aand          P
Vs of -ammiou A pesicide
The Bank's Objectives
26. The Bank's strategy is to support the Government in meeting its four principal development
challeages dirough a blend of adjustment lending, investment lending in selected sectors, analytical work
to address sectoral issues and guide the policy dialogue, technical assistance to deepen reforms and



- 10-
segthen  insions, and donor coordination.  Given IDB's expanding role and the continued
involvement of a number of key donors, the Bank's assistance strategy is designed to be highly selecive
and focussed on areas of Its comparative advantage. The remainder of this section, organized around the
fur development challenges identified in para. 24 above, reviews key issues, the Government's actal
or planmed response, and tie Bank's proposed role. Given the relatively large number of donors
involved, particlar attention is paid to the coordination of donor activities and the division of labor
between donors.
MoednIzIg the Public Sector
27.   Public sector modernzation is a challenging task for any Government, but especially for one with
a short history of democrcy and weak institutions. The structur of the public sector remains
anachronistic and continues to be a major obstacle to the effective implementation of development policy.
RePorms are needed to address the incentive structure, provide alternative means of delivering public
sector services, improve the strucre of governent, and strengthen the autonomy and accountability of
public sector agepcies. El Salvador's weak fiscal peroma    largely reflects deep-seated structural
constraints. The fagmenwd budget system is mainly detmined by past expenditure patterns, payroll
peniures are too large and inadequately controlled, and transfers to non-Cenal Government entities
(ncluding public enterpries) are substantial and not strategically demined. Government revenues need
to be increased subtaally in a sustainable manner, and privatization of government-owned assets
acceleraed. The urgency of public sector reform is reinforced by the need to make the modern State
more responsive to the demands of democra.
28.   Ihe public sector reform effort is being implemented in stages. A frst, preparatory stage was
initiated in late 1991 with UNDP assistance and imnolved a number of diagnostic studies of key public
sector management constrait. Te Government has requested Bank assistance to initiate implementation
of the second stage durig its remaining temnre in office. This second stage, supported by SAL IT, the
TAL and a number of donors, would include preparation of strategic reform options for consieration
by the next Admintration and implementation of reforms which require immediate attention (see Part
U, Section A). The third stage, which would be supported by a proposed third adjustment operation,
would inolve a medium-tm comprehensive public sector reform program.
29.    At the sector level, ongoing projects in education and social sector rehabilitation (the Social
Sector Rehabilitation Project [SSRPD, and agriclUture (the Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment
Project), are supporting institonal stengening in line ministries and government agencies. A
common objective of proposed invesnt projects will be to reinforce the wider public sector reform
agenda through secr specific interventions designed tD improve public sector management, and
restuctr and reorient the functions of ministries and public sector institutions. Future operations in
the social sectors, infrastucture, and natural resource management would have a strong institutional
reform component, in line with the Government's overall public sector modenization strateg. However,
the effectiveness of project iherventions witl depend critically on the ability of the new Administration
to develop and implement a comprehensive reform framework to gpide sector-specific efforts.
lnbling Prvate Sector and Export-Led Growth
30. Despite considerable progress in establishing a more open trade regime, structural imbalances,
such as low savings. and investment levels, a remaining anti-export bias, and incomplete regulatory



- 11 -
reforms, aggravated by poor infrastructure services, persist. Following the conclusion of the war, the
private sector faces the additional challenge of re-establishing as well as restrucuring its productive
capacity. To address these issues, policymakers must continue concred action on five frons: (i) trade
policies; (ii) financial sector reform; (iii) institutional and regulatory framework improvements; (iv) labor
market policies; and (v) infrastrucure revitalization.
31.    The trade reform process needs to be deepened to help expand and diversify the export base,
improve the investment climate, facilitate private sector access to capital, and stimulate savings, including
a more productive use of worker remittances. Reforms initiated under SAL I have been strong and would
be deepened under the proposed SAL H. In addition, the Govenment is working toward enhanced
participation in regional trade agreements and in developing a consistent approach to the sequencing of
firther tariff refoms. In this context, in recent years the Government has actively partcipated in
different high level fora to revitalize regional econemic integration. This has led to the unification of
tariffs for both inteational and intra-regional trade. Also, steps are being taken to harmonize policies
toward agricultural pricing and macroeconomic policies in general. Within this framework and to
minimize poteni trade and ivestment displacement under NAFMA, El Salvador will need to conutine
pursuing non-preferential trade liberalization to increase the competitiveness of its exports. Trade reform
will need to be accompanied by measures to improve financial intermediation and to address instiional,
legal and regulatory constraints on the private sector, especially by ensuring protection of property rights,
binding contracts, and contestabiity of markets.
32.   In financial iiation, the Government has initiated a major transformation of the financial
sector, including priaization of all sta-owned banks supported under SAL I and the proposed SAL H.
Concering contactu  savings mobilization, some of the major insuramce companies are insolvent and
both pension fumds suffer from high administrative costs, outdated procedures, and obsolete actuarial
studies. Reform of the sector has been initited with IDB support. lhe Bank and IIDB are coordinating
policy advice and support for the development of capital markets and the stengteing of the rural credit
system.
33. In late 1992 the Government initiated a comprehensive program to improve the climate for private
sector investment, supported by 1DB. The program focuses on the legal, hIltutona an regulatory
fraework governimg the business climate.  Refbrm measures are being developed to stengthen
intellectal property rghts, streamline investment approval procedures, and modemize the laws and
regulations affecting business practices. The PY94 Country Economic Memorandum will include a
private sector asse ent which will seek to identify remaining constraints to private sector development
and market efficiency. Support for measures to promote competition and stimulate private investment
could be included in a possible follow-on adjustment operaton. Labor muaket rigidites have constrained
efforts to modernize the state and promote private sector development. The Labor Code, which is
outdated and a source of conflict, is now under revision in line with agreemens under the Peace Accords.
34.              i b          is a bottleneck impeding faster growth. While the civil war caused
substantial damage and precluded adequate invemet, matenance, and rebabilitation, the infrastructure
sector also suffers from weak institutions, poor planning, and a considerable rehabilitation backog. As
a result, service quality is poor, coverage is low, and tariff-setting mehnisms are inadeque. These
constraints, coupled with weak management, exacerbate flscal presues.  Te challenge for the
Government will be to revitalize infrastrucure within a severely constrained fiscal envelope. This can
only be done by streamlining and rtr ring the sector, and developing mechanism  dt promote



- 12 -
private sector investment and involvement (i.e., by attracting risk capital and participation in the
construction and management of infrastructure services) with the State playing a policy and regulatory
role. To meet this challenge, the Government will need to accelerate the development of the legal,
institutional, and regulatory frameworks for the ministries and subsectoral institutions, and to design
appropriate incentives to promote private sector involvement.
35.   Through a combination of analytical work and lending, the Bank will support sectoral policy and
institutional reforms as well as investment in infrastructure designed to assist El Salvador in the transition
to a modern state. In anticipation of peacetime requirements, in 1991 the Bank approved a Power Sector
Technical Assistance Loan to help design an appropriate institutional and regulatory framework for the
sector and IDB is providing similar support to the telecommunications and transport sectors. The
proposed SAL II would support reform of the hydrocarbons sector, while a proposed Bank energy sector
modernization loan would support implementation of regulatory, legal, and incentive reforms, the
establishment of a sound tariff-setting mechanism, and priority investments. Programmed analysis of the
transport sector will identify areas for future policy reform, including divestiture and privatization, and
needed investments. Sector work in urban development would address the roles of local and national
governments in financing and service provision, which would be supported through an urban investment
operation.
Reducng Poverly and Investing in Human Capital
36. Poverty, which is chronic, deep seated, and largely rural-based (Box 4), is the greatest threat to
peace and political stability. The Government has placed poverty alleviation at the top of the domestic
policy agenda and has designed a two-pronged strategy to attack this problem: a social safety net
consisting of targeted compensatory programs and, over the medium term, improved access to basic social
services, particularly basic education and health. Experience with compensatory programs has been
positive, especially in terms of encouraging community participation, improving responsiveness to rural
needs, and promoting exilerimentation. Bilateral donors are providing considerable support through the
Social Investment Fund and the National Secretariat for Reconstruction. Despite these positive features,
a number of problems remain, including weak inter-institutional coordination, inadequate information
systems, and uneven implementation. 'Te Government has recognized these flaws and is attempting to
improve coordination and is developing a tracking mechanism to monitor physical we'ks and human
resource needs.
37.      Althouga some progress has been made in increasing social spending and policies to promote
more efficient and better-targeted service delivery, much remains to be done. A more concerted effort
will be required to reform institutions and delivery mechanisms, particularly by building on the positive
features of communifv-based interventions. The education sector is leading the way in this effort. With
Bank support, the Min!stry of Education has developed and is implementing a decentralized model of
education with community participation (EDUCO) for service provision in rural areas (Box 5). Results
to date suggest that this model could be adapted in other sectors, especially health. In the health sector,
while progress has been mide toward strengthening outreach programs and nutrition activities in support
of the primary health cai.s strategy, instittional reform has been slow. The Ministry of Health will
require intensive and cor.tinued support in its institudonal reform and strengthening effort. USAID is
undertaking a comprehenaive health sector review whose terms of reference were designed in consultation
with the Bank and IDB. In 1992 IDB approved a loan to restore emergency water and saniation services
in the former conflict areas and plans to coetinue supporting the Government's water sector program.



- 13 -
Box 4: The Poverty Cha_ge
NoB twadngpopnoenlid g, Wrtng, ad   ad gsoW seroweproamst  benefit Xepoor,
Ihe magailude of poty poeae a serious chaee to th   ion to pewos. Wth oxtrmely high popuation density,
sdi  incat  1hat ar amo  th wos in Lain Americ  and oonideabe raalufbn dipadti  t incme and
eploywmen  pportunites, the chaleng is formiabl.
A reently comleted Bak-Cwovrumet Poverty A tsaet found that almost hal of all households liv fi povety,
with 10 percet med in extreme pverty. Mhe ind     of povety is most prvalent in mral areas whe   two thirds
of te poor awe loaed. 'Me San Salvador mtopoitn area hMs o  lowest icdee of poverty, with 33 percen of
its inhabitants_ clasfied as poor, compared to 44 pernt for odter ureanreedent. Poor households tend to be larger
and have more children. Tho poor have higher ilitrac rates, live in overrwded condions, lak ascess to dun
water ad snion and  largW propon  of their cide  do not attend school F_ele-headed housebo  are
paticayprovalt in u     areaswhee women bead 35 pertofpoorhouseold&. Twh por alo have lower labor
oce paticipaton  atrly females), highet unem       t (12 perent ver   4A peroent ang nnoot) Sd
_nderemplomen #(50 percent versus 37 pocet damg the nopor).
Athough pmay sdcol eolbuen 78 porentnadonwide,    educaionsectr is chaaeizdby low copleton
and hh rption and dro       s. In 1991192, shool eavecompld o   4.7 yes   shoo , wit2.9 year
innaral areas nd6.2yearsin urbnaeas. Twenty-egltperntofthlepoplto aed 10 and older areilliterae, with
37.5 perceax zniu   and16.6percentbn areas. Hihdehand morbiity rteatsean            d refs*  nmeda
wserie ea -only 32 perce ofpeant Wofen ad 29 perte  of chilen under two recei any tp of healh
are. In 1990 mortity for innwas 56 per 100 liv bths nd for chlden under five, 87 per 1000 live births.
Tu mopr cause of death anmg  uldren uder ag owe is diarrhe, due to low qualty wafer and sant   sen ices
:and poor hygien. In 1991-92 only alf of e uban poor and one tird of t  nura poor had access to cean water
wh.le 25 percn of X urban poor and over SO proent of 1he rur poor lckedsa,ion    d
Malutrio affect about 50 percenof all chidren under five and is hiest in turda m  among children aged 12-
24 months. Acess to and avaiy of famiy planing srA es ha ben liited (47 pert nonwide, 34 percnt
in iui amea in 1987). Thot frtyli rtate, at 4.2 chdren per woan of childbing age, resains high relve
.to Latn Amican couries asd olher   r_icountes The problmofpopu f4 e               asybeemigaed
to aom oetn by migration but with peace, migtion is ly to dooline and the problms of inakppria land and
nata esource use, deestaion, and soil eros      likely to woren.
38.    The reduction of poverty and human resource development are priorities in the Bank's assistance
strategy, focusing on improving access to basic socia services. The Bank's ongoing Social Sector
Rehabilitation Project is focussing on the medium-term reform of the Education and Health Ministries,
including the development of nutrition policy. A study on decentralization in education will review the
experience of the community schools program and assess its potential for application to other services.
Future social sector operations would continue support for policy and institutional reforms to expand
alternative delivery mechanisms, enhance private sector participation, and increase cost recovery. Priority
will be given to extending coverage to the former conflict areas and to target groups, including women,
identified in the Poverty Assessment. The challenge will be to build on the EDUCO experience and use
participatory mechanisms as the basis for a radical redesign of the way in which social services are
delivered and community needs met.



- 14 -
39.   Women in Devdopment. Major issues
affecting women in El Salvador include: low    Du-E Ra"e duation
heatth status and high maternd mortalit; limited
pr  and post-natal care; undemutrtion; limited  in ealy M1. X GGovwmo itoducd the
access  to  family  planning  services;  and    IDUCO- ?un% *" ish appWotted by the Daus
male/female wage disparities. Overi rur-urban   SO0  8wC2Cr       PfrOj0t EDUCO is anl
disparities persist in terms of employmnt              P sm tod the mo oV@3  and
opportunities and more limited access to basic  X d. ,   4th   f      U        a  d p
services. The high prevalence of female-headed  *   p    *      poor ns wih  met
urban households, as a result of the war, indicates    *   d   at  sx eind t amolwtion  wih
a need for better targeting efforts.          40aftmo and pay aatba  ad - ma _   the sohels.
40.   The Government has designed a stegy  _mw*         tiwi  p60M  mid tonebers pdes
to address these needs. Sexal discrimination is  _" S _t amd oVwia the wchools.
outlawed and the revised Labor Code will provide   .                  4
for gender-neutral salary treatment and benefits   :4=4uyh00ao.
for pregant women.  An Office of Womens,
Affairs has been established in the Ministry of           14 to 17 m        pse pio"ma
Education. The Governmn has also developed    eve          t           doe priay leveL
a Family Code which is expected to be approved   ____;__ -____-__-__-_         --__-_-
shortly. The Nationad Secretariat for the Family
has focussed on community banking services for women in rural areas nd has supported a variety of
projects including sex education and campaigns to legalize illegidmate children. Recent Bank-supported
projects have taken the needs of women into account. The Social Sector Rehabilitation Project is designed
to directly benefit the health and nutritional status of pregnant and lactating women and support family
planning services. The Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project includes measures to meet
special extension service needs of women farmers and increase their productivity. Meeting specific needs
of women will remain a priority in the Bank's assistance strategy, especially in the social sectors and
agriculture.
Natural Resource and o              agem
41. The Government faces three sets of issues with respect to agriculture, land and natural resource
mnagement: low sector productivity; an incomplete land transfer program; and severe environmental
degradation. In the agricultural sector, although non-traditional and other agriculture export crops have
performed well, yields in basic crops and rural inoomes remain low. Given land scarcity and high
population density, agricultural growth must rely on sustained improvements in yields and productivity.
This will require expanded research and exension services, appropriate soil conservation measures,
credit, and security of land tenure. Land was a trigger point in the civil war. Although the fighting has
stopped, land distribution remains a serious problem. Further progress in the land transfer program, as
well as resolution of land issues-titling, registation, transfer and marke-are critical for consolidation
of the peace. The environment shows the ravages of a decade of war and a history of poverty. As a
result of population pressure and agricultural encroachment on forest and marginal lands, only 2 percent
of primary forest cover remains and only 12 peat of the national territory has any forest cover. The
topography is rugged and about 65 percent of the land is non-arable, with slopes of over 12 perct. Ihe
destuction of natural resources has accelerated soil ersion, decreasing productivity and limiting the
capacity of aquifers to absorb rainwater. Soil erosion affects tliree quarters of fte territory, exacerbating



- 15-
seasonal flood damage. Inappropriate peticide use and industial effluents affect crops and fisheries,
contaminate driking water, and aggravate the incidence of gastroinestinal disease.
42.   Progress is being made in addressing some of these issues: domestic price controls on basic
grais have been eliminated, quantitative restrictions abolished, and a price band mechanism for corn and
rice imports introduced. Under SAL I, the privatizalon of the agricultrl parastatals was initiated and
compledon of the program would be supported under the proposed SAL II. A study of the rural financial
system is underway, which wil provide recondons for overhaing the fragmented and inefficient
agricultural credit system. The recety approved Agricultral Sector Reform and Investment Project will
support institutional reform of the Miistry of Agriculre (MAG) and Livestock and improve research
and exesion services for small and medium frmmers to accelerate the adoption of sustainable and
productive agricultural practices. Ref1ms in plant and animal health, marketing, and irrigation are
expected to be initiated with DB support. Although a number of donors are providing technical support
to implement the land ransfer program, f1unding constraints will continue to limit its scope. A proposed
Bank land and agricultural seies project, currently under preparation, would aim to strengthen the
Government's cpacity to complete land tidting, the registration and tmsfer process and to re-establish
agricuituri growth in former conflict areas. Over the medium-term, a comprehensive land titling and
registration program needs to be eslisbed to provide the foundation for a modem land market.
43.   Although a deepening of instiutional and policy reforms in agriculture will be required to
reactivate growth in the sector, the more serious challenge reltes to environmental issues. The
Government recognizes the seriousness of these issues and has begun to address these concerns through
an Agenda for the Environment, which was prented at the Intenational Conference on the Environment
in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. This Agenda has served as the fundation for a National Strategy for
Environmental Protection, which is under development. In addition to providing policy support and
advice, IDB is expected to finance a project to address environmental problems in the Rio Lempa
watershed and USAID wdi focus on coasl area management. The Bank has been working with IDB,
USAID and the Govment to develop and implement an appropriate policy framework for
environmental protection and sustainable resource use. SAL II will support the preparation and
implementation of a National E        Action Plan, the finalization of a National Environmental
Law and the sutngdtning of intions dealing with environmental issues.  A complementary
IBRD/FAO-CP review of natural resource m         issues, now in its final stage, will diagnose
sectoral issues and identify areas for Bank support. Future lending through a natural resource
management project woud support institutional strngthning and expansion of measures initiated under
the ongoing agricultural project to promote soil frtility, conservation and integrated pest management.
Lending Levels
44.   Past Operations. Between 1949 and 1979 El Salvador received 19 Bank loans and 4 IDA credits
totalling US$234.7 million. BankIDA leading initially focussed on infrastucture development to support
productive sector activities, with small amounts allocated toward the social sectors. (Box 6) Owing to
economic mism         and the destuctive effects of the war, El Salvador experienced a hiatus in Bank
lending during 1979-91 (except for the 1987 Earthquake Reconstruction Project). Shordy after assuming
office in mid-1989, the Cdstiani Government sought Bank support for its adjustment effort and medium-
term program. This support matealized through a four-part straeg  designel to: (i) initiate the
adjustment process and a complementary social sector reform program; (ii) reactivate the productive
sectors; (tii) enhan  infrastructure investmet under peacetime condfions; and (iv) mobilize donor



- 16-
support. In line with this strategy, the Bank approved: SAL I; the Social Sector Rehabilitation Project
(SSRP); the Power Sector Technical Assistance Project; and the Agricultr  Sector Reform and
Investment Project. SAL I was filly disbursed in June 1993.
45.   fture Prapm  Bank lending is forecast at about US$340 million over FY94-98 (an average
of US$68 million per ya) for a program of up to 10 operations. Slightly over 25 perceut of lending
volume-all in the first two years-would be devoted to adjustment, followed exclusively by investment
lending. The sector composition of proposed lending is shown in Box 6. Implementation of the
program, which would be contingent upon consolidation of the peace and progress toward democratic
strengthening, is predicated on: (i) sound maroeconomic management, particularly a sustained and
prudent fiscal policy; (ii) compliance with SAL If conditionality; (iii) satisfactory progress toward povert
alleviation; and (iv) satisfactory implementation of the ongoing portfolio. Further support for the
adjustment program will also be contingent on improved public savings performance and adequate
extemal fincing. In the event of delays in implementing the adjustment program, policy slippage or
gradual macroeconomic deterioration, particularly through expansionary fis  policies, the actala lending
program would be adjusted or reduced according to the Government's willingness and ability to
implement speciffc operations.
Sank Pogram FY 1949-S3                      k Piogam   1994-#
$addswim              TA
33%
econtructon ject,thePwerSctorTecin       Sa Scto
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   i. .si5.; .........        ........  . ..:;:. .. . . f.:   .;.,.
Porffolio amlmnto   nd  e         e
46.   ll     p        Issues.  Tne current portfolio is small, comprising the Earthquakre
Reconstructioni Project, thie Power Sector Techcal Assistance Loan, the Social Sectr Rehabilitation
Project, and the Agricultura Sector Reform and Investment Loan. Except for the earthquake
reconstruction operation, all projects have been effective for less than two years. The Earthquake
Reconstruction Project has expeienced significan delays owing to a change in administration, the
operation's complex multi-sectoral natuer, difficulties in securing rights of way for highways, and
procurement bottlenecks. Following a loan restucturing and intensified supervision efforts, the project



- 17 -
is now on track. The Agriculture Sector Reform and Investment Loan.was approved on March 18, 1993
and is expected to become effective shortly. Annex H provides current portfolio information.
47. Major implementation problems have centered around: (i) procedural-legal issues, including ex-
ante budgetary approval by the Court of Accouns and lack of fmiliaity with Bank disbursement and
procurement procedures, as well as limited understanding of Bank operational policies; (ii) weak
institutional capacity; and (iii) inadeqte management of technical assistance. The consolidation of the
budget, supported under SAL I, has alleviated some problems and the public expenditure management
reforms to be supported under the proposed SAL II, which aim to restructure the role and function of
the Court of Accounts, will accelerate and improve budget execution and auditing. Several in-county
procurement seminars have been held-most recently in November 1992-and the prepation of standard
bidding documents has reduced procurement delays. As a matter of course, following effectiveness of
each project, an in-country prWject launching seminar has been held during which specific procurement
and disbursement procedures are reviewed. Project specific disbursement seminars have also been held
on a number of occasions, the most recent in June 1993. UNDP has cooperated in a number of instances
in facilitating procurement of goods and services. There has been satisfactory compliance with financial
covenants and audit requirements. The proposed establishmnmt of a Bank Project Implementation Office
for Central America, which would provide intsified supervision support, would also contribute to
smooth project implementation as the country portfolio expands. A Country Strategy Implementation
Review is programmed for late this fiscal year with officials from the incoming Administration. This
should minimize disruption to portfolio management during the transition and deepen our dialogue with
the next Administion on the future program.
48.   Teclmlcal Aoitane and Capacity Buiding. Two problems have hampered effective tecical
assistance: limited instiutional capacity for planning and implementation, and inadequate coordination.
The dual burdens of implementing the economic reform program and the NRP have strained the
Government's capacity. While considerable experise can be found at the highest levels of government,
the cadre of tained specialists is small and urnover is relatively high. This limited staff capacity has,
on occasion, contributed to delays and inadequate coordination, and resulted in some duplication of
efforts. The underlying reasons for staff turnover and the thin layer of well-trained professionals in
government service would be addressed through the civil service reforms envisaged under SAL II and
a third adjustment operation. Although the Bank and UNDP will continue efforts to improve coordination
among donors, more decisive action is required by the Government, especially the Ministry of Planning
(MIPLAN), to set priorities, coordinate programs and monitor implementation. Under the proposed
TAL, a unit in MIPLAN will oversee all technical assisunce for the adjustment program.
49. The Bank has, and will continue to play, a major role in supporting the Government's technical
assistance needs for the structural adjustment program and sectoral initiatives. Ongoing projects support
instituonal strengthening in the Ministries of Planning, Education, Health and Agriculture. Under the
TAL, the Bank will support the Govrnment's capacity to design and implement SAL IX policy reforms
and provide the analydal base for a comprehensive modernization of the public sector. We have also
actively sought additional technical assistance finding for sectoral initiatives and have udlized the PHRD
Fund, trust fimds, as well as UNDP and bilateral donor funding. The Bank-exected Regional Unit for
Technical Assistance in Agriculture (RUTA Agrkola) has provided valuable support to the Government
in policy analysis and program design. The RUTA Unit for the Social Sectors (RUTA Social) to be
opened shortly in Honduras, would provide simiar support for instittional strengthening efforts and



- 18 -
project design in the social sectors. Debt management strengthening is also being suppoted under an
IBRD-UNCTAI) program.
IFC and MIGA Activities
50.   During the 1980s, IFC did not have an active program in El Salvador. It has reactivated its
program and during the coming yean er'ects to focus on opportunitis in manufacuring, infrastructure
and the financial sector. A project for a cellular network was approved in July 1993, the first IFC
investment in 22 ye. It is considering other investments, including a cement company, and may also
provide support to the Government in its privaization efforts. The Busne  Advisury Service (BAS)
has also been active in El Salvador and has been invlved in the preparation of a number of projects in
the coffee, financial and tourism sectors. BAS is preparig a project to secure financing for a Center for
the Support of Microenterprises-a woman's banking network with over 25,000 borrowers. El Salvador
became a member of MIGA in 1992, and one project has benefitted from two MIGA guartes. bIGA
sponsored an investment promotion seminar for El Salvador in Washington D.C. in September 1992.
Donor Coordination
51.   The CG mechanism has been the key vehicle for securing intenational cooperation and assistance
in designing, financing, and implementing the nationi reconstuction effort. The Bank has also worked
closely with some of the key donors/financiers (e.g., IDB, USAID, UNDP, IS;) over the past three
years through a series of technical level informal meetigs on sectoral themes, such as financial sector
management and the environment. These meetings have 1icilitated cooperation and coordination as well
as clarified policy recommendations and program design proposals. While the donor support mobilized
through the CG process is essential to the success of the Government's reconstruction objectives, the
community-based approach of many of the NRP itaives makes overall coordination more problematic.
Moreover, some donors have prefnrea to channel their assistance directly through NOOs or beneficiary
groups, which makes it more difflcult to keep track of coverage and impact. MIPLAN is making efforts
to improve coordination of donor support, while facilitating direct assistance to beneficiary groups. As
part of this process, the Government is taking steps to strengthen bilateral donor contacts and to seek
ways to enhance NGO participation.
52.   lDB has been and is epected to continue to be the primary donor over the next decade. Bank
and IDB staff have worked closely to optimize each instiution!s comparative advantage, maximize impact
and prevent duplication of efforts. Cooperation has been paticularly close in four sectors: environent,
agriculture, energy, and finance. In the social sectors, IDB is supporting short-term needs through
lending to the Social Investment Fund, while the Bank has concentrted on the medium-term reform
effort. We expect also to cooperate closely in the heath sector, while IDB will maintain the lead in the
wat sector. In energy, IDB will focus on power generation and transmission while the Bank will
concentrate on the distribution and the rebabilitation of power generatn. Financial sector reforms
supported under the Investment Sector Loan and SAL I and SAL II have been well coordinated and
agricultural sector operations have been designed in paralle. The Bank has worked closely with the
JMF, particularly in the preparation of the two adjustment operations. The IMP has provided technical
assistance to the Government on reform of the tax system, particularly tax administration, and on the
implementation of the new Government Accountig System. The ongoing Stand-by Arrangement was
approved py the IMP Board on May 10, 1993.



- 19-
D. CREDITWORTHINESS AND BANK EXPSRE
53.    Ext al Piandag Needl. El Salvador's financing requirements and likely sources of finance
for the 1993-98 period are shown in Table 2. Total balance of payments requirements would average
US$596 mfllion annualy over the period. External financing will thus play a critical role in the
adjustment proess to maintain gowth and ensure the successlizl implementation of the NRP.  'he
proposed SAL U, together with other sources of blance of paymems finacing, is expected to provide
sufficient eternal resources to finae the projected deficit and provide for a moderate rise in -eserves.
Official grants will gradually decline, while bilateral and multilateral disbursement, particularly by the
IDB, are expected to increase subs ly as a result of increased lending to finance reconstruction and
peace-related expenditures.  If sufficient externl flnancing fails to materiize, the NRP would need to
be scaled down or delayed. No new borrowing from commercial banks is assumed but, with a stronger
economy, a gradual increase in foreign investment and a modest increase in supplier and export credits
to finance capital goods imports is envisagd. It is expected that a more efficient and sound financial
system could, over the long-tm, begin provwiding the private sector with the cover needed to access
supplier and export credits.
-ab. 2: _haudu RsqmUIait, Sorme, and ak Empme lasm fads, 199098.
(US Ml5em)
Grmss Ihmau Requuast           (605)  (498)  (632)  (573)  (645)   (573)   (607)   (593)  (587)
CuCret Aocoit                 (358)   29    (422)  (414)  (417)   (411)   (418)   (414)  (404)
o1w bursa Pyuts               084)   (81)   (99)   (107)  (119)   (1      (141)   (15    (16
o0w Pre Capital              345    543    702    740    762       m       809         837 870
AnioztlationNnPWmNt           (125)  (160)  (156)  (19)  (181)   (101)   (127)   (95)   (107)
Buildup of Resave             (122)  (42)   (55)   CM    (47)   (6)    (63)   (84)   (76)
Sour8e                          605    498    632    s73    64S    s73       607    593    S87
|Ofecialafts                  223    179    226    263    260    200        190    150    140
PiVate Cdpitll                 0      37      38     38    S5       60      80      90      100
Public Medhum-LT Disburemkents  79    18S    124   275    298    287        296    298    282
Mulatal                      44    100    89    21S    230    208         244    249    228
oa/WIRD                     2      S6      11    73      46      32      S4      S7      40
Bilawal                      3S     SS      36     60     68      79       S3     49      S4
MAdlm-LT Odwr                  30     90      1      7      12      21      28      36      45
Otk rd /owsa/                 273      8     243   -10       0      0        0       0      0
F_adnuGap                       0       0      0      0      20       4       13     19      20
Ran ExposuRados bl
DlRDDebt Sarvicaflxofta(S%)    3.2    2S5    2.8    2.9    3.0    2.8       2.9    3.1    2.9
MDDDebtService/PublioDS 2O%)   16.1   103    11.5   13.9   13.0   18.7    17.9   23.6   21.8
Prtf. Crad& DO/Public D 3S%)    60.8   40.8   42.3   55.1   49.6   60.3    61.8   72.6   73.3
Share of PBDantio (10%)       0.15   0.14    0.18   0.23   0.25    0.26    0.29    031    0.31
o        _       _ ds. ob  woaw% nedwOWbig, at dmd4maiUrn.   -  ad - iR Ii   bw     dI i
54.    Credltworllnem   d          1Expsur   El Salvador has a relatively low exral debt burden with te
bulk of external development finaing provided by official sources on concessional tems. As a result
of the war, little commercial debt was incurred during the 1980s, and the US was the only significant



-20 -
bilateral donor. In December 1992 the US forgave US$463 million, amounting to 75 percent of USAID
and PL480 debt, bringing total external debt down from 33 percent of GDP in 1992 to 25 percent in
1993. Current indicators show room for gradual increases in external debt to finance peace-related
expenditures and sustained economnic growth. The extnal debt/GDP ratio is projected to increase to 31
percent in 1998. However, the debt service/export ratio would fall from 26.7 percent in 1992 to 15.7
percent in 1998. Reflecting the lower share of US debt in total external debt and the proposed expanded
lending program, IBRD's share of total external debt is projected to remain approximately consta  at
12.9 percent during 1994-98, while IBRD's share of public debt service is projected to increase from 13.9
percent in 1993 to 21.8 percent by 1998. Given that the lending program is based on strong policy
reforms expected to yield improvements in export performance, the IBRD debt service to exports ratio
would remain approximately constant, averaging 2.9 percent during 1994-98. The preferred creditor share
of public debt service would increase from 55 percent in 1993 to an average of 64 percent during 1994-
98. These creditworthiness ratios reflect: (i) the inflexible structure of debt given the US debt
forgiveness in 1992; (ii) the falling due of past IBRD lending; and (iii) IDB's expanded lending program
in the order of US$150-200 million per year. It is significant that even under an assumption of zero
IBRI) lending in the 1995-98 period, IBRD's share of public debt service would still be over the 20
percent guideline in 1997 (at 21.8 percent), and the preferred creditor share would remain almost the
same, averaging 63 percent during the 1994-98 period.
E. SUMMY ASSESSNME
z5.   With the immediate challenge of ending the war behind them, policymakers face the formidable
task of institutionDalizing peace. To achieve this goal, the Government seeks to consolidate and deepen
the economic reform program while accelerating and intensifying efforts to attack poverty. The
democratic initiatives, embraced under the Peace Accords, will need to be ingrained into the body politic.
The incoming Administration will face a d;fflcult development and political challenge, as well as a foll
and complex reform agenda. The Bank's country assistance strategy is designed to support El Salvador
to manage the transition toward peace and sustinable growth, and to address longer-term structural
constraints.
56.   There is broad agreement with the Government on the overall development agenda and the
proposed Bank assistance strategy. Through our ongoing policy dialogue and actions taken over the past
three years, the Government has demonstrated a strong conmitment to the effort that will underpin the
proposed assistance program. In particular, our dialogue has emphasized the critical importance of
strengthening the Government's domestic resource mobilization effort, which in turn is linked to the scope
and prospects for the implementation of a comprehensive public sector reform program. While the
Government fully agrees with the need to increase public savings and refashion the role of the State, there
is some concern over the speed with which these complementary objectives can be achieved and the
institutional capacity that will be required.
57.   Progress on implementation of the Bank's assistance strategy will be judged on the following set
of criteria: Fbist, maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, with particular emphasis
on prudent fiscal policies and contnued progress in reducing the fiscal deficit and improving public
savings performance. Second, successful implementation of the reform program supported by SAL II.
Third, Government willingness and ability to carry out a comprehensive public sector reform prcgram.



- 21 -
And fourth, continued Government commitment to poverty alleviation and improved environmental
management.
58.   In addition to potential risks related to the external environment, the main risks confronting the
program are political and institutional. Whatever the makeup of the next Administration, the new
Government will most likely face a more politically diverse Assembly. Under these circumstances, the
process of mobilizing a domestic consensus to maintain progress on stabilization and adjustment will be
more difficult. Considerable political skills will be required to manage the expectations engendered by
the peace process and the NRP. However, even with a change in Government and a more diverse
Assembly, there appears to be a general consensus across the polidcal spectrum on the need to ensure
macroeconomic stability, deepen the process of structural adjustment and atack poverty. There is also
a heightened awareness that the various elements of the Peace Accords would be impossible to implement
without the full support of the donor community and that continued progress in stabilization and structural
reforms is a precondition for this support. Nevertheless, despite efforts to build capacity, the
Goverment's weak institutional caparity may constrain implementation of the full program outlined in
this Country Assistance Strategy.
PART 11. THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMKNT PROGRAM
59.    The second phase of the Government's adjustment program, to be supported by the proposed
SAL H, will provide the means for sustaining and deepening the adjustment process during the transition
between the current and the incoming Administration. This transition program has three main objectives:
Oi laying the analytical framework for a comprehensive public sector modernization effort; (ii)
cnsolidating and deepening reforms supported by SAL I in the areas of tax reform, privatization, trade,
financial sector reform, and social secor reform and poverty alleviation; and (iii) promoting actions
aimed at stengtheing public expenditure, civil service, and environmental management, and
restructuring the hydrocarbon sector. It is anticipated that in the next stage of structural adjustment, the
inoming Administration would implement the new vision of the State and establish a solid base for
private sector development by completing financial sector reforms and focussing on the regulatory
framework, the industrial sector, and labor markets.
60.   Specifically, adjustment efforts in the remaining period of the current Administration will focus
on the following areas: (1) public sector modernization, by establishing the analytical basis for a
comprehensive modnization effort and through improvements in public expenditure management, the
civil service, tax policy and administration, and acceleration of privatization efforts; (ii) market efficiency
reforms to complement public sector reform and foster private sector export-led growth, including
coninued financial sector reform, further trade liberalization, and the restructuring of the hydrocarbon
sector; (iii) social sector reforms to improve the efficiency of service delivery and reduce poverty; and
Civ) environmental policy reforms to ensure the sustnability of the development effort.
A. PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION
61.   There is a consensus among key Salvadoran policymakers that the structure of the public sector
is anachronistic and is a major obstacle to the effective implementation of development policy. One of
the main thrusts of the condmied adjustment effort will be the initiation of a comprehensive reform



- 22 -
program to modernize the public sector. This requires a thorough reexamination of: the role and
function of the State; the public sector's incentive framework; the relationships among institutions;
autonomy and decentralization issues; and other dimensions of the enabling institional environment.
The need for an overall public sector reform is reinforced by the impact of the Peace Acccrd and the need
to build a broad social consensus. Under the reform program, the public sector will concenrte on core
activities while working to strengthen its capacity to formulate and implement policies that enable the
private sector to thrve and that ensure efficient delivery (public and private) of essential services and
infrastructure. Tbe reform program will address the following areas: (i) management and administrtive
reforms, including institutional reordering, and rationalization and simplification of procedures and key
administrative tasks; (ii) decentralization and strengthening of municipal management; (iii) divestiture,
privatization, and deregulation; (iv) modernization of human resource management and the civil service;
and (v) integrated financial management.
62.   To lay the foundation for an efficient, highly-motivated, and productive public sector the
Government has prepared a comprehensive public sector modernization assessment (Ler of
Development Policy) and has fialized terms of reference for the preparation of an Action Plan to
implement the public sector modernization program (PSMAP) and for pilot reviews in three ministries
(Finance, Agriculture, and Public Works). The Government will complete the preparation of the
PSMAP, supported by the associated TAL, by June 1994 [Second tranche relem condiion; pam
9(l)]. The PSMAP will consist of a summary document based on diagnostic studies in the five areas
described above and the pilot ministry reviews and will cover the following elements: () a strategy for
the role of government, expressed in operational terms; (ii) a plan for change over the next 5 to 10 years,
with milestones and a timetable for specific actions, including the preparation of new laws and
regulations, and clear responsibilities; (iii) arrangements for the central management of the civil service;
(iv) strategic and operationad proposals for management improvement in ministries and other public-sector
insiutions, informed and energized by pilot reviews carried out in three ministries (Finance, Agriculture,
and Public Works); and (v) an assessment of the proposed program's costs and benefits. A crucial point
in the timing of any reforms is June 1994, when a newly-elected Government will take office. It is
planned that by the time the results of the elections are known in March 1994, a series of draft and
ineim reports will be available from the PSMAP for consideration by the new Government. Providing
the new Administon with the foundation-in the form of options, staged strategies, and other
supporting technical. studies-for a public sector modernization program, would allow the new
Goverment to draw on the work undertaken and introduce a series of staged refrms after taking office.
63.   During the transition period, this Government will take steps to remedy struct    weaknesses in
the public sector which require immediate attention and which would pave the way for the comprehensive
stucual reform to follow. These include: (i) deepenig public expenditure magement refrms; (ii)
initiating civil service reforms; (ii) extending tax reforms to broaden the base, rationalize inctives, and
improve tax and customs administation; and Civ) accelerating the privatization of non-financial
enterprie.
ublic Expenditure
64.   The process of expenditure planning, budgeting, and auditing has three major weaknesses. Fit,
a major constrain is the current budget frgm ation. In addition to the Ordinary Budget, managed by
the Ministry of Finance (MIFIN), exenditues financed through external grants or loans are collectively
referred to as the Extraordinary Budget and are managed by MIPLAN. Both require separate approval



-23 -
by the Legislative Assembly. lbe ofiginal purpose was to protect    al fnds intended for ivestment
projects from being utilized to finance recurrent expendit.  However, this pratice has been only
partially successful in achieving flexibility in spending, while Impeding both ependiure control and
efficient resource allocation. Seaond,  tional hproveme  are also required in the cess of
budg t reparation and in budget fomats. Currently, budgetary allocations are largely determined by past
expenditure patterns, and there is litle flexibility to reallocae expendiures according to national
priorities. In addition, program classification and analysis in ministerial budgets is weak and budgetary
control mechanisms are slow and inflexible. At the same time, until renty, the public sector lacked a
comprehensive fiscal accounting system that met the needs of policmakers and financial managers.
Third, the nuit grocedum followed by the Court of Accounts (Corte de Qantw) for the control of
government spending are outdated. The currentx ante and ex post audit control exercised by the Carte
de CQentas, coupled with its internal disorganization, constiu an impediment for the timely execution
of virtually all projects and was one of the main reasons behind the creation of the Extraordinay Budget.
65.   Public expenditure management reforms are craical to increase public savings and to reallocate
resources toward the social sectors, and are a pre-condition for the success of fure efforts to modenize
thepublicsector. To addresstese constuaintinacomprhensive   r, the Government has approved
and is implementing an lftegrated Financial Magement (PM) system [Boar Prumtatlo condion;
para. 94f) which aims at: improving and streamalinig the budgeig, accounting, and treasury systes;
strengthening expenditure prioriization both at the national and sectoral levels; and accelerating and
improving budget execution and auditing.
66.   Reform of the Budgear Proces  and Budget Unifiatio   To redress the current budget
ragmentation and advance in the unifiation of the Ordiary and Extraordinary Budget and their
functions (including preparation, execution, accounting, and auditing), while addressing the struct
weaknesses which led to fra  on in the fist place, the Goverment has: 0) establishe a Budget
Committee; (ii) approved a strategy for Budget Unification, including a redefinition of MlPIN's and
MIPLAN's roles and responsibilities; and (ii) introduced the new Goveent Accounatg System (GAS)
-developed with IMP support-in S executing agencies (Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Public
Works, and Finance, and the Court of Accounts) [Board Preenta_on conda_on; para. 94(1). In its
remaining time in office, the present Govenment will: continue implementation of the IFM project
including the submission to the Assembly of draft Budget and Trasury Laws [second tranche rdele
condition; pam. 95(11)]; identifhy te unified budget strcture and format, and develop and implement a
standardized system of program classification (later of DevPs a p_0 PWlcy); dovelop and implement
a computerized system for budget execution (Letter of Devpn iPlley); and extend the application
of the new GAS to the whole non-finanial public sector [seonad rmache conddon; pao  9SQ1)].
67.   EXpe u   Proitz            and Program Analis.  To achieve more efficient resource
allocation and informed decision-making, the Government has created a National System of Public
investment and is developing a system of Medium-Term Eendite Planing (MTEP). Te MTEP
will include a national three-year budget plan to be developed jointly by MIFIN and MILAN, in close
cooperation with the Central Bank (lIer of Deelopmet Poliy), and tree-year Medium-Term
Sectoral Budgets (MSB) in each Minstry to identify expend     prorities, eliminate unnecessay
1. Created in Novamber 1990 wh UNDP assisanoe ad coing of a centr allobo reqioe  for evauat  and
approving aDl new public oector projecs.



- 24 -
expenditures, and ensure more efficient intra-sectoral resource allocation. A pilot MTSB for the Ministry
of Education (MED) has been designed (Board presentaton condilobn; pan. 940)1, including te
identification of a new program classification and the preparation of a new unified budget structure. The
medium-term budget for 1994-96 in the MED will be finalized by mid-1994 [second tranche release
condition; pan. 95 (f1)1. MTSB des!  in the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Vice-Ministry of
Housing will also be completed by mid-1994 [second tranche release condition; para. 95(iU)].
68.   Budget Execution and Auditing. The Government has implemented the following actions to
achieve great speed and flexibility in the spending of executing agencies: (i) implementation of rules
permitting advance global spending authorizations (Desembolso Anicdpado de Fondos Pablicos [DAFPJ)
in 5 Central Govemment executing agencies (Ministries of Health, Public Works, Agriculture, and
Finance, and the Court of Accounts) [oard preseaion condition; par. 94)1; (ii) establishment and
initiation of operations of the Audit Department in charge of post-expenditure control in the Court of
Accouns oard presetation condition; pam. 9401; and (iii) preparation and implementation of a
time-bound Audit Plan by the Court of Accounts, beginning with the Ministries of Health, Public Works,
Agriculture, and Finance [Bard presentation condition; pars. 94)1]. To finalize the process of
eliminating ex-ante controls and to rely on ex-post expenditure review, the Government will implement
the DAFP in all Central Government executing agencies [second tranche release condition; para. 95(ii)]
and continue imple  ion by the Court of Accounts of the agreed Audit Plan  [second tranche
condition; par  95(11)1.
The Civil Seice
69.   The civil service in El Salvador is afflicted by overemployment, unenforced and obsolete rules
and regulations, and an inadequate wage structure. In addition, there is a complete lack of capacity to
monitor and control personnel emoluments, which represent approximately 70 percent of current
expenditures (excluding interest payments) in the Ordinary Budget. Modernization of the public sector
is hampered by the lack of a quantitative and qualitative assessment of current civil service issues. In
the context of the 1M Stand-by Arrangement, the A iithorities have eliminated 4,000 Central Government
positions provided for in the 1993 Budget, inclu&. mainly unfilled vacancies. Although this is an
important step, the lack of a personnel information symem makes it impossible to monitor the overall size
of the civil service. To avoid a deterioration in the fiscal performance during the transition period, while
laying the groundwork for a comprehensive reform, the Government will improve the savings
performance of the non-financial public sector to at least 0.5 percent of GDP in 1993 (LAter of
Devdopment Poliy). The Government will also establish a ublic savings target in the range of 0.6-1
percent for 1994 [second tranbce release condition; parm 95Cii1)J. This target may be revised in the
context of an evenual extension of the current Stand-by Arrangement by the IMF. The main focus of
the Government effort will be the implementtion of a Human Resource Information System (HRIS)
which is essenti to the success of the overall public sector reform program. Finally, to achieve a
sustained reduction in the public sector wage bill and to rationalize the civil service, the Government will
prepare a comprehensive human resource management reform program-including institutional
arrangements for the central management of the civil service-which will form part of the PSMAP.
70.   The HRIS has two principal aims. First, it will develop the Government's technical capacity to
monitor and enforce pay and employment policy. Second, by substantially improving the data base on
the positions, functions and pay of civil servants, it will serve as an analytic tool in the design and
implementation of civil service management reforms that strengthen the overall public sector



- 25 -
modernization program. The Government has designed and intiated implementation of the central and
local HRIS (Board pr ontaton condition; parm. 941), including: (i) technical validation of the HRIS
design; (ii) preparation of an Action Plan to implement the central HRIS system and to implement local
systems, linked to the central HRIS, in the two pilot ministries, MIFIN and MAG; (iii) finalization of
Terms of Reference for the manager and coordinator of the implementation of the central HRIS system;
and (iv) preparation of an action plan and a timetable for transfer to the central system of existing
personnel and payroll data in each ministry, dependent and autonomous agencies. The Government will
continue implemenatation of central HRIS and local systems in MIFIN and MAG [second tranche release
condition; pars. 95(3i)1 by completing implementation of central HRIS and local systems in MIPS and
MAG; transferring and processiag of existing personnel and payroll data in all ministries, dependent and
autonomous agencies; and by preparing an action plan to reconcile discrepancies in existing personmel
and payroll data, and to implement local HRIS systems in every ministry, dependent and autonomous
agencies.
Tax Reform
71.   El Salvador's tax system is characterized by high reliance on indirect taxation and by a low tax
to GDP ratio. Indirect taxes have on the average provided 72 percent of Central Government tax revemne
from 1980 to 1992. Income taxes represented 22 percent, and the remaining 6 percent consisted of taxes
on property. The tax-to-GDP ratio is one of the lowest among developing countries, and the second
lowest among broadly comparable countries of the region. It has been falling since 1986 (12.8 percent
of GDP) reaching 7.6 percent of GDP in 1989 (Table 3). Yields of the tax system on the whole showed
resistance to grow with, or more than, the GDP, despite inflationary pressures, progresive income tax
rates, and ad valorem rates of some of the taxes. Key detrminants of the weak revenue performance
were the 1980s armed conflict, the narrow coverage of the tax system, and deflicient an.
However, there are several indications to suggest that the Government is on the right course to improve
both the tax system and tax administration. To strengthen medium-term fiscal performance, the
Government needs to increase tax yields in a sustainable manner and achieve a more buoyant tax system
through further reforms. The main features of the second phase of the tax reform program are:
broadening the base of the tax system by eliminating most remaining trade duty exemptions; rationalizing
the rate structure of taxe and reducing distortions in economic incentives; and strengthening tax
administration and enforcement. These reforms are expected to raise tax revenues to approximately 10.5
percent of GDP by end-1994.
72. The Government will expand the tax base and enhance revenues through a series of agreed tax
measures. The Govermment has approved expansion of the VAT base to include import duties; approved
doubling of the specific motor vehicle registration fees; included taxation of incomes from coffee
cultivation under the income tax; and modified the Duty Free Shops Law (Ley de Ilendas Libres) to
control smuggling. In addition, the Government has made progress in implementation of an agreed action
plan to repeal most import duty exemptions by repealing exemptions to the National Telecommunications
Administration (ANDA), the Ports Authority (CEPA), aud the National Water Company (ANTEL) and
by submitting to the Assembly revisions to current legislation (Ley de Residenmes Renttstas) to reduce
exemptions to returning residents [Board presentation condition; para. 94(lil)J. In addition, the
Government will implement an action plan [second tranche release condition; parm. 95(lv)J to repeal
most trade duty exemptions (excluding international practices), including: (i) submission to the Assembly
of legislation to limit trade duty exemptions to cooperatives, the Executive, and the Central Government;
(ii) submission to the Assembly of legislation to repeal exemptions to CEL; and (iii) completion of a



- 26 -
review of duty exempton cur y being gatd to the Leslative and the Judicial branches to define
the fiscal cost of such exmptions and Idenify apprrte cofctive actions. These tax policy measures
should increae reveues by about 0.4 percent of GDP by end-1994.
Taw 3: Cea1 Goywn    R_Mu, 160.199
(A hre EGDb
TODIbYIUS                12.0     12.4     11.3      .6       9.1      9.6
Tm liVen                10.9     11.0     10.S      8.1      8.5      8.7
buctlntsmal            3.4      3.0       2.7      2.2      2.6      2A
olnmeThx              2.6      23        2.1      1.3      2.0      1.8
Not Wuu Tax           0.6      0.5       OA       03       OA       0.3
Propt"                0.2      0.        a2       02       02       02
ndIrd intadl           4.0      S.2       4.6      3.8      4.1      4.7
EXula                 2.1      2.0       1.6      1.2      1.2      1.1
Stvim"                03       0.2       0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1
"us TzI/              1.4 A    2.        2.8      2.5      2.7      3.5
StoapTax&O ha,        0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.0
I wmdondheet           3.7      3.0       3.2      1.8      1.8      15
hIpoit                1.0      1.0       1.0      1.1      1.3      I.S
3xPoft                2.7      2.0       22       0.6      0.5      0.1
A  uiuafttorTa         0.2      0.1       0.0     (t3)      0.0      0.0
Nm4v RIbI_              1.1      IA        0.7      0.5      0.6      0.9
-_- ANMbI Tu d inf L 1. 1uN p1 p*n S-.-
73.   To promote an efficiet, equitable, and ut  e  tax structure and to ensure the sustainability
of revenue p   om   ,  e Governmt has initiated a comprehensive review of the tax system (Leter
of De elopenit Pilc) which will be completd by mid-1994 [second _rnde release condWon; para
950v)J. This USAID funded revi  wi prv   recommdS to rationalize tax incentives, reduce
distortions in economic incentives, and ensure coordination among tax insuments and will provide an
Inportant input into the next Administatios agenda for continuing tax policy reforms. The review of
the tax system will asess the impact of reforms and the need for further measures with respect to: (i)
revenue peformance, i.e., buoyancy of the overall tax system as well as specific taxes; (ii) the degree
of neutrality in the teatment of individuals, sources of income, organizations, economic sectors, and
factors of production; (Mii) dributonal equity; and (iv) adminirative capability and costs. Four studies
will be completed on tax adminisaio;  incidence of the tax system; tariff rates and customs reform; and
an evluation of tie tax reform and reco eons for fulure reform.
74.   lTe second pillar of the tax reorm effort is tax and customs aminition reform for which a
progrdsimei pro d to yield appro y 1.0 pecent of GDP by end-1994-is being
implemen_d, drawing on the program designed by MIFI  and on extig technical assistance projects
financed by the JMFj USAID, and IDB. In tax administration, the program includes: (i) coordinating
existng technical assistance and addrsing areas not currently coverm; (ii) integrating evasion and
smuggling control programs betwe ie the DOI (trnd revenue sevice) and customs; and (iii) reforming
the DGII.  In cusms              on, refrms include: (i) simplifying and streamliinng customs



- 27 -
prooedures; (ii) modernizing the administrative system by adopting and inegrating a computrzed
inf ation management system; and (iii) submitting to the Assembly a draft Customs Law to enhance
revenue collection and simplify administrative procedures. To strengthen tax enforcement, the
Govenm   t has approved a Law [Board prsenhttion condition; pare. 94Chi) providing for more
severe punishment for tax evaders (Ley del Delto FTcal). Given experience in other countries, the
enactment of this law is expected to significandy reduce tax evasion. Annex C outlines the Goverment's
adopted tax and customs administration reform program with specific timtables for actions [Board
s        at      second rnche release conditions; paras. W9(l and 9Sv)I.
Pilvtiio  of NonFimania Enterpr
75. To eliminate the budgetary subsidies received by public enterprises, remove the allocative
inefflciencies introduced by such enterprises, and foster private sector involvement, since 1989 the
Government has sold one large hotel (the Hotel Presidente) and has offered for sale assets of the Food
Regulatoy Institute (IRA), the National Coffee Institute (INCAFE), the National Sugar Institute
(INAZUCAR), and the marketing activities of the Banco de Fomeno Agropecuario (BFA). To accelerate
the prvaization process and complete divestiture of all its productive assets2, in 1993 the Governnt
has offered for sale all of BFA's productive assets'; the San Bartolo free trade zone; BANAFI's Cemeno
Maya company; and INCAFE's warehouses [Board presentation conditWon, para. 94(v)]. In addition,
the Government will: (i) offer for sale remaining INCAFE assets, including all its processing plants; one
of the five remaning INAZUCAR sugar mills (most likely El Carmen), and remaining
BANAFI/CORSAIN assets (the IIfboa sugar mill, stocks and properties); (ii) complete all financial and
legal preparatory work for the privatization of the remaining four sugar mills owned by INAZUCAR;
and (iii) promote private ownership or control in the Fisheries Complex by either selling or leasing it
[send trencbe release conton; parn. 95(v)].
B. MARKET ECICY REFORMS
76.   The Government has gone a long way toward establishing an appropriate policy framework to
bolster private sector development. Public sector reforms in particular aim at improving the investment
climate by promoting efficiency in resource allocation ard service delivery, reducing crowding out of the
private sector, rationalizing tax incentives, and accelerating privatization. Nevertheless, structurd
problems, such as low levels of savings and investment, a lingering anti-export bias, and incomplete
reforms in the trade and regulatory regimes, persist. T, complement this process, the Government will
continue takdng steps to ensure a policy framework condacive to priva-sector led export-oriented growth
by deepening reforms in the financial sector and the trade regime and reducing distortions in the
hydrocarbon sector.
2. Re_asqy reform ad poeial pil    of public utiftes have been or are expectd to be included in other loans:
for th POw Coan"y (CEL) In theongong BDank Powe Sector TAL and the _hcomg Bank Power Sectr
Modmnato Poje*t for the watr secetr inludig ANDA and other sectr in_Aos) in IDB's Waer Sul md
Seweag  System Rehbiton Progeam and for     aios (ANTL) a  surfie sporin IDB's Inveemt
Sector LAnM
3. Co _ist  of three procssig plas (Sii del MAo; Kio 5; ad SRMA) and real estate.



- 28 -
Fnanal Sector Reform
77.   The Government's finacial sector policies aim at rehabilitating and privatizing the largely
insolvent state-owned financial system, eliminating financial repression, improving the allocation of
resources, and fostering the mobilization of private savings and investment. Following a number of
significant financial sector reform measures since 1990 (Box 1), the Government will continue to maintain
a market-based interest rate regime (Ltter of Devdopment Policy); will complete the privatization of
banks and finance companies; promote capital market development; and reform the rural credit delivery
system. In addition, other donors, particularly IDB through its Investment Sector Loan, are supporting
reforms aimed at: strengthening the Superintendency of the Financial System; restructuring the two social
security institutions (ISSS, which provides retirement and health care for the private sector, and INPEP,
the civil servants' retirement plan); and restructuring the insurance industry.
78.   Privatization of Banks and FEnncial Companies. The Government has advanced fiuter in
the privatization effort by offering for sale the two remaining state banks (Banco Siwadorello and Banco
de Comercdo) [Board prea ton condition; par. 94(v)] and two of the remaning four financial
companies (C4SA and Ahorromet) [Board presentation condition; para 94(v)]. In addition, the Central
Bank has ended the prohibition to open new banks and has established procedures for the operation of
newly established commercial banks (Letter of Development Policy). The Central Bank has also
publicly announced a timetable for the offering for sale of the remaining financial companies [Board
presentation condition; para. 94(v)]. To complete the privatization process in the finanial sector the
Government will offer for sale the remaining two financial companies (Credisa and Alacad) [second
tranche release condition; para. 95(di)J and the Central Bank's portion of Banco Hipotecario [second
tranche release condition; para. 95(vi)J.
79.   Capital Markets. The Government is encouraging the development of a well-finctioning
securities market, which would allocate resources and risks more efficiently across sectors, and make
financial intrmediation less costly and more transparent. A stock market has been operating since April
1992, a superintendency for capital markets already exists, and the Central Bank issues 30 to 180 (6
months) monetary stabilization bonds of which approximately 20 percent are currently being placed
through the capital market. Capital market development efforts are also supported by the IDB's ongoing
Investment Sector Loan. To provide a solid legal framework for securities and capital markets, the
Government has submitted to the National Assembly the draft Capital Market Law [Board presentation
condition; parm. 94(v)] and the draft revisions to the Commercial Code [Board presentation condition;
para. 94(v)]. The draft Capital Market Law includes provisions for the issuance of longer-term
instruments and procedures for supervision, accounting, and auditing; a registry of issuing firms; and
procedures for the establishment of markets for new instruments. The revisions to the Commercial Code
are aimed at expanding financial instruments in the bond and stock market.
80.   Rural Credit. The rural finance sector combines state-owned specialized institutions (BFA and
FEDECREDIT0) and commercial banks. The two specialized institutions suffer from years of
mismanagement and politization of credit allocation, poor quality portfolios, and large losses. To develop
a market-oriented and commercially viable rural credit delivery system, the Government will implement
a comprehensive reform program of the two specialized institutions, including portfolio restructuring,
divestiture, and integration of the rural credit delivery system. The Government has completed a
diagnostic study [Board prestatlon condition; parm. 94(v)] to lay the groundwork for the preparation



- 29 -
and implementation of an action plan [second tranche release condition; para. 95(vi)1 for the reform
of the rural credit delivery system. Possible measures, expected to be agreed upon by end-August 1993,
include: (a) FEDECRED1T becoming independent from the Central Bank and evolving into a real rural
credit cooperative, with the rural credit unions becoming FEDECREDITO shareholders; (b) strengthening
credit unions; improving their management and credit procedures; merging small and not financially
viable credit unions with larger ones; and allowing credit unions to offer savings instruments to their
members; and (c) privatizing BFA which would focus only on agribusiness.
Hydrocarbon Sector
81.   The price structure of petroleum derivatives is complex due to a combination of taxes,
commissions, and subsidies (including significant cross subsidies). Diesel for public transportation and
LPG have been highly subsidized, causing serious economic distortions. Domestic oil prices are
controlled by the Ministry of Economy, and adjustment to international prices has been uneven. The
Government has elaborated and initiated implementation of an action plan for reform of the hydrocarbon
sector, including the design of an alternative system to protect low income consumers of diesel for public
transportation and LPG, and finalization of a draft Hydrocarbons Law. The objective of the proposed
Hydrocarbon Law is to simplify existing laws and regulations and to reduce and simplify unnecessary and
distortionary regulations on prices, subsidies, taxes, and exploration and distribution. In addition, the
Government has prepared terms of reference to develop an import parity pricing system for petroleum
derivatives [Board presentation condition; para. 94(vi)J. The Government will continue implementation
of the action plan for reform of the sector, by submitting to the Assembly the draft Hydrocarbon Law
and replacing the current distortionary diesel subsidy with the new mechanism [second tranche release
condition; para. 95(vii)J.
Trade Reform
82.   The Government seeks to consolidate trade reform to foster export-led growth, achieve greater
domestic efficiency, and strengthen the institutional framework for processing of trade flows. To this
end, the Government wil take steps to further reduce tariff levels and dispersion, to eliminate remaining
NTBs and simplify administrative instruments, and to improve export incentives. In addition, tax policy
reforms such as reforming customs (para. 74) and eliminating most tariff duty exemptions (para. 72) will
modernize and increase the transparency of the trade re,ime.
83.   Tariff Reform. Since 1989, the tariff range has been reduced from 0-290 percent to 5-30 percent
and the number of tariff rates from 25 to 5. Items in the 25-30 range currently represent 12.4 percent
of all tariff lines. The coefficient of variation for the whole economy was reduced from over 100 percent
in 1988 to approximately 66 percent in 1992 and the unweighted mean was lowered from 37 percent in
1988 to 12.5 percent in 1992 (Table 4). The aim of the Government is to reduce distortion and bring
most tariff codes within the range 5-20 percent by December 1994 (Letter of Development Policy), with
the exception of items which are bound by GATT or are exempted under the Central American Common
Market (CACM). The next stage of the process before June 1994 involves the submission to the
Assembly of legislation to bring all tariff codes in Part III of the Central American Tariff Code within
the 5-20 percent range [second tranche release condition; para. 95(viii)]. This would bring items at
the 25-30 percent range to approximately 10 percent of all tariff lines; by January 1995 there would be
no tariff lines at 30 percent and 95 percent of the tariff lines would be in the 5-20 percent range. As the
process of trade liberalization consolidates, the Government is concerned that with lower tariff protection,



- 30 -
domestic producers will be vulnerable to dumping. Therefore, the Government has enacted anti-dumaping
and countervailing regulations. The regulatory provisions were elaborated within the Central American
regional integration framework and the Government will ensure that these regulations are consistent with
GATT (Lter of Development Policy).
84.    Non-Tariff Banriers (NTBs) and Administatve Instruments. Although remaining NTBs cover
only about 5 percent of all tariff lines a series of administrative instruments regulating import flows still
exist. In its effort to eliminate reliance on NTBs as an explicit means of protection, the Govermnent
determinee that at the root of the problem  were four laws [Ley de Sandad Agropecuaiia and its
regulationi (7/2711961); Health Code (4/28/1988); Ley de Farmacia (613011927); and Decree No. 647
(12119/1990)] which currently regulate remaining import permits and have considerable overlapping
administrative procedures. Tc ensure a reform aimed at eliminating NTBs and further reducing and
simplifying existing administrative instruments regulating import flows, and to ensure that remaining
instruments are consistent with internationally recognized practices, the Government has decided to
modify the above legislation. The Ministries of Economy, Health, Agriculture, and Finance have agreed
(in the form of a joint letter) on the articles that need to be modified in the four laws mentioned above
and on the objectives of such modiflcations [Board presentation condition; para. 94 (vii)]. Proposals
for the modifications to these laws will be submitted to the Assembly for approval before June 1994
[second tranche release condition; para. 95(viii)].
Table 4: Trff StUcture, 18-92, 19S.
(Uvwewftad hian and Cosidmas of Vaat  in far_tta)
is"                       Men191             1      19"9       jam 1994     am. 
&dm          U_$d&t  ow_  tkwoo         Uaow s  u _o car    umw  cin    1 cod'  11_meV car
l M    Vsr.    Mm  %W.    hm      . hrM  Y  .    Mo   VW.          m   Its.      MW.
Whod Economy      36.9  116.0  20.4  85.3  17.8  76.4  14.7  74.1   12.5  66.4   11.6  73.9   10.7  64.4
Agriubu          39.0   9.7   20.4  91.2  17.2  76.7  13.9  72.7   11.5  62.6   12.1  48.5   12.1  48.5
.Ming            10.4  44.2   6.9   53.6   6.9   53.6  7.5   60.0   7.3   61.6   6.3  39.8   6.3   39.8
Ma _nc           37.2  116.1  20.6  84.5  18.0  76.1  14.9  73.8   12.6  65.9   11.6  75.2   10.7  66.4
Coumer Goods    59.2  90.2   29.5  62.7  24.2  56.2  20.0  57.5   16.2  53.1   18.8  47.9   16.7  40.0
Intenodiat Goods   21.8  114.2  14.4  91.0  13.8  85.5  11.6  78.4   10.3  68.9   7.8  68.5   7.5   58.0
CapiUa Goods    21.5  103.3  14.0  99.3  13.3  94.7  10.8  85.2   9.8   74.5   6.3  57.6   6.3   57.8
at in Marc TM~J, anMWAei   MMaota  wui hdl ne a citoT counixm        (UNSO Amnw umcmwn    -
inudwuing about 3,000 n  tariff lin into the old tiff schad 1of 2,000 triff li (Nomesolot aUnifimowCerameicmna- NAUCA).
85.    EWort Regime. In addition to tariff and NTBs reduction, the Government has attempted to
reduce the anti-export bias by: introducing a regime for free trade zones; adopting a duty drawback
system; and simplifying administrative procedures of exporters through the creation of an export
processing center (Centro de Trdmites de Exportad6nes [CENTREXJ) in the Central Bank. However,
there are administrative and instituional weaknesses in the underlying framework of these measures.
Over 30 percent of the accumulated value of duty drawbacks has not been reimbursed. CENTREX's
existence currently relies on an informal understanding between the President of the Central Bank and
the Minister of Economy. In addition, export-promotion measures lack cohesiveness. To strengthen
the trade regulatory and policy framework in February the Government established a high level
Committee for the promotion of exports (Comisidn .acional de Fomento de las Expondaciones [FOMEXJ)
(Letter of Development Policy) and initiated a review of the current duty drawback scheme (Ltter of



- 31 -
Development Policy). In addition, the Minister of Economy has submitted to the Assembly revisions
to Art. 8 of the Export Promotion Law to ensure the permanency and institutionalization of CENTREX
[Board prestation condition; pama 94(vl). Before leaving office, the present Administration intends
to-with USAID support-elaborate and initiate imple on of a comprehensive Export Development
Strategy, including the recommendations of the review of the current duty drawback system and the
finalization of CENTREX's internal regulations (Ltter of Development Policy). In parallel, IDB's ISL
is focusing on investment promotion mechanisms, such as a one-stop-shop for investment registration,
intellectal property rights, and telecommunications.
C. SOCIAL SECTOR REW)tM AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION
86.   The Government's strong commitment to the social sectors is demonstrated by real increases in
spending in 1992 on education and health (by 10 and 20 percent, respectively), with similar expansions
planned for 1993. This effort is supported by the Bank's ongoing SSRP which calls for annual increases
of 5 percent in real terms through 1995 for education and health. Nevertheless, the impact of increased
social spending has been limitd by three major structural constraints: (i) social sector ministries are
afflicted by poor management and weak financial planning due to the lack of a cohesive budgetary process
and program prioritization; (ii) rigid rules and procedures have hampered intra-sectoral reallocation of
human resources; and (iii) the Government lacks mechanisms to monitor implementation of its poverty
alleviation plan. The first two constaits are being addressed within the overall public sector reform
effort (paras. 61-70), while specific actions supported by SAL I would focus on implementation of an
agreed Poverty Alleviation Strat.
87.   Poverty Aleviation Stategy. The Government's overall poverty alleviation plan emphasizes
primary health care and basic education, rationalization and coordination of food assistance through
targeted programs, restructuring of line ministries, and decentralization of service delivery. The
Government, however, has defined the objectives and targeted its poverty alleviation programs with little
empirical support' and has lacked mechanisms to monitor implementation of its poverty alleviation effort.
To address this issue, the Bank has completed a Poverty Assessment to help the Government evaluate the
status of poverty and to deermine ways to strengthen poverty alleviation measures.
88.   To make progress in the preparation of a comprehensive and more efficient Poverty Alleviation
Strategy and an Action Plan for 1994-98, the Government has initiated: (i) an evaluation of the main
compensatory programs managed by the Social Investment Fund (FIS) and the National Secretariat for
Reconstruction (SRN/CONARA) according to agreed criteria; and (ii) the development of a monitoring
system to measure living standards, including an action plan to: modernize exi-ning survey systems;
reorganize MlPLAN's Survey Directorate; and establish an information system with basic indicators
[Board preentation condition; pamr 94(vIii)]. As the next step, the Govermnent will finalize a Poverty
Alleviation Strategy by completing the evaluation of: (i) compensatory programs managed by FIS and
SRN/CONARA; (ii) training and productive support programs, including the regulatory framework for
microenterprises; and (di) social services managed by the Ministries of Education and Health [second
tranche release condition; para. 95(h)]. The completion of the strategy will provide the framework
4. Paculady regarding rm  as; te last populaion ceonsus daes fiom 1970 and the aest household survey with rural
covemge daes fiom 1980.



- 32 -
to prepare and initiate implementation of a Poverty Alleviation Action Plan [second tranche relase
condition; par. 9S(I)1 for the 1994-98 period, which would include inter alia: (i) institutional
arrangements to avoid dup.ivation of efforts; (ii) improved targeting mechanisms; (iii) improved
mechanisms for aid coordination; and (iv) a system for monitoring and evaluation of key poverty
alleviation programs. As part of the Action Plan, the Government will initiate implementation of the new
monitoring system to measure living standards.
89.   Jwiutizaion of Alternative Deivery Systems. The public sector has been unable to
provide basic social services, such as primary health care and primary education to the poor effectively.
The Government recognizes that not only more resources need to be directed toward the social sectors
but that: (i) additional resources need to be targeted to basic health care and primary education through
public expenditure management and civil service reforms (paras. 64-70); and (ii) new means of service
delivery are needed to promote decentralization and direct public sector financing to community groups
and NGOs who would become the administrators of the services. The community schools program
(EDUCO) is already being implemented (Box 5), and although ahead of schedule and thus far successful,
its implementation has been authorized through executive decisions (Presidential awv Ministerial Decrees)
which can be revoked at any time, and relies heavily on foreign financing. The Government has decided
to establish a legal framework to provide EDUCO with a more stable institutional base and to facilitate
its replication in other social services. As a first step, MIFIN and the Court of Accounts have approved
the institutional mechanism to transfer extrnal  to community associations for the provision of
social services, starting with EDUCO (Letter of Development Policy). To ensure institutionalization
of the process and as part of the overall public sector modernization effort, the Government will approve
the institutional mechanism to also transfer, use, and audit Central Government funds for private sector
service delivery, starting also with EDUCO (LAtter of Development Policy).
D. ENVIRONNTAL POUCY REFORM
90.   The sustainabitity of economic and social adjustment efforts will be enhanced if El Salvador takes
swift and effective action to arrest and reverse environmental degradation. Recognizing that improved
environmental management will require review of existing sector policies, development of intersectoral
environmental policy, and coordination of government actions, the Government creted the National
Council for the Environment (Corasejo Nacional del Medlo Ambimte [CONAMAD-a body consisting
of 12 ministers, with an executive secretariat (Secretar(a Ejeculva del MediO Ambiente [SEMAD.
CONAMA's broad ministerial representation has made its operation extremely difficult and, with the few
exceptions (e.g., forestry policy), little policy-making and strengthening of environmental management
has taken place. Within this policy vacuum, SEMA has mainly been engaged in coordinating projects
implemented by NGOs.
91.   Given the country's limited resources to invest in solutions to all issues affecting the environment,
the Government has recognized the need to identify the most critical problems, understand the trade-offs
involved in deciding where to act, and then, establish priorities for the use of its resources. With this
in mind, the Governiment has prepared a draft Environmental Action Plan Lettr of Development
Policy). This action plan will be finalized and its implementation begun before June 1994 [second
tache release condition; para. 95()]. Part of the plan includes an analysis of the weaknesses of the
existing institutional framework (Letter of Development Policy) and a proposal to create a new policy-
making and coordination system. CONAMA will review this proposal and a decision is expected before



- 33 -
June 1994 (eAtw of Development Poliy). The Goverent has also developed an annotated outline
of a comprehensive Environmental Law (Letter of Development PoUcy) to address the lack of
environmental legislation in some areas, implementation shortcomings in existing legislation due to
obsolescence and institutional overlap, and the need for more effective enforcement and processing of
environmenta sanctions. The submission to the Assembly of the draft Law will take place before June
1994 [second tranche release condition, pam. 95(x)J.
PART Ul. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. BACKGROUND
92.   Since 1989, The Bank has had a continuous policy dialogue with the Government on the progress
of the adjustment effort as part of the preparation and supervision of SAL I. A first outline of the second
stage of the adjustment effort and possible Bank support were discussed with the Government in October-
November 1991. The purpose of the adjustment loan would be to continue supporting the Government's
1989-1994 economic recovery and adjustment program (Plan de Desarrolo Econ6mico y Social, 1989
1994. The Govenment provided additional details on the reform program during the March 1992
second Consultative Group Meeting for El Salvador. Further details on the reform program were
contained in the Government's Economic and Social progress report for the 1991-1992 period, prepared
by MIPLAN. The Bank's identification mission visited the country during May 1992. At that time, the
Government took a number of steps to initiate preparatory work by laying the analytical groundwork and
adopting some key measures. Further progress was made during the preparation mission (October 1992)
and two pre-appraisal missions (March and May 1993) On the basis of the program developed by the
Government, appraisal of SAL In took place in June-July 1993.
D. CONDMONS FOR TRANCJE RELEASE
93.   A US$50 million loan in two tranches is proposed. It is expected that loan proceeds would be
fully disbursed in two tranches of US$30 million and US$20 million, respectively, by June 1994. The
first tranche would be available for disbursement upon loan effectiveness. A furfther 8-10 months would
be required to meet the conditions for second tranche. The proposed closing date is December 31, 1994.
In addition to the monitorable actions specified below, tranche releases would be contingent upon the
ma;n-ena   if an appropriate macroeconomic framework and satisfactory progress in overall program
it ',!, entaton as outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex E).
94.   The folowing poley actions have been taken before Board presenttion:
(i)    Public Expendue Managent: approval by the Economic Committee of the Strategy for
Budget Unification, including a redefinition of MlFIN's and MIPLAN's roles (para. 66);
approval by the Minister of Finance and initiation of implementation of a detailed Work Plan to
implement the IFM project (para. 65); introduction of the new GAS in 5 executing agencies
(para. 66); design of a pilot MTSB for the MED (para. 67); implementation of the DAFP in 5
execting agencies (para. 68); establishment and initiation of operations of the Audit Department
in charge of post-expendit , control in the Court of Accounts (para. 68); preparation and



- 34 -
implementation of a time-bound Audit Plan by the Court of Accounts, beginning with the
Ministries of Health, Public Works, Agriculture, and Finance (para. 68);
(ii)   The Civil Service: design and initiation of implementation of the central and local Human
Resource Information System (HRIS) (para. 7C);
(iii)   Tax Reform: implementation of the following tax measures: (a) approval of expansion of the
VAT base to include import duties; (b) approval of doubling of the specific motor vehicle
registration fees; (c) taxation of incomes from coffee cultivation under the income tax; (d)
modification of the Duty Free Shops Law (Ley de Ilendas Libres; and (e) progress in the
implementation of an agreed action plan to repeal most import duty exemptions, specifically:
repeal of exemptions to ANDA, CEPA, and ANTEL and submission to the Assembly revisions
to current legislation (Ley de Residentes Rendsts) (para. 72); satisfactory implementation of the
agreed action plan for tax and customs reform (Annex C), including the approval by the National
Assembly of the Ley del Delfto Ffscal (para. 74);
(iv)   Privatization: offer for sale: (a) all of BFA's productive assets; (b) the San Bartolo free trade
zone; (c) BANAFI's Cemento Maya company; and (d) INCAFE's warehouses (para. 75);
(v)   Finanial Sector Reform: public offering of the remaining 2 state banks (Banco Salvadoreflo and
Banco de Comerdo) (para. 78); public announcement of the timetable for the sale of the
remaining financial companies and public offeing of two of the four financial companies (CASA
and Ahorromet) (para. 78); submission to the National Assembly of the draft Capital Market Law
and the revisions to the Commercial Code (para. 79); completion of the rural credit delivery
system sttdy (para. 80);
(vi)   Hydrocarbon Sector Peform: elaboration and initiation of implementation of the agreed action
plan for the reform of the Hydrocarbon sector, including: (a) the design of an alternative system
to protect low income consumers of diesel and LPG; (b) the finalization of a draft Hydrocarbons
Law; and (c) the preparation of terms of reference to develop and import parity pricing system
for petroleum derivatives (para. 81);
(vii)  Trade Reform: agreement among the Ministries of Economy, Health, Agriculture and Finance
(in the form of a joint letter) on the articles that need to be modified in the follrv ving laws: (a)
Ley de SaidadAgropecuaria and its regulations (7/271961), (b) The Health Code (4/28/1988),
(e) Ley de Farmacia (6/30/1927); and (d) Decree No.647 (12/19/1990) (para. 84); submission
to the Assembly revisions to Art. 8 of the Export Promotion Law to ensure the permanency and
institutionalization of CENTREX (para. 85); and
(viii)  Social Sector Reform: initiate the preparation of a Poverty Alleviation Strategy and an Action
Plan for 1994-98 (para. 88).
95.   The foUlowing actior -* would be second truhe release conditions:
(i)    Public Sector Miodernizaton: preparation of the Public Sector Modernization Action Plan
(PSMAP) (para. 62);



- 35 -
(ii)   Public Expenditure Management: submission to the National Assembly of draft Budget and
Treasury Laws (para. 66); application of the new GAS to all non-financial public sector spending
agencies (para. 66); preparation of the pilot 1994-96 MTSB in the MED and development of a
new program classification and a new unified budget structure in MOH and the Vice-Ministry
of Housing (para. 67); adoption of the DAFP in all Central Government executing agencies (para.
68); continued implementation by the Court of Accounts of the agreed Audit Plan (para. 68);
(iii)   The Civil Service: establishment of a public savings target for 1994 of no less than 0.6 percent
(para. 69); continued satisfactory implementation of central HRIS and local systems in MIFIN
and MAG (para. 70);
(Iv)   Tax Reform: complete implementation of agreed action plan to repeal most trade duty
exemptions, specifically: (a) submission to the Assembly legislation to limit trade duty exemptions
to cooper.tives, the Executive, and the Central Government; and (b) submission to the Assembly
legislation to repeal exemptions to CEL (para. 72); completion of a comprehensive review of the
tax system, including a tax reform agenda for the next Administration (para. 73); completion of
implementation of the agreed tax and customs administration reform program (Annex C),
including submission to the Assembly of the draft Customs Law (para. 74);
(v)    Privatzation: offering for sale of: (a) all INCAFE's assets, including its processing plants, i)
at least one of the five remaining INAZUCAR sugar mills, and (c) remaining
BANAFI/CORSAIN assets (the Injiboa sugar mill, stocks and properties (para. 75); completion
of all financial and legal preparatory work for the privatization of the remaining four sugar mills,
owned by INAZUCAR (para. 75); offering for either sale or lease the assets of the Fisheries
Complex (para. 75);
(vi)   Financial Sector Reform: public offering of the remaining two financial companies (Credisa and
Atlacatt) (para. 78); offering for sale the Central Bank's portion of Banco Hipotecario (para. 78);
agreement on and initiation of implementation of the action plan to develop a market-oriented and
commercially viable rural financial sector (para. 80);
(vii)  Hydrocarbon Sector Reform: continued implementation of the agreed action plan for the reform
of the sector, including: (a) the submission to the Assembly of the draft Hydrocarbon Law and
(b) the replacement of the current distortionary diesel subsidy with the new mechanisms (para.
81);
(viii)  Trade Reform: submission to the Asserbly of the resdions to Part HI of the Tariff Code to
bring all items there included to a 5-20 percentage range (para. 83); submission to the Assembly
of revisions to the following laws: (i) "Ley de Sanidad Agropecuaria" and its regulations, (ii) the
Health Code, (iii) "Ley de Farmacia', (iv) Decree No. 647 (para. 84);
(ix)   Social Sector Reform: finalization of a Poverty Alleviation Strategy (para. 88); agreement on
and initiation of implementation of an Action Plan for the 1994-98 period (para. 88); and
(x)    Environmental Policy Reform: approval by CONAMA of a satisfactory Environmental Action
Plan and initiation of its implementation (para. 91); submission to the Assembly of a draft
Environmental Law (para. 91).



- 36-
C. PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDIING
96.   Loan proceeds would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of general imports (goods and
relevant foreign services), excluding goods financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies, luxury
goods, military equipment, and other goods specifically prohibited in the negative list defined under the
Standard International Trade Classification or equivalent classification. Retroactive financing not
exceeding 35 percent of the loan amount ($17.5 million) would be allowed for eligible expenditures
incurred since July 1, 1993.
97.    A Country Procurement Assessment was completed in June 1991. This Assessment reviewed
relevant documentation governing public procurement and concluded that Salvadoran procurement
legislation and procedures, although not conducive to diligence, are generally satisfactory with the
exception of provisions which required foreign consultants and contractors to associate with local firms.
This issue was redressed in Decree 733, dated April 5, 1991 which eliminated the requirement contained
in Decree 504 (Law of Incentives for Local Firms in the Construction Industry [Ley de Incentivo a las
Empresas Nadonales de la Indusria de la Construcci6n] July 1990). The Assessment further noted that
private sector procurement procedures are fully in line with acceptable commercial practices. Private
enterprises procure goods and services locally and from abroad by two or more informal quotations or
purchase directly from regular clients. Importers generally obtain quotations from several suppliers and
buy on the basis of best quality and price.
98.   Experience under SAL I with procurement has been fully satisfactory, with all disbursements
made against private sector inports under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) supported by documentation
compiled by the Central Bank, including evidence of payment provided by customs and the private
banking system. Audits of the first and second tranche have confirmed the completeness and adequacy
of the relevant documentation compiled by the Central Bank. The audits have also indicated that the
SOEs and their respective supporting documentation, together with the internal controls and procedures
applied, fully conform with Bank procedures. The Government is now finalizing arrangements for an
audit of the third and final tranche, expected for end-August, 1993. The Bank has sponsored two in-
country procurement seminars to facilitate understanding of Bank's procurement policies and procedures.
The following procurement procedures-which were agreed upon with the Borrower during
negotiations-would be applied:
(i) Goods imported by public and private sector entities valued at US$3 million equivalent or
more would be procured through simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures,
using the Bank's standard bidding documents, in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for
future petroleum and commodity imports for which competitive procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, would be agreed ex-ante. For petroleum imports being supplied under existing contracts,
relevant expenditures would qualify for reimbursement under the loan in an amount not to exceed
on a per unit basis the reference average FOB price published in the Platt's Oilgramn for the US
Gulf Coast or the Caribbean, as applicable, on the date of loading and adjusted for the type and
5. Decree 101, Law of the Accounting Office (Ley Orgfdca de ta Corte de Cuets, December 1939); Decree 280, Law for
Supplies and Regulation of he Law for Supplies (Ley de SWurosy Reglmento de la Ley Sumawstros, Januasy 1946); Decree
316, Law for Supplies for Public Workms (Ly de Swnuistros para el Ramo de Obras PMblicas y sus Rtfrmas, July 1951);
Decree 1083, Law for Supphes in Public Health and Social Assisnce (Ly de Swiwustros para el Ramo de Salud Nblica y
Asisencia Social y sus Modificadones, Febmuary 1986); Decree 504, Law of Incentives for Local Finns in the Construction
Induatay (Ley de Incedvo a tas Empresas Nadonales de la Industa de la Construcd6n), liy 1990.



- 37 -
quality of crude or product. No finance charge on such contract would be eligible for
reimbursement under the loan. A similar criterion would apply to the reimbursement of
expenditures under existing contracts for other commodities for which the reference unit price
would be the average price posted by a recognized commodity exchange; and
(ii) Imports valued at below US$3 million equivalent would be procured in the case of: (a) public
sector entities, in accordance with the procedures applicable to them as governed by the law; and
(b) private importers, in accordance with established commercial practices, including price
quotations from at least two eligible suppliers, except where direct contracting may be appropriate
under para. 3.5 of Bank procurement guidelines.
99.   Disbursement of each tranche would be made against import documentation received by the
Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador, which would be responsible for collection of the relevant
documentation and submission of loan withdrawal applications. The Bank will apply the simplified
documentation procedures for adjustment operations described in SecM92-767 dated June 8, 1992. For
contract valued less than $3 million equivalent each, the Bank would reimburse the Central Bank on the
basis of SOEs compiled by the Central Bank and prepared from documentation provided by customs in
the case of private importers and full documentation for public sector imports. This documentation would
verify that eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from the Bank had been imported
into the country during the period under consideration. The Central Bank would retain supporting
documentation for review by Bank supervision missions and for subsequent audits by external auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Annual audit reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each calendar year. In addition, an audit report would be submitted to the Bank within
90 days from the date of full disbursement of each tranche showing how the proceeds of the tranche were
used.
D. TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE
100.  To assist in implementing the Government's structural adjustment program and to help in defining
specific actions to be taken during subsequent phases of the program, the Government has requested
support through a complementary and parallel Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) of US$2.5 million
(Annex D). The TAL would support analyses for and implementation of policy actions, notably in the
areas of public sector modernization, including: preparation of the Public Sector Modernization Action
Plan (PSMAP) and pilot reviews in three ministries; design and preparation of the MTSBs in the
Ministries of health and Public Works; implementation of the Human Resource Information System; and
implementation of selected actions included in the tax and customs administration action plan. The TAL
would also provide support for implementation of environmental policy reforms and the Poverty
Alleviation Strategy. Dutch Trust fund financing has been approved for the rural financial markets study.
The Government will finance the design of the import parity pricing system for petroleum derivatives
through the on-going Bank-financed Power Sector TAL. The Govremment has secured external funds
from USAID, UNDP, and 1DB for technical assistane to support preparation and implementation of
additional actions included in the adjustment program (Annex D).
E. COFINANCING
101.  Cofinancing possibilities are being explored with several bilateral donors, but as yet no
commitmenlts have been firmed up. IDB's US$90 million Investment Sector Loan approved in November



- 38 -
1992, complements financial sector reforms supported under SAL II and will also provide balance of
payments support. USAID and UNDP are supporting policy measures to be implemented in the proposed
SAL I through existing TA programs.
F. ]PROGRAM BENEFfTS AND RISKS
102.  Successful implementation of the Government's program is essential to ensure macroeconomic
stability and keep the adjustment effort on track during the pre-election period and to promote continued
growth while alleviating poverty. Public sector reforms will lay the foundations of a comprehensive
public sector modernization effort to be implemented by the incoming Administration. In the short-term,
institutional reforms will address structural weaknesses which are at the root of the weak fiscal
performance on both the expenditure and revenue sides; improved public expenditure management,
privatization, and civil service reforms will enhance the effectiveness and flexibility of government
spending. Tax reforms will increase revenues and promote an efficient, equitable, and sustainable tax
system. Financial sector reforms will stimulate savings and investment, and improve resource allocation.
Reforms in the hydrocarbon sector will reduce economic distortions. Trade reform will encourage
exports and industrial production, reducing external inbalances and increasing employment. In the social
sectors, the program will improve the management and efficiency of social service delivery and maximize
the impact of the reallocation of resources to the social Ministries. Environmental policy reforms will
enhance the Government's capacity to confront critical environmental challenges.
103.  General country risks and potential external risks are discussed in Part I (paras. 14-23). This
section focuses only on potential risks associated with the operation. First, a breakdown of the peace
process couldjeopardize the overall stabilization and adjustment efforts. An optimistic outlook is justifled
regarding the continuation of peace given the one year of track record and the willingness of the country's
political forces to settle differences through the democratic process. Second, in the event of delays in
the implementaion of second tranche conditionality beyond June 1994 compliance would fall into the
incoming administration which would have to complete the agreed program of policy reforms. Yet, the
need to maintain donor support for further economic reform, implementation of the NRP, and other
investments should deter policy reversals. TIird, El Salvador's limited institutional capacity could delay
implementation of several components of the program. While the implementation capacity of the country
is weak, it has been improving thanks to the efforts of the Bank and other donors. Moreover, the
accompanying TAL will support institutional strengthening and implementation of the specific reforms
included in SAL H.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
104. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with IBRD's Articles of Agreement and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Ernest Stern
Acting President
Atachments
Washington D.C.
August 23, 1993



Annex A
Standr Tab les
Economi Indkatur
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..    ..... ..... . ...  . 



EL SALVADOR
SECOND STRUCTUIRAL ADJUSTNIET LOAN
ANNEX A
Table of ContenLt
Table IA           Priority Poverty Indicators
Table lB           Resources and Expenditures
Table 2            Standard Annexes - Key Economic Indicators
Table 3 A & B      Standard Annexes - National Accounts
Table 3 C & D      Standard Annexes - National Accounts
Table 3 E,F & G    Standard Annexes - National Accounts
Table 4A           Standard Annexes - External Trade
Table 4 B & C      Standard Annexes - ExternalTrede
Table SA           Standard Annexes - Balance of Payments
Table SB           Standard Annexes - Balance of Payments
Table 6A           Standard Annexes - External Capital and Debt
Table 6B           Standard Annexes - External Capital and Debt
Table 6C           Standard Annexes - External Capital and Debt
Table 6D           Standard Annexes - External Capital and Debt
Table 7            Standard Annexes - Non Financial Public Sector
Table 8            Standard Annexes - Monetary Survey
Box 1              Assumptions Underlying Economic Projections



Soeda Indats of Dev_lopmiet 1993
El Salvador: Prioty Povert Indicators                              Tab!. 1A
mea  Seas. rqri!anWug.
35.3a       IS 15      r_           &AM        Lo'          oA.
Unitof            ypw         Ye        09040    Aawka  _bl                  brag1.
Irikatewte                                                                  9go  ae   (au1W   Cib    s       b_ceuus.     FoP
l!OVERtY
Upper porty Un                            local                   ...w.  ..
Huaduour iex                             %ofpop                ..                        ,
Lwer Poy lie                             locat  r.               ..          ..          ....
Hoadcau index                            %otpop.                 ..         ..
ONPt capita                                 USS                 270         430       1,0I0       2.410        1,610       3,820
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                     locl cur.              ..          ..          ..
Unskiled nuta wages                           *.                              ..          __
Rural terms oftrad*
Coswa  priendx                            1987100                11          17         200
Low    c*                                                                    ....._.
Food                                                            ..          ..         244
Ubban                                                                                   ..                ..
Rund                                                            _           ..          _                       _.
SOCLIL INDICATORS
Public _xqendt  on basic socal sevce      %of GDP                 ..         ..          ..
arm eaom    ratkis
Pr.mary                                %schoolagepop.            82          75          78         107         100
Ub[l                                                            85          76          77                     106
Femnle                                                          79          74          78           _          98           _
InfatA modality                       thou. ivebirdu           113          92          42          43          40          33
Unsder 5 m$.alitY                            *                   ..         ..          48          53          53          40
Me6                                     %agepup        ,.                                     75     78    70 _
DPT                                                              ..          .          76          77          74
Childmlatritin(nder-)                         *                              21          ..
U&UPectanq
TOtl                                       yea                  54          58          66          68          67          69
?emala1                                    radtio             1.07        1.15        1.09        1.09         1.08        1.11
Totdl reility r                        bzt sperwmn              6.7         5.9         4.1         3.1          3.5         2.6
m" nalma mtalt  a                      100.000 live brft          .           -         148           _
Population grwth rate                        Infant motality rate                       Primary enroliment
(pat)                                  (Vofibit)                                       (ec
6+.                                       250                                         1204
5                                                                                                     202000100
4                                                                                      8
1200 100 W i ,* =oS4
2                                                                                      4
0                                           0 
mids60o    mid7s        an                  mid60a   mnid70s       oan,                 xi s   md7Os           ae
RI 8Ia1'radar
El Ldv b



El Salvador: Resources And Exeditures                             T.bw. 19
HUMAN RLSOURCES
Population (mnre1991)                   thousands           3,006       4,015       5,278    445.450     173,803     632,037
APe dependenkcy ratio                     ratio              0.98        0.95       0.87        0.67        0.71        0.63
urban                                    %of po.38.                      40.4       43.0        12.3        53.9        72.9
Population grovith mate                  a=nua                3.4         2.4        2.0         1.7         1.7         1.1
Urban                                      *                 3.7         2.9        3.4         2.9         3.1         2.0
Labor forme (15-64)                     thousand             978        137        2,21      162,042     302.448     240.141
Agricultur                            %Of laborfoame           59         49           .
Industry                                                       16         17                      23                     1
Female                                      -19                           23257320
Female per 100 iales
Urban                                    number                ...                     .106
Rural                                                         ...                     .88
NATURAL RE-SOURCES
Airea                                  thcu.sqkm               21         21          21      20.507      23,99       38,94
Density                                ZZ. e sq. km         143.0       194.0      241.0        21.0        31.0        16.0
Agricultural land                      %ofland ama           61.2        60.5       64.8        40.5        4t,8        43.9
Change in agricutura land                annuali%             0.4         0.0         0.0        0.2         0.0         0.1
Agricultura land under irrigaton                                                                 3.2        12.6         8.3
Forests and wjoodland                  thou.  km                221                            9,553       5396%       7.705
Deforestatio (net)                                           .4-.0       .1.2        0.0            
INCOME
Housebold income
Shure of top 20% of households         %of income              ..53                   .
Share of bofttm 40% ofhouahods             *                   .12 
Sharg of bottm 20% ofhousehkls                                 .. 
EXPENDITURE
Food                                    %of GD?                             ..
Staples
Mea% fish, nijlk, dheese egpa
Cerea impoits                        bol mletric torms        115        108         176"     21,698      44,418      35.976
Food aid in cereats                                                        4         249       1,783       4,047        366
Foodproduction per capita              197941t-100            90         107         104         104         101        108
Fertilizer osutinkg'ha                                                                          63.7        94.2       120.0
Shameofag  GtuuaDP                      %ofODp               29.1        23.0        0'          9.4                     I 89
Housing                                 %ct(GDP                 ...
Averag household size               pesmprhwil                  .5.
Urban
Fixedinve-tent-hotuiag                  %ofODP                  ..193.4
Fuelt and power                         % of GD?                  
EnergyowuuVtion per capita             kg ofoil equlv.        140        188         233       1,061       1,249       1.701
Households with electricity
Urban                                % offhousehlds.....
RurMl                                      ft                 ....
Trupor an coxxucaton%o(GDP                            .           .,
Fixe invawmt Umaad eptip.,at3.3
Total rod length                           kin                 ..      11,130      12,164
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Aooeessto hafthcam                       %ofpep.                .           ..
Popuation perphysiia                     persons                        4,096          .
Poputation per murse                                        I'm30        389           -
Plation p bhospita bed                                                   SW50        699         510         509
Acces to safe wate                       %Ofp*p                ..         3.0       43.0        73.4 
Urban                                                         ..         9.0        78.0       83.6
Rura                                       f                   .        28.0        15.0       66.9
OMa rehydyration thewp (under-S)        %of can...                                    45          51I
Education
Gros arrolinu ratio
Secondary                           %af sdheol-age pop.        17          19         26          48          36 
Female                                                        17          17         26          533
Pupil-eachr ratio: primary            pubpls pr teach          33         53          40          25          25
PPupi4eACher ratio: scdadry                 *2125.
Pupils reaching gm&d4                   %of cie                 .58                    ..64
Ruma eatW. tepiy                      %oftatfilmlrd             -          7           8          14
Illiteacy                            % otpcp. (AP ll+)          -           .         27          is
Female                              %affen (sgsl5S+)           .           .         30          17
Nemapapercizuaatin                     pdar tou                Sip  5                 50      
Sourc: World Bank Inntaaicoal Ecoaceda Department, AprOIM9



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
lable 2
REAL GROWTH RATES:
GOs Domestic Product (GDP)                    .7    1.1      3.4    3.5    4.6       4.3     43      43      4.5     48
Gross Domestic Income (GDY)                 -10.      0.7   -1.7    3.5    2.1    4A         4A      4.9     4.5    4.6
REAL PER CAPITA GROWTH RATES:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                -10.2    -0.9     13     1.7     2       2.5     2s      2.5     2.7    3.0
Total Consumptioa                            -93    -0.4   -0.3    0.6    0.4        0.7    2.2    2.1       2.3     13
Private consumption                          -9.6    0.0   40.1      0.2    0.9      13      2.0     2.S     2.6    1.1
DEBT INDICATORS:
Total DOD (Million USS) ha.                  911   2,070   2,132   2,172   2,125   1,835   2,004   2,215   2,666   3,919
Total DOD/Exports G&S (%) /a.                71.7  257.8   235.5   233.5   222.8   168.4  166.9   164A   1613   139.7
Total DOD/Current GDP (%) /a.                25.5    41.8   39.4   36.7    33.0    24.9   2S.7    26.7    30.2    30.6
Debt seice (LT+IF+ST) (Million USS) /b.    95.9  170.1   214.0  240.7   254.6   2462   300.5   230.4   258.   343.1
Debt service (LT+IMF+ S` S/xports O&S (%)     7.5    212    23.6   25.9   26.7    22.6   25.0   17.1    15.7   12.2
Debt service (LT+IMW+ST)/Current GDP (%)    2.7      3.4    4.0    4.1    4.0        33      3.9     2.8    2.9    2.7
Interest (LT+IMF+S-) (Millon UJS$) lb        60.8   68.7   83.9   80.6   99.0   1073   1193   129.0   154.2  223.7
Interest (LT+IMF+ST)Exports O&S (%)           4.8    8.6     93      8.7    10.4    9.9    9.9       9.6     93      8.0
Interest (LT+IMF+ST)ICurt GDP (%)             1.7    1.4    1.6    1.4 1A             1.5    1.5     1.6     1.7    1.7
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (as a "ae of GOP)
Total Investment                             133    15.3   11.8    13.8    16.2   16.2   18.2    18.2   17.8    19.8
Public rfed                                  7.1     3.S    2.3     25      3.4     33      4.1     4.0    3.4      33
Private rfed /c.                             6.1    11.8    9.5   11.3    12.8    12.9   14.1    142    14A    16.5
National Savings                             13.2    5.9    5.2      &8      9.6    10.6   12.8    133    13.1    16.5
Public                                      40.3   -1.6    -03    -0.7    0.2    0.6    0.6         2.4    3.9    3.9
Private                                     13.6    7.5      55      9.5    9.4    10.0   12.3    10.8    9.2    12.6
Foreign Savings                               0.0    9.4    6.6    5.0       65      5.6    5.4    4.9    4.7        3.3
ICOR                                         -1.9    9.9    4.5    3.0    2.7        35      3.5     4.0    3.8    3.7
NON FINANCIAL PUBUC SECTOR (as a shwe of GDP) Id.
Total Current Receipts                       14.5    10.3   11.1   11.6    12.1    12.4   13.8    15.2    16.2   16.0
Total Current Expenditures                   14.9   11.8   11.4    123    11.9    11.7   132    12.8    12.3   12.1
Publk Saving                                 -03    -1.6    403      -0.7    02      0.6    0.6      2.4     3.9    3.9
Capital Expend. & Net Lending /.              93     43      2.2    3.7    5.8    6.1        53      4.8     32      3.2
Overall Balance                              -9.7    -5.8   -2.5    -4A    .5.6   -5.4   -4.8    -2.3    0.7    0.7
Central Bank Lesse                             -       ..    1.0    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.6         0.6    0.4    0.0
Consolidated Public Balance /f.                 .      .    -3.5    -5.2   .6.       -6.2   -5.4    -2.9    0.3    0.7
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS:
Exports GNFS (real growth rate)             -14.5  -13.5   44.1    -1.6   11.2    9.1        6.3    4A       6.6    6.9
Exports GNFS/Current GDP                     35.1    154    15.9   14.9   13.7   13.7   14.2   14.9    17.3   20.5
Imports GNFS (real growAh rate)             -233     6.1    0.4    4.2   14.6    6.6    4.5          33      33      4.7
Imports GNFS/Current GDP                     333    27.5   27.0    273    30.2    285    28.6    28.6    30.9    31.5
Import Elasticity                             2.7    5.8    0.1      12      3.2     1.5    1.0    0.8       0.7    1.0
Resource Balance/Cunent GDP                   1.8  12.1  -11.1   -12.5  -16.5   -14.8  -14.4   -13.7   -13.6  -11.1
Curr. Account Balance/Currnt GDP             .0.0    -9.4   -6.6   5.0   .6.5    -5.6   -5.4    4.9    4.7    -3.3
Terms of Trade Index (1989=100)             116.4   100.0    843    85.4   74.8    78.8   80.6    85.4    88.1   91.1
PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE:
ConsumerPrice Index /g.                      18.6    235    193       9.8    19.9    12.0    9.9     72      33      32
Nominal FxchangeRate (C/USS)                 2.50    650    7.59    a08    850    9.00    9.80   10.50   11.80   12.00
GDP (millon US):                             3,567   4,958   5,409   5,915   6,443   7,355   7,791   8,30S   8,813  12,807
Hiwcdi dat sob 11 sel afm  Wod D       IWeZte 19923. Proj.eia.yetsaedon ORS pipe p= r  nkdW
hb. hel ui; wbI 'L-Iuarm debt4  shedtadfb/. Ia dudh  "Va Inao ubL.
Id. BxdudiRWst                             M Itis atn o ZfIteYgIuU
IL OweNMB=PSbA 9C        aB   LOOM.       /&A=Wdmqpalna-pCP1



STANDAIMANNEXES
El.  .AADOR - NAnONAL ACCOUNTS
Part A. Current Prie. Data
(millions of Colones)
Bas Case Prolecion
1992 Per Capita GNP in US$:            1,170                                                        Table 3: A and B
Mid-1992 Population (miUk                5.4
Gro  Domestic Produc    _              8,917  32,230  41,057  47,792  54,762  66,191  76,355  87,204 103,994 153,687
Net Indirect Taxes                        ..      ..       .      ..      ..      ..      ..
GDP at Factor Cost                        ..          ..  .       .       .        .      ..
33.2   23.7   27.1   27.1   29.7   28.S    28.6    28.6    30.9    31.5
Imports (GN;S) 1/                      2,964   7,636  11,114  12,963  16,284  18,878  21,829  24,935  32,171  48,448
Exports (GNFS) 1/                      3,046   4,267   6,538   7,055   7,374   9,052  10,812  12,991  18,025  31,455
Resource Balance                          82   -3369   *4575   -5908  -8910  *9826  *11018  -11944  -14146  -16993
34.2   13.2   15.9   14.8   13.5   13.7   14.2    14.9   17.3   20.5
Total Expenditures                     8,835  35,S99  45,632  53,700  63,672  76,017  87,373  99,148 118,141 170,680
Total Consumption                      7,652  30,660  40,782  47,093  54,808  65,273  73,476  83,7   99,630 140,250
Government                             1,247   3,930   4,649   5,272   5,789   6,507   8,317   9,212  10,740  15,790
Private                                6,405  26,729  36,132  41,821  49,018  58,766  65,159  74,065  88,889 124,460
Gross Domestic Investment              1,183   4,940   4,851   6,606   8,864  10,745  13,897  15,871  18,511  30,430
Government 2/                           636   1,124    930   1,209   1,85O   2,203   3,152   3,461   3,488   5,118
Private 2/3/                            S48   3,815   3,921   5,398   7,014   8,542  10,745  12,411  15,023  25,311
Memorandum Itemn
Gross Domestic Savings                  1265   1S71    276    699        -46    919    2879    3927    4365   13437
Net Factor Income                      -210    -787    -774    428    -506   -562   -541    -534   -616    -358
NetCurrentTmusfer                        43   1,537   2,622   4,386   5,970   6,660   7,470   8,163   9,875  12,218
National Savinsp                       1,098   2,320   2,123   4,256   5,418   7,016   9,807  11,S56  13,623  25,296
Pau B: Consont Prig. Dat
(millions of Colones, 1989-100)
~~~~~*~~~.~                                                                                  A   =   _2.
Gross Domestic Product                33,483  32,230  33,326  34,502  36,085  37,637  39,255  40,943  44,625  56,091
Imports (GNFS) 11                      9,124   7,636   7,664   7,989   9,156   9,762  10,197  10,535  11,241  14,024
Exports (GNFS) 1/                      7,163   4,267   6,148   6,050   6,730   7,345   7,808   8,155   9,165  12,930
Resource Balance                       -1961   -3369  -1516   -1939   -2426  -2417   -2389   -2380   -2076  -1094
Total Expenditures                    35,444  3S,599  34,459  36,115  38,085  39,268  41,633  43,304  46,709  57,457
Total Consumption:                    31,747  30,660  31,211  31,971  32,684  33,496  34,846  36,22   39,168  46,848
Governent                             3,116   3,930   3,966   4,139   4,146   4,124   4,261   4,310   4,593   5,744
Private                               28,630  26,729  27,257  27,803  28,S54  29,453  30,579  31,894  34,545  41,098
Total Invest. Expenditures 2/          3,697   4,940   3,497   4,285   5,383   5,742   6,714   7,003   7,465  10,437
Government                              669   1,124    703    823   1,175   1,234   1,S96   1,600   1,474   1,840
Private 3/                             3,028   3,815   2,794   3,462   4,208   4,508   5,118   5,403   S,991   8,597
Statistical Discrepancy                    0      0      382    326    426    785        11      20       -8   -271
Capacity to import                     9,375   4,267   4,509   4,348   4,146   4,681   5,050   5,489   6,298   9,105
Tenns of Trade (TI) Effect             2,212       0   -1639   -1702   -2583  -2664   -2758   -2666   -2867   -3825
Gross Domestlc Income                 35,695  32,230  31,686  32,801  33,502  34,972  36,497  38,277  41,7S9  52,267
Domestic Savings(TAdj)                 3,948   1,571     475    829     818   1,477   1,651   2,053   2,591   S,419
V Gods andnaanorvW                      dudmI,sns;Inaok&
V2Fom     d,' raw hwitmit



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - NAThONAL ACCOUNIS
PuaCds V        Added by S80   )                 Tab  3: C and D
Agriculture                             27.8    11     11.2   102       93    11.0    10.8   10.6   10.1    8.9
Industry, of which:                    20.7   23.2   233    23.9   24.2        29    23.0    233    23.7   24.4
Mining                                  0.1     02      0.2    02      02       ..      ..
Manufacturing                          15.0   18.1      8.6   18.7   18.9       ..      ..
Serces                                  51.5   6S.1.   65.    65.9   66.S   66.1   66.1   66.1   66.1   66.7
Total                                 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
No. Hmtcda l .aa(56.92 mahmledfmimptadat ProJ.dddsus fteSssAuSfltda6
Pad Di LoWTerm Growth Ra.
(Avesge anml growth rats from constant pice data)
Gross Domestic Product m.P.                     5.5    1.0      03      4.6    4.4    4.6
Agriculture                                    4.7     13    4.6       6.7    3.2    2.0
Industry, of which:                            7.2    0.7    0.7    6.0    5.8        S3
Minhfg                                                -2.      2.3   12.0      ..       -
ManufacturIng                                  5.7     03      0.5    6.0      ..
Servie                                         5.0    1.1    0.5    2.7    4.1    4.8
Exports of GNFS                                 7.9    2.3   -1A    11.2    7.2    7.0
Imports of GNFS                                 6.6    2.7   .1.1   14.6    5.9        43
Total Expenditures                              5.2    1.2      02      5.5    4.4    4.2
Total Consumption                               43      1.      0.1    2.2    3.4    3.7
Sovenmment                                      5.2    5.5    2.4      02      1.8    4.2
Pdivate                                         4.2     13    4.2      2.7    3.7    3.7
Gros Domestic lnvestment                       10.8   -3.0      12    25.6    9.7    6.1
Government                                              3.2    1.7   42.8   10.2    2.5
Private                                          ..    87       1.1    215    11.6    7.0
Capacity to Import                              3.3    6.2    6.2   -4.6    6.4    7.7
Gross Domestic Income                           4.4    2.0   -0.7    2.1       41      4.6
Gross National Income                           43      1.8    4.6      32      4.1    4.5
Gross Natonal Product U                         5.4     08      0.4    5.4    4.6    4.7
Gross Domestic Savings (adj. TI)                5.1   11.0    0.8   -1.4   20.9   14.9
Gross National Savings (sd. TI)                 4.4   11.5    1.0   32.7   12.4    7.5
Population                                      2.6    2.1      15      1.8    1.8    1.8
LaborForce                                        _       ..
GD_= e  aa                                       2.9    4.0    -12      2.8    2.6    2.8
I/ EzdUdeo zrrentThwnta.



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Panr LE Annual Growth Rate
(Annual growth rates calculaftd from constant price data)    Table 3: E, F, and 0
Gross Domestic Product m.p.           .8.7    1.1    34      3.S    4.6    43       4.3    43      4.S    4.8
Agriculture                          -52     0.5    7.4   -0.1    6.7    3.9    3.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Industry, of which                  -11.6    2.4    1.1    5.9    6.0    7.7    4.9    5.4    5.7    S3
Mining                               2.6    4.3   98.2   11.1   12.0       ..    ..
Manufacturing                      -10.7    2.S    3.0    4.9    6.0       ..    ..
Savices                               8.9    0.7    2.8    3.4    2.7    12        43     43      4.5    S.0
GOw  Domestic Income                 .10.8    0.7   -1.7    3.5    2.1    4A        44     4.9    4.5    4.6
Gross Domestic Investment            -32.0   26.1  -29.2   22.5   25.6    6.7   16.9    43         2.2   10.4
Total Consumption                     .7.7    1.6    1.8    2.4    2.2    2.5    4.0    4.0    4.2    3.1
Population                             1.6    2.0    2.1    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8
Per Capita Growth Rates:
Gress Domestic Product m.p.          -10.2   -0.9    13      1.7    2.8    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.7    3.0
Total Consumption                     -93     0.4   -03      0.6    0.4    0.7    2.2    2.1    23        1.3
Private Tonsumption                  -9.6    0.0   40.1    0.2    0.9    1.3    2.0    2.5    2.6    1.1
Part F: Proe Indicoe
(Natfonal Accounts Deflators; 1989.100)
Grows Domestic Product                26.6  100.0  123.2  138.S  151.8  175.9  194.5  213.0  233.0  274.0
Import (GNFS)                         325   100.0  145.0  162.3  177.8  193.4  214.1  236.7  286.2  345.
Export (GNFS)                         42.S  100.0  1063   116.6  109.6  123.2  138.S 1S93   196.7  243.3
Total Expenditures                    24.9  100.0  132.4  148.7  1672   193.6  209.9  229.0  252.9  297.1
Consumption                           24.1  100.0  130.7  147.3  167.7  194.9  210.9  229.9  254.4  299.4
Investment                            32.0  100.0  138.7  154.2  164.7  187.1  207.0  226.6  248.   291.S
Agriculture                           S7.2  100.0  113.6  120.7  118.0       ..      _.
Industry, of whlch                    24.9  100.0  126.5  142.7  156.0        _      .
Mining                               24.5  100.0  122.4  137.9  164.7        ..    ..
Manufacturing                        22.5  100.0  127.2  142.1  154.9        ..      _.
Service                               21.7  100.0  124.7  141.3  159.1       ..    ..
Parn 0: Other Economic Inbdcatof
Import Elasticity (GNFS) (constant)           2.9    2.4    1.3    09       0.9    2.7    32
Marginal Saving Rates
Gross Domestic Savings                       0.6S     74    0.41    0.3S     _    0.64    0.70
Gross National Savings                       0.67    1.71    018    0.33     ..   0.7S    022
ICOR (period averages)                        0.7    5.9    3.6    37         ..   -1.9    2.7
Labor Fore (%)
Agricultue
Indusy.
Savices                                        _                  ..    ..    ..
Total



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - ERNALTRADE
A., Volume, Value, nd Prloe                         Table 4A
Volume Indices l989i100
Mechandise ExporS
XBEV.COFFEE                            194.4  100.0  157.0  134.6  130.9  145.2  IS1.0  152.1   1SS.0  1645
X.NON-FOOD.COTrON                     7710.9  100.0  142.9   S6.5  1293   137.4   123.7  123.7  123.7   123.7
XFOOD.SUGAR                            120.6  100.0  156.4  280.5   5763   610.7  647.4  673.3   7282   750.1
XFOOD.SHRIMP                           139.4  100.0  142.8  146.9  129.5  148.0  165.8  175.7  208.8  341.6
Central American Common Market         2423   100.0  102.0  111.8  137.1  1SS.6  171.1  183.1   217.5  361.3
Other Exports                           83.?   1( 1.0  127.2  134.7  132.1   144.4  157.4  171.5   214.2  385.9
Total March. Expots (FOB)              198.6  100.0  133.9  1343   150.8  167.5  179.9  188.9  214.5  313.0
Current Prices (USS mill.)
Merchandise Exports
XBEV.COFFEE                            615.2  228.6   2602   219.5  149.5   1992   226.8   289.3   352.9  513.7
XNON-FOOD.COTrON                        84.6    0.7     13      0.7     1.5    1.7    1.6    1.7    1.9    2.3
XFOODSUGAR                              13.4   13.    203    32.0   45.0   48.7   53.9   57.0   70.0   96.7
XFOOD.SHRIMP                            12.8   10.0   14.4   19.9   18.2   213    24.2   263    333    64.1
Central American Common Market         295.8  160.6  173.0  193.7  2480   285.0   317.5  348.0  441.0  861.1
OtberExports                           53.5   84.1  113.0  122.2  125.1  138.5  152.9  170.7  227.4   481.7
TotalMarch. Exports (FOB)             107S3   497.5   582.2  S88.0  5873   694.4  776.9  893.0  1126.S  20195
Volume Indices 1989=100
Mwchandise Imports
Food                                    93.6  100.0  149.4  138.9  1812   190.6  195.5  203.0  217.6  267.4
Other Consumer Goods                   120.7  100.0   97.0  128.4  163.0  177.1   183.2  190.2  205.6  248.6
POL I/and Other Energy                  92.9   100.0  107.6  137.3  126.7  134.9  138A   141.9   149.5  180.0
Intermediate Goods neJ ZV             103.4  100.0   96.1  108.1   126.5  135.1   1385   143.9  156.2  192.7
Primary Goods                         109.8  100.0   74.1   80.9   82.0        ..       -      .         
Manufactured Goods                    113.9  100.0  10S.4  119.1   144.6                ..      .
Capital Goods                           520   100.0   79.4  107.1   13.2  147.8  165.4  1703   179.7  248.3
Tol Mearh Imports (CIF)                 8&6   100.0  104.8  1175   141.9  lSIS    159.0  164.?  176.6   223.5
Crent Pdces (USS milL)
Merchandise Imports
Food                                   273.1   258.0  3613   322.0  401.8  427.1   450.9  4973   S829   864.0
Other Consumer Goods                   33.6   36.6    37.5   50.7   67.2   73.9   77.5   82.4   95.0  135.0
POL and Other Energy                   1S13    87.0  121.8   126.8  117.0  122.4  1263   132.6  157.7  2363
Intermediate Goods                    393.1  SOO.0   WA    583.2  712.4  770.4  800.4  8S1.6  986.0  14303
Pdmary Goods                          109.6  172.6  142.8  162.6  179.4        ..      ..
Manufactured Goods                    2835   32tA    364.6  420.6  533.0       ..      ..
Capital Goods                          110.6  279.7  2345   3233   425.9  471.7  534A   563.9   634.5  1030.8
Total Merch. Imports (CIF)             961.7  11613  12625  1406.0  17243  186.5  1989.5  2127.9  2456.0  3696.5
USS Price Indices 1989-100
Terma of Trade
Merchandise Export Prices              108.8  100.0   87.4   88.0   783    833    86.8   95.0  105.6  129.7
Maehandise Imports Pries                93.5  100.0  103.7  103.0  104.6  105.8  107.7  111.2  119.8   142.4
Merchandise Terms of Trade             116.4  100.0   843    85.4   74.8   78.8   80.6   8SA    88.1   91.1
ifVCM.s40 D     -dui
20L daiot.s- Oa d,e,Soldued



STANDAR ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - EXTERNAL TRADE
B: Shut  of TOt and GrwOh Rat"
Table 4:8 and C
Merchandise Exports (%)
X.BEV.COFFEE                            57.2    255    313    25.4              -3.0    -2S      2.4     1.2
X.NON-FOOD.COTrON                        7.9    0.3      0l      0.1           -33.6  128.9   14.0    0.0
X.FOOD.SUGAR                             12      7.7    6.2      48              7.3   105.5   17.2      1.2
X.FOOD.SHRIMP                            1.2    3.1    3.0    3.2                0.4   -11.8    6.0    10.3
Central American Common Market          27.5   42.2   39.1   42.6               -6.2   22.7    11.7    10.6
Other Exports                            5.0    213    20.2   23.9               4.0    *1.9    8.0    12.5
Total Morch. Exports (FOB)             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0               -32    12.3      81      7.7
Merchandise liaports (%)
Food                                    284    23.3    23.7    23.4              3.3   30.5      7.8     4.1
Other Consumer Goods                     3.5    3.9    3.9    3.7                0.5    27.0     &2      3.9
POL and Other Ener                      15.7    68       6.4    6.4              33     -7.7     1.4    3.6
Intermediate Goods n.e.i:               40.9    413    40.1   387                OA    17.0    6.3       4.3
Pdimary Goods                          11.4   10         ..      ..              ..10
Manufactured Goods                     29.5    30.9      _       _               ..
Capital Goods                           115    24.7    25.8   27.9               62    26.2    9.0       S.9
Total MercbH. morts (CIF)              100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0               2.4    20.8     7.0     4.6
t Trends In Nonhftor S8vhee
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 _1 _                                      111
Volume Indices 1989=100
Exports of Nonfactor Services             ..   100.0  100.1   10        96.9  1035   107.1   110.3   120.4   153.7
Imports of Nonfiwtor SenVic               ..  100.0   97.0   100.0   100.8  1043   105.7   107.0   109.9  117.8
USS Prioe Indices 1989-100
Exports of Nonfactor Senfice                          -    _         _       _       _       _
Imports of Nonfactor Servic                               ..      ..      _       _       ..      _        .



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(USS millions at current prices)
Table 5A
iue[                   8i -i iieo    we',e6fla tet 1e2te
A. ExportsofGNFSl/                    1252.3  761.9  861.0  879.7   881.0  1005.7  1103.2  1237.3  1527.6  2621.2
1. Merchandise (FOB)                 1075.3  497.5   S822  58.0   587.3  694.4   776.9   893.0  1126.5  2019.5
2. Non-factor Sernces                 177.0  264.4   278.8   291.7   293.7  311.3   326.3   344.3  401.0   601.8
B. Imports of GNFS                    1186.6  1363.5  1462.3  1616.3  1945.5  2097.5  2221.5  2374.8  2726.4  4037.3
1. Merchandise (CIF)                  961.7  1161.3  1262.5  1406.0  1724.3  1865.5  1989.5  2127.9  2456.0  3696.5
2. Non-factor Services                224.9  202.2   199.8   210.3   221.2  232.0   238.0   246.9   270.4   340.8
Cr1. Resource Balance                   65.7  *601.6  *601 3   -736.6 -1064.5 -1091.8 -1124.2 -1137.5  -1198.8 -1416.1
2. Trade Balance                     113.6  -663.8  .680.3  -818.0 -1137.0 -1171.1  -1212.6 -1234.9  -1329.5  -1677.0
D. Net Factor Income                   -83.8  -101.4  -102.0  -102.5   -59.5  -62.5   -55.2   -50.9   -52.2   -29.9
1. Factor Receipts                     18.4   41.1    44.4    50.2   72.8   83.7   97A    109.8   125.3   184A
2. Factor Payments                    102.2  142.5   146.4   152.7   132.3  146.2   152.7   160.7   177.5   214.2
a.Total Interest                      60.8   68.7    83.9   80.6    99.0   107.3   1193   129.0   154.2  223.7
b.lnterest Arrears 
c.OtherFactor Payments                  ..      ..   62.5   72.1    33.3   38.9   33.3    31.7    23.3    -9.5
E. Net Current Transfers                17.3  236.8   345.4   542.8   702.3  740.0   762.2   777.4   836.8  1018.
1. Current Receipts                    20.8   237.4   346.0   543.5   703.0  740.0   762.2   777.4   836.8  101&l
a. Workers remittances                 10.9  216.1   324.6  520.6   683.0  740.0  762.2   777.4   836.8  1018.1
b. Other curr. transfers                9.9    21.3   21A    22.9   20.0        ..      ..
2. Current Payuvents                    3.5    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7          ..      ..
F. Current Account Balance
1. Before off. transfers               -0.8  -466.2  -357.9  -296.3  421.7  4143   4173   410.9  414.2   427.8
2. Official transfers                  31.5  282.4   223.2   178.5   2263   263.0   260.0   200.0   150.0   110.0
3. After off. transfers                30.7  -183.8  -134.7  -117.8  -195.4  -1513  .157.3  -210.9  -264.2  -317.8
G. LT Capital Inflow n.e.i 2V          151.4   279.9    9.9   246.1   120.9  171.3   184.3   267.0   329.9   34S.6
1. Direct Investment                    0.0    0.0    0.0   37.0   38.0   38.0    55.0   60.0    90.0   130.0
2. Net LTBornowig                      74.4   139.9  -15.8  11SA   -30.1  143.1   129.3   207.0   239.9   215.6
a. Disbursements                     109.5  236.3   109.0   275.3   1255   282.0   310.5   308.3   334.5   335.0
b. Repayments                         35.1   96.4   124.    159.9   155.6  138.9  181.1   101.4    94.6  119.4
3. Other LT Inflows (net) 3/           77.0   140.0   25.7   93.8   113.0   -9.8    0.0    -0.0   -0.0   -0.0
H. Total Other Items (net)             417.9   -54.5   247.2   -86.2  129.6    0.0    19.6       43    IP.6   57.8
1. Net ST Capital n.ei                  0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
a. Interest Aars                         .. rea.. ..                                ..      ..     ..
b. Other Net ST Capital      ..                 ..
2. Capital Flows neiL 4/                0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    19.6       43    18.6   57.8
3. Erors & Omissions                 417.9   -S4.5   247.2   -86.2   129.6    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
L Changes in Net Reserves              235.8   41.6  -122.4   .42.2  -55.1   -20.0   46.7   .60.3   44.3   -85.5
1. Net Credit From IMF                 39.6    -5.0   -5.3   .0.2    0.0   30.0    20.0              -10.0    0.0
2. Reserve Changes (Central Bank)     196.2  -36.6  -117.1   -42.0  -55.1   -50.0  -66.7   -60.3   -74.3   -855
3. Escrow Account          .. ..        ..                               ..      ..      ..
V/Go0ds sadS9 n vwes
21Vme.L deaint- n elsd r ladud
ll  ercbedullngnd amtiz*tioanst
41 b   undn u fd sourm



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(USS millions of current prices)
Table 5S
J. As shares of GDP (cur.USS):
1. Resource Balance                      1.8  -12.1  -11.1   -12.    -16.S  -14.8  -14A    -13.7   -13.6  -11.1
2 Interest Pymnts(LT+IMF+ST)             1.7    1.4    1.6    1.4    1.s    1.5    1.5           1.6    1.7      1.7
3. Curr. Ae. Bal. (See F.1.)            40.0    -9.4    ^6.6   -5.0   -6.5   -5.6   -5.4    -4.9    4.7    -33
4. LT Capital Inflow (F2.+G)             S.1   113       43      7.2    5.4    5.9       S.7     5.6     5.4    3.6
S. Net Credit from IMP                   1.1    -0.1   .0.1    40.0      0.0    0.4      03      0.0   40.1      0.0
K. Foreign Exchange Reseres
1. Liquid Reserves (excld. gold)       -69.9  2465   398.8   440.8   495.9  545.9  612.6   672.9   795.2  1177.6
2. Gold (end-Yr London Price) S/        51.0  117.3   1525   165.3  161.4  161.9   171.3   183.0   190.4   199.0
3. Total Res. (indd. gold)             -18.9   363.8  551.3  606.1   6573   707.8  783.9   855.9  985.6  1376.5
4. Total Res.(in months imports)        -02      2.9    4.1    4.1       3.8    3.8    4.0    4.1        4.1     3.9
L Exchage Rates (LCU/US$):
L.Nom. Off. Exch. Rate
a. Annual average (PPP) 6/             2.50    6.50    7.59    808 8 5so    9.00    9.80   10.50   11.80   12.00
b. Annual aveage                       2.50    5.00    7.89    8.02    8.36      ..      ..
v. End-of-year                         2.50    5.00    8.08    8.10    8.68      ..      ..
2.Real EffX-Rate (1990-100)
a.MUV/PACestimate7/ 8/                  9.7    4.7      5.6     21      4.4    1.3      13      2.4    3.3    3.2
b. Index real Excb. rate              141.3   100.5   100.0   95.0   93.8   85.7   8S.S    91.6   103.0   104.7
3. X-Rate for GNP Conversion            2.50    6.50    7.59    8.08    8.50    9.00    9.80   10.50   11.80   12.00
M. Memomrdum Item:
GDP (current USS millions)            3,567   4,9S8   5,409   5,915   6,443   7,35S   7,791   8.30S   8,813  12,807
N. Optional Details for RMSMX
1. Total Factor Payments                  ..      _       ..      _       ..     ..      ..       _        .
a. Government Interest                   ..      ..      ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
b. Private Sector Interest                           ..      ..      ..      ..      ..                  ..      ..
c. Profits on dirfrgn.lnv.                ..     _       ..      ..      ..      _       _.
2. Offcial Capital Grants:                ..      _       _        .      ..      ..      ..      ..
a. For budgetaty financing                ..     ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      .
b. To etra budg. Entitles                 _       ..      _       ..     _       ..      ..
3. Gov. net LTBonowing_                                           ..      ..      ..                              .
a. Disbursements                         ..      .. _            ..      ..      ..      ..
b. Repayments                            ..      ..      ..      ..      .. ..           ..
4. Private net LTBorrowing.                ..                                                     ..
a. Disbursements                         ..                  ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
b. Repayments                      _                     ..      ..              _ ..    ..      ..
SIPn jCet yWiuin ubWadd BBnkpda _ffed dpld ef461t3hIMWy2OS tb    uoy I I U     Ptua Po  Part (PP~P) M~ooo.
7i ?4UVdencu bwushnitnat  eapans oePuae.Gnmany,lJapmn ULKId USA
wt ddlopin couolearad In U5 dolam
I PAC r a to Wd BanSuk Plm  A p   comaimi



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR- EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(USS millons at oummnt ppoen)
Table 8A
A. Disbuments
PubHc & Publly Guar. LT              109.5  2363   109.0  2753   125.5  277.0  302.   2983   324.5  325.0
1. Official Crediton:                104.   170.9    79   1853   124.0  2754A  2982   2872   298.1  270.4
a. Multilateral                      36.0   78.0   44.1   99.    88 S   21S2   229.8  2084   249.4  180.4
of which IDA                        2.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
of which BRD                       10.4    0.6     2S      63    11.4   72.8   463    32.0       .1   34.8
b.Bilateral                          68      92.9   34.8   854    35.5   60.1        4    78.8   48.7   90.0
Concmesional                       19.0   83.0   20.0   42.0                   ..     ..      ..
Nonconceusional                    49.8    9.9   14.    43.4       ..    .. 
2. Pdvate Creditors                    4.7   65.4   30.1   90.0    1.4    1.6    43    11.1   26.4   54.6
a. Bon                                0O     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Commercial Banks                   25    50.0   2S.0   90.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
c Supple + Other Pdvate               2.2   15.4    5.1    0.0    1.4    1.6    4.3   11.1   26.4   S4.6
Pdvate Nonguaranteed                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.0    8.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Total from LT loans                  109.5  2363   109.0  27S3   125S   282.0  3105   308.3  334.5  335.0
IMF Purchase                          39.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.0   20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Net Short-Team Captal                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Diub. (LT+IMW+ST) I/           149.1  2363   109.0  2753   125.5  312.0  350.1  312.6  353.1  392.7
B. Repayments
Publlc&Pub"l  Guar. LT                17.2   803   1112   1552   146.2  134.7  175.7   96.0   8S.9  116.0
1. Offil Creedlitows                   7.6   72.7   92.2   87.8  127.3  11S.9  107.0   79.8   81.5  107.1
a. Multilateral                       4.9   325    562    S2.6   57.0   73.8   74.8   51.7   57.6   69.5
of wich IDA                         0.1    03      0.7    0.6    0.6    OS       OS      0.6    0.7    0.8
of which IBRD                       2.9    9.4   152    12.4   12.7   16.3   16.8   17.4   26.1   16.9
b. Bilateral                          2.7   40.2   36.0   353    703    42.2   322    28.2   23.9   37.6
Conceaslonal                        1.0    7.0    7.0    6.0       ..     ..       __
NonCoonal                          1.7   33.2   29.0   293         ..    ..       _.
2. Pdvate Creditors                    9.6    7.8   19.0   67.4   19.0   18.8   68.    16.2    4.4    8.9
a. Bons                               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Commercial Banks                   1.5    6.7   17.2   64.4   14.4   14.2   64.2   11.6    0.0    0.0
C. Supplir + OterP rvate,             8.     1.1    1.7    3.0    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.4    8.9
Prvate Nonaanteed                     17.9   1S.9    1.       4.7    94      4.2    5.4    S.3    2.5    0.0
Total from LT koa                     35.1   96.4  124.8  159.9   155.6  138.9  181.1  101.4   88.4  116.0
Short-Tom                              0.0    0.0    OA       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
IMPPurchs                              0.0    5.0    S3       0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0    0.0
Total REpayments 2/                   3S.1  101.4  130.1  160.1  15S.6  138.9  181.1  101.4  104.6  119.4
IlfXd aw snNWa Fr4ookSmTmtdawmiafdm. C1520L



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(USS millions at current prices)
Table 6B
b      E|      ,!   BB    f   .c,;,4'/                                               M\
C. Net Dlsburemants
Public & Publicly Guar. LT             923   155.8   -22   120.1   -20.8  142.3  126.7  202.3  238.6  209.0
1. Officil Creditoms:                 97.2   98.2  -13.3   97.4   -3.2  159.4  191.2  207.4  216.6  163.3
a. Multlateral                       31.1   45.S  .12.1   47.2   31.6  141.5  155.0  156.8  191.9  110.9
of which IDA                        2.8   -0.3   -0.7   -0.6   40.6   -0.5   -0.5    -0.6   -0.7   .0.8
of which IBRD                        7.5   -8.8  -12.8   43.9   -1.4   56.5   29.S   14.6   30.9   17.8
b. Bilaterl                          66.1   52.7   -1.2   50.2  -34.8   17.9   36.2   50.6   24.7   S2.4
Concession                          18.0   76.0   13.0   36.0       ..      ..     ..
Nonconesional                      48.   -23.3  -14.2   14.2        ..    ..
2. Private Crditor                     -4.9   57.6   11.1   22.6  -17.5  -17.2   -64.5   -5.1   22.0   45.7
a. Bonds                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Commercial Banks                   1.0   433       7.8   25.6  -14.4  -14.2  -64.2  -11.6    0.0    0.0
c.Supplien + OtherPrivate            -5.9   143       3.3   -3.0   -3.1   -2.9   -03        6.5   22.0   45.7
Private Nonguaranteed                 -17.9  -15.9   -135    -4.7   -9.4    0.8    2.6    4.7    7.5   10.0
Total fmm LTloans                      74.4  139.9  -15.8  115.4  -30.1  143.1   1293   207.0  246.1  219.0
MF Agreements                          39.6   -5.0   -5.3   -0.2    0.0   30.0   20.0    0.0  -10.0    0.0
D. Inteest
Public & Publicly Guar. LT             245    56.2   71.6   68.9   85.2   90.9  100.4  107.5  131.0  1883
1. Officil Creditors                  22.4   49.9   62.2   56.4   75.2   82.1   92.6  102.7  126.4  169.6
a. Multilateral                      11.2   31.1   49.6   38.8   40.8   49.7   595    67.4   87.5  122.8
of which IDA                         0.2    0.1    0.2    02       0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1
of which IBRD                        72    10.2   14.1   10.6   14.0   15.1   19.0   20.8   25.1   32.1
b. Bilateral                         11.2   18.8   12.5   17.6   34.4   32.4   33.2   35.4   38.9   46.7
Conesional                          2.0   12.0    9.0    6.0        ..      ..      ..
Noaconcessionl                      92      6.8    3.5   11.6       ..      ..      ..
2. Private Crediton                    2.1    6.3    9.5   12.6   10.0    8.8    7.8    4.8    4.6   18.7
a. Bonds                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Commercil Ban                      1.0    4.4    7.6   10.6    7.6    6.7    5.8    2.6    0.0    0.0
c Supplies + Other Pvate              1.1    1.9    1.8    2.        2.4    2.1    2.0    2.2    4.6   18.7
Pdvate Nonguawanteed                   11.0    4.4    3.3    2.0    1.2    0.7    0.9    1.5    2.7    6.7
Total on LT loans                      35.5   60.6   74.9   70.9   86.4   91.6  101.3  109.1  133.7  195.0
IMFServiecharges                        03     0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.8    2.6    3.7    2.3    0.0
Net Short-Term Capitl                  25.0    8o      9.0    9.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total iteresOt (T+IM+S1) I/            60.8   68.7   83.9   80.6   99.0  107.3  119.3  129.0  154.2  223.7



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - EXTERNAL CAPffAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at cuffentP ric)
Table SC
B. External Debt (DOD)
Public & Publicly Guar. LT            498.7  1,818.0  1,897.7 2,0483  2,01018 1,690.1  1,816.8  2,019.1  2,4485  3,518.7
1. Official Creditor:                487.1  1,669.9  1,737.7  1,867   1,847.5 1,S43.9 1,735.1  1,942.5  2,375.6  3,256.1
a. Multilateral                       258    777    787    840    8SS    997   1,152   1,309   1,690   2,367
of which DA                          27      24     23      23      22      22     21      20      19      IS
of which IBRD                        87    142    140    189    182    238    268    282    346    437
b. Bilateral                          229    893    950   1,027    992    547    S83    634    685    889
ConceSSional                         84    740    787    833         ..     ..      ..             .
Noacncsional                       145    153    163    194         ..     ..      ..
2. Private Creditors                  11.6  148.1  160.1  180.9  1633   146.2   81.7   76.6   72.9  262.6
a. Bonds                              0.0    0.0    0.0   00        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Commercial Banks                   7.9  111.1    119    144    130    116         52      40      0       0
c.Supplien + OtherPrivate             3.7   37.0      41      36      33     30      30      37     73    263
Private Nonguaanteed                  160.5   393       26     21      12      13     IS      20      35      83
Total Long-teno DOD                   6S9.2  1,87.3  1,923S 2,069.4  2,022.6 1,702.6 1,831.9  2,038.9  2,483.3  3,601.7
MF Credit                              31.9    5.3      0       0       0      30     S0      S0      25       0
Net Short-Term Capital                220.0  207.7    209    102    102    102    102    102    102    102
Total DOD (LT+IMF+Sl) 1/              911.1  2,070.3 2,132.4 2,171.7  2,124.9 1,834.9 2,003.9 2,215.1  2,66S.6  3,919.2
F. As shareof Total DOD (%)
Public & Publicly Guar. LT             S4.7   87.8   89.0   94.3   94.6   92.1   90.7   912    91.9   89.8
1. Official Creditow                  S3.    80.7   81.5   86.0   86.9   84.1   866    87.7   89.1   83.1
a. Multilateral                       28.3   37.5   36.9   38.7   403    S4.3   57.5   59.1   63.4   60.4
of which IDA                         2.9    1.2    1.1    1.0    1.0    1.2    1.1    0.9    0.7    0.4
of which IBRD                        9.6    6.9    6.6    8.7      8S    13.0   13.4   12.7   13.0   11.2
b. Bilateral                          25.2   43,1   44.6   47.3   46.7   29.8   29.1   28.6   25.7   22.7
Concessional                        92    35.7   36.9   38.4         _      _       _       _       _      _
Nonconcessional                     16.0    7.4    7.7      &9       _      _       _       ..     ..      -
2. Private Crditors                    13      7.2    7.5      83     7.7    8o       4.1    3.5    2.7    6.7
a. Bonds                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Commercial Banks                   0.9    5.4    5.6    6.7    6.1        63      2.6    1.8    0.0    0.0
c. Supplies + Other Private           0.4    1.8    19        1.7    1.6    1.7    1.5    1.7    2.7    6.7
Priate Nonguaranteed                   17.6    1.9    1.2    1.0    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9          13     2.1
Total Long-term DOD                    72.4   89.7   90.2   9S3    95.2   92.8   91.4   92.0   93.2   91.9
IDF Credit                              3.5    03      0.0    0.0    0.0    1.6    2.5    2.3    0.9    0.0
Net Short-Term Capital                 24.1   10.0    9.8    4.7    4.8    S.6    5.1    4.6    3.8          26
Total DOD (LT+W+SID                   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  1000   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
1/Jlackukcsunidenftrd soutOMs



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR . EXTERNAL CAPrTAL AND DEBT
(CU  nione at current pice)
Table Go
G. Percent of Total PPO DOD
On CoueuslonalTnsa                     47.4   6317    64A    62.9        ..     ..               .       .
With Variable lot. Rates                4.1    7.8    8.7   13.2         ..     ..      ..
EL IBRD and Reated Ratios
IBRD Debt SeviQeExprt                   0.8    2.4      32      2.5    2.8    2.9    3.0    2.8    3.1    1.7
IBRD Debt ServcWPublcDS                24.2    143    16.1   103    1lS    13.9   13.0   18.7   23.6   16.1
PrefCreditor DS/PubUc DS                393    503    60.8   40.8   42.3   5S.1   49.6    603    72.6   63.2
Share of IRD Portfoio                    ..      ..   0.15    0.14    0.18    0.23    0.25    0.26    031    0.33
L DOD-to-Exporb Ratios 1/
Long-Term DebtEots                     51.9  2313   212.4  222.5  212.1   1563   1S2.6  151.4   150.2  128.4
RMF CrediVExports                       2.S    0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.8         42      3.7     15      0.0
Short-Tem Debt/Exports                  173    2S.9   23.1   11.0   10.7    9.4        8S      7.6    6.2    3.6
LT+IMF+STDOD/Eports                     71.7  257.8   2355   233S   222.8  168.4  166.9  164.4  1613   139.7
J. DOD-to-GDP Ratios
Long-TemDebt/GDP                        l8S    37.5   3S.6   35.0   31.4   232    23S    24.6    282    28.1
iMFCredit/ODP                           0.9    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4    0.6    0.6    0.3    0.0
Short-Term Debt/GDP                     6.2    4.2    3.9    1.7    1.6    1.4         13      1.2    1.2    0.8
LT+IMF+STDOD/GDP                       2SS    413    39A    36.7   33.0   24.9   25.7   26.7   30.2   30.6
L Debt Service /Exp    1/ 2
Public& GuranteedLT                     33    17.0   20.2   24.1   24.3   20.7   23.0   15.1   13.1    10.8
Private Nonuanteed LT                   2.3    2.5    1.9    0.7    1.1    0.4    0.S    0.S    0.3    0.2
Total Long-Term Debt Service            5.6   19.6   22.0   24.8   25.4   212    235    1S.6   13.4   11.1
ZMFRepurchas+Seav. Cga.                 0.0    0.6    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2          03      0.7    0.0
bitereslonlyotSTDebt                    2.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total (LT+IMF+ST Int.)                  7.5   212    23.6   25.9   26.7   22.6   25.0   17.1   1S.7   12.2
L Interest Burden Ratis
Total InterestlGDP 21                   1.7    1.4    1.6    1.4    1.5    1.5         15      1.6    1.7    1.7
Total IntestExports It                  4.8    8.6      93      8.7   104      9.9    9.9    9.6       93      8.0
Vf F ae Inabbeuta



STANDARDANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - NON FINANCIAL PUBLIC SECrOR
(mnon. of Cokne)
Table I
Direct Taxes                            312    7S8    922   1,227   1,296   1,621   2,154   2,956   3,612   5:S5
Indirect Taxes                          677   1,699   2,408   2833   3,442   4,408   5,842   7,466   9,8S7  14,503
NontaxReceipts                          307    850   1,209   1,477   1,912   2,1S3   2,S11   2,867   3,381   40S9
Total Current Revenues                1296   3,307   4,S39   5,S37   6,650   8,182  10,507  13,288  16,850  24,567
InterestonExtetnal Debt                  40    217    131       133    172    198    240    277    373    SS0
Interest on Domestic Debt                31    126    313    9S8    962   1,251        676    715    501    496
Other Curent Transfers                   94    34S    498    S76   1,068   1,450   2,350   1,473   1,169   1,72S
Subsidies                                 _..                      .. .               ..         ..
Consumption 1/                        1,160   3,122   3,729   4,202   4,334   4,73   6,817   8,712  10,740  15,790
Total Current Expenditures            1,25   3,810   4,670   5,869   6,536   7,772  10,082  11,178  12,783  18,561
Budgetay Savings                        *29   -503   -131    -332    114    410    425   2111   4067   6006
Capitai Revenues                          9      12      17      0     100    154    170    187    204    240
Capital Transfers 2/                     71      42      37    133    774   1,421   I1,09    886       94    111
Budgetary hnestment 3/                  769   1,344    881   1,618   2,520   2,743   3,1S2   3,461   3,488   5,118
Total Capil Epeditures                 84    1,386    918   1,751   3,294   4,164   4,230   4,347   3,582   5,229
Total Deficit Fmnancing                 861   1,877   1,032   2,083   3,080   3,600   3,635   2,049     0       0
ExrnalCapitaltGrnts                     SS    533    88S    881    860   1,611   1,529   1,260         0       0
External Bor:wing (net)                196    S10    S42    869   1,961   1,717   1,800    440          0      0
Moneta System Credit (net)             4S7    839       61    450    519    190    305    349          0       0
Other Domes Boowing (net)              153      *4   -456   -117   -260        82       0       0      0       0
Debt (at end of the year)
External Deb
(in millions of LaJs)                2,278  13,457  16,185  17,548  18,061  16,S14  19,638  23,259  31,454  47,030
(in milliot of USS)                   911   2,070   2,132   2,2   2,125   1,835   2,004   2,215   2,666   3,919
Domestic Debt
To Monetary System                      ..      ..  ..      ..      ..      ..      .
Other Domestic Debt                     ..      ..
Memorandum 1tem
Primary Balance                         933   2,220   1,47S   3,174   4,214   5,049   4,S50   3,042    874   1,045
Cental BankLoses                          _       ..   411      382    438    530    458    523    416          0
CB lose (% of GDP)                       ..      ..    1.0    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.6    0.6    0.4            0
Iidlude was. ad adad. a0d 0 SdW Sad
2fP hjeeosd aucaadnata$M pond_KwL
YFIdlawstm.nL



STANDARD ANNEXES
EL SALVADOR - MONErARY SURVEY
(millions of Colones)
Table 8
A. Annual Flows
Net Foreign Amawt                       490     183    924    337    461          ..
Net Domestic Credit                     860    884   1,65Z   1,946   2,830        ..     ..
To Goveent Budget                      398    984   1,664   1,180    784         ..     ..
To Other Offial Entities                33      92   -961   -589        63       ..      _.
ToPrivateSector                         430   -192    949   1,35S   1,983                    ..      ..
Net Other Assets                        -277    604    907    -763       48       ..      ..
Total Assts & UsabIities                93   1,671   3,482   1,520   3,339      ..      ..
Money and Quasmoney                    -104    812   2,Z22  1,673   2,895
Medium-Long Team Fo         Liabilities  162    200   1,291    -378    *505      ..      ..
Net Other Liabilities                   34    658    -731    225    949          ..      ..
End-of-Year Stocks
Net Foeip Assets                        -175   1,233   3,22    3,570   4,146                  ..     ..
Net Domestic Credit                    3,801   9,328  10,980  12,926  15,756              ..              ..
To Govenment Budget                    418   2,S98   4,261   5,441   6,225           ..
To Other Official Entites               139   -256  -1217  -1806   .1743         ..      ..
To Private Sector                     3,243   6,987   7,93S   9,290  11,273      ..      ..
Net Other es                            172   2,368   2,209   3,725   4,392 _M            ..
Total Assct & Liabilities            3,455  12,929  16,411  17,931  21,270      ..      ..
Money and Quasimoy                    2,682   7,774  10,696  12,369  15,264      ..      ..
Medium-Long Term Forig alits            S60   1,769   3,060   2,682   2,178      ..      ..
Net Other  alities                      213   3,386   2,654   2,880   3,828          ..
C. Offsets to Expandon of MQM I/
tnrease inMoney+Quaasimoney %           100    100    100    100    100           _       ..
No Foreiga ssets                        472      23      32      20      16       ..     ..
Net Domest4 Credit                      -829    109      S7    116       98                   ..     ..
Credit to Govemment Budget             -384    121      57      71      27       _       ..
Credlt to Offcial Entites               -31     11      -33    -35       2       ..      ..
Credit to Prvate se"or                 -414    .24      32      81      69                   ..      ..
Net Other Liabilities                    *89    206    119       91    11S        ..      ..
Memorandum Items
Net Jlt. Resaves (milL. USS)
Changeduringtheyear                    -196     37    117       42      55                   ..      ..
Stock at end of year                    -70    247    399    441    496          ..      ..
DATA SMURC. 1910: WoildBal     &SUNIQeml                        36;=  16 (rawti 7.11.
I9NS4 IMP: Rrtet wt8concas Dg IqmtceBSedo,.Dembe199L (TaL 47).
199  cauRea8at 111 aSaIeda,Yraaaslob,  92 agd Da: gQ



ANNEX A. BOX 1
ASSUMPIONS UNDERLYING ECONOMIC PROJEClONS
Te projections contained in this Annex should not be regaded as predi"o. They rpsent
a consstency chck assuning a continuation of the recent rewtvation of gmwth, undeqpinned by a
stronger stabilizatio effort and consolidation of the peace. Rea annual GDP grwth in the range 4.3-4.5
percent is assumed, which may tum out to be consevative given the relatively good mwth perfornmce
duing t  last thwee years when El Salvador was still a war economy. Output grwth would be spuqnd
by contued investment-both public (mostly NRP-related) andvate-   t Vowth, and contnued
buWoy  of aculturo (coffee, non-taditional agricultural exports, and basdc gras),m
(ago-industry, textiles, and paper produs), and constuction. Nevertle, given El Svadors factor
endowment-sarce nd esoures and high population density-fiture grwth propt wil dexnd lea
on agriculture and more on labor-intensive activities, such as anufawuing and svics. Picy and
stuional impr_ovemets would enhance prvate investmt and expor s a engies of growth drg the
19900s. FPc  sector reforms, imptovements in the reguatory franewo*-prticulady security of
property rigft~-dhigher public and private saving and investmeat, and a mom producfive us of worer
mitances are assumed to raise total irvestment to approximately 18 percent of GDP afwer 1994, up from
13.8 percent in 1991.
on the expot side, although coffee will rmat singe most important prdc. nan-raditional
axporta-4     as agro-industy, textiles, and leather ptodacts,-e expected to be the most buoyant.
xports wod  beneit from maret eiciency reforms, bostng both domestic and freign investmen,
nd by poliUies promoting a competitive real exchange rae and trade  foms   aiing at f*rther tr&
liberalization and at reducing the Uingering antiexport bis. Ins d investmet in h*astrctuve,
parctialy rmads, ports, and telecommunications, will also eadbance the couty's export pot .tial. El
Salvador will also contiue to be actively involved in regional tade m    such as deo rvitaized
CACM and, posibly, NAF1A  Fmally, more favorable terms of trad, pticulaly during te 199395
period, will also contribute to export gowth.
The conti ati  of public secor reform effors, paticulary in ta poic and adminisration,
would underpin a sustaed fiscal impvement and permit great  flexibility to reaocate esoces
twad oial seor poties and infrastructure investmt. Monetr poly is expected tobe costen
with single digit infaon rtes after 1994. Although the economy wll reain depdent oan worker
remittances, the projections assume they will rmain approxmately chota  in ral tems and grdually
decrne  as a sare of GDP.



l b - - - j - --- i
:--- : --
.- ----
Annex B
MAtrX of Polity AcXs
..-.
. ..
.
C . .. ..
. ---....
.
.   .    -    0  - .
fl ---
...... m . . . . .
, ... .. . .. .
... ... . . . ... .
, . .....
i::::: - -- _ _ :_ .__
- . . ... ... .
1- -; '\---- - - -
. .
. - . . - - . - -
. - --
:0-- --- -,;-- ...... -- - . 0
. .



Parg I of 5
EL SALVADORU PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTM  PROGRAM MATRIX OF POUCY ACTONS L
OBJECTVES                               ACTIONS TAR1N BEFORE                                           ACTIONS TO RS  TAKEN BEFORt
BOARD PRE.ENTATION                                              SwOND TUACHE RELEASE
_. MIACROECONOC FRAMEWORK 
Provide a supportive    *        Maintain a supportive macroeomic framework                    Mainan a suppotive mncroeconmic frameworlc
macroeconomc framework    _______________________________________
it. PIWLIC SECTOR MWOERNIATION
A. Overall PubBc Setotr       *      Completed a co enive public sec  moderniation          * Pr e the Publc Sewor Mode aO Acdon PSLn lSMAP), including
Medwatln.                     assessment,                                                    diagnosis ad policy options for: (i) nuaget nd admnitative retoms;
Lay th foundao for a more     * Agreed on Terms of Reference for pilot reviews in thmre mintrs    (ii) aminitative dectalization; (iii) divest , privatimon, and
efficient, highly movated, and    (Frnce. Aeiulu, and Public Works) and for prepation of en  deegution; (lv) moderiation of fcal and fimcii m gesme  and (v)
prduciv public sew            Acton Plan (PSMAP) to implement the public ser moderntion      modniation of h_um  resour c     e     and the civil svice
proram.                                                       * Complebt piot revis in three miniries
B. Pubic Exeiht
Impove and stremlin e         * Ecoaovuc Commce  provede SirseVgyp r Budget VbOfco,   e Sumit to dh Naoina Astribly dj Budgets and Treay Law
badg,y. acunting, ad          inohnAln a re$_dn       of MIN's and MIPL4N's roks             o Eatcnd the Grpcaio of th nw OAS to al) Non Focal Pblc Setr
tbesy system                  * Miiser ofFinnce approe<d a n   dated b1* 1eneadon of        4pn#g ageaces
detaildW Work n so lnpein dte lhegnred Fnnil                  * detitfy the ntifed budget s ue  and format
Mfaagrn   1P) proect, nding refbw   In budge8tg and de        ° Dvelop and intite implementation of a andadied qsem of progrm
mderna    of  ay operaonm                                     csif atind of a compueid sem for budget execution
* In&odue the new Coevanie  Accoeing Sytem (GAS) hI 5
ecutng agencis (Mbres of Meal", Ae ulure, Pbc Works,
and Fiace, ad dA  Cow of Accout)
Achieve more effcient resource   * Designeda pt Meiiw  Tem Sectoral Badge: tM23B)Jr the     o Compete i ment of tepilot 1994-96 MB the MD anddelep
allocation and informed       MJnlany of Edon (MED), I.e., developeda newprogram            a new program classIficadon and a new unified budget sture In di MAinstsy
decisionmaking, including     cassIficaten and designed a new unfied budget rwctr           of Health and te Vce-Minsm  of Housing
prgrm alysis, clsirication,                                                                 * Design a multi-year National Budget Plan and a naining plan for its
and prrtiti                                                                                 prepaation (coordinated by MIFIN, MIPLAN, nd the Cenut  Bank)
Reform the Coun of Accounts    * Implemented the adance global spending authorizations IDAFP) in   * Imp #ment the DAFP in the Central Government and its spendfng agencies
to schieve ger speed and      5 executing agencies (Mfinistries of Health, Public Works, Agricudture,  * Continue implemaon by t  Court of Accounts of die agreedAudti Plan,
flexibility in the spending of  and Fbiance, and the Court of Accounts)                     extending It to all Central Government spending agencies
executing agencies and        * Establishedand initiated operadons of the Audit Departmwent In
strengthen ex-post diting     charge ofpost-expenditure conto In she Court ofAccounts
o Prepared and I(meenuted a tmc-bound Audit Plan by the Court
of Accounts, beging with de Mistries of Health, Public Works,
Agrclture, and Finance
1l Adi    g intals are oded in  ee efDevelopent Poyo*,to be monitored as part of o f progam im            aten a ot as speific tleae coniions



Pare 2 of S
OXBJECTIVES                             ACTIONS TAU& SEPIE                                             ACIONS TO BE TAKEN UFOSS
BOARD PAR!ESETATION                                             SECOND T1AN1 RAS
C. neo an Serice
Monitor the structural iea                                                                     Achieve for 1993 a public savings target of at least 0.5 peren of GDP and
of positions during the rasition                                                             establish a targetfor 1994 in dhe 0. 6-1 perce ntge
period
Develop technical capacity to  0 Designed and bnitd Iplemtatlo of dte centa and local        * Condnue sadisfactoy byemenAton of cenraol MIUS and local ystms In
monitor and control authorized    H,man Resorce LVbmation System (lS), specificly:           MlFNand MAG, specifially:
positin, pay, and             - agreed on sigle design for the HRIS                          - complete implemention of central HRIS and locl systems in MMFI and
appoqntmentshIn each central  - agreed on Action Plan to implement the central HRIS system and to    MAG
government agency             implement loal ystm, linked to the central HRIS, in the two pilot    - complete transfer and processing of existing personnal and payroll data in aU
ministies, MIFIN and MAG.                                     miisties, dependent and autonomous agencies
- agreed on Tams of Reference for manager and coordinator of the  - prepare Action Plan to reconcile all dicrepancies in existing personnl and
implementation of cental HRIS system.                         payroll data, and to implement local HRIS sysems in every miistry, dependent
- agreed on Action Plan and timetable for transfer to the cental  and autonomous agencies
system of existing personnel and payroll daa in each ministry,
dependent sad autnomous agencies
D. Tax Refom
Broden the tax base and       * Iplemented the following tax mers:                             Cmplte mpemenon of agreed acto plan to repeal ost trade daty
enchance reves                - approved the expnion of the VAT base to include imprt duties  cmons, spcifically: (7) s&*bn  to the Assembly legslation to na trade duty
- approved the doubling of tne specific motor vehike registtonfees   exmpio  to: (a) cooperatves; (b) the Fxecuive; and (c) the Central
- taxed iacomews fom coffee cutvation wder the income tax     Goverment; (I) sumt to thde Aisemby kgislaton to repeal eepons to
- modfied the Duty Free Shops Law ('Ley de Lndas Libres') to  CEL; and (iii) complete a review of duty exemptions currey being granted to
control smggng                                                the Legislative and the udiciial braches
- showedprogress In the imlentation of an agreed action pkn to
repeal most *inort duly eWem , specificaly: fi) repeaed
eempdons to ANDA, CEPA, and ANThZ and (1) submItsed to the
Assembly revsions to curt legislation ('Ly de Reskdent,s
Rentistas¶) to reduce xemptons to returning residents
Lay the analyt   background   o Initinted a comprehensive review of the tax system           * Complete a comprehensive review of the sax system, incling a 4a reform
to promote an efficient,                                                                     agenda for the et Administraton
equitable, and tansarent tax
sructure, and ensure the
sustanbity of revenue
performance
Achieve drastic improvements  * Began mlementadion of agreed action plan for ta and customs  * Complete Impiementation of the agreed tax and customr admnistration reform
in administration to enforce  reform (Annex C), Including the approval by the National Assembly of  program (Annex C), including submission to the Assenbly of the draf Customs
compliance and reduce the     the -Ley del Delito Fiscal                                     Law
dogree of evasion



Pae 3 of 5
OBJECTI6                                ACIOS TAKEN BEFE                                               ACIIONS TO IE TAKEN RORE
BOA"D PREWSTATIOK                                               SECOND TRANCES  LEASE
E. Prlvatlaton of NM          * Oedfor sale:                                                    Or fer sale:
Fndal Ete s.                  - all of FA's (anco de Fonento Agropecuarlo) productive assets;  - all remaining INCAPE assets
-  ahe Sat &*Wolo free trade zone;                            - one of *efive rema8iing INAZUCAR sugar nillsk (E Canmn), and
Divest all productive asset to  - BANF Is 'Cemno Maya company; and                           - aU remainig BANAFI/COSAlN assets (dw Ilba sugar nil, sockr and
elimine budgetay subsidies,    - al lNCAZE's. warehouses                                    prpertes)
remove allocative inefiencies,                                                               o Conplete allfncal and kgal preparaty workfor theprtdadon of the
and fostr privato sctor                                                                      remainingfour sugar itUs owimd by INAZUCAR
participation                                                                                * Offerfor either kase or sale the asse  of ihe Fishris ConyAe
A. Prtwes in Onra             * Offemdfor sale d  remaning 2 bankr (Banco Sadoret and        * Ofjerfor sal die Central Bank's porton of Banco Hpoteco
Fhuandal Sector Reav.         Barco de Conercfo)
Rahabliuotand prvauize the    * Anwwmeedd tdmetabkforte sale of tefindan coioqds and  * Pulc offering of the rmai    twog jvancda companes (Credisa and
finial system, eliminadu      oeredfor saek two of de fowufnai p eparAes (CASA and           Adlacati)
finmos reqpession, and        Ahonrmet)
improve resouce allocation        EAded proh%iitionto open new banks and establihed procedures
for th opeatiom of new boals
*  Mintained a free interest late rsom                        * Maintai a free interest rato regime
D. CaIa Marke.
Develop a well-fctioning      * Submited to dt  NationalAssembly dh drft Cil Market Law
securities   e and expand     * Samitted to the Nadona Assembly the reisons to dth Co Dmnrda
the bond and stock madc        Code
C. Renm of the Rra Croft
Develop a market-oriend and    * Compted the rural cre  deUlvcy sysm study                   * lAgree on and begin lylemnuon of the action pia to devdop a market-
commercially viable rural                                                                    oriened and cmmerciay viabk ra financal sctor, Incudigactns to
fincid sector                                                                               incrase access to credit by smai producer
IV. EEVROCARDN SWIC_
Promoe a more efficient and   *  laborated and initd bsple      o of the agreed action pan    e Impkment the agre  upon ctd  plan for the reform of the :ctor, iding:
tnaren hydrocarbon sector   for dite refonn of ske Hydrocarbo sector, inclding:             - die sumissin to die Assembly of the drap Hydrocarbon Law
and eliminae price a  subsidy    - the design of an aemnatve system to protect low income consm  - the replacement of the current disortionary desel subsidy wth the new
distortions                   of diesel for publc rnpoaion and LPG                          mechanism
- thefinaUlon of a draft Hydrocabons Law
- th finallao of teams of refecrnc to devlop an import parity
pricng systemfor petroklen derivatives
I                        I                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Page 4 of 5
OBJECTIVES                              ACnONS TAKEN BEFE                                              ACITONS TO BE TAEMN BEFORE
BOARi PRESENTATION                                              SECOND TRANCR  RELEASE
A. TJWUIRefor
Reduc level and disperion of                                                                 e *SubmU to the Assenb the redions to Part m of dke Tariff Code to brng aU
proScd                                                                                      Itemn tber Included to a S-20 pereecrnge8
lnsirmnhat8.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .h ,b
B. NTIls and ad_lgk-ve        *fiUdsten of Econoy Heabth. Ag8Cu e, and Pbice agreed (in    o Sb*t o the Assnably reWlsiu to thefolowino laws:
__s^mvA                       Olwformof a poktkicer) ond the w*ks fXneed to be fwcd hi           e  rA~AVia             - ie azd andr itsreg s |o
Elimiat NTBs and reducesad an    ef g d        0 7y de a        A      ar  an in             - 7hc Heal Co.*
simpify administrative        rg8 d (7/27/t961); (J 7he H         Code (4128119M, ZJ   y    - 'Ley d Famaca'
inume    regulating impo      de rtanaa' (6/301927);and (lvJ Dcr  Vo. 647fX2119199) to    - Decree No. 647
flows                         reduce an sipli existg non;ff b           and adm   iL
itumt and to ensuro th  remaining admiidstive itume
__________   are~ consisent with interationally recognized practicem_                         _    _     _    _     _     _    _     _    _     _    _
C. Expwt Refnm.               * Estabie a high level Commwte for the promotion of export      Elaborate and intiat impleAntatlion of a compre   sicnExpert Developme
Improv the efficiwy of export  * Inititd the review of the cumet duty drawback system        Straegy, including the            of the rmview of te current duty
promotion mocbanism           * SAdmdt  to Ome Assm1iy revlom  to An. 8 of tdh Eor           drawback stm and th finaiz   of CENTREXs intern  reguation
Promodo Law to enwr the peannmy ad              r        of
VL SOC1AL uECtE XEFORM AM0 PV*V9M AIJ*VIThJ
Funle a Povety Alleviation    e Indatithe prqpamdzn0f/a Poewy Aileriado Strategy anda        * Develop a Pove  Agle l Stegyfor 1994-98 by completing te
Strategy and begin            Acon Plan for 1954-98, including: (i) the evaluation of the main  valuation of: (i) compenitory progams managed by FlS and SRNICONARA;
implementing a comptehensiv   compaoy prgams mnged by the Social Ivestmt Fund (FIS)   (ii) trainig and productive suppoit progams, includmg the regutory
Pvoerty Alleviation Action Plan   and the National Secriat for Reonuction (SRN(CONARA)      framework for mkioterpris_s; and (iii) sial svics mAnaged by tho
for 1994-93                   according to aeed criteria; and (ii) the development of a monitoring    Ministries of Education and Health
system to mere living standrds, including an action plan to:
modernize existing survey systems; reorganize MIPLAN's Survey   A Agree on and tiate bek    tn cfan Action Panbfor dth 1994-98
Dretrate; and establish an information system with basic indicators   period including: (i) institutionl atrangem  to avoid duplication of efforts;
(ii) improved targeting mechanisms; (iii) improved mechnisms for aid
coordination; and (iv) a system for monitoring and evalation of key povery |
alleviation programs, and implement the new monitoring systm to measur
living standards of the population
Institutionalizealternative   e MIFIN and the Court of Accounts approved the institutional  * Approve the institutional mechanism to tansfer. use, and aud;t Cental
delivery mechanisms, beginning   mechanism to uansfer external rcsources to community associations  Government funds for private sector service delivery, starting with EDUCO
with EDUCO                    for the provision of social svices, which stted with EDUCO
:  I                                                                                               .     



Flip S of S
OBJECTIVE                                ACIONS TAKEN BEFORE                                              ACaONS TO OE TAIN BEOl
________________jBOARD WREFATION                                                  jSECOND TRANUJI RELEASE
VIL INlVNOIAL PLICV RIERM
develop tho general legl and   e   Prepred a daft Environmental Action Pban                     * Aprotu by CONAMA of an Envnrwnuw  Acdon Pka and insadon of Us
institional fawfok (fr         * Presentd to CONAMA tho propod institutional framework for     Inpkmearion
improved environmental         envi_onMna Management                                            * Approval by CONAMA of the now insitutionlu frmmework
mamaent                        o Ptepared an annotated outline of the drft Environmntal LAw     *   adrt  lDal EnWronenA Law o theNdonAl semNy
|   ,.   g   g                               _                      .=                                        - _!             



Annex C
Matrix of Tax and CWstoms
Administraion Actions



Pap I of 4
EL SALVADOR:
TAX AND CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION ACTIONS AND INDICATORS
SOURCE OF                      MONfrON  INDI(ATOR VAUI U
UNIT D          lNTCMNICAL
OBJlTIVES                A                            nwC                                       B ASrANCE    RRACH BEDORE BOARD                           TD BE REACHED
YRESEMATION                   BEFORE SECON4
TmANCUE REWAZ
I                                                                      '                                    awe 1994}
1. Iameqn              1. Restructure adi         1. Huing of additional aifto   DO!             1DB and USAD:          L.e. Defined technipfile
ofedbe0s,               units within DOB.         who fit predefined techa                       Training               for new audieos.
_dwh*MM6001 lAd                                  .prof.
conalett_ilI L b. Hed 16ddidtional                                                                                                                        Lb.. Hir 20 additiona
2. Trainig program                                                    auditors.                        auditor.
2. Complete caa audit     2. Nunber of Wait               Do% in         ID1, RMF, and          2. Competd the foUoing           2.a. Evalu_  audit, baad on
for VAT, 1ane,            eomlsted.                       coodio         USAID: will provide      dit:                                   o     f
Weat, Stamp, and                                          wih DOA        audit indicators fiom           V VAT - 34,000          information to deermino
Coms tax.                                                                dhir fiSs                       prevendve audits        efficeny of aren  ading
*     Wealt - 200             system.
*      ncme- 20I
*     Smp Tax - 300           2.b. Pre  at iie
*     C os           with     impnuaaton of aui
Customs. - 600         progrm for 1994.
3. Esablish ne            3.a. Tax-filin system to        DWl            IIB (PKT program):    3. Compleed conceptu  dedgn    3. 60% of completion in
intgrted tax reporting      clude VAT, wome taxes and                    wil desig a new        and initiatedimementon of        implementing the nw tax
systm.                    eaie  .                                         begted Tax              egratd sysdem for              rapoti  ste-m an in
Reportg Syeam         _ompuid tax filing-Stage t.    collecting itegted tx
3.b. Avaiabity of iegraed                      and will con e                                         indxformeto- om.x,
tx informato.                                  the i    _nfm    from                                   VAT, Vehicles and Excise
VAT a"A non PlT                                           .
tapyesIMP&
USAID)
4. Establish Vehicle      4.a. Number of egisteed         DaO  am        USAID will desin a    4. Made satisfactory progma in   4.a. Desin of computend
Re istao Sysm.            veicle.                           CA           systm  th registers    de 8gning the compurid           veicle regitation sm
vehides and prvdes   vehicle rgitation system to be    completed.
thelistof             eompetdiD Sept. 1993.
4.b. Vehides found witht                       iconsisencies                                          4.b. 80% of Vehicls
pe im pot Ibene.                               between rgiued                                          registd      new  system.
veiceles a  inm
documas                                                    _
5. Collect ara.           5.a. Amount of arrars           DGE ad          Oment fonda.          S. Colleted c 26 million.        5.a. c 75 milion  collCted
coleced.                       Twasy                                                                  by Dec. 1993.
S.b. Amount of     S5b. c 20 millioa collcted
registed befor an afler dte                                                                           by July 1994.
coecig plan.



Pagp 2 of 4
sctwm cw                        MOAlONrENG DWATOR VAwz
oIrJU                    AcIITiES                    IMMICA38S                CHABGe    AWAN$    i                                     ARD    TO A
AIPEWGTATION                   woRE SlOND
}f. DeM                 1. Esablisb               1. Abity to ansfer and          hm1           USAD and C"ro         1. Made compabfle and enred   1. Continue ensuing
Meng_t am sI           comniation and            compate infonnation fom                       de Coput in            comminication amo  exsing       ompatibitamongall
MeftombM                compatibrty bwe          existg compte systemg.                        MIN win provide        computer sems.          8exting compue sysms.
ad DGUhrde              exsti  convute                                                         finacing for
ofswaituo              systms,                                                                 computer experts
2. Apprvo th Ley del    2.a. Ley del Delito RcaL         DOILAMIN   USAID wil finance         2. Approved the Ley del Delito    2. Presen analysis of the
Deo fscal.                                                              legad exper           FSeal.                           esults of enforn te Ley
2.b. Number of cases procesed                                                                       del Delko Fsalv
widhi dte fhemewerk of the
Ley del Delio Flcal
3. Draft and subIit the    3. Tax Code.                  DO0  and      IDB will finance                                       3. Submit the Tax Code to
Tax Code (CAg80                                          DWA           legd expets                                            the Legilati  Asembly.
7WbswnIo) to the
Lgisdve Assebly.
m. Globi refom   f   1. Design and impleimet   l.a. Action plan for the          DOG           ID) wiU finance        1. Fnalized global action plan  1. Inidate implmentation of
DGII.                  a stmrte  to refor  the   restucturing of DOl.                          necessary semninars    for die ransfomatio of the     sacion plan for the reform of
organizational s e                                                     and expt               DOWs organizational stucr.    Dan.
of Doll.                  I .b. Unified fuctions and
oflies        b withlin Don.



Page 3 of 4
ISOURCE OF                    MONITORING IND}CATW VALUE:
nVD     ma                       INDICATS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mm IN    TESKSrALC   REABEFOWOEBOARD    'TOBEWAH
ACPRESTATION                  BEOl SBCOND
TRANMNREX
IV. _  _     _Z  otb   1: .. Pepat a Cskm0     .a. CUStOMS IAe. D.A                               amnt I   f>                                               _ __.e. Prepared a disgnds of  La. Subni the ey
Cnstm                  LAW   e Ocdnka d                                                                               DCOA and cus   curre             OrgA  de Aduwiad to the
Ad_iddnw 1and          Ada.).                                                                                         suctre.                          LitiveAsembly.
atms"toobs              Lb. Pepae draft           L.b. Ley d Eqpsjes             MIFN                                   .b. Prepaed draft              lb. Submit to the
osedano.     modifications to the Ley                                                                       modifications to the Ley de     Legislative Assembly the
de EqWp#s                                                                                     E~qJs                            draft modifications to the Ley
2. Prepare the CAUCA     2. CAUCA Regulions and          DGA            USAID will finance    2. Completed preparaion of       2. Submit Customs Code to
Regulatons and the        Customs Code.                                 legal experts         daft CAUCA Regulaions.           the Leidative Asembly and
Cusloms Code.                                                                                                                  CAUCA Regulatons to the
Executive Brnch.
3. Implement SIDUNEA    3.a. Completion of action plan    DGA           UNDP: Design of       3.a. Completed action plan for  3.a. I[ntelltioa and
iat San Battolo and at the    for implementation by UNDP                system and training   integration of SIDUNEA.          f     _nctioning of SIDUNEA
Comalpa Airxt and         consult.                                                                                             sydem at San Bartolo and dte
initae implementaion of                                                 IBRD-TAL:             3h. Completed logistical        Comelep, Aiport.
SIDUNEA at the Port of    3.b. Prchae  of computer                      Equipment and office   sta       for re-structuwg of
Acajutla.               hrdwar.                                       restructuring coas     office space.                   3.b. Initiate implentaion
at the Putt of Acajutla.
3.. Re-structuring of office                                        3.c. Completd batdwair desgn
sPWe at the thee Customs                                            specifctons.                    3.c. Complete Action Plan
location to accommodate                                                                             for implmenttion of
SIDUNEA sysm.                                                       3.d. Prepad action plan for     SIDUNEA at border customs,
nationwide implenention of      if necassay.
3.d. Ation Plan for                                                 SIDUNEA.
iuuplementstionof SIDUNEA at                                                                        3.d. Train 60 custoda
border Customs.                                                     3.e. Tained 40 cusoms           office=s.
officers.
3.e. Training of customs
officials.
4... Idetfy  and aucion    4.a. Number of Aucdons and    DGA            (averament finds      4.a. Completed S auctions and   4.a. Auction 80% of
abandoned merchandise.    revenues collected.                                                 collected c 300.000             abandoned merchndise
completed.
4.b. Establish me        4.b. Faster procesing of                                             4.b. Collected c 6 millions fom
efficint procesing of   import doumnens.                                                      rwuarB in import documents.    4.b. Satisfatkc    progrenss in
currnt import documents                                                                                                       mwving to a generalzed sef-
Wftia).                  4.c. Number of p6k:ax and                                            4.c. Estblished monthly reports   clearing sysem in import
warraies processed and                                              from CEPA on unclimed           documents.
4.c. Clear import duty    revenues collected.                                                 merchandise in sto8ge facilities.
arrears.



Page 4 of 4
I      AOVRCE (W                    M~1ONITORIN VOWJATORI VALME
0UNiT               TECHICAL
oSJEiIVE                 ACTIMTNR                   INCAIMR                   CHARGE    AWSWfCE    3*CW WRESDOARI)    TOURU ECHM
P!EETATKOff                   EIM3 WONMOD
TV. N       t     f    S. Impue the             5Sa. Puas, of                   DOA           aovenmnt fids.                                        S. Ingatedo-
C_ucm                            to                             cumnmniation equipmen bg
a_    d      and _a nt of             the SaM196n de CQnav FiScal                                                                         plo. and wocki  in
of   ca sinchidg               a  the Cusloms Dictor.                                                                              Cwom  and thX BaldW  de
fiasiWe baween customs                                                                                                       Cawit flcW.
checkpoint.              S.b. Amwnt of contrban
i.f~
V. Oplimbe nte of   1.  De _egat codinto       I . Selecon of Techi                         Govermn &uds.         1. Selected Tehncal Assaae   1. Complete anasis of
_ duties wihin tx and                            Aisae Coordinao.                                                   Coordinato.                     acbievementlfaihsof
cusoms admisa  to                                                                                                            t                pr s.
1 1aghtku Omo.         a Tech Anica Assisne                                                                                                       I
Co orditor with drct
access to th Mint  of 
. _   _ __._            F inance.                                                                       .___ _ _ _ _ _   :__ _          --__ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _._ _ _ _ _ _ _



S~~~~An.. D 
:~ore of Techica Ass :                                     tance
-~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ..  ..... .:  ......           ........... ..... ...
::---~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... ..... .. ...



EL SALVADOR                                                     ANNEX D
SAL 11- TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE NEEDS AND SOURCES OF FINANCING
I  (YIWR    I    SOURCES OF
POLUCY AREA                        TEC,NCAL ISSTANCE NEEDS                           DONORS          BANK FUNDSITA
INVOLVED
PUBLIC SECIOR                   * Prepare the Public Sector Modernization Action Plan     UNDP            * TA Lean
MODERNIZATION                   (PSMAP), including: (i) institutional reordering and      USAID
rationalization and simplification of procedures and key
administrative tasks; (ii) decentralization; (iii) divestiture,
privatiation, and deregulation; (iv) the modernization of
human resource management; and (v) integrated financial
management.
* Complete pilot reviews in the ministries of Finance,
Agriculture, and Public Works
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE            1. Design and implement a sysem of Medium-Tem                USAID       e     TA Loan
MANAGEMENT                      Expenditure Planning (MTEP) to include: (i) a multi-year                                          l
National Budget Plan and (ii) a system of Medium Term
Sectoral Budgets (MTSB) in the Ministries of Education and
__________________l  Health and the Vice-Ministry of Housing
THE CIVIL SERVICE               * Design and implement a centralized Human Resource       UNDP, EEC    * TA Loan
Information System (HRIS) to monitor and control authorized
positions, employee remuneration, and individual ernployees
within the Central Government, implement individual HRIS in
two ministries, and collect personnel information from all
Central Government agencies for the centralized system
TAX REFORM                      * Tax Svsem: Prepare and implement the recommendations of   USAID
a comprehensive review of the current tax system as a whole to
rationalize the tax structure and to ensure coordination among
tax instruments
;ax and Customs Administration: Finalize and implement a  USAID       e     TA Loan
comprehensive action plan for Tax and Customs Administation   IDB         (only the implementation
(Annex C)                                                 IMF             of a computerized
UNDP           customs information
management system for 8
Customs locations)
FINANCIAL SECTOR                * Finalize the draft Capital Market Law (Ley de Mercado de  IDB           * World Bank Staff
REFORM:                         Valores)                                                                    support
CAPITAL MARKETS
FINANCIAL SECOR                 * Prqpare a comprehensive diagnostic of rural credit delivery  IDB        * World Bank: Dutch
REFORM:                         and an action plan for implementation of its recommendations                lhast Fund
RURAL FINANCIAL                                                                                           * Centrl Bank of ES
MARKET_
HYDROCARBON SECTOR    1   Develop an import parity pricing system for petroleum                              Power Sector TAL
deriwtives                                              |                   (Lean 3389ES)
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY            0 prepare a National Environmental Strategy and Action Plan,    USAID     * TA Loa
REFORM                          a Draft Environmental Law, and a proposal for a new        IDB/OAS
institutional fram_ork for the environmental management                 l
POVERTY ALLEVIATIO              * Develop a monitoring system to measure living standards and   USAID     * TA Loan
prepare pilot ministry reviews in the Ministries of Education
|arnd Heulth



Annex E
Letter of Development Policy
!   _   g  ,  .          -      "1__   1. "  .  "   ,   ... '~



LETTER OF DEVELOPMT POUCY
FOR THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTNENT LWAN'
San Salvador, August 13, 1993
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
Intenional Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.    During the eighties, El Salvador experienced severe deterioration in its social and economic
conditions, owing principally to the prolonged civil war, adverse external conditions and misdirected
public policies. As a result, real per capita GDP dropped by over 20 percent, internal and external
imbalances intensified, over one third of the population found itself living in absolute poverty, and basic
infrastructe suffered serious damage, all of which imposed serious restrctions on the population's
opportunities for economic and social development.
2.    In mid-1989, the present Government initiated the implementation of its "Economic and Social
Development Plan for 1989-94", designed to reduce macroeconomic imbalances while establishing thi
foundation for sustainable economic growth and improving the well-being and quality of life of the entire
population, especially the very poor.
3.    To support adjustment and economic renewal, the Government signed three stand-by arrangements
with the IMF, a Strucural Adjustnent Program (SAL I) with the World Bank, and an Investment Sector
Loan with the IDB. While helping to boost the process of rehabilitation of the productive sector, these
financial arrangements represened an endorsement of the Government's economic and social policy and
paved the way for renewed iternatonal cooperation.
4.    During the first three years of the Plan, 1990-92, GDP grew by 3.8 percent per annum on
average, compared to a 1.5 percent average over the period 1985-89. Inflation, averaging 24.7 percent
over the period 1985-89, fell to an average of 16.3 percent in 1990-92. The fical deficit, including
grants, decreased from 4.2 percent of GDP in 1989 to 2.5 percent in 1991, but in 1992, becase of the
increased expenditure resulting from the Peace Accords, the drastic drop in coffee export taxes, and the
drought, which created financial problems for the electric utility company (CEL), it iresed again,
reaching 4.1 percent of GDP. The tax reform program is practically completed; however, this reform
needs to be consolidated through a mnmber of administive improvements designed to expand the tax
base and significandy improve taxpayer control, measures that should lead to enhanced revenue
collection. Three consecudve years of improvement in the balance of payments hve yielded positive
results: elimination of external payment arreas from 1991 onwards, reestablishment of relations between
El Salvador and its principal internional creditors, and accumuladon of intemational reserves by the
Central Bank (BCR). However, the trade balance siatdon worsened, the result of a more open economy,
1. Unofficial trandation from the original spanish text.



a more dynamic productive sector, lower customs tariffs and the lack of more supportive policies to
promote nontraditional exports. Ibis situation calls for an evaluation of the mechanisms used to date to
support implementation of the expert development strategy. Investment, both public and private, has
followed an upward trend, rising from an average of 12.9 percent of GDP over the period 1985-89 to
13.8 of GDP percent over the thre years 1990-92.
5.    The improvements in economic performace were attributable to economic policy changes
designed to place greater reliance on market forces and to focus on the need to ensure a greater and better
integration of El Salvador with the international economy.
6.    The most significant measures taken up to mid 1993 have aimed mainly at creating the necessary
market economy framework and stable environment within which to stimulate productive activity, savings
and investment and are listed below:
7.    Monetary and Financial Policy. Interest rates were liberalized; credit lines with subsidized
interest rates were eliminated; the State-owned banking system was rehabilitated and privatized; the
Organic Law of the Central Bank was approved, limiting Cetral Bank lending to the public sector to
exceptional cases of temporary cash shortfalls; the intervention of monetary authorities in open market
operations was limited; the Law on Banks and Financial Institutions, the Organic Law for the
Superintendency of the Financial System, and the internal regulations of the Stock Exchange were
approved.
S.    Exchange Rate Policy. A flexible, free and unified exchange rate system was adopted, and the
operation of Foreign Exchange Offices [Caas de GCabio} was authorized.
9.    Trade Policy. Most foreign trade quantitative restrictions were eliminated; tariffs were reduced,
falling from a range of 0-290 percent to 5-20 percent in the case of imports freely traded in Central
America or in process of liberalization, and to 5-30 percent for luxury and special goods; a drawback
system for nontraditional exports was established; the Export Development Law and the Law on Free
Trade Zones and Fiscal Areas were approved; the Industrial Reconversion Fund was created; and state
monopolies on the coffee and sugar trade were eliminated. El Salvador became a member of GATT;
signed free trade treaties with Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua; and began negotiations to establish
treaties with Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela.
10.   Fiscal PoliC.. A tax reform program was implemented, which simplified the tax structure and
reduced tax rates. The Sales Tax and the Stamp Tax were replaced with a Value Added Tax (Impuesto
a la Transferenca de Bienes Muebes y a la Presaacion de Servcios); public utility rates were adjusted;
most of the laws authorizing exemptions and concessions were repealed; contribution rates of the
Salvadoran Social Security Institution were increased; voluntary departure and early retirement programs
were designed and implemented.
THE SECOND PHASE OF TBE ADJUSTMT RSS
11.   With the signature of the Peace Accords, on January 16, 1992, the two main challenges facing
the Government in the coming years will be to consolidate peace and to maintain and deepen the reform
and stabilization program to promote sustainable economic and social development.



-3 -
12.   Despite the achievements of the first stage of the structural adjustment program, the adjustment
process needs to be institutionalized in order to promote growth and, at the same time, meet the needs
of the poorest and respond to the economic and social demands arising out of the Peace Accords.
13.   To achieve the objectives of consolidadtng and providing continuity to the process already under
way, the second phase of the adjustment program will focus on six areas: (i) public sector modernization;
(ii) financial sector reform; (iii) hydrocarbon sector reform; (iv) trade reform; (v) social sector reform
and poverty alleviation; and (vi) environmental policy reform.
14.   The Salvadoran Government proposes that technical and fincial assistance be provided by the
World Bank for implementation of policies to consolidate the achievements of the structural adjustment
program initiated in mid-1989, and, at the same time, to lay the groundwork for an agenda to be
developed by the future Government. In this context, the Salvadoran Government requests a Second
Structr Adjustment Loan (SAL II).
Macroeconomic Framework
15.   TG ensure successful accomplishment of the structural adjustment program, the Government of
El Salvador will continue to make the necessary efforts to ensure that the supporting macroeconomic
framework remains consistent with its stubilization and adjustment goals both for 1993 and for 1994. For
1993, the main macroeconomic objectives are to reduce the inflation rate to a maximum of 12 percent;
achieve real GDP growth of 4.5-5.0 percent; and increase current savings of the nonfinancial public
sector to 0.5 percent of GDP. Achievement of these objectives is based on a strategy geared to the
modernization of the productive sector and the redefinition of the institutional framework to promote
market efficiency and the reordering of the State. To this end, the authorities will continue to pursue
modernization of the financia system and the public sector, and the Central Bank will continue to ensure
stable monetary, exchange rate, and credit conditions.  The Government will continue these
macroeconomic policies during 1994, and in particular will aim to achieve a level of public saving within
the range of 0.6-1.0 percent of GDP. This target may be revised in the context of an eventual extension
of the current Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF.
16.    The main components of the adjustment program and the operational measures for its
implementtion are summarized below.
1.    Public Sector Modenization
1.1   Overall Framewo  r Public Sectoi Modernizaion
17.   The strucure of the public sector continues to hamper the effective accomplishment of the
reforms proposed in the Government's "Economic and Social Development Plan".
18.   The Government has launched the Public Sector Modernization Program to remove those
obstacles and to reform and substantially improve the role of the State by (i) increasing its efficiency and
effectiveness and (ii) promoting participation of all sectors of society in managing economic, social, and
infrastructure policies, in the provision of basic services, and in local development and regional
integration. To achieve this, the Public Sector Modernization Program includes actions in the areas of
institutional reordering and simplification of administrative procedures; decentralization; privatization and



-4 -
the regulatory framework; modernization of human rsources and civil seivice management; and
integrated financial management.
19.   The Government has finalized its assessment of the progress made in modernizing the public
sector; it has issied Terms of Reference for pilot review studies at the Ministries of Finance, Public
Works and Agriculture, and for preparation of the Action Plan to implement the Public Sector
Modernization Program (PSMAP). By June 1994, the pilot studies at the three above-mentioned
ministries will have been completed, as well as the PSMAP, which will be presented in the form of a
summary document intended to help the Ministers obtain a clear vision of the future and prepare
themselves to support that vision.
1.2   Public Expenditure Management
20.   Budget unification and reform of the budgetary grocess. The Government has introduced a new
Government Accounting System at the Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Public Works, and Finance, and
at the Court of Accounts, which will be fully introduced in all Public Sector agencies by June 1994. In
addition, the Economic Committee has approved the budget unification strategy, which includes a
redefinition of the roles and responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning. The
structure and format of the unified budget will be identified by June 1994, when a standardiz4A program
classification system also will have been developed and a computerized budget execution system will be
in operation.
21.   The Ministry of Finance has approved and has initiated execution of a detailed work plan to
implement the Integrated Financial Management (IFM) system, which includes reforms in budgetary and
treasury operatiops. The draft Budget Law and the draft Treasury Law will be submitted to the
Legislative Assembly by June 1994. The following goals are expected to be achieved once the IFM is
in operation: (i) integration of the unifl"d budget process with the treasury, accounting and public debt
systems, resulting in a new uniform budget. structure; (ii) expansion of the scope of the budget, to develop
it into a useful decision making tool; (iii) establishment of a cash flow programming system; (iv) proper
supervision of revenue collection; (v) strengthening of internal controls through permanent auditing
programs; (vi) decentralization of government financial administration; and (vii) establishment of a
common legal basis to support and complement the administrative process.
22.   Expenditure grioritization and program analysis. The Government believes that the budget should
become a policy instrument. To this end, a new program classification and budget structure compatible
with sectoral policy has been designed at the Ministry of Education, consolidating programs by source
of financing. By June 1994, the Education Ministry will have prepared the Medium-Term Sectoral
Budget (1994-96) in liaison with the Ministry of Finance. Likewise, a new, unified budget program
structure will have been designed at the Ministry of Health and the Vice-Ministry of Housing. The
Ministries of Finance and Planning, together with the Central Bank, will design a Multi-Year National
Budget Plan and a training plan for tits implementation.
23.   Budget execution and auditing. To expedite budget execution, the Government has introduced
advance global spending authorizations [Desembolso Andicipado de Fondo P4bllcos - DAFP] at the
Ministries of Health, Public Works, Agriculture, and Finance, and at the Court of Accounts, and this
system is expected to be implemented at all Government executing agencies by June 1994.



- 5 -
24.   Ihe DAFP system elim_iat the need for the ex-ante controls previously exercised by the Court
of Accounts, which has now been provided with an Audit Department, already in operation, in charge
of ex-post auditing. In addition, the Court of Accounts has prepared a time-bound Audit Plan and
initiated its implementation at the Ministries of Health, Public Works, Agricultre, and Finance; by June
1994, this Plan will be in operation in the remaining Central Government agencies.
1.3    Chvil S    i
25.   Design of the centralized Human Resources Information System (HRIS) has been completed and
the system is now operational, which is essential to the success of the public sector modernization program.
By June 1994, the following will have been completed: (i) implementation of the central HRIS and local
HRIS systems at the Ministes of Finance and Agriculture; (ii) transfer and processing of existing
personnel and payroll data of all ministries, dependent, and autonomous agencies; (iii) the preparation of
an Action Plan to reconcile discrepancies in personnel and payroll data, and to implement a local HRIS in
every ministry, dependent, and autonomous agency.
26.   The HRUS has three basic aims: (i) lay the groundwork for improvements in the areas of
expenditure management, pay and employment policies, and the technical capacity of the Government
to keep accurate data on pay and positions both throughout the civil service and within individual
ministries and their administrative units, and to monitor specific jobs within those units; (ii) contribute
to the design and implementation of management reforms within the civil service with a view to
enhancing the overall public sector program; and (iii) formulate an action plan based on the experience
of the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture, for the monitoring and oversight of overall pay and
employment levels, positions, and employees.
1.4   Tax Reform
27.   Tax policy. The Government has taken a number of measures designed to broaden the tax base
and thereby enhance revenues. The VAT base has been expanded to include import duties. Vehicle
registration fees have been doubled. The income tax base now includes incomes from coffee growing.
The duty exemptions on imports of the AdmInradn Nadonal de Acueductos y Alcantarllados - ANDA,
Comisln Ejecutia Porua4a A,6noma - CEPA, and Adzinistradn Nadonal de Tekcomwdcacones -
AN7L have been repealed, and draft revisions to the Ley de Residentes Rentistas to reduce duty
exemptions have been submitted to the Legislative Assembly. By June 1994 draft revisions to various
laws will be submitted to the Legislative Assembly, to reduce duty exemptions to Cooperative
Associations, the Executive Branch, and the Central Government, and to repeal duty exemptions to the
Coml&n HidroelEctica del R(o Lenpa - CEL. In additon, exemptions currently granted to the
Legislative and Judicial branches will be analyzed.
28.   Tax sudi. A comprehensive review of the tax system, including a tax reform agenda for the
next Adminisaon, is under way and will be finalized by June 1994, including a tax reform action plan
for the next inistration. The main goal of these studies is to rationalize and consolidate reforms to
the tax system to increase public revenues without distortions and in a equitable and sustainable manner.
The review is comprised of four studies: (i) on tax administration, to simplify laws and administrative
procedures, to facilitate voluntary compliance and minimize discretionality, and to institutionalize
organizational changes increasing the efficiency of the tax system; (ii) on the incidence of the tax system,
to ensure the equity of the tax structure, both vertically and horizontally; (iii) on tariff rates and customs



-6 -
reform, to identify current distortions and effective rates of protection; and (iv) on prospects for future
reform, based on the recommendations of the other three studies.
29.   Tax and customs administration. An Action Plan to reform the tax and customs administration
is now under implementation, which aims to: (i) increase efficiency in the areas of evasion control and
internal tax collection; (ii) reform the organizational structure of the Directorate General of Internal Taxes
(DGI); (iii) modernize the customs administration and institutionalize control procedures; and (iv)
optimize the use of local and international technical assistance. Within this framework the Legislative
Assembly has approved revisions to the Penal Code, introducing the concept of Delito Fiscal, and to the
Duty Free Shops Law (Ley del Regimen Aduanero de 7lendas Ubres). Implementation of the Action
Plan, which includes presentation to the Legislative Assembly of the draft Customs Law, will be
completed by June 1994.
1.5   Privaization of Productive Assets of Nonfinancial Enterprises
30.   The goals of the privatization policy implemented by the Go vernment are to: (i) reduce the size
of the State and eliminate State-ownership of productive activities that require subsidies or transfers, and
(Hi) identify the respective functions of the State and the private sector safeguarding the right to private
property. To these end, and =s a continuation of thr ongoing privatization effort, a list of productive
Government assets to be sold haE been prepared, of wh,.n the following have already been offered for sale:
(i) the San Bartolo free-trade zone; (ii) the Cemento Maya company; (iii) the following assets of the Banco
de Fomeno Agropecuario: grain processing plants at Sitio del Niuo, Kilo 5 and SIRAMA, and real estate
sites; and civ) INCAFE's warehouses. By June 1994, in step with the process of liquidation of INCAFE
and BANAFT, the productive assets of the following institutions will be offered for sale: (i) INCAFE:
all remaining assets including all processing plants, (ii) BANAFI: all remaining assets and steps will be
taken to promote private participation in the Fisheries Complex (Punta Gorda) through sale or lease; (iii)
CORSAIN: The Injiboa sugar mill, stocks and properties; and (iv) INAZUCAR: the El Carmen sugar
mill, while the remaining mills will be brought to the point of sale.
2.    Tunda Sector Reform
31.   Overall financial sector reform. The Government has initiated the process of rehabilitating the
financial system and improving the management and competitiveness of financial intermediation. The
Government maintains, and will continue to maintain, a marked-determined interest rate system, and has
lifted the ban on the opening of new banks by approving guidelines that regulate the creation and
operation of banks. The process of rehabilitation and privatization of the five State-owned banks has been
completed with the public offering of Banco Salvadoreno and Banco de Comercio; the timetable for the
sale of the financial companies and of Banco Hipotecario has been publicly announced, and two of the
four State-owned financial companies (CASA and Ahorrom"et) have been offered for sale. By June 1994,
the stock of the two remaining Statowned financial companies (Caedisa and Atlacati) and BCR's
stockholdings in Banco Hipotecarlo will have been offered for sale.
32.   Xital market             The Capital Market Law was submitted to the Legislative Assembly
to strengthen alternative domestic savings and investment financing mechanisms, and to provide more
flexibility to the local capital market. In addition, modifications to the Commerce Code were also
submitted to the Legislative Assembly, wimh a view to reducing the obstacles to the registration and
issuance of bonds.



33.   Rural credit delivery sytem. The study of the rural credit delivery system has been completed.
By June 1994, implementation of an Action Plan to reform this system will be initiated, with a view to
developing a market-oriented and commercially viable rural financial sector, including actions to increase
access to credit by small producers.
3.    Hydocarbon Sector
34.   As part of the overall reform of the energy sector, implementation of the agreed Action Plan has
been initiated for the reform of the hydrocarbon subsector in order to strengthen the legal framework for
hydrocarbon exploitation, storage, marketing, transportation, and distribaion, including: (i) the design
of an alternative diesel and LPG subsidization system; (ii) preparation of the draft General Law on
Hydrocarbons; (dn4 .lnalization of the terms of reference of the Import Parity Pricing System for
petroleum derivati as. By June 1994, the draft Hydrocarbons Law will be submitted to the Legislative
Assembly and the alternative diesel subsidization system will be implemented.
4.    TOde Reform
35.   Tariff reform. The Government, aware of the need to reduce the present tariff dispersion and
to consolidate reforms supported by the first Stucral Adjustnent Loan, will submit for consideration
by the Legislative Assembly, by June 1994, a proposal to reduce to 20 percent the maximum rate of Part
m of the Central American Tariff Code. Likewise, by signing the Protocol to the Agreement on the
Central American Tariff and Customs System, El Salvador is committed to lower rates even further in
January 1995, substantially reducing protection levels and tariff dispersion.
36.   As a participant of the Central American integration process, El Salvador adopted in March of
this year the Central American Regulations on Unfair Trading Practices and Safeguard Clauses, approved
by the Central American Tariff and Customs Council. The Government will take the initiative to request
to GATT, through regional bodies, an opinion on the consistency with GAIT of the Cental American
anti-dumping and countervailing regulations. In case there were inconsistencies, the Government will
promote within the regional framework the necessary modifications to the Central American regulations
on the subject.
37.   Non-tariff barrie. The Government is identifying mechanisms to reduce and simplify exstng
non-tariff instruments, while ensuring consistency with the GATT Standards Code and with interationally
recognized animal and plant health standards. To this end, the Ministries of Economy, Agriculture,
Health, and Finance have signed an agreement to jointly review and identify the necesy amendments
to various laws, including the Ley de SandAgropecuaria and its regulations, the Health Code, the Ley
de Fannacia and Decree No. 647; proposals for the revisions to these laws will be submitted to the
Legislative Assembly by June 1994.
38.   E rt gim. A High Level Export Promotion Committee (FOMEX) has been set up to
identify the technical barriers faced by exporters and formulate solutions. Revisions to Article 8 of the
Export Promotion Law have been submitted to the Legislative Assembly to ensure the pemanency and
institutionalization of CENTREX, and a review of the current duty drawback system has been initiated.
A comprehensive and coherent export development strategy will be initiaed by June 1994, taking account
of the recommendations of the review of the ctmr    drawback system and including the issuance of
CENTREX's internal regulations.



- 8 -
S.    Sodial Sh w Reornnd Iover  Alteviation
39.   To improve the efficiency of social policy, and as part of the preparation of its Poverty
Alleviation Strategy for 1994-98, the Government has initiated an evaluation of its principal compensatory
mechanisms. An evaluation of the key compensatory programs managed by the Social Investment Fund
(OIS) and the National Secretariat for Reconstruction (SNRICONARA) has been initiated. By June 1994
the Goverment will have completed its evaluation of: (i) compensation programs managed by FIS and
SNR/CONARA; (ii) training and productive support programs, including the regulatory framework for
microenterprises; (iii) social services managed by the Ministries of Education and Health.
40.   Work has started on the development of a monitoring system to measure living standards, and
on the formulation of an Action Plan to simplify the existing survey system, reorganize the Ministry of
Planning Survey Directorate, and establish an information system with basic indicators. By June 1994,
a 1994-98 Poverty Alleviation Action Plan will have been agreed and will be under implementation,
covering, inter alia: (i) institutional arrangements to avoid duplication of effort; (ii) targeting
mechanisms; (iii) aid coordination mechanisms; (iv) a system for the monitoring and evaluation of key
poverty alleviation programs. Implementation will also have initiated of a monitoring system to measure
living standards.
41.   The Ministry of Finance and the Court of Accounts have issued Instruction 1282, containing rules
and procedures for the transfer of external funds to Community Associations to pay for education services
at the preschool and basic education levels (EDUCO). The institutional mechanisms for transferring,
using and auditing Central Government funds earmarked for private sector service delivery, starting with
EDUCO, will be approved by June 1994.
6.    iEvironhtaL frigcL Riorm
42.   The Government is currently undertaking activities to promote adequate use of natural resources
and the environment by safeguarding protection, conservation, and restoration of these resources. In this
context, the Government has prepared an outline of a comprehensive Environmental Law (Ley B4ica del
Medlo Ambiente). A preliminary draft Environmental Acion Plan has been also been prepared, together
with an activities timetable. A proposal for a new institutional structure for environmental management
has been submitted to CONAMA. CONAMA will approve the Environmental Action Plan and its
implementation will be initiated by June 1994. In addition, the new institutional structure will be
approved by CONAMA, and the draft Environmental Law will be submitted to the Legislative Assembly.
CQNCLU-ION
43.   The 1989-94 Economic and Social Development Plan contains the policy guidelines and actions
to achieve sustinable economic growth and improved quality of life for all Salvadoran people. Over the
past four years, the Government has demonstrated its commitment and political will with respect to the
execution of the Stabilization Program and the implementation of structural reforms.
44.   To consolidate peace, ensure the continuity of the reform effort implemented since 1989, and to
lay the foundations of a reform agenda to be implemented by the next Administration, the Government
needs to receive adequate and timely technical and financial assistance from international sources. The
support of the World Bank, through its direct coopeation, and through its assistance in securing
additional financial resources, is crucial. To ensure a lasting peace and strengthen the democratic



-9 -
process, it is necessary to improve, consolidate, and deepen those economic and social reforms that will
reduce the poverty and inequality of opportunity presently afflicting Salvadoran society.
MIRNA LIEVANO DE MARQUES                              EDWIN SAGRERA
Minister of Planning                                  Minister of Finance
ROBERTO ORELLANA MILLA
President of the Central Bank



Annex F
Status of Bank Group Operations



A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of June 30, 1993)
Amount In US$ miMlion
Creditt        FIscal     Borrower           Purpose                                   (less cancelations)
Loan No.         Year                                                         Bank          IDA      Undisbursed
19 loans and 4 credits fully disbursed                                             208.?5        27.99
Ln. 2873-ESL           1988      El Salvador    Earthquake Reconstruction           85.00                     38.80
Ln. 3293-ESL a/        1991      El Salvador   Structural Adjustment                75.00
Ln. 3389-ESIL          1991      El Salvador    Power Sectot Technical Assistance   11.00                      9.28
Ln. 3348-ESL           1992      El Salvador    Social Sector Rehabi;iiation        28.00                     18.90
Ln. 3576-ESL bi        1993      El Salvador   Agricultural Sector Reform           40.00                     40.00
Total                                                                              423.75         27.99       104.78
Of which has been repaid                                                           140.87         8.15
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                     283.08         21.84
Amount Sold                         5.15
Of which has been repaid            5.15
Total Undisbursed                                                                  104.78         0.00        104.78
a/ Fully disbursed as of June 28. 1993.
bl Not yet effective.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
As of June 30, 1993
(US$ million)
Original Gross Commitments
Flosal Year         Obligator              Type of Businss       IFC           IFC
Loan         Equier     Partddpants     Total
1959         Industrias Textiles, S.A. a/   Textiles          0.1'          0.00          0.00         0.14
1989         Hoteles de Centro              Tourism           0.80          0.33          0.00         0.93
Centro America, S.A. a/
1993         Telemovil El Salvador, S.A.  Telecommunications  1.70          0.20          2.50         4.40
Total Gross Commitment b/                        2.44          0.53          2.50         5.47
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayment, and Sales                           0.74          0.33          0.00         1.07
Total Commitment Now Held c/                     1.70          0.20          2.50         4.40
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed end undisbursed investments.



Annex G
Supplementaury Loan Daa Sheei
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[



EL SALVADOR
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSThINT LOAN
SUPPLEEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare the loan: 17 months
(b)   Project prepared by: Ministries of Planning, Finance, and Economy, and the
Central Bank
(c)   First presentation to the Bank: April 1992
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1993
(e)   Completion of Negotiations: July 1993
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness: October 1993
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Actions taken before Board Presentation:
(i)   Public Expenditure Management: approval by the Economic Committee of the Strategy
for Budget Unification, including a redefinition of MIFIN's and MIPLAN's roles;
approval by the Minister of Finance and initiation of inp!ementation of a detailed Work
Plan to implement the Integrated Financial Management (IM) project; introduction of
the new Govennment Accounting System (GAS) in 5 executing agencies (Ministries of
Health, Agriculture, Public Works, and Finance and the Court of Accounts); design of
a pilot Medium Tern Sectoral Budget (MTSB) for the Ministry of Education (MED);
implementat.on of the advance global spending authorizations (DAFP) in 5 executing
agencies (Ministries of Health, Public Works, Agriculture, and Finance, and the Court
of Accounts); establishment and initiation of operations of the Audit Department in
charge of post-expenditure control in the Court of Accounts; preparation and
implementation of a time-bound Audit Plan by the Court of Accounts;
(ii)   The Civil Service: design and initiation of implementation of the central and local
Human Resource Information System (HRIS);
(iii)  Tax Reform: implementation of the following tax measures: (a) approval of expansion
of the VAT base to include import duties, (b) approval of doubling of the specific motor
vehicle registration fees, (c) taxation of incomes from coffee cultivation under the income
tax, (d) modification of the Duty Free Shops Law (Ley de 7Yendas Libres), (e) progress
in the implementation of an agreed action plan to repeal most import duty exemptions,
specifically: repeal of exemptions to ANDA, CEPA, and ANTEL and submission to the
Assembly revisions to current legislation (Ley de Residentes Rennstas); satisfactory



-2-
implementation of the agreed action plan for tax and customs reform (Annex C),
including the approval by the National Assembly of the Ley del Delito Fiscal;
(iv)  Privatization: offer for sale: (a) all of BFA's (Banco de Fomento Agropecuario)
productive assets, (b) the San Bartolo free trade zone, (c) BANAFI's Cemento Maya
company, and (d) INCAFE's warehouses;
(v)   Flnancial Sector Reform: public offering of the remaining 2 state banks (Banco
Salvadoreflo and Banco de Comercio); public announcement of the timetable for the sale
of the financial companies and public offering of two of the four financial companies
(C4S and Ahorromet); submission to the National Assembly of the draft Capital Market
Law and the revisions to the Commercial Code; completion of the rural credit delivery
system study;
(vi)  Hydrocarbon Sector Reform: elaboration and initiation of implementation of the agreed
action plan for the reform of the Hydrocarbon sector, including: (a) the design of an
alternative system to protect low income consumers of diesel and LPG; (b) the
inalization of a drft Hydrocarbons Law; and (c) the preparation of terms of reference
to develop and import parity pricing system for petroleum derivatives;
(vii)  Trade Reform: agreement among the Ministries of Economy, Health, Agriculture, and
Finance (in the form of a joint letter) on the articles that need to be modified in the
following laws: (a) Ley de SanidadAgropecuaria and its regulations (7/271961), (b) The
Health Code (4/28/1988), (c) Ley de Farmacia (6/30/1927); and (d) Decree No.647
(12/19/1990) (para. 25); submission to the Assembly rwvisions to Art. 8 of the Export
Promotion Law to ensure the permanency and institutionalization of CENTREX; and
(viii) Social Sector Reform: initiate the preparation of a Poverty Alleviation Strategy and an
Action Plan for 1994-98;
Second Tranche Release Conditions: satisfactory progress in implementation of the
Government's structural reform program, including the maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework, and the following actions:
(i)   Public Sector Modernization: preparation of the Public Sector Moderization Action
Plan (PSMAP);
(ii)  Public Expenditure Management: submission to the National Assembly of draft Budget
and Treasury Laws; application of the new GAS to all Central Govemment executing
agencies; preparation of the pilot 1994-96 MTSB in the MED and development of a new
program classification and a new unified budget structure in the Ministry of Health and
the Vice-Ministry of Housing; adoption of the DAPP in all Central Government
executing agencies; continued implementation by the Court of Accounts of the agreed
Audit Plan;



-3 -
(iii)  The Civil Service: establishment of a public savings target for 1994 of no less than 0.6
percent; continued satisfactory implementation of central HRIS and local systems in
MIFIN and MAG;
(iv)   Tax Reform: complete implementation of agreed action plan to repeal most trade duty
exemptions, specifically: (a) submission to the Assembly legislation to limit trade duty
exemptions to cooperatives; the Executive, and the Central Government; (b) submission
to the Assembly legislation to repeal exemptions to CEL, and (c) completion of a review
of duty exemptions currently being granted to the Legislative and the Judicial branches;
completion of a comprehensive review of the tax system, including a tax reform avenda
for the next Administration; completion if implementation of the agreed tax and cuuums
administration reform program (Annex C), including submission to the Assembly of the
draft Customs Law;
(v)   Privatization: offering for sale of: (a) ald INCAFE's assets, including its processing
plants, (b) at least one of the five remaining INAZUCAR sugar mills, and (c) remaiing
BANAFI/CORSAIN assets (the Injiboa sugar mill, stocks and properties; completion of
all financial and legal preparatory work for the privatization of the remaining four sugar
mills, owned by INAZUCAR; offering for either sale or lease the assets of the Fishuries
Complex;
(vi) Financial Sector Reform: public offering of the remaining two financial companies
(Credisa and Atlacat); offering for sale the Central Bank's portion of Banco Hipotecario;
agreement on and initiation of implementation of the action plan to develop a market-
oriented and commercially viable rural financial sector;
(vii)  Hydrocarbon Sector Reform: rontinued implementation of the agreed action plan for
the reform of the sector, including: (a) the submission to the Assembly of the draft
Hydrocarbon Law and (b) the replacement of the current distortionary diesel subsidy with
the new mechanisms;
(viii) Trade Reform: submission to the Assembly of the revisions to Part m of the Tariff
Code to bring all items there included to a 5-20 percevtage range (para. 24); submission
to the Assembly of revisions to the following laws: (i' 'Ley de Sanidad Agropecuaria"
and its regulations, (ii) the Health Code, (iii) 'Ley de Farmacia", (iv) Decree No. 647;
(ix)  Social Sector Reform: finalization of a Poverty Alleviation Strategy; agreement on and
initiation of implementation of an Action Plan for the 1994-98 period; and
(x)   Environmental Policy Refonn: approval by CONAMA of a satisfactory Environmental
Action Plan and initiation of its implementation; submission to the Assembly of a draft
Environmental Law.



Annex H
Balance of Bank Loans
and
Lending Composition



Bealnce of Bank Loans (USt million)
(As of June 30, 1993)
DisbursMent
hb. qjoa.'i':t;'h'pr Nm  'eLoan No.        Loat      Undisbursed   Cumulative     CY To      Petomanc
Amount 11     Balance        Total        Date         RetIna
19 Loans Fully Disbursed                           208.75                     208.75
Structure; Adjustment            Ln. 3293-ESL 2/    75.00           -          75.00        25.00
Earthquake Reconstruction        Ln. 2873-ESL       65.00        36.60         28.40         2.9S           2
Power Sector Technical Assistance  Ln. 3389-ESL     11.00         9.28         1.72          0.00           1
Social Sector Rehabilitation     Ln. 3348-ESL       20.00        18.90         7.10          2.09           1
Agricultural Sector Reform       Ln. 3576-ESL 31    40.00        40.00         0.00          0.00
Total                                              423.75        104.78       318.97        30.04       Avg. 1.33
If Not 01 canoellations.
2/ Fuly disbursed as of June 28, 1993.
3J Not yet effective.
Ratig Equiviluees:
I - No Significant Problem
2 - Moderate Problms
3 - Major Problems
4 - Major Probems not Adequately Addressed
ISRDIIDA Commitments by Sector, FY 1949-98 (US$ millon)
(As of June 30, 1993)
Actual                                 Pro osa
S .; w<iq;  i 4; .n   ' jetors '  '  IBeforo      FY           FY                         FY
FY 79        80-90        91-93                      94.98
A4uetmant L    ' 'd '                                 -                       75.00                      90.00
Inv*#mant Landkin                                  234.74        05.00        77.00                     24.'
Agr40tuare and Natwal Resour" e                                   -          40.00                      70.00
' ,rty and, HumAn Capital                         47.72           ^          28.00                        .0
Education                                      47.72          -             -
Social Sectors                                   -             -          26.00                      55.00
; 4rsstrutwa.                                     187.02        85.00          -               ,        20.0
Power                                          96.91          -             -                       40.00
Telecommunications                             40.40
Transportaion                                  28.51                        -                       50.00
Urban Development                              21.20        e5.00           -                       30.00
' :TaghnlA.lstanc. '                                              - *11.00                              3.00
TOtWa                                              234.74        65.00        152.00                     338.00
Memo Itms
laRD                                             205.75        65.00        152.00                     338.00
IDA                                               27.99          -
Disbursement Ratio 1%1 a/                         7.47          2.40         26.68
Numberof Operations                                23            1             4                         10
-} KMt of average annusl disbursements to CUMMulatiVo Undasbursed balanices.                                     mo



-   90004                            "       N (                           WM                                    WOO  
J~~q.4 ~~ T. S. it...                                                                                                    AAC
G  U  A  r E  M  A  L  A >,9<|  
"IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
to c lo                                  \<                                                                                               ,       ^ 
° 7 ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H    O N  D U R A S,- |
14-W                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1400w 
sgAht           /   \                                        "''  C-  '/                              t                I                        i~~~~iaftOPC
i<                                                                                                                            X   /   :"4.~~~~~~~~~~~~onkper
V.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
EL SALVADOR   4 7            ,<                           tY                    4            X                 Xq: >- }~~~~~~~~~~~S-F~w
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~w
q     t     20    2 0    40    50
v~~~~~~~IOEcTER                                                                          n. Ap    p.oo\,  py   ft/ w' __w  ' rt'
0         to         20        30                                                 =_ - o                                         t
_iLis                                                             oo"~  rft W.* S- W      .       _.Iw   .On  - .. .-
31-                                                                or 3Mtf   "0. 
QCOO  WOO                            WOO                                   WOO                                  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4oo



