Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15472
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN No.3646-ES)
MARCH 26, 1996
Country Operations Division II
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Col6n (c)
US$1.0              =      c 8.755 (February 1995)
c 1.0               =      US$0.1142
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCR          Central Bank of El Salvador
BFA          Agricultural Development Bank
BANAFI       Industrial Development Bank
CCR          Rural Credit Bureaus
CEL          National Electric Power Company
CEM          Monetary Stabilization Bonds
CONAMA       National Council for the Environment
CONAP        National Privatization Commission
CORSAIN      El Salvador Investment Corporation
DAFP         Advance Spending Authorization
DGII         Internal Revenue Service
FIS           Social Investment Fund
FOSAFFI      Fund for the Restructuring and Recapitalization of the Financial System
HRIS         Human Resources Information System
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFM          Integrated Financial Management
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INAZUCAR   State Sugar Marketing Agency
INCAFE       National Coffee Marketing Board
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MIFIN        Ministry of Finance
MIPLAN       Ministry of Planning
MOST         USAID sponsored project on Modernization of the Salvadoran Tax System
NFSP         Non-financial public sector
NTBs         Non-tariff Barriers
PSMAP        Public sector modernization action plan
SEMA         Executive Secretariat for Environmental Policy
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SIF           Social Investment Fund
SIDUNEA      Automated Customs Control System
SRN          National Secretariat for Reconstruction
SSF          Financial System Superintendency
TAL          Technical Assistance Loan
USAID        U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary  ................................................                                                       i-ii
PART I:  Program  Implementation Assessment ..............                           ..1................. 
A. The Structural Adjustment Program:  Design and Objectives   .................  1
B. Achievement of Program Objectives ...................                                                           4
C. Bank Performance ........................                                                                       9
D. Borrower Performance .......                     .......................                                        9
E. Assessment and Conclusions   ......                ...........                 ...................   10
PART II:  Statistical Tables ............................................   12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments   ..................................    13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans  ......................................    14
Table 3: Project Timetable   .......................................    15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements ......................................    15
Table 5: Key Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1986-95  .....................   16
Table 6: Studies Included in the Loan .................................   17
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants  ..................................    18
Table 8: Bank Resources-Bank Missions  ..............................   20
ANNEX I: Borrower Assessment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Loan No. 3646-ES)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
in El Salvador, for which Loan Number 3646-ES in the amount of US$50 million equivalent was
approved on September 1993, and made effective on December 17, 1993.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1994 as specified in the original closing date. The first
tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed on February 18, 1994. The second and final
tranche was fully disbursed on January 11, 1995. Co-financing for the project was provided by Germany
(DM 20 million).
This ICR was prepared by Ian Bannon, Lead Economist and reviewed by Ms. Kreszentia Duer,
Projects Advisor, Department II of the Latin American and the Caribbean Region. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the program which is
included as Annex I of the ICR.
The ICR is based on the President's Report, the Loan Agreement, and other material in the
project file. This report is based on discussions with Bank staff, and on the findings of a mission to El
Salvador in April 1995, which held discussions with Government officials regarding the Loan. The
assistance of representatives from the implementing agency during the mission is gratefully acknowledged.






SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan Number 3646-ES)
EL SALVADOR
Evaluation Summary
i.     Despite high economic growth in the 1960s and 1970s, gross inequalities in wealth, income and
access to land severely exacerbated social tensions, which erupted into an open civil war in 1979. As
the conflict escalated, the economy was also affected by adverse terms of trade and a contraction of
regional markets which, coupled with inappropriate Government policies, led to severe macroeconomic
imbalances and low growth. The conflict also diverted public resources from infrastructure and the social
sectors to military expenditures.  By 1989, a full fledged economic crisis had emerged and the
Government fell into arrears with international creditors, including the World Bank.
ii.    The Cristiani Administration, which assumed office in June 1989, adopted a far-reaching
economic reform program designed to revive growth and reduce poverty, and initiated peace negotiations
which culminated with the signing of a peace agreement in 1992. The Bank sought to support the
Government's reform program through the First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) and the reactivation
of its project lending pipeline.
Program Design and Objectives
iii.    SAL I was designed to support the Government's 1989-94 economic reform program. The
objectives of the program were to: (i) improve incentives to stimulate savings and investment in more
efficient export oriented and import-substituting activities; (ii) increase tax enforcement capacity; (iii)
improve the efficiency of financial intermediation; (iv) improve agricultural productivity; and (v) prevent
a deterioration in the nutritional status of the poor during adjustment.  The Government's strong
commitment to reforms contributed to the successful outcome of SAL I, and the Bank therefore sought
to continue supporting the Government's Structural Adjustment Program through a second adjustment
operation. SAL II was designed to: (i) lay the analytical framework for a comprehensive public sector
modernization effort; (ii) consolidate and deepen reforms supported by SAL I in taxation, privatization,
trade, the financial sector, and social sectors and poverty alleviation; and (iii) promote actions to
strengthen public expenditure, civil service, and environmental management, and restructure the
hydrocarbon sector. The Loan supported reforms in: public sector modernization, public expenditure
management, the civil service, taxation, privatization, the financial sector, the hydrocarbon sector, trade,
the social sectors and environmental policy. SAL II was accompanied by a Technical Assistance Loan,
which is still under implementation (paras. 4-5).
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    The overall outcome of SAL II has been very positive. The success of the program, the strong
support it has received from the new Administration, and the continuation and deepening of reforms since
the Loan closed, bode well for its sustainability. An appropriate macroeconomic framework is being
maintained and growth has rebounded strongly, averaging 6.8 percent over the past four years. In most
cases, El Salvador's strong economic performance exceeded the Bank's expectations and the current
Administration is carrying out comprehensive reform programs in public sector modernization,
globalization of the economy, the private sector environment, and the social sectors (paras. 15-18).
v.     SAL II supported an ambitious reform program, with second tranche conditionality covering 23
major areas, many of which included several sub-conditions. There was full compliance with actions
required in all but two of these areas (there was partial compliance in sugar mill privatization and the
hydrocarbon sector), and in a number of areas reforms exceeded the stipulated conditionality. In the case



of sugar mill privatization the Government chose a more comprehensive approach in order to privatize
all six mills, instead of the more modest target of one privatized mill under SAL II. For hydrocarbons,
the Government met four of the five subconditions and took alternative steps to deal with the fifth
subcondition (implementing an alternative, less distortionary system for diesel subsidies). Partial waivers
for these two subconditions were fully justified. Implementation suffered some delays, largely due to the
change in Administration and the comprehensiveness of the conditionality. These delays, however, had
little impact on the substantial success of the overall reform program (paras. 19-43).
vi.    The Bank appropriately identified, appraised and supervised the program. Two key features in
the Bank's performance were a high degree of organization in the design and implementation of the Loan,
and staff continuity. The Borrower was actively involved in the design and implementation of the Loan,
and clearly demonstrated strong ownership of the reform program. Borrower staff continuity was also
an important factor (paras. 44-49).
vii.   The summary ratings (Table 1) are:
Achievement of objectives: substantial;
Program sustainability: likely;
Bank performance: highly satisfactory;
Borrower performance: highly satisfactory; and
Assessment of outcome: highly satisfactory
viii.   The main conclusions and lessons learned are:
3     Borrower ownership of an adjustment program is critical. Because of the Government's strong
commitment to the reforms supported by SAL II, the negotiation and implementation of the
program was achieved in an environment of mutual confidence.
3     A change in government during the implementation of a program inevitably leads to some delay
in compliance. For this reason it is important to accentuate the use of first tranche conditionality
whenever approaching an electoral year. SAL II was not designed in this manner, since the Bank
originally expected that implementation would be completed within a single administration. In
the event, the implementation period did extend beyond the life of one administration. However,
because of the strong commitment of the new Government to continue the reforms, the change
in administration did not prove to be a problem in this case.
*     A follow-on structural adjustment operation is likely to be successful if:  (i) sequencing is
appropriate; and (ii) there is continuity in the staff, both in the Government and in the Bank,
working on both operations.
*     The financial sector is highly vulnerable to structural economic changes, requiring a gradual and
careful sequencing of reforms. In the case of El Salvador, banking sector reforms were well
sequenced and gradual (capitalization, and privatization of the banks, accompanied by actions to
reinforce the Superintendency).
*     It is essential to ensure Borrower consensus on the reform agenda at the time of appraisal. The
communication of program goals and objectives to all affected entities is important in gaining the
necessary support for successful implementation. In this sense, the careful preparation of detailed
action plans and intensive coordination of studies, played an important role in communicating to
the affected institutions the rationale and steps involved in the reform.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    Despite high economic growth in the 1960s and 1970s, gross inequalities in wealth, income and
access to land severely exacerbated social tensions, which erupted into an open civil war in 1979. As
the conflict escalated, the economy was also affected by adverse terms of trade and a contraction of
regional markets which, coupled with inappropriate Government policies, led to severe macroeconomic
imbalances and economic stagnation. The conflict also diverted public resources from infrastructure and
the social sectors to military expenditures, and led to large migration-about one million people (20
percent of the population) migrated to the U.S. and now provide significant worker remittances.
A. The Structural Adjustment Program: Design and Objectives
2.     After assuming office in June 1989, President Cristiani's Government set forth three primary
goals: to end the civil war; re-introduce market discipline into the economy; and initiate a systematic
attack on poverty. The Government introduced a far-reaching economic reform program emphasizing
the reactivation of growth and the reduction of absolute poverty as its top economic priorities, while
initiating negotiations with the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front which subsequently resulted
in the signing of a peace agreement in 1992, thus ending the decade-long civil conflict.
3.     SAL I was designed to support the Government's 1989-94 economic reform program. The
objectives of the program were to: (i) improve incentives to stimulate savings and investment in more
efficient export oriented and import-substituting activities; (ii) increase tax enforcement capacity; (iii)
improve the efficiency of financial intermediation; (iv) improve agricultural productivity; and (v) prevent
a deterioration in the nutritional status of the poor during adjustment. The Government's strong
commitment to reforms contributed to the successful outcome of SAL I.
4.     SAL II aimed to continue supporting the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, which
was designed to: (i) lay the analytical framework for a comprehensive public sector modernization effort;
(ii) consolidate and deepen reforms supported by SAL I in taxation, privatization, trade, the financial
sector, and social sectors and poverty alleviation; and (iii) promote actions to strengthen public
expenditure, civil service, and environmental management, and restructure the hydrocarbon sector. The
principal components were:
Public Sector Modernization.  Prior to Board presentation, the Government prepared a
comprehensive public sector modernization assessment, and initiated work toward the preparation
of an Action Plan to implement a public sector modernization program (PSMAP), completion of
which was defined as a second tranche condition.
Public Expenditure Management. Actions under SAL II would include: (i) budget unification;
(ii) introduction of a new accounting system; (iii) implementation of the Integrated Financial
Management (IFM) project involving budgeting, accounting, treasury, and procurement policies
and procedures; (iv) implementation of new rules permitting advance spending authorizations
(DAFP); (v) restructuring of the role of the Government Auditor (Corte de Cuentas) to that of
an independent ex-post auditor; and (vi) development of a medium-term expenditure planning
function under MIFIN and MIPLAN.
Civil Service Reform. The main focus under SAL II was to implement a Human Resources
Information System (HRIS), and subsequently, to prepare a comprehensive human resources plan
as part of the PSMAP.
Tax Reform. The program contained two major tax reform components. The first called for the
Government to expand the tax base, and to enhance revenues through a series of agreed tax



- 2 -
measures. Actions included expansion of the VAT base, including the removal of tax exemptions.
The second component dealt with tax and customs administration for which a separate policy
matrix was developed.
Privatization. SAL II supported further actions initiated under SAL I, including offering for sale
BFA's productive assets, the San Bartolo free trade zone, BANAFI's Cemento Maya, INCAFE's
warehouses and processing plants, INAZUCAR sugar mills, and BANAFI/CORSAIN assets.
Financial sector reform. The SAL II targets were to maintain a market-based interest rate
regime; to complete the privatization of banks and finance companies; to promote capital market
development; and to reformulate the rural credit delivery system.
Hydrocarbon sector. The Government was to elaborate and initiate implementation of an action
plan for reform of the hydrocarbon sector, including the design of an alternative system to protect
low income consumers of diesel for public transportation and LPG, and finalization of a draft
Hydrocarbons Law.
Trade reform. The Government was to take steps to further reduce tariff levels and their
dispersion, to eliminate remaining NTBs, and to improve export incentives.
Social sector reform. The Government was to develop: (i) an evaluation of the main programs
managed by the Social Investment Fund (FIS) and the National Secretariat for Reconstruction
(SRN/CONARA); and (ii) a monitoring system to measure living standards.
Enviromnental policy. The Government was to prepare an Environmental Action Plan with
input from CONAMA. In addition, the Government was to submit to Congress a draft of a
comprehensive Environmental Law.
5.     Technical Assistance Loan. Because SAL 11 involved the preparation of numerous studies,
policy analysis, as well as the development of action plans, the Bank prepared a complementary Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL). The TAL, however, was designed to go beyond SAL II, not only to strengthen
the Government's capacity to design and implement policy reforms supported by the Loan, but also to
assist in the preparation of further restructuring actions, within the framework of a longer-term public
sector modernization effort.'
6.    Evaluation of Loan Objectives. SAL II sought to maintain or continue those reforms initiated
under the previous loan, and to expand policy reforms notably in the area of public sector modernization.
The central theme was consolidation and continuity: to allow the Government to lock-in and to deepen
reforms in the financial, trade, tax, and social sectors. Initially, the Bank considered disbursing the Loan
in three tranches in order to involve the subsequent Government in the policy dialogue around third
tranche conditions. However, it was finally decided to shorten the Loan to two tranches, so that it would
coincide with the Cristiani Administration, and if appropriate, to negotiate a follow-up operation with the
subsequent Government. In the event, second tranche was disbursed with the next Administration.
7.     The successful implementation of SAL I facilitated the appraisal and negotiation of SAL II. The
Loan was relatively well-balanced in terms of the type of conditionality. About half of the measures
contained in the policy matrix called for specific action steps, which was consistent with the aim of
supporting tangible economic reforms. The relatively high number of plans and studies called for by the
Loan dealt mostly with public sector modernization, where the goal of the SAL II program was to first
develop the analytical framework that would subsequently support the implementation of modernization
I The closing date for the TAL is June 30, 1996. For more discussion see President's Report: Technical Assistance
Project, Report No. P-6126-ES. August 17, 1993.



strategies.  The macroeconomic framework was specified in conjunction with an IMF-sponsored
stabilization program aimed at reducing inflation and strengthening the country's international liquidity
position. Just prior to Board presentation, the IMF had reported that the Government had made
satisfactory progress with the program, and this performance was expected to continue.
8.     Public Sector Modernization. The design of the public sector modernization component was
comprehensive and called for inputs from numerous consultants in the form of studies and development
of action plans. Modernization of the public sector had been part of President Cristiani's agenda,
although it did not get off the ground until the second year of the Administration, and only after the Peace
negotiations and reconstruction process had been set in motion. The scope of the program was somewhat
ambitious in terms of the number of areas involved in the reform agenda which thus required crossing
many institutional lines. Due to the complex structure of the public sector modernization program, its
design accordingly called for extensive coordination of various work groups involved in public
expenditure management, in tax and customs reforms, and in civil service reforms, while at the same time
assuring compatibility with similar programs supported by other donors.
9.     The specification of policy actions dealing with public sector modernization was realistic. The
appraisal had appropriately identified the need to revamp the budgeting, treasury, accounting, and
information systems in order to enhance the efficiency of public sector decisions. From an organizational
perspective, the specification of a separate tax and customs administration policy matrix in SAL II was
very helpful in separating the administrative aspects of public sector reforms from the other structural and
policy requirements.
10.    Financial Sector Reform. The financial sector conditionality was basically a continuation of
work started in SAL I, which dealt with the privatization of commercial banks and the maintenance of
market-determined interest rates. The agenda was expanded to include conditions dealing with the
development of the capital market and reform of the rural credit delivery system. Support to strengthen
prudential supervision of the financial system, a critical element of financial sector reform programs, was
being provided by the IMF and IDB.2
11.    The requirement of a rural credit delivery system study for Board Presentation was appropriate,
but perhaps it could have gone further in calling for agreement on an action plan. In August 1993, the
Bank was already familiar with three conflicting proposals/studies regarding rural credit delivery. The
Government at that time was not clear on its own position regarding financial strategies for the rural
sector. Although the Bank could have pressed for more specific reform actions, given the lack of clarity
within Government, on balance the decision to focus on the preparation of a study to help the
Government develop its own strategy appears appropriate.
12.    Policy reforms in the hydrocarbon sector were necessary to correct serious distortions in the
energy sector. Since another project was being designed for public utilities and the energy sector in
general, the Bank appropriately excluded the public utilities from the conditionality.3 Trade reforms
were a continuation of SAL I which had already addressed most of the necessary changes in the tariff
regime. Only minor tariff adjustments and reductions in NTBs were included in SAL II.
13.    Conditionality on the social sectors and poverty alleviation dealt mostly with the evaluation of
existing compensatory programs, and the preparation of an action plan to improve aid coordination and
develop a mechanism to monitor the impact of these programs on poverty alleviation. The design of an
action plan was very relevant to the process of reducing chronic poverty; in addition, a broader social
program, as part of a separate social sector rehabilitation loan was being implemented at the time of loan
2 See IDB. El Salvador. Investment Sector Reform Programn, ES-0016. October 1992.
3 See El Salvador: Energy Sector Modernization, Report No. 12528-ES, February 1995.



- 4 -
appraisal.4 The environment policy component of SAL II was relatively general since other donors,
especially USAID and IDB, were actively supporting concrete programs to improve environmental
management.  Thus, SAL II aimed only to provide additional support to improve the overall
environmental policy framework, leaving specific actions and programs to other donors.
B. Achievement of Program Objectives
14.   SAL II supported an ambitious and comprehensive reform  program.   Second tranche
conditionality covered 23 major areas, many of which included several sub-conditions. There was full
compliance with actions required in all but two of these areas (there was partial compliance with the
privatization of the sugar mills and reform of the hydrocarbon sector). The overall outcome of SAL II
has been very positive. The success of the program, and the strong support it has received from the new
Administration, bode well for its sustainability. This section highlights the principal issues concerning
the outcome of the reform program. Details on the status of legal covenants regarding compliance of
individual components is provided in Part II, Table 7.
15.   Macroeconomic Framework. The objective of maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic
environment was met. These achievements were significant in view of the change in Government. In
March 1994, general elections were held and the new President, Dr. Armando Calder6n Sol took office
on June 1, 1994. The new Administration pledged to continue efforts to consolidate peace, maintain
macroeconomic stability, and deepen the structural reform process initiated by the previous Government.5
The reform program of the current Government has as its centerpiece the comprehensive modernization
of the public sector and an ambitious effort to globalize El Salvador's economy.
16.   Growth and stabilization objectives were met, and exceeded in some cases. A strong recovery,
triggered by peace and the reforms supported by SAL I and II, led to accelerated growth. Over the past
four years, GDP growth averaged 6.8 percent, far exceeding the Bank's projection of 4.3 percent.
Inflation fell from an average of 22.2 percent during 1986-90 to 8.9 percent in 1994-it rose somewhat
to 11.4 percent in 1995, due in part to an increase in the VAT rate (from 10 to 13 percent) and sharp
increases in public utility rates. In the external sector, the current account deficit (excluding official
grants) declined steadily, although the trade deficit doubled in the past five years. After two years of
stagnation, exports grew strongly over the past three years, averaging 23 percent, although with
considerable variability. Import growth was more steady, averaging about 16 percent over the past five
years. The larger trade deficit has been largely financed by increasing remittances. However, to the
extent that remittances go mostly to consumption expenditures, and the latter have a high import content,
then the trade deficit is in turn pushed up by the remittances. Moreover, as the col6n has remained
nominally fixed to the dollar, it has continued to appreciate in real terms, and thus penalizes exports.
17.   Overall fiscal performance in 1994 was significantly better than programmed. The Bank had
expected a much more gradual reduction in the fiscal deficit. From a peak of 6.7 percent of GDP in
1992, it fell rapidly to 1.6 in 1995, in line with IMF targets. Public savings, targeted to double to 1.5
percent of GDP in 1994, actually increased to 1.9 percent as a result of higher tax revenues.
18.   On May 10, 1993, the IMF Board approved a 10 month Stand-By Arrangement, which was
subsequently extended through end-1994. On October 14, 1994, the Article IV consultations and the mid-
term review of the 1994 program were completed. The mid-term review concluded that all performance
criteria as of end-May 1994 were observed. During the first part of 1995 the IMF negotiated a new
Stand-By, which was approved in July. The mid-term review indicated all performance criteria were
See El Salvador: Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3348-ES), approved in 1992.
For more discussion see the Bank's CEM: EL Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of Globalization, Report No. 14109-
ES, October 1995.



-5 -
observed, although the mission noted a need to tighten financial policies for 1996.
19.    Public Sector Modernization. The objective of public sector modernization as established in
SAL 11 was met. The PSMAP, finalized in September 1994,6 is a mission statement for the
modernization of the public sector at all levels of Government. One of the key benefits of this planning
exercise has been the ability to articulate a comprehensive public sector vision, which provides a longer-
term framework for coordinating the various donor activities involved in public sector modernization.
The principal areas in the PSMAP are: (i) decentralization; (ii) privatization; (iii) regulatory reforms; (iv)
development of human resources; (v) procurement policies; (vi) consolidation of management information
systems; and (vii) strengthening of internal control and auditing. A September 1995 Bank mission
reported satisfactory progress in the implementation of the PSMAP. This section reviews the specific
public sector modernization actions that were part of SAL II, and then sunmmarizes the recent
implementation experience as it pertains to some of the other principal areas of the PSMAP.
20.    Public expenditure management. Performance of this component should be reviewed from two
perspectives: (i) implementation of the Integrated Financial Management Project (IFM); and (ii)
development of a new unified budget structure and a medium-term sectoral budget for selected ministries.
Achievement of objectives under the IFM was satisfactory. With respect to IFM, the Government's goal
is to decentralize the process of financial control at the central (MIFIN), institutional and department
levels. There are three functional areas under the IFM: (i) accounting; (ii) budgeting, which was
organized under a new concept of management units, versus the previous budgeting system by individual
programs; and (iii) treasury, which was designed as a decentralized payments system. The Government
has developed the necessary policies and procedures, and the system has begun implementation.7
21.    The enhancement to the general accounting framework was satisfactory. Some weakness was
noted in the implementation of the Advance Global Spending Authorizations (DAFPs) which was a Board
Presentation condition. While this condition was complied with, it appears that each entity is using the
DAFP according to its own criteria, and not necessarily according to the standard procedures established
by the new regulations.
22.    The 1996 budget was prepared under the IFM's new system of management units. In addition,
the National Budget Office initiated a training program for 2,000 representatives from ministries and
agencies on the new budgeting methodology. Given the novelty and complexity of the new budgeting
system, it is reasonable to expect that full implementation will likely take several years.
23.    The integrity of the IFM system will hinge on the competency of internal control mechanisms.
For this purpose, the public expenditure management component of the program called for the reform
of the Court of Accounts, which is the Government's internal auditor. Recently the Congress approved
a law to reform the Court of Accounts by eliminating its role in ex-ante control, limiting its activities to
ex-post expenditure control.  Nevertheless, the Court of Accounts needs to undergo additional
organizational changes to enhance its auditing capabilities.
24.    The development of a unified budget structure should enhance the planning capabilities of the
Government. The medium-term budget preparation was completed for three government entities. A
medium-term sectoral budget for the Ministry of Education was completed in September 1994, including
a new program classification, a new unified budget structure for 1992-94, and the design of a medium-
6 See Ministry of Planning. Progranza de Modernizaci6n del Sector Publico, November 1994.
7 See the following manuals developed by MIFIN: Maaiual de Programaci6n de la Ejecuci6n Presupuestaria, date N/A;
Enfoque Presapuestario: Por Areas de Gesti6n del Sec tor Puiblico, October 1993; Manual de Clasificaci6n para las
Transacciones Financieras del Sector Piul7ico No Financiero, January 1995: Instrumentos Tecnicos para Elaborar el
Presupuesto Por Areas de Gesti6n. date N/A.



term budget for 1994-96. Similar work was completed for the Vice-Ministry of Housing and MSPAS.
25.   Civil service reform objectives in SAL II were achieved. Implementation of the TAL-financed
HRIS is proceeding in a satisfactory manner and in accordance with the agreed timetables. The
Government has shown a strong commitment to this effort. A central HRIS unit in MIFIN has
successfully implemented a pilot local system in the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture. The objectives
of the HRIS are to: (i) complete a centralized and detailed data base on public sector personnel; (ii)
implement the HRIS system in all entities, through the creation of a personnel department; (iii) establish
a uniform job classification, which would evolve from a new Civil Service Law; and (iv) develop a
payroll function within each localized unit. During the initial phase, the principal goal has been to
develop a personnel data base. While much progress has been made in the construction of a data base,
the sheer size of the public sector work force relative to the limited resources of the HRIS unit suggests
that attaining adequate coverage will take longer than originally expected. The planned Public Sector
Modernization Loan contains a component to conclude work on the establishment of the HRIS.
26.   The HRIS unit has encountered some difficulties in obtaining information, particularly in the
Ministry of Education which has the largest payroll (about 38,000). Some of the Ministries have voiced
concern about sharing their personnel data with the HRIS unit. This may point to the need for additional
efforts in communicating the goals of the project to the Ministries, and in explaining the potential
efficiency gains that they could obtain by applying the HRIS information to their personnel management
function. Progress has also been made in setting up a limited number of local HRIS units within selected
Government entities, but the development of a full fledged personnel department will require extensive
planning, restructuring, and training within each of the entities.
27.    The objectives dealing with tax reform, which emphasized tax and customs administration, have
been met as specified in the policy matrix, although the implementation of a new automated customs
procedure encountered some delays.  The main objectives were to achieve improvements in tax
administration, enforce compliance, and reduce evasion through the implementation of a tax and customs
administration reform program. In tax administration the achievements included: (i) an increase in the
efficiency of collection by restructuring units in the internal revenue service (DGII); (ii) coordination of
evasion and smuggling control programs by DGII and Customs; and (iii) improved coordination of
technical assistance under the Vice-Minister of Finance. In customs administration, actions included: (i)
simplifying and streamlining customs procedures; and (ii) approval by the Assembly of two pieces of
legislation aimed at enhancing revenue collection and simplifying administrative procedures.
28.   Tax revenues as a percent of GDP increased from 8.5 percent in 1991, to 12.0 percent in 1995,
almost exactly in line with Bank projections. This has resulted from the success of the tax reform
program combined with improved economic conditions. In the area of compliance, the Government has
built a register of about 44,000 VAT contributors, prepared an ownership tree for a selected sample of
corporations and individuals, and some attempts are being made to cross reference tax information
electronically. However, customs reforms have not gone as well as expected, in part due to weak
commitment from the customs administration. The automated customs control system (SIDUNEA) was
set up in 1992, but is not yet operational.
29.    The privatization objectives of the Government were largely met. The Government demonstrated
its commitment to sell the assets of INCAFE, CORSAIN, and BANAFI as established in the Loan
Agreement. In all cases, except the sugar mills. this has been done by publishing the offers for sale in
major national newspapers. The recent Government decision to liquidate BANAFI has temporarily
delayed the privatization of the fisheries complex and the remaining portion (30 percent) of the San
Bartolo Free Zone which were part of BANAFI's portfolio. At the time of this report, it was believed
that these remaining assets would be transferred to CORSAIN which would then assume responsibility
for their sale.



30.   In the case of sugar mill privatization, SAL II supported the offering for sale of at least one sugar
mill and the completion of preparatory work for the privatization of the remaining five.  The
Government, however, followed a slightly different privatization strategy than originally contemplated
in the program. A law to privatize sugar mills and alcohol plants was approved by the Assembly in
August 1994, providing for a staged and fully transparent process for sale of the six mills. Although
none of the mills actually reached the point of sale during SAL II implementation, all six had been
approved for sale by the new law at the time of second tranche disbursement. The Bank considered that
through this process the Government exceeded the original expectations of the Loan and therefore
recommended approval of a partial waiver on the privatization of at least one sugar mill. In the event,
one mill was sold in early 1995 and another was offered for sale in November 1995.
31.    Progress is being made on implementation of other PSMAP strategies. Although they go beyond
the conditions in SAL II, they are mentioned because of their relevance to the sustainability of public
sector reforms.  A mandatory employment reduction program  was approved by the Assembly in
November 1995, which will result in the elimination in early 1996 of about 15,000 positions (about 11
percent of employment in the public sector). Decentralization strategies are still fragmented, although
key steps have been taken at the sectoral level such as EDUCO within the Ministry of Education. A
recent reorganization of the FIS has led to the creation of a unit to promote local community development
as part of the decentralization strategy. With respect to privatization, progress has been slower than
initially announced by the new Administration, but important steps are expected in 1996. Legislation to
establish a framework allowing the privatization of the electricity company will be presented to the
Assembly in early 1996; draft legislation that would allow the operation of private pension fund managers
will also be presented to the Assembly in the first half of 1996; and a bill to establish a single regulatory
agency for all public utilities will be ready by June 1996. In November 1995, a private power plant (96
MW) started operations. Implementation of the PSMAP will be supported through the proposed Public
Sector Modernization Loan.
32.    Financial Sector Reform. SAL II's financial sector reform objectives were met as specified in
the program. Actions taken by the Government included: (i) maintenance of market-determined interest
rates; (ii) privatization of the remaining banks; (iii) preparation and implementation of an action plan for
rural credit; (iv) development of the capital market; and (v) improved supervision of the financial system.
33.    Interest rate liberalization began in 1991, with quarterly adjustments to interest rates according
to a pre-specified formula based on prior inflation rates. By March 1992, the Government had liberalized
all domestic interest rates, one year in advance of the commitment under SAL I. Positive real, or
inflation adjusted, interest rates have stimulated savings in the banking system.
34.    Between December 1990 and April 1991, the Government approved several laws dealing with
the restructuring of the banking system.  The legislation set the stage for first reviving and then
privatizing the banks. It also strengthened standards with respect to the safety and soundness of the
financial system. The Government began to privatize the banks in 1991 with support from SAL I, this
process was completed as part of SAL II. In February 1995, the final bank, Banco Hipotecario was
offered for sale.
35.    While it may be too soon to make a judgement on the success of privatization, recent financial
trends indicate that the banking system appears to have benefitted from restructuring and privatization.
With the exception of 1991, when the banking system incurred a sizeable loss due to the loan portfolio
restructuring, the banks' return on equity has averaged a steady 19.5 percent during 1992-94. In real
tenns, after adjusting by the average inflation during the same period, return on equity was 5.6 percent.
In addition to the improvement in interest margins, the positive earnings performance can be attributed
to: (i) better control over operating expenses; and (ii) improved asset quality. At the same time, the
economic recovery has reduced the risk of losses on non-performing assets.



- 8 -
36.    Banks interviewed for this report confirm a closer scrutiny of the loan portfolio on the part of
the Superintendency. In addition, the Government has taken further steps to strengthen the financial
system. In February 1995, the Assembly approved modifications to the securities law and is considering
modifications to the Banking Law. The latter are designed to strengthen the regulatory framework by,
inter alia, raising the capital assets ratio (from 8 to 10 percent over six years), increasing minimum
capital requirements and raising penalties for non-compliance.
37.    The Central Bank adopted a reform plan to improve and expand rural financial markets on May
17, 1994; and the plan was reconfirmed by the new Administration in October 1994. Actions taken to
date include: (i) a proposal to reform the Rural Credit Bureaus that would decentralize their operations;
(ii) creation of a creditworthiness data base within the Superintendency to lower transaction costs by
allowing greater use of "character" lending; and (iii) development of training programs to foster
sustainable agricultural practices.  The Action Plan also identifies the target markets for BFA and
FEDECREDITO, but further steps will be necessary to clarify implementation details, especially in terms
of funding sources and depository base.
38.    SAL II's contribution to capital markets development focused on the passage of the Capital
Markets Law in 1994. Prior to 1992, El Salvador had no formal capital market. This situation changed
as a result of the Government's reform program initiated in 1990. The Securities Exchange (Bolsa) was
created in February 1992. The first public trading of shares of stock at the Bolsa occurred with the
auction of the privatized banks' shares. A considerable strengthening of the Superintendency will be
required to ensure sustainability of the financial sector reforms, especially in areas such as capital
markets, where its responsibilities and the complexity of supervision have expanded.
39.    Hydrocarbon Sector.  Four of the five actions required for satisfactory progress in the
implementation of the comprehensive action plan to reform the hydrocarbons sector were taken: (i) the
draft Hydrocarbons Law was submitted to the Assembly in November 1994; (ii) a Bank-financed study
on standards and technical specifications for petroleum and its derivatives was completed; (iii) a system
based on import parity pricing was implemented; and (iv) a study analyzing alternative systems of LPG
subsidy was completed. The fifth action, to put into effect a revised diesel pricing system, was only
partially carried out. Diesel price distortions to the general public have been eliminated except for public
transport bus owners. The price liberalization measures have so far produced a 46 percent reduction in
the cost of the diesel subsidy. These positive results were considered sufficient to grant a partial waiver
to this condition for the second tranche release. The Energy Sector Modernization Loan approved by the
Board in July 1995 should help to resolve these market distortions.
40.    Trade Reform. Objectives in the area of trade reform were met. A draft decree was submitted
which would bring all tariff codes in Part III of the Central American Tariff Code within the 5-20 percent
range, although this was delayed by the change in Government. In addition, several decrees and laws
were modified in order to eliminate non-tariff barriers (NTBs) from food and drug regulations. As part
of its globalization strategy, the Government recently approved a further reduction in the tariff on capital
goods from 5 to 1 percent and plans further steps in 1996-staring July 1996, tariffs on consumer goods
will be reduced from 20 to 15 percent by end-1996, on raw materials from 5 percent to zero, and on
capital goods from 1 percent to zero. The aim is to achieve an overall tariff ceiling of 6 percent by 1999.
Clearly these actions go much beyond the original objectives of SAL II. Their implementation will
depend critically on the Government's ability to mobilize additional offsetting revenues.
41.    Social Sectors and Poverty Alleviation. The Government undertook to develop its Poverty
Alleviation Strategy and Action Plan by evaluating: (i) compensatory programs managed by the Social
Investment Fund (FIS) and the National Reconstruction Secretariat (SRN/CONARA); (ii) training and
productive support programs; and (iii) social services managed by the Ministries of Education and Health.
The Government initiated implementation of the Poverty Alleviation Action Plan for 1994-98 with the
goal of increasing the quantity, quality, and efficiency of social services. This is being achieved by: (i)



- 9 -
increased budget allocations for the social sectors in the 1995 and 1996 budgets; and (ii) establishing task
forces for the education and health sectors to spearhead the reforms included in the Plan. FIS expanded
its investment program by 22 percent in 1995. For 1996, the Government plans to merge into a National
Development Fund, three existing social programs: FIS, Municipalities in Action and SRN.
42.    The Government initiated a program to decentralize school management at the community level,
supported by the Bank through a Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3348-ES).  This new
educational program is based on community-managed schools which receive their funding directly from
the Ministry of Education, but actual spending decisions are made at the local level. The impact of the
EDUCO program has been very positive, especially in increasing enrollments in poor rural areas.8
43.   Environmental Policy. The Environmental Action Plan was approved by CONAMA in April
1994, and a draft Environmental Law was submitted to the Assembly in May 1994. The Plan, which
contains a series of institutional and regulatory reforms, is now being implemented. However,
organizational changes in SEMA introduced by a new administration in 1994 produced a significant
outflow of technical personnel. This gave rise to significant delays in the implementation of the Plan.
The Assembly is currently considering the Government's environmental strategy, which includes an
environmental impact analysis for all projects and public works and a plan for environmental education.
C. Bank Performance
44.    Bank performance was highly satisfactory. From the start, the Bank's staff played a pro-active
role in supporting the Government's own reform initiatives. The analysis of the economic problems and
the prognosis of needed action steps, perforned by the Bank, were both in-depth and of a high degree
of accuracy. The staff's prior experience with SAL I facilitated the identification and appraisal process.
The staff was also helpful in maintaining a productive ongoing dialogue with key Government officials
involved in the preparation and implementation of the Loan.
45.    Supervision of program performance was highly satisfactory. Once again, the experience of SAL
I was instrumental in facilitating supervision of SAL II, since the strengths and weaknesses of the
borrower were already identified. Continuity of Bank staff was an essential ingredient in the successful
monitoring of the program. The frequency of missions was adequate in view of the implementing
agency's high technical capacity in dealing with a complex adjustment program.
46.    One of the strengths of Bank performance was a high degree of organization in the design and
implementation of the Loan as exemplified by the following: (i) in designing the second tranche
conditions, the bulk of the program's policy matrix was explicitly incorporated into the text of the Loan
Agreement, which minimized the possibility of misunderstandings; and (ii) in supervising the Loan, the
staff made an extensive compilation of relevant documentation on Loan compliance which was easily
accessible.
47.    The staff responded quickly in resolving a problem with the loan's disbursement procedure. Due
to the Government's cash-flow needs, it was imperative to obtain full tranche release upon effectiveness.
Because the process of import verification is time-consuming and cumbersome, an exception to the 20
percent limit on retroactive financing was granted. The decision to increase the amount of retroactive
financing was in line with the aim of providing essential balance of payments support.
D. Borrower Performance
48.    Borrower performance was highly satisfactory. One of the principal factors for the success of
See El Salvador: Comm,nnitn Education Strategy: Decentralized School Managem7Zent. World Bank, Report No. 13502-
ES, December 1994.



- 10 -
the loan was the Government's high degree of commitment to the program. The Borrower remains
committed to the adjustment effort, and has requested Bank assistance for a comprehensive public sector
modernization project which is currently under preparation. One of the main reasons for the highly
satisfactory outcome was the continuity of senior administration officials involved in the implementation
of the Loan. Borrower compliance was very strong, which is an indication of borrower ownership of
conditionality.
49.    The agency in charge of program implementation in the Ministry of Planning (MIPLAN: GAES)
was very effective, and its staff was characterized by a high level of technical expertise. One of the
salient characteristics of GAES's performance was the continuity in the staff directly involved in the
Loan's implementation. Key agency personnel were associated with both SAL I and SAL II, and they
have remained in critical policy positions despite the phasing out of GAES under the new Government.
E. Assessment and Conclusions
50.    Program Sustainability. The sustainability of the reform program supported by SAL II is highly
likely. The risk of policy reversals is minimal and the current Government has continued to deepen the
structural adjustment process, with a view to fostering the globalization of El Salvador's economy and
furthering public sector reforms. The Bank is supporting the next phase of reforms through technical
assistance.
51.    Although progress has been substantial and economic prospects are favorable, a considerable
stabilization and adjustment agenda remains. In addition to the need to complete the public sector
modernization program and improve conditions for private sector development, key aspects of the
remaining agenda include: (i) further efforts to consolidate the peace process by ensuring that the benefits
of growth are more equally shared; (ii) improved policies in the agriculture sector, especially to support
growth of small-scale producers; (iii) strengthening the human capital base, especially basic education;
(iv) expanding and diversifying the export base, to reduce external vulnerability and dependence on short-
term capital flows and remittances; (v) further strengthening of the tax base, to improve fiscal policies
and finance increased investment in the social sectors and poverty alleviation programs; and (vi) continued
improvements in environmental management and policies.
52.    Overall Assessment.  The program  supported by SAL II has been very successful.  The
achievement of the Loan's objectives is considered as substantial. Both the Borrower and the Bank's
performance are classified as highly satisfactory. Thus, the overall outcome of the Loan is rated as
highly satisfactory9. The success of this Loan can be attributed in large part to the strong commitment
shown by both the previous and the current Governments. While the loan was made effective during the
Administration of President Cristiani, his successor, President Calder6n Sol, has continued to support the
reform program. The good track record of the Government during SAL I was easily maintained during
SAL II. The macroeconomic framework has been appropriate and the Government has complied with
IMF programs, although some concerns remain regarding the real appreciation of the exchange rate, and
its negative impact on the development of exports. The sequencing of reforms was well managed. For
example, public sector modernization initiatives in SAL II followed the stabilization program started in
SAL I. Development of the capital markets was initiated after the banking sector had shown significant
improvement through the privatization program.
53.    Specific Findings and Lessons Learned. The main conclusions and lessons learned are:
9 The cofinancier, KfW, fully agrees that the outcome of SAL II has been very successful. In a letter to the Bank
(February 9, 1996) KfW states: "Nearly all economic indicators have improved and in many cases this improvement has
been even better than projected at the time of designing the program. We consider it worth mentioning that this
development has been achieved despite the fact of the change in Government which took place during implementation of the
program. We share your view that sustainability of the program is very likely."



- 11 -
*     As in any adjustment program, Borrower ownership is critical. Because of the Government's
strong commitment to the reforms supported by SAL II, the negotiation and implementation of
the program was achieved in an environment of mutual confidence.
*     A change in government during the implementation of a program inevitably leads to some delay
in compliance. The views of a new administration regarding the reform agenda may differ with
those of its predecessor. For this reason it is important to accentuate the use of first tranche
conditionality whenever approaching an electoral year. SAL II was not designed in this manner,
since the Bank originally expected that implementation would be completed within a single
administration. In the event, the Loan period did extend beyond the life of one administration.
However, because of the strong commitment of the incoming Government to continue the
reforms, the change in administration did not prove to be a problem in this case.
*     The success of one structural adjustment operation is likely to be repeated in a follow-on
operation if: (i) sequencing is appropriate; and (ii) there is continuity in the staff, both in the
Government and in the Bank, working on both operations.
*     The financial sector is highly vulnerable to structural economic changes, requiring a gradual and
careful sequencing of reforms. In the case of El Salvador, banking sector reforms were well
sequenced and gradual (restructuring, capitalization, and privatization of the banks, accompanied
by actions to reinforce the Superintendency).
*      It is essential to ensure Borrower consensus on the reform agenda at the time of appraisal. The
communication of program goals and objectives to all affected entities in and out of the
government is important in gaining the necessary support for its successful implementation. In
this sense, the careful preparation of detailed action plans, and the intensive coordination of
studies and consultant inputs, played an important role in communicating to the affected
institutions the rationale and steps involved in the reform.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
B. Program Sustainability
C. Bank Performance
D. Borrower Performance
E. Assessment of Outcome
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements
Table 5: Key Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1986-95
Table 6: Studies Included in the Loan
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Macroeconomic Policies                          v
Sector policies                                 V
Financial objectives                            v
Institutional development                       V
Physical objectives                                                                        v
Poverty reduction                                                                          V
Gender concerns                                                                            v
Other social objectives                         V
Environmental objectives                        V
Public sector management                        v
Private sector development                      V
..... .  ~Sa isatry                     ciit
Identification                                 v
Preparation assistance                         V
Appraisal                                      V
Supervision                                    v
~~ .~<::t   Stnace          Highly Sat~isfacidry   Stsatr                 eiin
Preparation                                    V
Implementation                                 v
Covenant Compliance                                                 v
B. Asses          ttS;t,   ,                                                           ntkf1t
X ~~ot OtoeStstcoy                               Stsatr          Ustsctr..j.......



- 14 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan/Credit Title          | Purpose                     I Fiscal Year 1 Status
I ____| _______i________:___|IApproved
Preceding Operations                                         X_X
Structural Adjustment Loan   Support Government reform    1991           Closed December 1992
(Loan 3293-ES)              program.
Social Sector Rehabilitation  Improve delivery of social  1992           Under implementation
Project (Loan 3348-ES)       services in poorest
municipalities
Agricultural Sector Reform  Institutional strengthening in  1993         Under implementation
(Loan 3576-ES)               agriculture and improved
research and extension focused
on small farmers.
Parallel Operation                                                           :    V
Technical Assistance Loan    | Strengthen Government      1993           Under implementation
(Loan 3648-ES)             | capacity to design and
| implement policy reforms.
Following Operations:       __::_______
Energy Sector Modernization    Modernization and expansion  1996         Under implementation
Loan (Loan 3920-ES)         of power supply, pricing and
regulatory reform.
Public Sector Modernization    Support public sector                     In preparation
Project                     modernization program,
continuing reforms in SAL II.
Competitiveness Enhancement   Support the business        1996           Under implementation
Loan (Loan 3946-ES)         environment and the
Government's globalization
strategy.



- 15 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
i-i the Project CYC  .                            D      ai:   -i Date Actual
Identification                                        May 1992           May 1992
Preparation                                           October 1993       October 1992
Appraisal                                             April 1993         June 1993
Negotiations                                          May 1992           July 1993
Letter of Development Policy                          June 1993          August 1993
Board Presentation                                    August 1993        September 1993
Signing                                               September 1993    October 1993
Effectiveness                                         October 1994       December 1993
First Tranche Release                                 November 1994    February 1994
Second Tranche Release                                June 1994          January 1995
Loan Closing                                          December 1994    December 1994
Table 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
.......... ..  ........                              .... ..... .  -  --.FY. ...
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)                 50.0
Actual (US$m)                             30.0 (1st Tranche)              20.0 (2nd Tranche)
Cumulative (US$m)                         30.0                            50.0
Date of Tranche Disbursements      February 18, 1994 (1st)        January 11, 1995 (2nd)



- 16 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS, ACTUALS AND PROJECTED, 1986-95
(% unless otherwise indicated)
'986      19                          1994      1995               1993;  1 :)''4994  1995-
GDP Growth                            2.1       3.6      7.5      7.4       6.0      6.3                4.3      4.3       4.3
Inflation (end-year)                  22.2      9.8     20.0      12.1      8.9      11.4               12.0     9.9       7.2
Investment/GDP                        13.5     15.4      18 .5    18.6     18.8      19.7               16.2     18.2     18.2
of which: Private                    10.0     12.6     14.5      14.6     15.0      15.7              12.9      14.1     14.2
Fiscal Balance (before grants)/GDP    -3.4     -4.4     -6.7      -3.6     -2.0      -1.6              -6.2      -5.4     -2.9
Tax Revenues/GDP                      9.8       8.5      9.6      10.3     10.8      12.0               9.1      10.5     12.0
Export Growth (US$)                  -22.9      1.0      1.7      24.1     10.2      35.2               14.2     9.7      12.2
Import Growth (US$)                   35.0     11.4     20.8      13.3     17.0      15.4               7.8      6.2       6.6
Current Account Balance (bef grants) /GDP  -5.9  -5 .0  -5.7      -4.3     -3.7      -2.8              -5.6      -5 .4    -4.9
Reserves (months of imports)           3.2      3.8       3.5      4.0      4.2       4.5
Projections are from the SAL H President's Report.



- 17 -
Table 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN TIE LOAN
. ..   . . .-..     .-  -M6
I.Public sector           Support of PSMAP           Per policy matrix,
modernization                                        Board Presentation:
assessment                                           Completed
2. Prepare pilot review   Support of PSMAP           Per policy matrix,
of three ministries                                  Board Presentation:
Completed
3.1dentify the unified    Support budget             Per policy matrix, 2nd
budget structure and      unification efforts        tranche:
format                                               Completed
4. Initiate               Background information    Per policy matrix,
comprehensive review of  for tax policy              Board Presentation:
tax system                                           Initiated
5. Complete review of     Background information    Per policy matrix, 2nd
tax system, including a    for tax policy            tranche:
tax reform agenda for                                substantially completed
the next administration
6. Evaluate tax audits,   Assist in strengthening    Per policy matrix, 2nd
based on cross-section    tax enforcement            tranche:
sample                                               substantially completed
7. Present analysis of    Assist in strengthening    Per policy matrix, 2nd
the results of enforcing  of tax enforcement         tranche:
the Ley del Delito Fiscal                            partially completed
8. Prepare a diagnosis of  Assist in strengthening   Per policy matrix,
DGA and custom's          of tax enforcement         Board presentation:
current structure                                    completed
9. Complete analysis of    Assist in strengthening   Per policy matrix,
achievements/failures of   of tax enforcement        2nd tranche:
technical assistance                                 substantially completed
projects
10. Complete rural        Assist in development of   Per policy matrix,
credit delivery system    rural credit action plan   Board presentation:
study                                                completed
1 1. Initiated review of  Assist in development of   Per policy matrix,
the current duty          export promotion           Board presentation:
drawback system           strategy                   substantially completed



- 18 -
Table 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan D.scri p..............ti o.. . cvnt               . .    .Comme
.   .ag r e   : .   .e   .   .   .   .   .. . .. . .                        .   .   .   .
..._               ....  ..  ...g   -: .:  - .E : .:Et.    --ER.E. ::t...:t'-:tt.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have prepared the Public Sector   PSMAP completed; in
No.1I         Modernization Action Plan                     process of
implementation .
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have submitted to the         1PM law submitted in
No.2           Legislative Assembly the Draft Budget Law.   November 1994.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have submitted to the         Covered under IFM
No.3          Legislative Assembly the Draft Treasury Law.   law, 1996 budget
presented under new
system .
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have commenced the            By June 1994 GAS
No.4          application of the Government Accounting      was applied to all
System in all the public sector entities listed in   NmPS agencies.
its letter to the Bank dated July 7, 1993.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have completed the            Completed.
No.5          implementation of the Ministry of Education
Sector Budget Plan, and shall have prepared a
Sector Budget Plan for the Ministry of Health
and for one additional ministry or vice-
____________  ministry.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have put into effect the      Completed.
No.6          Advance Spending Authorization Procedures in
all its ministries and the agencies thereof.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have made progress in the     New Court of
No.7          implementation of the Court of Account A ccount Accounts Law applies
Plan.                                       ex-post audit function.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have established, in the latest  Condition met.
No.8          available issue of the Central Bank's
Spublication entitled "Programa Monetario y
Finauciero" a public savings target of at least
0.6 percent of its gross domestic product for
fiscal year 1994.
Schedule 4.    Borrower shall have made progress in the     Data base largely
No.9          implementation of the Human Resources         completed; more work
Information System,                         needed in terms of
timely updates.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have completed the            Condition met.
No.10          implementation of the Action Plan for the
Reduction of Trade Duty Exemptions.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have completed the Tax        Studies being used to
No.11         Studies, including the preparation of an action    prepare additional tax
plan for the amendments thereof.             enhancement policies.
Schedule 4.    Borrower shall have completed the Tax and    Completed with some
No.12         Customs  Administration Reform Program.       delays.



- 19 -
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have: (a) offered for sale all  Partially met, some
No. 13        INCAFE's assets, at least one of             delays encountered;
INAZUCAR's assets excluding Complejo        INAZUCAR
Pesquero; (b) offered for sale or lease all the  privatization
assets of Complejo Pesquero; and (c)        proceeding beyond
completed preparatory work for privatization  original scope (partial
of INAZUCAR's remaining sugar mills.         waiver granted).
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have offered for sale CREDISA   Completed.
No. 14        and ATLACATL.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have offered for sale its shares    Minor delays due to
No. 15        in the capita stock of Banco Hipotecario.    problem on resolution
of contingent liabilities.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have: (a) adopted an action  Condition met.
No. 16        plan for improvement of rural credit system;
and (b) commenced implementation of plan.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have made progress in the    Condition partially met
No. 17        implementation of the Hydrocarbons Reform    (partial waiver
Action Plan, including in particular: the   granted), Energy
submission to the Legislative Assembly of the    Sector Modernization
draft Hydrocarbons Law and putting into effect  Loan will address
the Revised Diesel Pricing System.          follow-up issues.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have submitted to the        Condition met; recent
No. 18        Legislative Assembly a bill or bills revising the   Government
import tariffs for all Part III items so that the    announcement calls for
maximum tariff shall not exceed 20% and the    additional tariff
minimum tariff shall not be lower than 5 % of   reductions.
the dutiable value of the respective items.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have submitted to the        Condition met.
No.19         Legislative Assembly the Draft NTBs Removal
Laws.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have developed the Poverty   Condition met;
No.20         Alleviation Strategy.                        education program
more successful, other
components in need of
additional resources.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have: (a) adopted the Poverty  Condition met.
No.21         Alleviation Plan; and (b) commenced
implementation of such plan.
Schedule 4,    (a) CONAMA shall have approved the          Condition met,
No.22         Environmental Action Plan; and (b) Borrower    although change in
shall have put into effect such action plan.  Administration caused
delays in
._________________________________________   im plem entation.
Schedule 4,    Borrower shall have submitted to the        Condition met.
No.23         Legislative Assembly the Draft Environmental
Law.



- 20 -
Table 8: BANK RESOURCES-MISSIONS
Through Appraisal                      May-Nov 1992              39                 53
Appraisal through Board Approval       June/July 1993            5                  5
Board Approval through Effectiveness   Aug 2-7, 1993              1                 5
Supervision                             Oct 4-8, 1993            4                  5
Completion                              Oct/Nov 1995             2                  9



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
BORROWER ASSESSMENT'
SAL II was accompanied by policy measures which, on the one hand, aimed to complete the
macroeconomic stabilization phase initiated in 1989 and SAL I, and on the other, included measures
aimed at preparing the phase involving productive reconversion and modernization of the economy.
Negotiations and implementation of SAL II were quite fast. In this connection, special mention
should be made of the way in which the negotiations and implementation of SAL II were organized. In
terms of the design of measures, as wel' as their negotiation and implementation, the process was fully
participatory. Institutions were responsible for their corresponding areas in technical and political terms,
the inter-institutional working groups contributed to the discussions on progress, creating synergy and
complementing efforts.
1.- Completing the Macroeconomic Stabilization Phase
In terms of the measures included in this area, efforts to improve tax and customs administration
should be mentioned. SAL I included among others, measures directed toward simplifying taxes and
import duties. SAL II complemented these measures by supporting the modernization of tax and customs
administration systems; mainly through modernization of the legal and regulatory frameworks, the
simplification of procedures, the strengthening of information systems and the integration of data bases.
Strict vigilance was maintained on the fiscal deficit, through efforts to mobilize additional public
revenues and the rationalization of fiscal expenditures (mainly on salaries).
Privatization can be considered as part of the second phase of the structural adjustment process:
productive reconversion and modernization of the economy. Nonetheless, it should be mentioned here
because of its relevance in enhancing the confidence of entrepreneurs, through actions that demonstrate
the Government's clear sense of direction.
2.- Productive Reconversion and Modernization of the Economy
It is worth while emphasizing the contribution made by SAL II to the design and initiation of the public
sector modernization process.
It supported the elaboration of a comprehensive vision of modernization, through the development of an
action plan for the public sector modernization; as well as through the modernization of some of the macro-
systems which cut across the whole public sector: budget, auditing, and human resources.
It promoted the development of the technical base for the modernization, by providing implementation
guidelines for the different technical groups that participated at the institutional level and which were being
coordinated on the basis of these joint efforts.
*-     It launched comprehensive institutional modernization in some Ministries or public sector entities, by
supporting the institutional diagnoses.
*-     It supported the construction of a reliable and timely social information system.
It was possible to carry out an inventory of human resources and the design and implementation of the
Human Resource Information System (SIRH), which is being adopted by institution and which will enable
a new management of human resources in the public sector.
10 This is an unedited, unofficial translation of the Borrower's assessment of the results achieved through the Loan.









IMAGING
Report Nc):         1.54772
Type:  ICR



