Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3646 ES
                          Loan Agreement
                (Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 21, 1993
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3646 ES
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated August 13,
1993 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports and services required during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
Page  2
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.";
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (d)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
            be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
            Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Action Plan for the Reduction of Trade Duty Exemptions"
means the Borrower's action plan to repeal or reduce existing trade
duty exemptions comprising the submission to the Legislative
Assembly (as defined below) of a draft law or draft laws to repeal
or reduce trade duty exemptions to: (i) cooperatives; (ii) the
Borrower's executive branch and its ministries and the agencies
thereof; and (iii) CEL;
      (b)   "Advance Spending Authorization Procedures" means the
procedures adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Legislative Decree
No. 302 published in the Official Gazzette No. 316 on August 20,
1992;
      (c)   "BANAFI" means Banco Nacional de Fomento Industrial, the
Borrower's industrial development bank;
      (d)   "Banco Hipotecario" means Banco Hipotecario de El
Salvador, the Borrower's mortgage bank;
      (e)   "CEL" means Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio
Lempa, the Borrower's power company;
      (f)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco Central de
Reserva de El Salvador;
      (g)   "Complejo Pesquero" means Puerto Pesquero Industrial de
Punta Gorda, CORSAIN's (as defined below) fisheries complex located
in La Uni›n;
      (h)   "CONAMA" means Comision Nacional del Medio Ambiente, the
Borrower's environmental national commission;
      (i)   "Consejo" means Consejo Arancelario y Aduanero
Centroamericano, the Central American Council on Tariffs and Customs
created pursuant to Article 5 (a) of the Treaty (as defined below);
Page  3
      (j)   "CORSAIN" means Corporacion Salvadorena de Inversiones,
the Borrower's investment corporation;
      (k)   "Court of Accounts" means Corte de Cuentas de la
Republica, the Borrower's agency for fiscal control;
      (l)   "Court of Accounts Audit Plan" means the plan for the
auditing of the accounts of the Borrower's ministries and agencies
by the Court of Accounts contained in the Borrower's document
entitled "Plan Anual de Auditoria 1993" dated March 1993;
      (m)   "Draft Budget Law" means the draft budget law to be
prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the objectives and
principles set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank
dated July 14, 1993;
      (n)   "Draft Environmental Law" means the draft environmental
law to be prepared by the Borrower under the terms of reference
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank in letter dated July 15, 1993;
      (o)   "Draft Hydrocarbons Law" means the draft hydrocarbons
law to be prepared by the Borrower following substantially the
provisions of the draft furnished by the Borrower to the Bank in
letter dated August 13, 1993;
      (p)   "Draft NTBs Removal Laws" means the draft law or laws to
be prepared by the Borrower so as to eliminate the non-tariff
barriers contained in the NTBs laws (as defined below) by amending
such articles, and following such objectives and principles as are
contained in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated August
9, 1993;
      (q)   "Draft Treasury Law" means the draft treasury law to be
prepared by the Borrower in accordance with the objectives and
principles set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank
dated July 14, 1993;
      (r)   "Environmental Action Plan" means the environmental
action plan to be approved by CONAMA substantially in accordance
with the draft plan furnished by the Borrower to the Bank in letter
dated July 15, 1993;
      (s)   "Financial Institutions" means the following financial
institutions of the Borrower: ATLACATL and CREDISA;
      (t)   "First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not
exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 to be released by the Bank
on or after the Effective Date;
      (u)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 each year;
      (v)   "GAS" means the Borrower's accounting system described
in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated July 7, 1993;
      (w)   "Human Resource Information System" means the personnel
information system to be maintained by MIHAC (as defined below)
following the procedures described in the letter from the Borrower
to the Bank dated August 9, 1993;
      (x)   "Hydrocarbons Reform Action Plan" means the action plan
for the reform of the Borrower's hydrocarbons sector furnished by
the Borrower to the Bank in letter dated July 14, 1993;
      (y)   "INAZUCAR" means the Instituto Nacional del Azucar, the
Borrower's national sugar institute;
      (z)   "INCAFE" means Instituto Nacional del Cafe, the
Borrower's national coffee institute;
      (aa)  "Legislative Assembly" means the Borrower's legislative
branch;
Page  4
      (ab)  "MAG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock;
      (ac)  "MIHAC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (ad)  "MINED" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
      (ae)  "MINED Sector Budget Plan" means the budget
classification and restructuring plan for MINED for the fiscal years
1994 through 1996 contained in the letter from the Borrower to the
Bank dated July 2, 1993;
      (af)  "MSPAS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health
and Social Assistance;
      (ag)  "NTBs Laws" means the Legislative Decree on pharmacy
published in the Official Gazette No. 103 on July 16, 1927,
Legislative Decree No. 955 (the Health Code) published in the
Official Gazette No. 299 on May 11, 1988, Decree-Law No. 229
published in the Official Gazette No. 192 on August 9, 1961,
Executive Decree No. 145 published in the Official Gazette No. 204
on September 17, 1964, and Legislative Decree No. 647 published in
the Official Gazette No. 309 on December 20, 1990;
      (ah)  "Part III Items" means the items included in the list
entitled Parte Tercera del Arancel as set forth in Legislative
Decree No. 647 published in the Official Gazette No. 309 on December
20, 1990 and in respect of which the Borrower has the authority to
modify, without any further approval by the Consejo or the parties
to the Treaty (as defined below);
      (ai)  "Poverty Alleviation Strategy" means a strategy to be
developed by the Borrower for 1994-1998 based on its poverty
alleviation strategy described in the document entitled Plan de
Desarrollo Economico y Social 1989-1994 dated June 1990;
      (aj)  "Poverty Alleviation Action Plan" means the poverty
alleviation action plan for 1994-1998 to be adopted by the Borrower
to implement the Poverty Alleviation Strategy;
      (ak)  "Public Sector Modernization Action Plan" means the
action plan for public sector restructuring, decentralization,
privatization of public enterprises, human resource management and
civil service reform to be prepared by the Borrower under the terms
of reference furnished by the Borrower to the Bank in letter dated
August 9, 1993;
      (al)  "Revised Diesel Pricing System" means the system for
eliminating distortions in the pricing of diesel for public
transportation uses described in the letter from the Borrower to the
Bank dated August 13, 1993;
      (am)  "Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not
exceeding the equivalent of $20,000,000 to be released by the Bank
upon compliance by the Borrower with the requirements set forth or
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (an)  "Sector Budget Plan" means the budget classification
and restructuring plan for the fiscal years 1994 through 1996 for
MSPAS and one other ministry or vice ministry covering the subjects
identified in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated
July 15, 1993;
      (ao)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
      (ap)  "Tax and Customs Administration Reform Program" means
the reform program furnished by the Borrower to the Bank in letter
dated July 2, 1993;
Page  5
      (aq)  "Tax Studies" means the four studies described in the
letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated July 14, 1993; and
      (ar)  "Treaty" means Convenio Sobre el Regimen Arancelario y
Aduanero Centraoamericano, the agreement on the Central American
tariff and custom regime, entered into among Guatemala, El Salvador,
Nicaragua and Costa Rica and published in the Official Gazette No.
286 on January 23, 1985.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
Page  6
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. (a) The President of the Central Bank is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$1,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and separate accounts referred
                  to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                  Fiscal Year and for the expenditures under each
                  of the First Tranche and the Second Tranche
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
Page  7
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than ninety days after the end
                  of each Fiscal Year or not later than ninety days
                  after the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  has been made under each of the First Tranche and
                  Second Tranche, whichever comes first, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The date January 20, 1994 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning and Coordination for Economic
and Social Development of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Page  8
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Planificacion y Coordinacion
              del Desarrollo Economico y Social
            Final 17 Avenida Norte
            Costado Poniente CEL
            Centro de Gobierno
            El Salvador, Centro America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MIPLAN                     30120245
                  Centro de Gobierno
                  San Salvador
                  El Salvador
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                  By /s/ Mirna Lievano de Marques
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                          SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
Page  9
      Group        Subgroup         Description of Items
      112             -             Alcoholic beverages
      121             -             Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
      122             -             Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)
      525             -             Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
      667             -             Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718          718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors
     Group        Subgroup         Description of Items
      728.43          -             Tobacco processing machinery
      897          897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
      971             -             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $17,500,000 may be made on account of
goods imported before that date but after July 1, 1993;
      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $15,000 equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
      (g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $20,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$3,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements
of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $30,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
Page  10
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; (b) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (c) that the
actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program or the actions
taken pursuant to Schedule 4 to this Agreement are not satisfactory
or that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is not
consistent with the objectives of the Program and, within 90 days
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress or
taken actions satisfactory to the Bank or the macroeconomic policy
framework of the Borrower continues to be not consistent with the
objectives of the Program, then the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part
thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1999                               935,000
August 15, 1999                                 970,000
February 15, 2000                             1,005,000
August 15, 2000                               1,045,000
February 15, 2001                             1,080,000
August 15, 2001                               1,120,000
February 15, 2002                             1,165,000
August 15, 2002                               1,205,000
February 15, 2003                             1,250,000
August 15, 2003                               1,300,000
February 15, 2004                             1,345,000
August 15, 2004                               1,395,000
February 15, 2005                             1,450,000
August 15, 2005                               1,500,000
February 15, 2006                             1,560,000
August 15, 2006                               1,615,000
February 15, 2007                             1,675,000
August 15, 2007                               1,740,000
February 15, 2008                             1,800,000
August 15, 2008                               1,870,000
February 15, 2009                             1,940,000
August 15, 2009                               2,010,000
February 15, 2010                             2,085,000
August 15, 2010                               2,165,000
February 15, 2011                             2,245,000
August 15, 2011                               2,325,000
February 15, 2012                             2,415,000
August 15, 2012                               2,505,000
February 15, 2013                             2,595,000
August 15, 2013                               2,690,000
________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
Page  11
                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or
           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or
          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Page  12
      (d)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Program. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $3,000,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from at least two suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, except
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be
used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (c)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower shall have prepared the Public Sector
Modernization Action Plan.
2.    The Borrower shall have submitted to the Legislative Assembly
the Draft Budget Law.
3.    The Borrower shall have submitted to the Legislative Assembly
the Draft Treasury Law.
4.    The Borrower shall have commenced the application of the GAS
in all the public sector entities listed in its letter to the Bank
dated July 7, 1993.
5.    The Borrower shall have completed the implementation of the
MINED Sector Budget Plan, and shall have prepared a Sector Budget
Page  13
Plan for MSPAS and for one additional ministry or vice ministry.
6.    The Borrower shall have put into effect the Advance Spending
Authorization Procedures in all its ministries and the agencies
thereof.
7.    The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of
the Court of Accounts Audit Plan.
8.    The Borrower shall have established, in the latest available
issue of the Central Bank's publication entitled "Programa Monetario
y Financiero" a public savings target of at least .6% of its gross
domestic product for fiscal year 1994.
9.    The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of
the Human Resource Information System.
10.   The Borrower shall completed the implementation of the Action
Plan for the Reduction Trade Duty Exemptions.
11.   The Borrower shall have completed the Tax Studies, including
the preparation of an action plan for the amendments thereof.
12.   The Borrower shall have completed the Tax and Customs
Administration Reform Program.
13.   The Borrower shall have: (a) offered for sale all INCAFE's
assets, at least one of INAZUCAR's sugar mills, all BANAFI's real
estate properties, and all CORSAIN's assets excluding Complejo
Pesquero; and (b) offered for sale or lease all of the assets of
Complejo Pesquero; and (c) completed the preparatory work for the
privatization of INAZUCAR's remaining sugar mills.
14.   The Borrower shall have offered for sale the Financial
Institutions.
15.   The Central Bank shall have offered for sale its shares in the
capital stock of Banco Hipotecario.
16.   The Borrower shall have: (a) adopted an action plan for the
improvement of the rural credit system; and (b) commenced
implementation of such action plan.
17.   The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of
the Hydrocarbons Reform Action Plan, including in particular: the
submission to the Legislative Assembly of the Draft Hydrocarbons Law
and putting into effect the Revised Diesel Pricing System.
18.   The Borrower shall have submitted to the Legislative Assembly
a bill or bills revising the import tariffs for all Part III Items
so that the maximum tariff shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) and
the minimum tariff shall not be lower than 5% of the dutiable value
of the respective items.
19.   The Borrower shall have submitted to the Legislative Assembly
the Draft NTBs Removal Laws.
20.   The Borrower shall have developed the Poverty Alleviation
Strategy.
21.   The Borrower shall have: (a) adopted the Poverty Alleviation
Plan; and (b) commenced implementation of such plan.
22.   (a)   CONAMA shall have approved the Environmental Action
Plan; and (b) the Borrower shall have put into effect such action
plan.
23.   The Borrower shall have submitted to the Legislative Assembly
the Draft Environmental Law.
Page  14
