- Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17925
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2750-KG)
June 4, 1998
Country Unit 8
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of December 1997)
Currency Unit = Som,
1 Som = 100 Tiyin,
US$1 = 17.6 Som
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Som per US$1
Period Average       End of Period
1994                 10.9                  10.6
1995                 10.8                  11.2
1996                 12.9                  16.9
1997                 17.2                  17.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APEAC   -  Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
DEBRA   -  Debt Resolution Agency
ERRA   -  Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency
ESAF   -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FINSAC   -  Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   -  Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  Intemational Development Association
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
KAFC   -  Kyrgyz Agricultural Finance Corporation
KDA   -  Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Bread Complex)
KTA   -  Kyrgyz Tamak Ash (Agro-Processing Complex)
MAWR   -  Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Water Resources
NBK   -  National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
PESAC   -  Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
PIA   -  Project Implementation Assessment
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PSRMAC   -  Public Sector Resources Management Adjustment Credit
SDR   -  Special Drawing Right
SWR   -  State Wheat Reserve
SPF   -  State Property Fund
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TACIS   -  Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States (EU)
UCB   -  Unified Cash Benefit
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:      Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Responsible Staff:     Peter Hansen, ECCO8
Sarina Abdysheva, Consultant, ECCO8



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2750-KG)
CONTENTS
Preface.                                                                                                            i
Evaluation Summary....................................................
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................................1I
A. Project Origin and Objectives .................................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives .................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................... 4
D. Project Sustainability ................................................                                12
E. IDA Performance ................................................ .                                     13
F. Borrower Performance ................................................                                  13
G. Assessment of Outcome ................................................                                 14
H. Future Operations ................................................ .                                   14
1. Key Lessons Learned ................................................                                   14
PART 11. STATISTICAL TABLES
Annexes:
A.       Borrower Contribution to the ICR
B.       IDA's Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
Map (IBRD 26822RI)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2750-KG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Privatization and
Enterprise Adjustment Credit for the Kyrgyz Republic, for which an IDA credit in the amount of SDR
28.6 million (approximately US$ 45 million equivalent) was appraised in March, 1995 and approved by
the Board on June 28, 1995. The Development Credit Agreement was signed on July 28, 1995, and
became effective on October 26, 1995. The first tranche (SDR 14.3 million) was released in three
disbursements under the Bank's former disbursement procedures for adjustment operations: November 9,
1995 (SDR 2.0 million), December 5, 1995 (SDR 8.0 million), and January 5, 1996 (SDR 4.3 million).
The second tranche (SDR 14.3 million) was released in one lump sum on June 26, 1996 under new
disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. The project was closed on February 28, 1997. The
project was cofinanced by the Government of the Netherlands (US$ 10 million equivalent) on a grant
basis. Technical Assistance in total amount of JPY 19,100,000 was provided by the Government of
Japan prior to the Credit approval to carry out an Operational Audit of the Kyrgyzpotrebsouyz
(Cooperatives' Union) and prepare an Action Plan for its further demonopolization and privatization.
The ICR was prepared by the Country Unit for Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Turkmenistan
(ECC08) of the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. It was prepared by Sarina Abdysheva
(Consultant) under direction of Peter Hansen (Principal Economist and Task Manager during supervision
of APEAC), and reviewed by Kiyoshi Kodera, Director, ECCO8. This ICR is based on the project files,
discussions held with relevant state agencies of the Borrower involved in the project implementation and
the findings of IDA's Completion Mission in April 1997. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by preparing its own project completion report which outlines the reforms implemented under
the project and provides an evaluation of the project's overall achievements (Annex A).
Extensive supervision was provided during the implementation of the Reform Program
supported by APEAC, as described in the Supervision Plan of the President's Report (Report No. P-
6583-KG). Final Supervision of the project implementation took place during IDA's Completion
Mission in April 1997 (Annex B).
After reviewing the draft ICR the Government provided its comments which were incorporated
into the final report.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2750-KG)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit of SDR 28.6 million (US$ 45
million equivalent) was approved on June 28, 1995 and declared effective on October 26, 1995. APEAC
was designed to assist the Government in establishing an enabling environment for the agricultural sector
-- the mainstay of the Kyrgyz economy -- through the development of land markets, the
demonopolization and privatization of agricultural conglomerates that dominated agricultural marketing
and processing, and elimination of remaining price and trade distortions, as well as interference of the
local governments in commercial decisions. At the same time, APEAC was to support the further
privatization and enterprise restructuring process started under the Privatization and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (PESAC).
2.    The project was the third in a series of policy based operations in support of the Kyrgyz
Government's overall stabilization and economic reform program, which aims to establish a market
oriented economy. Prior to APEAC, these reforms were supported by a Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 2491-
KG; FY93), PESAC (Cr. 2639-KG; FY94), and a three-year ESAF arrangement of the IMF (approved in
July 1994). The Rehabilitation Credit and PESAC have been successfully completed, and ICRs have
been prepared (Report Nos. 16630 and 16698, respectively). A fourth policy operation, the Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC, Cr. 2890-KG) is expected to be completed shortly. The second
tranche of FINSAC was released in November 1997 and an ICR will be prepared in FY99. A fifth policy
operation, the Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC) was approved on
April 16, 1997 and is currently under implementation. Eight investment and technical assistance
operations are also currently under implementation (Social Safety Net, Telecommunications, Private
Enterprise Support, Health, Sheep Development, Power and District Heating, Rural Finance and
Financial Sector Technical Assistance).
Project Origin and Objectives
3.    The Kyrgyz Republic experienced an unprecedented decline in output and real incomes from
1991 to 1995 triggered by the breakdown of inter republican trade and payments arrangements in the
FSU area, and in part by the collapse of central planning. As discussed in President's Report for APEAC
(Report No. P-6583-KG; June, 1995), the Kyrgyz Republic was more affected than many of the other
republics owing to its dependence on imported oil and gas, geographical isolation and lack of
immediately exploitable resources. Real GDP declined by 43% between 1991 and 1994 and inflation
soared, reaching four digit levels in 1992 and 1993. The industrial sector experienced the highest output
loss, at 60 percent, with capacity utilization as low as 30 percent in some subsectors. Although
agricultural output declined by only 24 percent during this period, this was the continuation of a longer
downward trend in the sector, caused by decreasing productivity and deterioration of natural resources.



- 111 -
The situation in this sector was exacerbated by unclear ownership rights on land, lack of inputs and
credits, distorted pricing policy and the lack of reliable marketing channels. While a private sector had
emerged in small scale services and agriculture, the agricultural sector was dominated by state
monopolies, namely Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Bread Complex), Kyrgyz Tamak Ash (Agro Processing),
Kyrgyz Selkhozchimia (Fertilizers and Pesticides Supply), Kyrgyz Aiyl Komok (Input Supply), Kyrgyz
Potrebsouyz (Cooperatives Union) and others. The loss of markets following the breakdown of the
Soviet system, continued price controls, compulsory marketing, export restrictions, existence of state
monopoly over input supply, and administrative interference of the state in farm management reduced
farm earnings and the ability of farms (mostly collective or state owned) to finance their operations from
their own resources. In early 1994, the Government renewed its reform effort in the agricultural sector,
and issued a number of decrees to solidify the principles of private land use rights, thus setting the stage
for the establishment of more efficient private farm holdings. Nevertheless, a consolidated and
comprehensive agrarian reform program was not yet in place.
4.    APEAC represented part of the International Development Association's (IDA) efforts, with
strong bilateral support, to respond rapidly and positively to the Government's goals of economic
recovery and transition from "plan to market". The program supported the Government's efforts in
establishing an enabling environment for economic recovery of the agricultural sector and focused on the
following key objectives: (i) helping to develop land markets as the basis for sound agrarian reform; (ii)
demonopolization and privatization of the large state-owned conglomerates that dominated agricultural
marketing and processing; (iii) elimination of the remaining price and trade distortions in agriculture;
and (iv) elimination of the local governments' interference in commercial decisions. At the same time,
APEAC aimed to reinforce the privatization and enterprise adjustment process started under the PESAC
reform program.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     The Government has made commendable progress in implementing the reforms supported by the
APEAC program. Overall implementation was satisfactory, and most of the development objectives
were achieved, while the program's first objective (development of land markets), as discussed below,
has only been partially achieved. Nevertheless, progress in achieving the program objectives was
sufficient to warrant release of the second tranche of APEAC in June 1996. Since then, the Government
has continued to pursue the objectives and further progress has been achieved in a number of areas,
including continued distribution of land use shares, continued privatization of the former Kyrgyz Dan
Azyk and Kyrgyz Tamak Ash agricultural conglomerates, reduction in the State's holding of wheat
reserves to a limited amount, and continuation of the mass privatization program.
6.    Development of Land Markets. Land and agrarian reforms in the Kyrgyz Republic were
started in 1991. An essential part of these reforms was the transfer of agricultural land and assets from
state ownership to private use rights and the establishment of more productive farms. The main
mechanism used was the distribution of land shares and farm assets and conversion of state farms into
private joint stock companies. From the Government's point of view, the agricultural reform program
and the process of farm restructuring was well conceived. The main idea was to provide equal initial
opportunities for all farmers and to allow the future size of farms to be regulated spontaneously by
farmers themselves. However, a simple transfer of land use rights to members and employees of state
and collective farms did not by itself create viable and competitive production units. Without building
institutional capacity to complement farm restructuring, in particular, without establishing a proper land
registration system to record the trading of land use rights, creation of viable and competitive production



- Iv -
units would not be possible. Several Presidential Decrees on land reform had provided broad guidelines
to proceed with agrarian reform, but they were not sufficiently detailed or comprehensive to promote a
sustainable program of land distribution and farm size adjustmen! in response to market forces.
7.     To address this situation, APEAC focused on the legal and institutional framework necessary for
development of land markets by consolidating the existing legislation and regulations. The objectives
were to obtain a clarification of land use rights and the elimination of restrictions that would prevent the
emergence of land markets. The first steps in this direction, which were carried out during APEAC
preparation (see Table 5, Policy Matrix), included: (i) elimination of maximum private farm size
requirements in various land categories; (ii) abolishing the power of rural committees to approve land
transactions; and (iii) ensuring the full marketability of shares inside or outside the enterprise in the case
of corporate farms. The second set of activities focused on longer term development of land reforms and
was done during project implementation. It was related to establishment of clear implementation
procedures for: (i) putting in place separate procedures for adjudication of disputes (under draft Land
Code); (ii) issuing a standard land title or certificate; and (iii) vesting responsibility for land registration
in a single authority.
8.    As part of APEAC, in November 3, 1995, a Presidential Decree (No. 297) extended land use
rights from 49 to 99 years and provided, upon expiration of this period, a priority right of lease extension
to leaseholders who actually work on their land. This Decree also eliminated the restrictions on the
maximum size of land per household and reduced the minimum farm size requirements for commercial
farms to 5 ha. for irrigated land and 1 ha. for suburban fruit and vegetable growing. Third, the
Presidential Decree also made land use rights legally transferable (for sale, lease, inheritance) and
collateralizable. Procedures for collateralization were specified in the Law on Pledge, which was
enacted in August 4, 1997, and in the draft Mortgage Law, which is currently under consideration by
Parliament.
9.     These extensions of land use rights represented substantial progress in land reform. Prior to
release of the second tranche of APEAC, the Bank advised the Government to reinforce the above
provisions by introducing them into the draft Land Code to ensure the long term sustainability of the land
reforms. The corresponding draft Land Code acceptable to IDA was submitted to the Parliament on May
10, 1996. Since then the Land Code has passed through several readings in Parliament, but, despite
considerable public support, it has not yet been enacted due to the opposition of a group of Delegates,
who oppose the concept of private ownership of land. They view the introduction of 99 year land use
rights into the Land Code as being inconsistent with Article 4 of the Kyrgyz Constitution (adopted 1993),
which does not allow private ownership of land. Some deputies consider this amendment as equal to the
introduction of private ownership of land, since the proposed maturity of tenure exceeds a normal human
being's lifetime. A second reason for delay was the necessity for revision of other relevant legislation,
i.e., the Civil Code Part II. As of April 1998, the draft Land Code was still being debated in Parliament.
10.   As a result of these reforms, some "informal" trading of land is currently taking place. Also, the
first land transactions through auctions conducted by the National Land Fund took place in Talas and
Chui Oblasts early 1998. However, local commercial banks and the newly established KAFC won't
accept land use rights as collateral. They accept other immovable and movable properties as collateral
(e.g., apartments, cars), but not land use rights, especially for agricultural land. The main impediments
to the collateralization of land use rights are the absence of a proper land registration system and doubts
over the legal enforceability of taking possession of land use rights that have been pledged as collateral.



v -
11.   During the last two years, the Government has been implementing a pilot Land Registration
Project supported by USAID in two oblasts. The project has accomplished the development of a unique
property identification system, the creation of registration district and rural community maps and index
maps, the compilation of data on ownership, and the creation of registration cards and folders. As the
pilot project went on, due to involvement of a number of state agencies in the land reforms (i.e., Bureau
of Technical Inventory (BTI) for urban and Center on Land and Agrarian Reforms (CLARs) for rural
lands), it was critical to decide which agency would be the single agency responsible for land
registration. A Presidential Decree of November 25, 1996 entrusted the responsibility for registration of
land to the newly established State Land Agency. A subsequent Government's Resolution was issued on
April 2, 1997 on initiating state registration of land use rights. Several options were discussed between
the Bank and the Government for the determination of institutional responsibilities of the land
registration system. Finally, the Government decided to vest the authority for administering the state
registry in the Ministry of Justice. This decision was incorporated in the draft Land Registration Act,
which was also submitted to Parliament in May, 1996 but has not yet been enacted pending enactment of
the Land Code and continued debate within Parliament over which agency should have authority over
land registration system.
12.   In sum, APEAC's objective of helping to develop land markets can be assessed as being
achieved. First, the immediate objective of removing restrictions on farm size and clarifying legal rights
through further Presidential Decrees (which are still in force) were achieved. Second, APEAC provided
momentum to the legislation aspects of land reforms by helping to get acceptable Land Code and Land
Registration Act into Parliament for debate. These included the concepts of 99 years leasehold, the legal
transferability of land use rights and a single agency to be responsible for all land registration, both urban
and rural. Third, on the ground, distribution of land shares continued at an impressive pace. Also, the
USAID funded pilot registration project was launched, which gives valuable experience for further
development of land registration system.
13.   The development of functioning land markets is likely to take several more years and will
require several factors which were beyond the scope of APEAC, e.g., (i) clear indications that economic
transactions in land have the full and permanent support of the state; (ii) a demonstrated channel for
creditors to take possession of land that has been pledged as collateral; (iii) a reduction in high
transactions costs (notary fees and transfer taxes) associated with the sale of land use rights; and (iv)
establishment of a functioning land registration system. Nevertheless, the necessary groundwork has
been laid. APEAC did not specifically address these factors, and, in retrospect, the objective of
"helping" to development of land markets may be viewed as somewhat simplistic and too ambitious
given the one-year timeframe of an adjustment operation. Indeed most of the remaining steps require a
much longer time frame, because they involve fundamental changes in society's mentality concerning
land use and ownership, as well as institutional changes in the legal and administrative systems. APEAC
did not define a set of important milestones for establishing functioning land markets. While APEAC
clearly advanced the development of land markets, there were no precise indicators of success
established at the time of appraisal. In retrospect, it is clear that much remains to be done before land
markets can evolve in to a fully functioning system that is consistent with the market economy
aspirations of the Government and the Bank. Nevertheless, the necessary groundwork has been laid.
14.   Creating a Competitive Environment for Agroenterprises. The reforms supported by this
component of APEAC included creation of necessary conditions for establishment of competitive
environment for the emerging private sector, including abolishment of remaining price and trade
distortions, demonopolization of procurement, supply and processing markets in agriculture, and
elimination of the local government's interference into activities of commercial entities. The



- vi -
Government undertook all conditions specified in this regard in the Development Credit Agreement.
Prior to APEAC, in early 1994, the Government abolished "state orders", and replaced them with a new
procurement system of "state needs" to be implemented by voluntary supply contracts at negotiated
prices. In 1994 the Government also abolished a decree that imposed price controls on export
commodities and a Price Commission that had been established to implement this Decree. The
Government also dismantled quantitative controls on exports. The Government abolished all remaining
export taxes on agricultural commodities in 1995 and early 1996. Now, there are now no export taxes or
quantitative restrictions on any exports from the Kyrgyz Republic.
15.   As part of the policy measures introduced under APEAC for maintaining an environment of free
market prices for agricultural products, the Government committed to adopt a policy providing
guidelines for the operation of the State Wheat Reserve. Such a policy was necessary to define the scope
of operations of the State Wheat Reserves in the emerging private grain market. The Government issued
a Resolution No, 209 of May 10, 1996 along with a policy Concept Note. This Note set out a general
approach to the development of a free and private market in the trade of grain. These guidelines limit the
domestic state procurement of wheat to 100,000 tons per year, of which 60% is emergency reserve. The
remaining 40% is for supply to remote areas until the private suppliers emerge. Implementation of this
policy has been followed during the past two years and the grain trade is now basically in private hands.
16.   One of the impediments to development of an enabling environment for functioning of the
private sector was interference of the local governments in commercial decisions. Under APEAC, a
Presidential Decree of March 1995 was issued expressly forbidding local government officials to dictate
their own procurement prices, and delivery requirements, and to impose restrictions on trade across
provincial boundaries. However, these regulations are being sometimes ignored, and therefore, there are
still some cases of local governments' interference in commercial decisions.
17.   Demonopolization and Reorganization of Agroenterprises and Rural Trade. Improvement in the
efficiency of input and output markets was the identified priority in the agricultural sector. The
Government had begun dismantling the centralized trade and distribution system that agroindustrial and
marketing enterprises were subject to in the past. Nonetheless, the marketing and procurement of
agricultural products remained dominated by a few state-owned and / or controlled conglomerates.
Moreover, procurement, distribution and most administrative services for enterprises have been
recentralized at the holding company level. Although some of these enterprises had been either totally or
partially privatized, there was little change in their market behavior. Of particular importance were
Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (the Bread and Grain Complex, comprising over one hundred units including retail
bread shops; mini-bakeries; and large grain procurement, storage, and milling combines), Tamak Ash (a
holding entity for 106 agroindustrial enterprises), and Potrebsouyz (Union of Consumer Cooperatives),
which together controlled about 90 percent of all procurement of agricultural output and inputs in the
country. These conglomerates were also the largest debtors to the banking sector and they continued to
exert considerable pressure for increased access to financial resources.
18.   Demonopolization of Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Bread and Grain Complex) and Kyrgyz Tamak Ash
(Agro and Food Processing) was an important component of APEAC. The process was initiated by
Presidential Decrees in May 1995. By December 1995, all component enterprises were converted into
independent joint stock companies and divested from the holding company. Privatization of KDA
enterprises proceeded well. As a result, as of June 1997, out of total 44 enterprises, 28 were fully
privatized, 6 remained with minority state shareholding and 8 remained majority state owned (including
2 large milling and storage companies). As for privatization of KTA, as of June 1997, out of total 96
JSCs, 74 were fully privatized, 6 remained with minority state shareholding and 16 with majority state



- vii -
shareholding. The residual state shares in all these enterprises were expected to be fully privatized by the
end of 1997, but due to a temporary hold in the Privatization program, the remaining shares are now
expected to be privatized in 1998.
19.   Kyrgyz Potrebsouyz (Cooperatives). The highly centralized Union of Consumer Cooperatives
(Potrebsouyz) was involved in a wide range of activities, including food production, construction,
transportation, and retail businesses. While the primary cooperatives were in principle "private", they
were under the direct influence of the Government. These regional associations had control over
purchasing centers, wholesale units and transportation networks. The continued predominance of
Potrebsouyz in rural procurement and distribution was a fundamental impediment to the creation of a
competitive environment. This was mainly because Potrebsouyz structures had distinctive advantages
over independent, individual business establishments owing to their integrated marketing and
procurement system, negotiating power, and relatively easy access to capital.
20.   Under APEAC, support was provided to lay the groundwork for establishing true market based
member servicing cooperatives. A special study was initiated to review interlinkages and
interdependencies of Potrebsouyz, and the legal framework for cooperatives, with a view to designing a
restructuring plan. The Study was funded by the Government of Japan through the PHRD Grant Fund.
An operational audit of Potrebsouyz was completed by December 1995, which included Restructuring
Plan. The Audit Report was submitted to the Government and was well received. The Government
agreed to reorganization of the Potrebsouyz system. By its Resolution No. 5/1 of January 1996, the
Government created a special Commission to consider the Restructuring Plan and initiate the
reorganization process. Although the actual reorganization of the Potrebsouyz system was not fully
completed, its monopolistic influence over procurement and distribution system in the country was
substantially reduced as a result of liquidation of some regional cooperatives, sale of assets, and the
creation of a competitive environment, which has led to the emergence of private traders who are
beginning to serve the rural areas.
21.   Privatization. Progress on privatization of state owned enterprises was satisfactory and met all
the development objectives. APEAC continued support to the mass privatization program for medium
and large scale enterprises for 1994-95 started under PESAC and supported development and
implementation of the second phase of the program for 1996-97. These programs were based on the
principles of full divestiture. The Government implemented a divestiture strategy based on: (i) cash
auctions for small enterprises; (ii) the sale of remaining state-owned shares in already privatized
enterprises through coupon and cash auctions; and (iii) the privatization of medium and large-scale
enterprises through the free distribution of 5 percent of their shares to their workers and managers, the
sale of 25 percent of their shares in vouchers auctions, and up to 70 percent through cash auctions or, in
certain cases, to investors selected on the basis of competing privatization proposals.
22.   APEAC introduced two new elements to the program: the accelerated method of privatization,
and an innovative oversight scheme. First, the SPF limited attempts to attract strategic investors to two
offers. If the second attempt was unsuccessful, the unsold shares were to be channeled to the coupon
and/or the cash auctions, as appropriate. Second, cash auctions were limited to two rounds of bidding,
with the shares or property sold to the highest bidder on the second round, without reference to a floor
price. If no purchaser could be found to acquire the property offered for sale, SPF would attempt to
attract a private manager through a leasing mechanism, or initiate liquidation procedures, as appropriate.
By the end of 1995, a total of 836 enterprises or almost all of the 948 in the 1994-95 program had passed
through coupon auction. Shares in the remaining enterprises had been offered for cash sale as part of the
APEAC program. By June 1996, 933 enterprises had been put through coupon auction -- some



- viii -
additional companies had been added to the program in 1996 -- and shares in 832 of these enterprises had
been offered for cash sale following their respective coupon auction. Cash sales lagged, however,
because of selective reintroduction of a floor price, which was seen as a means to avoid the "give-away"
of Government assets at prices significantly below historic book value. To accelerate the process, the
Government reaffirmed its policy and authorized the SPF to conclude the sale of enterprises with the
highest bidder at the second round of cash auction at market based price without reference to a minimum
floor price.
23.   The second part of the privatization program under APEAC was to set out the privatization
program for 1996-97. The Bank reviewed the draft program submitted by the SPF before its approval by
the Government in February, 1996 and confirmed that it included the same principles upon which the
1994-95 program was based. The 1996-97 program planned for sale of all remaining medium and large
scale enterprises, the privatization of which was not prohibited by law. The program included about 320
enterprises and covered most remaining commercial enterprises in the country, including the major
utilities, mines (except gold), aviation and printing industries. Most companies were to be sold through
mass privatization procedures of coupon and cash auctions. Medium-term plans for privatizing the
larger enterprises, such as the energy, telecommunications and aviation companies, were drawn up to
attract strategic investors, but only a limited percentage of shares in these companies were sold through
coupon auction during 1996-97. As result of these programs, by February 1997, (i) all commercially
viable small scale enterprises were fully privatized; (ii) of the approximately 1,300 medium and large
scale enterprises included in the mass privatization program, 993 had gone through coupon auction; of
these 804 were fully or majority privatized. The coupon program was completed in June 1997, and all
enterprises, including the major utilities, have gone through coupon auction. Now, the only remaining
state shares are in major utilities and in about 320 larger enterprises. Privatization of these remaining
shares is expected to occur in 1998-1999 under the following methods: (i) commercial tendering, (ii)
cash auctions, (iii) sale of up to 30% of state shares through cash auctions and, if any remained, further
sale through any other methods of privatization, (iv) competitive proposals, (v) reserved for sale only by
order of the Government, (vi) reorganization and liquidation, and (vii) remained under management by
SPF.
24.   Enterprise Restructuring. APEAC also supported the continued enterprise restructuring
program initiated under PESAC. Diagnostic study for all ERRA enterprises were completed by
December 1995. Four enterprises left PESAC program without using program's resources, five have
been or are under full liquidation, and the rest have been restructured and have been or are in the process
of being sold to private owners as part of the "hiving off"/liquidation procedures of the former
companies. The 19 restructured enterprises are back to in production with the benefit of working capital
loans provided under the ERRA program. Some enterprises are now marginally profitable, while the
others have not required further budget assistance.
25.   Legal Reform. The Government has been undertaking significant efforts to adjust its legal and
regulatory framework to the needs of a market economy. Substantial progress has been made towards
modernizing Kyrgyz commercial laws to meet the demands of private investors. General legal reform
was launched under the Rehabilitation Credit. These included revised Civil Code Part 1, the Tax Code,
Mining Code, a new Banking Law, Foreign Investments, and Bankruptcy legislation. APEAC supported
specifically a National Procurement Law, Law on Pledge (Collateral), Land Code and Immovable
Property Rights Registration Law. A Procurement Law, which established government-wide procedures
in line with international standards, was adopted in April 1997. Under this Law, the Government has
established an Independent Procurement Agency whose function is to implement and supervise the
procurement procedures enacted by the Procurement Law. Land Code and Immovable Property Rights



- ix -
Registration Law were submitted to the Parliament in May 1996, but not yet enacted. Consideration of
these two pieces of legislation was delayed till now for several reasons described above in paragraph 9.
26.   Disbursements. Audit and the Project's completion. The first tranche of the Credit totaling to
SDR 14.3 million (US$ 22.5 million equivalent) was released partially on three different dates soon after
effectiveness. The dates were November 9, 1995 (SDR 2,021,357.90), December 5, 1995 (SDR
8,009,526.85), and January 5, 1996 (SDR 4,269,115.25). It was disbursed under the Bank's former
disbursement procedures, which required supporting documentation, including import documentation
and Statement of Expenditures. Release of the second tranche was originally envisaged 8 months after
Board, but was delayed by about 3 months. The second tranche was released in one lump sum on June
26, 1996 under new disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. The requirement for an audit of
the APEAC funds was waived in February, 1997, in line with the new disbursement and audit
procedures for adjustment operations that were approved in 1996. The Project was officially closed in
February, 1997. The Government's Project Completion Report was received in March, 1997 and judged
that all objectives of the APEAC program have been met (Attachment A). The IDA's ICR Mission took
place in April 1997 (Aide Memoire, Attachment B).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
27.   Implementation of the reform program supported under APEAC helped to establish an enabling
environment for recovery of the agricultural sector by supporting land reform, demonopolization of trade
in agricultural inputs and outputs, elimination of trade and price distortions, and abolishment of the
remaining export taxes on agricultural commodities. It also supported improved mechanisms for on-
going privatization, enterprise reform and restructuring, and enhanced the policy, legal and regulatory
environment for private sector development. IDA recognized that the transition from a command to a
market oriented economy would take time, and a series of adjustment operations would be needed.
These operations would not only support the transition process but also help to ease the macroeconomic
and social consequences of the reforms by providing budgetary resources that eased the compression of
government expenditures caused by declining GDP and tax revenues. The APEAC operation was
therefore followed by (i) a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC-FY96); and, (ii) a Public Sector
Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC-FY97). A Social Sector Adjustment Credit
(SOSAC) is currently under preparation with a target Board date in FY99. The reform program
supported under APEAC was overall successful, but there are nevertheless important lessons relevant to
the future developments in the Kyrgyz Republic as well as for the future projects to be supported by the
Bank.
28.   Development of land markets was too ambitious an objective to be realized within 12-15
months of the program implementation. It was unrealistic to expect that land markets could be
created during 15 months of program implementation. While APEAC helped further this process, many
essential developments are still required before the ultimate objective of functioning land markets will be
obtained (para. 13). They involve fundamental changes in society's mentality concerning land use and
ownership, as well as institutional changes in the legal and administrative systems. Difficulties are
illustrated by fact, that debates on which of the existing land agencies would be the "single authority" for
land registration are still going on in Parliament. Full achievement of the development objective of
"developing land markets" will only be possible once proper land registration system is established.
Definitions of success could have been more clearly specified in the President's Report on APEAC.
APEAC should have identified important milestones for the development of land markets and agreed on
which would be attained under the program.



29.   Resolution of debts of grain combinats should have been addressed during the program
design before proceeding with their privatization. This would have facilitated privatization of the
major bread combinats. The Government's Letter of Development Policy said that the Government
would handle this issue, but in fact it did not. An important development in privatization of KDA's
combinats has been the repossession by the SPF of share blocks previously sold in eight of the Dan
Azyk bread combinats due to full or partial non-payment of installment payments by the purchasers,
despite additional time that was given to make these payments. Repossessions have taken place during
the first few months of the 1997. The reason for non-payment for shares by the investors appeared to be
the high level of debt that still burdens many of these combinats, which was the major concern of
investors. This debt made many of them highly illiquid and threatens their viability as on-going
enterprises. This issue was discussed with the Government during each supervision missions, but no
decisive measures were taken. In retrospect, the Bank should have required action to be taken by second
tranche. If the Working Group on APEAC had functioned, perhaps it could have dealt with this problem.
In the event, this matter is being handled by the Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) created under the
successive adjustment operation program, FINSAC, as part of the banking sector reform.
30.   Liberalization and privatization measures and elimination of legal impediments is not
sufficient for the creation of a competitive environment for agrobusiness. Even after implementation
of policy measures under APEAC, there are other major factors impeding the emergence of competitive
markets in the agricultural sector. Emerging private agrobusiness enterprises are facing considerable
commercial risks and relatively high costs for goods and services (e.g., high interest rates) which weaken
their ability to participate and compete in markets. A large proportion of agroenterprises privatized
under APEAC are hardly operating for several reasons, including: (i) lack of access to working capital to
purchase raw materials and agricultural input; (ii) lack of access to term capital to finance renovation of
equipment and machinery, inventory, and receivables; (iii) lack of "know-how" and access to modern
technologies; and (iv) lack of management skills due to the dominance of state agrobusiness enterprises
in the past. Weak financial markets and management skills have inhibited the capacity of the emerging
private enterprises to respond effectively to the opportunities created by APEAC.
31.   Adjustment programs can succeed even if not well coordinated by a Central Working
Group. but only if there is a strong working level commitment to individual components. Since
APEAC contained reforms to be introduced in a number of areas in the sector and required involvement
of the different agencies, a special interministerial high level Working Group was created under the chair
of Vice Prime Minister on agrarian policy. The mandate of the WG was to consolidate the agrarian
reforms, and coordinate and monitor implementation of the APEAC program. Unfortunately, there were
no signs that the Group functioned as a true steering group. To the Bank's knowledge there were no
meetings, no instructions, no progress reports, etc. The program nevertheless succeeded due to the fact
that its basic components were run by agencies that were already deeply involved in the reform efforts
(Ministry of Agriculture for land reform, SPF for privatization, and ERRA for enterprise restructuring).
The areas that were not so covered, for instance, wheat reserve policy and removal of export taxes, fell
between cracks, and the Bank had to make special efforts during supervision with individual units of the
Government to get things moving.
32.   Legal framework is necessary but not a sufficient condition to implement policy reforms.
Institutional development, which is a much slower process than passing Presidential Decrees, is equally
important for making progress on the ground. For instance, the policy objective of helping to develop
land markets was not consistent with the time it will take to develop and implement a functioning land
registration system.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2750-KG)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    The Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit of SDR 28.6 million (US$ 45
million equivalent) was approved on June 28, 1995 and declared effective on October 26, 1995. The
project was cofinanced by the Government of the Netherlands (US$ 10 million) on a grant basis.
Technical Assistance in total amount of JPY 19,100,000 was provided by the Government of Japan prior
to the Credit approval to carry out an Operational Audit of the Kyrgyzpotrebsouyz (Cooperatives'
Union) and prepare an action plan for its further restructuring. Second tranche was released on June 26,
1996. The project was closed on February 28, 1997.
A. Project Origin and ObJectives
2.     Since its independence, the Kyrgyz Republic has been severely affected by adverse external
developments. The Kyrgyz Republic experienced an unprecedented decline in output and real incomes
from 1991 to 1994 triggered by the breakdown of inter-republican trade and payments arrangements in
the FSU area, and in part by the collapse of central planning. As discussed in President's Report for
APEAC (Report No. P-6583-KG; June, 1995), the Kyrgyz Republic was more affected than many of the
other republics owing to its dependence on imported oil and gas, geographical isolation and lack of
immediately exploitable resources. Real GDP declined by about 43% between 1991 and 1994 and
inflation soared, reaching four digit levels in 1992 and 1993. The industrial sector experienced the
highest output loss, at 60 percent, with capacity utilization as low as 30 percent in some subsectors.
Although agricultural output declined by only 24 percent during this period, this was the continuation of
a longer downward trend in the sector, caused by decreasing productivity and a deterioration of natural
resources. The situation in this sector was exacerbated by unclear ownership rights on land, lack of
inputs and credits, distorted pricing policy and the lack of reliable marketing channels. While a private
sector had emerged in small scale services and agriculture, agricultural sector was dominated by state
monopolies (namely Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Bread Complex), Kyrgyz Tamak Ash (Agro Processing),
Kyrgyz Selhozchemia (Fertilizers and Pesticides Supply), Kyrgyz Aiyl Komok (Input Supply), Kyrgyz
Potrebsouyz (Cooperatives' Union) and others). In early 1994, the Government renewed its reform
effort in the agricultural sector, and issued a number of decrees to solidify the principles of private rights
to land and setting the stage for the establishment of more efficient private farm holding. Nevertheless, a
consolidated and comprehensive agrarian reform program was not yet in place.
3.    Agriculture is critical to the Kyrgyz economy. It provides basic sustenance to the population of
which about 65 percent live in the rural areas. Agriculture's contribution to GDP, which averaged
around 33 percent in the 1980s, has increased to over 40 percent in 1994 due to sharp decline in
industrial and service sector outputs. From 1990 through 1995, the Kyrgyz agriculture was on a
downward trend of declining output and income, and worsening farm productivity. The loss of markets
following the breakdown of the Soviet system; continued price controls; compulsory marketing export
restrictions; existence of the state monopoly over input supply; and administrative interference of the



- 2 -
state in farm management reduced farm earnings and the ability of farms (mostly collective or state
owned) to finance from their own resources.
4.    The Kyrgyz Republic had moved rapidly towards design and implementation of a wide range of
systematic reforms. One of the highest priorities was given to privatization of the state-owned
enterprises, as the economy was still dominated by large and inefficient SOEs which continue to claim
an excessive share of economic and financial resources. Early in 1994, with support of the PESAC
program, the Government revised its original privatization strategy for 1994-95 privatization program
with emphasis on the free use of individual shareholding rights, auction of state-owned shares against
vouchers, and systematic use of competitive methods of privatization. However, many of privatized
enterprises continued to remain under the direct influence of sector ministries, holding companies and
local authorities.
5.    The APEAC Reformn Program therefore supported the Government's goals to establish an
enabling environment for recovery of the agricultural sector and focused on the following key objectives:
(i) helping to develop land markets as the basis for sound agrarian reform; (ii) demonopolization and
privatization of the large state-owned conglomerates that dominated agricultural marketing, processing
and procurement; (iii) elimination of the remaining price and trade distortions in agriculture; and (iv)
elimination of the local governments' interference in commercial decisions. At the same time, the
APEAC aimed to reinforce the privatization and enterprise adjustment process started under PESAC.
6.    APEAC represented part of the International Development Association's (IDA) efforts, with
strong bilateral support, to respond rapidly and positively to the Government's goals of economic
recovery and transition from "plan to market". Since large number of the poor and the very poor reside
in rural areas, sound agricultural reforms were expected to contribute measurably to the reduction of the
poverty in the Kyrgyz Republic. The key element of the program was to support the Government's
efforts in developing land market as the core for the overall success of the economy. The reorganization
and privatization of major agricultural procurement agencies and supply enterprises were expected to
facilitate farmers' access to marketing channels, thereby providing them with the incentive to increase
production. These enterprise-level adjustment were to be complemented by policy and regulatory
reforms to remove policy-induced and regulatory barriers to enterprise efficiency, and help create a
policy environment in which private sector could emerge.
7.    APEAC was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for FY95 and beyond, which
was considered by the Board of Executive Directors concurrently with the proposed APEAC program in
June 28, 1995. The Bank has worked closely with the Government in developing a program of key
structural reforms in the agricultural and the enterprise sectors to help with the overall adjustment
process to a market economy and to facilitate supply response in the agricultural sector.
B. Achievement of Objectives
8.    Overall progress under APEAC was satisfactory. All specific conditions were fully met and the
second tranche was released on June 26, 1996, about three months later than expected (see Policy
Matrix: Table No. 5). Most of the development objectives were achieved, while the program's first
objective (development of land markets), as discussed below, has only been partially achieved. The
Government's Project Completion Report was received in March, 1997 and judged that all objectives of
the APEAC program have been met (Attachment A). The IDA's ICR Mission took place in April 1997
(Aide Memoire, Attachment B).



-3 -
Progress on Stabilization
9.    The Kyrgyz Government assumed full control over macroeconomic policies with the
introduction of the national currency, the Som, in May 1993, and embarked on a stabilization program
supported by a stand-by arrangement from the IMF and access and the Systemic Transformation Facility
(STF). In May 1993, the IMF approver a three year ESAF arrangement in support of the Borrower's
medium-term stabilization and adjustment program, led by tight money and supported by a strong
revenue enhancing effort. During 1994, deposit and credit interest rates were liberalized, directed credits
were discontinued, refinance credit auctions were suspended, and domestic bank financing of the budget
deficit was sharply curtailed. The Borrower has also established a foreign exchange auction market, a
floating exchange rate, and a fully liberal exchange regime with no restrictions on current or capital
account transactions. A major liberalization of the trade regime has also occurred. Non-tariff barriers
were removed, and export taxes have been eliminated on all goods.
10.   The last two years have witnessed a significant recovery in output. Following a cumulative
decline of about 50% during 1991-1995, real GDP increased by 5.6% in 1996 and by 10% in 1997. The
recovery started about three years following the adoption of stabilization policies. Most of the growth
recorded in 1996 was primarily attributed to agriculture, which benefited from favorable weather
conditions, a change in cropping patterns, and an expansion in cultivated areas. The bulk of GDP growth
in 1997 has been from the start of production from the Kumtor gold mine. Private sector activity (mostly
in agriculture, services and trade) has grown rapidly over the past few years, and its share in GDP is
estimated to have tripled to 35% during 1994-1997. However, a significant part of private sector activity
is likely to have been missed by the official statistics (e.g., the EBRD estimates private sector activity at
60 percent of GDP in 1997).
11.   The tight monetary policy succeeded in bringing inflation down to around 3% per month in the
second half of the 1994, from about 23% in the later part of the 1993. Since then, the economy has
followed a path of sustained stabilization. As a result, annual inflation rate has been brought down from
an annual average of over 1000% in 1992 to around 17% in 1997. Tight monetary and credit policies
bolstered confidence in the Som, resulting in increased willingness by economic agents to hold higher
money balances. In March 1995, the Som became fully convertible following the Borrower's
compliance with the provisions of Article VII of the Articles of Agreement of the IMF. With the rapid
tightening of money and credit, real interest rates became positive around 200% by end of 1994, and
stabilized around 15% at present. With the sustained tightening of monetary and credit policies, the CPI
rose by 10.9% during January - October, 1997, compared to 21.2% during the same period of 1996. The
monthly minimum wage was unchanged during November 1995 - June 1997, and was raised by 20% as
of July, 1997. Average wage amounted to about US$38 per month in 1996, well below wages in the
neighboring countries. In real terms, average wages fell by 3% in 1996, remaining at about 80% of their
1992 level.
12.   External trade has expanded rapidly. Exports increased by 56% and imports by 95% (in U.S.
dollar terms) during 1994-96, resulting in a sizable expansion of the current account deficit. The surge in
imports was dominated by the construction requirements of the foreign-financed Kumtor gold mine in
1995-96. The current account deficit has fallen sharply in 1997 to a projected 11% of GDP with the
completion of Kumtor construction and start of its gold exports. Exports are not subject to registration
requirements, bans, or taxes (except for the VAT applied on the basis of the origin principle with the
most CIS countries). Export licenses are required for very few items such as military arms and goods,
explosive, nuclear materials, and narcotics (including those used in pharmaceuticals).



-4 -
Rationalizing the Social Safety Net
13.   In an effort to strengthen the social safety net and make it more effective, the Government
consolidated the former family allowance, bread compensation, and other special payments into a
uniform cash benefit for families with income below the minimum wage (UCB). Three types of cash
transfers are now provided by the current social safety net: (i) social insurance, including pensions, short-
term illness and unemployment; (ii) universal benefits, including military pensions and family benefits
and; (iii) means-tested benefits covering the very poor. The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection is
the key administrative unit for the social safety net and for making payments of social benefits. The
Social Fund is the key administrative unit for collecting revenues and pension payments. The Social
Fund has been in deficit since 1994. Revenue collections have consistently fallen short of estimates
given the financial disarray of state owned enterprises. Newly privatized enterprises has been weak.
However, the Government has made strong effort and recent arrears on pensions and social benefits
arrears have been reduced to one month. A baseline household survey was undertaken in 1993. Two
poverty monitoring surveys have been undertaken since 1996 and two more are planned. The past
several years have also witnessed a deterioration in social indicators. The proportion of households in
poverty is estimated to have raised from 40 % in 1993 to almost 50% in 1996. Unemployment is high.
The official unemployment rate fell from a peak of 4,4% to 3,2% in the year ending in August 1997,
however, people seeking work without unemployment benefits are not included in the official statistics.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Consolidating Land and Agrarian Reforms
14.   Development of Land Markets. Security of land use was fundamental to the success of agrarian
reform. Its progress depended primarily on the Government's commitment to developing a policy
environment which provides security of tenure to land users and facilitates the development of a land
market. Fundamental to achieving these goals was the existence of legislation and procedures protecting
the security with which people hold land, as well as allowing the transferability of land use-rights
(purchase, sale, mortgage, bequeathal, lease) and the documentation and registration of rights in land and
other immovable property. The Government committed itself to the designing and implementation of a
program through which private ownership of land would be allowed or individual producers would
receive long-term rights to use land, thereby establishing new and more responsive farm structures.
15.   In February 1994, a Presidential Decree was issued allowing 49-year use rights for land, with an
option to renew. A subsequent Presidential Decree (November 1995) was issued stating the intention of
the Government to submit to the Parliament the issue of introducing private land ownership to
Parliament and indicating that, in interim, the land reform will continue to operate under the regime of
land use rights. The new Decree extended the period of land-use rights from 49 to 99 years and
provided, upon expiration of this period, a priority right of lease extension to leaseholds who actually
work on their land.
16.   Under APEAC, these rights have been incorporated in the draft Land Code that was submitted to
the Parliament on May 10, 1996 (Government Resolution No. 207). Since then the Land Code has
passed through several readings in Parliament, but, despite considerable public support, it has not yet
been enacted due to the opposition of a group of Delegates who oppose the concept of private ownership
of land. They view the introduction of 99 years land use rights into the Land Code as being inconsistent
with Article 4 of the Kyrgyz Constitution (adopted 1993), which does not allow private ownership of
land. Some deputies consider this amendment as equal to the introduction of private ownership of land,
since the proposed maturity of tenure exceeds a normal human being's lifetime. A second reason for



-5 -
delay was necessity for revision of other relevant legislation, i.e., the Civil Code Part II, which provides
for individual rights to property ownership.
17.   Given the significant progress made by the Borrower in respect to the land reforms, the Bank
management accepted the submission of the draft Land Code to Parliament as fulfillment of the second
tranche release condition for "automatic renewal of the right to use land after 49 years". The draft Land
Code specified the grounds on which land-use rights may be terminated -- eminent domain, requisition
(with compensation) in times of disaster or emergency, confiscation when the land in question is
involved in a conviction for illegal activity, and non-use or poor use of the land over a period of three
years (following warnings and subject to the right of appeal to a court). Policy elements will be in place
once the Land Code and Land Registration Act are passed, but still need to establish a proper land
registration system (see para. 18). It is likely to take several more years before this development
objective of developing land markets is fully achieved.
18.   The existing Presidential Decree also made land use rights legally transferable (for sale, lease,
inheritance) and collateralizable. Procedures for collateralization are specified in the Law on Pledge,
which was enacted by Parliament in May, 1997, and the draft Mortgage Law, which is currently under
consideration by Parliament. However, local commercial banks and the newly established KAFC won't
accept land use rights as collateral. They accept other immovable and movable properties as collateral
(e.g., apartments, cars), but not actual land, especially agricultural land. The main impediments to this
fact are the absence of a proper land registration system and doubts over the legal enforceability are of
taking possession of land use rights that have been pledged as collateral.
19.   Farm Restructuring. Presidential Decree of November 1995, eliminated the restrictions on the
maximum size of land per household and reduced the minimum farm size requirements for commercial
farms to 5 ha. for irrigated land and I ha. for suburban fruit and vegetable growing. These remaining
restrictions were not included, however, in the draft Land Code that was submitted to the Parliament on
May 10, 1996. By July 1997, about 902,923 land use certificates were distributed, out of which 487,353
to individuals and 415,570 to households.
20.   Establishing a one step land registration system in each rayon. By the time APEAC started to
operate, a variety of land titles or certificates documenting land-use rights already existed. However,
certificates documenting land use rights were issued by different agencies and recorded in a multiple step
process by their affiliates. These agencies included the Ministry of Agriculture (agricultural land), the
Bureau of Technical Inventory (land around private houses), the State Property Fund (land around
privatized enterprises), and the Head of the Local Administrations (land around buildings).
21.   A draft Law on State Registration of Land and Immovable Property Rights was submitted to the
Parliament on May 10, 1996 (Government Resolution No. 208) and, similar to Land Code, the Land
Registration Act has not yet been approved to date due to continuos discussions of which agency will be
responsible for registration. The draft Registration Law establishes a unified registration system for
immovable property and provided for the registration of all legal documents which were issued by the
various state agencies from the beginning of the land reforms to date. Once registered, the local
Registrars would be empowered to issue uniform certificates documenting the interests held in all
immovable properties, both rural and urban.
22.    One of the issues of implementing the new Registration System was the complicated set of
actions required for land transactions, involving several institutions (the Rural Committees for
agricultural land, the BTI for urban properties, and notaries for all transactions). To clarify these issues



- 6 -
and lay the ground work for the full implementation of the provisions of the Immovable Property
Registration Law, the Government initiated a pilot immovable property registration project in two
rayons, under which the administrative unit to oversee the project was established and Action Plan to
achieve the above objectives was elaborated. Nationwide land registration under a unified registration
system would follow passage of the Registration Act and may be supported by a future IDA funded
project on Land and Real Estate Registration, which is currently under preparation. The Land Code and
the Mortgage Law to be enacted soon will provide the necessary legal foundation for pledging
immovable property. In a view of the significant progress achieved in drafting the Registration Law and
the planned launching of the pilot registration project, the Bank management accepted the submission of
the draft Law to the Parliament as fulfillment of the above condition for release of the second tranche.
Creating a Competitive Environment for Agroenterprises
23.   State Procurement. In early 1994, the Government abolished state orders for all goods, and
replaced them with a new procurement system of "state needs" to be implemented by voluntary supply
contracts at negotiated prices. Nonetheless, the method employed by the state agencies to procure from
emerging private traders lacked transparency, as no public advertisement and tendering process was
being used. The role of the public sector in procurement of goods was likely to continue, though at a
much reduced scope than in the past. Therefore, the rules of such procurement needed to be clearly
spelled out. The Bank provided technical assistance through an IDF grant for the design of competitive
procurement procedures. Procurement Law was enacted in April 1997. The Government has established
an independent procurement agency whose function is to implement and supervise the procurement
procedures enacted by the Procurement Law. The new Law provides the competitive procurement
scheme and detailed implementation procedures in line with international standards.
24.   Export Taxes. To demonstrate its continued commitment to price liberalization, in 1994 the
Government abolished a Decree imposing price controls on export commodities and a Price
Commission. The Government also dismantled quantitative controls on exports. Nonetheless, the
country's main export crops, wool, cotton, hides and skins, as well as silk cocoons were subject to
specific export taxes. Export taxes have been used as a means of subsidizing inefficient agroindustries
(textile and leather), at the expense of farmers. The export taxes have depressed already low producer
prices, especially for wool, thereby further reducing farmers' income. As one of the reform measures
introduced under APEAC, the export taxes on wool, cotton, silk cocoons and hides and skins were
removed progressively in 1995 and early 1996 (Government' Resolution No. 80 of February 27, 1996).
There are now no export taxes or quantitative restrictions on any exports from the Kyrgyz Republic.
25.   Price Policy. As part of the policy measures introduced under APEAC for maintaining an
environment of free market prices for agricultural products, the Government committed to adopt a policy
providing guidelines for the operation of the State Wheat Reserve. The purpose of this policy was to
indicate to farmers and the private sector the functions and scale of operation that the state will fulfill in
the wheat market. The Bank provided technical assistance to help the Government develop a policy,
including detailed discussion with Government in July 1995 of the principles such policy should contain.
The Government issued a Resolution No, 209 of May 10, 1996 along with a policy Concept Note, which
set out a general approach to the development of a free and private market in the trade of grain. These
guidelines limit the activities of the State Wheat Reserve (SWR) to maintaining an emergency wheat
reserve of 60,000 tons (about one month's national consumption) plus supplying remote rural areas with
up to 40,000 tons of grain per annum until private traders are adequately supplying these areas. In
accordance with the Concept Note, the SWR would also act as the Government's agent for receiving
shipments of humanitarian aid. Storage of wheat reserves would be carried out on a contract basis with



-7 -
now-privatized grain mills. All transactions undertaken by the SWR would be at market prices.
According to the new policy, the Government should publish information concerning the activities of the
SWR on a quarterly basis. The Government has been publishing the information in local newspapers.
According to the new policy, the Government will also seek to develop uniform financial instruments,
such a system of warehouse receipts, to facilitate private trade in grain. Implementation of this policy
has been followed during the past two years and the grain trade is now basically in private hands.
26.   Local Government's Commercial Interference. Local government administrations have
traditionally played a major role in economic and commercial decisions at the local level. This included
interference in pricing, marketing and production decisions of farms, as well as industrial enterprises and
thus it reduced the impact of liberalization measures taken at the national level. As one of the policy
measures supported under APEAC preparation, a Presidential Decree of March 1995 was issued
expressly forbidding local government officials to dictate their own procurement prices, and delivery
requirements, and to impose restrictions on trade across provincial boundaries. Certain subsequent
actions were expected to be taken to ensure implementation of this Decree. One of them was that as part
of the process of reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, the role and the terms of reference of
agricultural departments at the oblast and rayon levels will be redefined and limited to offering
information and advise to farmers, but not administering production or marketing. This activity is
expected to be supported under the upcoming IDA's Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP)
currently under preparation. Second, local administrations were expected to no longer be in charge of
allocating budgetary credit to individual farmers starting from the 1996 budget. In this regard, the
Government was expected to take and implement a decision that budgetary credit will not be allocated to
farmers by the local government administrations, but through a rural credit scheme. The Rural Finance
Project (FY97), which currently under implementation supported creation of Kyrgyz Agricultural
Finance Corporation (KAFC) which is expected to play an important role as a rural credit institution in
channeling credit resources to individual farmers and enterprises on behalf of the Government.
Privatization
27.   The privatization process was supported by three IDA's adjustment operations, notably PESAC
(FY94), APEAC (FY95), and FINSAC (FY96). PESAC initiated and supported the program for mass
privatization program for small and medium scale enterprises for 1994-95 years and enterprise
restructuring and was successfully completed on December 1995 (ICR No. 16698; June, 1997). APEAC
continued support to the mass privatization program for medium and large scale enterprises for 1994-95
started under PESAC, supported preparation of the next state program for 1996-97, and continued
enterprise restructuring program also started under PESAC. APEAC introduced two new elements to the
program: the accelerated method of privatization, and an innovative oversight scheme.
28.   Under PESAC program. the Government implemented a divestiture strategy which based on: (i)
cash auctions for small enterprises; (ii) the sale of state-owned shares in already privatized enterprises
through coupon and cash auctions; and (iii) the privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises
through the free distribution of 5 percent of their shares to their workers and managers, the sale of 25
percent of their shares in vouchers auctions, and sale of up to 70 percent through cash auctions or to
investors selected on the basis of competing privatization proposals. At the same time, the
Government's Concept Note for Privatization also included a number of other methods, such as direct
negotiations with foreign investors (for enterprises in certain sectors), or the direct sale of significant
shareholding rights to suppliers and other enterprises in the same line of business. APEAC program was
intended to support the completion of the 1994-95 Privatization Program as well as the development and
implementation of the 1996-97 program. These programs continue to be based on the principles of full
divestiture, through coupon and cash auctions, of all shares held by the state in medium and large scale



- 8 -
enterprises, including the enterprises under the Dan Azyk and the Tamak Ash umbrella in the 1994-95
Privatization Program.
29.   To achieve its time bound targets for the privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises, the
SPF adopted a revised procedures that accelerated the divestiture process. In this regard, the SPF limited
attempts to attract core investors to two offers, using different methods of sale. If the second attempt
was unsuccessful, the unsold share or property were to be channeled to the coupon and/or the cash
auctions, as appropriate. The coupon auction mechanism used in the Kyrgyz Republic ensured disposal
of all shares offered in one round. As for the cash auctions, they were limited to two rounds of bidding,
with the shares or property sold to the highest bidder on the second round, without reference to a floor
price. If no purchaser can be found to acquire the property offered for sale, SPF would attempt to attract
a private manager through a leasing mechanism, or initiate liquidation procedures, as appropriate. The
adoption of such a simple and general back-up approach applicable to all medium and large scale
enterprises was needed to accelerate divestiture of the largest possible number of enterprises. This was
expected to prevent SPF from reverting to the transfer of shares to the managers/workers or to suppliers
and associated enterprises in order to reach its privatization targets.
30.   Oversight of state owned shares. By the time the APEAC started to operate, the SPF was
formally entrusted with the task of managing the state ownership interest in these enterprises but, so far,
it was not able to exercise this responsibility effectively. This has been a particular problem for the
agroenterprises, both agroindustry and agricultural marketing conglomerates. As a result, SPF delegated
its overall functions in some key sectors back to line ministries or to state holding companies such as
Tamak'ash and Kyrgyz Dan Azyk, thereby perpetuating the old patterns of control and intervention. To
overcome these problems and to put in place a lean and market based oversight mechanism, the SPF
developed an innovative approach based on the appointment of independent private financial and
management experts acting as fiduciaries on behalf of SPF, as owner. The SPF launched implementation
of this approach in 1995 on a pilot basis in about 20 enterprises, including agroenterprises, with state
shareholding at 50 percent or more.
31.   Progress on privatization. The 1994-1995 privatization program set a target of selling 855
medium and large enterprises (over 100 employees) through a series of coupon and cash auctions ("mass
privatization"). These included 100 percent state-owned enterprises and enterprises that had been
partially privatized prior to the commencement of the coupon auction system (the coupon auction
program was begun in mid-1994 following the distribution to all Kyrgyz citizens of privatization
coupons for use in purchasing shares in state-owned enterprises). By the end of 1995, a total of 836
enterprises or almost all of the 855 in the 1994-95 program had passed through coupon auction. Shares
in the remaining enterprises had been offered for cash sales as part of APEAC. By June 1996, 933
enterprises had been put through coupon auction -- some additional companies had been added to the
program in 1996 -- and shares in 832 of these enterprises had been offered for cash sale following their
respective coupon auction. Cash sales lagged, however, because of selective reintroduction of a floor
price, which was seen as a means to avoid the "give-away" of Government assets at prices significantly
below historic book value. To accelerate the process, the Government reaffirmed its policy and
authorized the SPF to conclude the sale of enterprises with the highest bidder at the second round of cash
auction at market based price without reference to a minimum floor price.
32.   By its Resolution No. 82 of February 28, 1996, the Government set out the privatization program
for 1996 and 1997. The Bank reviewed the draft program submitted by the SPF before its approval and
confirmed that it included the same principles upon which the 1994-1995 program was based, and that it
planned for sale of all remaining medium and large scale enterprises, the privatization of which was not
prohibited by law. The program included about 320 enterprises and covered almost all remaining



-9 -
commercial enterprises in the country, including the major utilities, mines (except gold), aviation and
printing industries. Most zompanies were to be sold through mass privatization procedures of coupon
and cash auctions. However, medium-term plans for privatizing the larger enterprises, such as the
energy, telecommunications and aviation companies, were drawn up to attract strategic investors, and
only a limited percentage of shares in these companies were to be sold through coupon auction during
1996-97. By February 1997, (i) all commercially viable small scale enterprises were fully privatized; (ii)
of the approximately 1,300 medium and large scale enterprises included in the mass privatization
program, 993 had gone through coupon auction; of these 804 were fully or majority privatized. Coupon
program finished in June 1997 -- all enterprises have gone through coupon auction. Now only remaining
shares in major utilities and in about 320 larger enterprises. Privatization of these remaining shares is
expected to occur in 1998-1999 under the following methods: (i) commercial tendering, (ii) cash
auctions, (iii) sale of up to 30% of state shares through cash auctions and, if any remained, further sale
through any other methods of privatization, (iv) competitive proposals, (v) reserved for sale only by
order of the Government, (vi) reorganization and liquidation, and (vii) remained under management by
SPF.
33.   Divestiture of the state shares. Of the 836 enterprises sold at coupon auction by the end of 1995,
state shares were entirely divested in a total of 434 enterprises. State shares remaining after coupon
auction were typically sold divested through cash auctions or similar privatization methods. As a result,
by the end of the 1995, there were a total of 456 enterprises with the state ownership, and 204 of them
were marked by majority state ownership. The persistence of state-owned shares in these enterprises was
primarily due to a reluctance or inability to sell shares at a market-determined price. In 1995, the SPF
introduced cash sales procedures in which shares were required to be sold to the highest bidder in a
maximum of two auction rounds. A lack of adherence to these rules, however, has often rendered them
ineffective. In particular, it was one of the reasons of the failure of the one of the first international share
auction program of SPF. In addition, in many cases, shares remain unsold due to (i) a lack of bidding
interest in particular enterprises; (ii) a general lack of cash among potential investors; and (iii) the
lengthy and cumbersome nature of several of the privatization sale methods employed, such as the
competitive bidding program. By June 1996, out of a total of 832 offered to cash sale, 578 enterprises
have been fully divested with no remaining state ownership. Remaining state shares in the others were
divested quickly over the next few months. In addition, in order to ensure that state shares are fully
divested even in the event of a lack of demand for shares at any price, the Government adopted a
Resolution in May 1996 permitting that state shares remaining unsold after two cash auctions to be
offered for sale against coupons. The second coupon sale not only guaranteed the full privatization of
these enterprises, but also increased the rate of coupon investment. The Bank noted that this action was
already permitted by the existing legislation and encouraged its use in appropriate cases where the SPF
believed demand for cash sales was low.
Demonopolization and Reorganization of Agroenterprises and Rural Trade
34.   Development objectives have been fully achieved. Demonopolization of Kyrgyz Tamak Ash
(agroprocessing) and Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Bread Complex) was completed by December 1995, when all
component enterprises of the former two holdings companies were converted into independent joint
stock companies. Privatization of both conglomerates was included into the general privatization
program for 1996-1997 years being implemented by the SPF. As of June 1996, the large majority of
these enterprises were fully privatized (100 percent were transferred to private owners), including most
of the 13 major grain storage and milling combinats.
35.   The former wheat and bread monopoly, Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (KDA). was formally dissolved by
the Presidential Decree No. 192 of May 25, 1995. By January 1996, all enterprise components of KDA



- 10-
were converted into individual joint stock companies and divested from the apex holding company.
Also, all small mills and bakeries were offered for sale and fully privatized. Privatization of KDA
enterprises proceeded well through June 1996 and, by date out of the total 44 medium and large
enterprises, 28 were fully privatized, including 6 remained with minority state shareholding and 8
remained majority state owned (including 2 of large milling and storage companies). The remaining
shares in all of these enterprises were expected to be fully privatized by the end of 1996. The progress of
divestiture of the state shares is shown in the following table:
PROGRESS OF DIVESTITURE OF STATE   12/95               3/96        6/96        2/97*
SHAREHOLDING IN KYRGYZ DAN AZYK
Enterprises with no residual state shareholding   20   27          28          29
Enterprises with minority state shareholding  7        6           6           7
Enterprises with majority state shareholding  15       9           8           6
* The SPF reported 44 enterprises in total in KDA's system; previously indicated was 42.
36.   While there has been minimal additional privatization of Dan Azyk enterprises since June, 1996,
an important development has been the repossession by the SPF of share blocks previously sold in eight
of the Dan Azyk bread combinats due to full or partial non-payment of installment payments by the
purchasers, despite additional time that was given to make these payments. As the result, the SPF
continues to hold a majority interest in three of the 16 large combinats (Karakol, Chui and Naryn) and
minority share in another five combinats.
PROGRESS OF DIVESTITURE OF STATE             3/96            6/96           2/97
SHAREHOLDING IN KYRGYZ DAN AZYK
BREAD COMBINATS                                                             (after re-
possessions)
Residual state shares completely divested    5              6               8*
Residual state shares partially divested     8               7              8*
of which:
- State retains majority of shareholding     4              3               3
- State retains minority shareholding        4              4               5
* SPF reported 16 combinats against 13 previously indicated.
37.   Repossessions have taken place during the first few months of the 1997. The reason for non-
payment for shares by the investors appeared to be the high level of debt that still burdens many of these
combinats, which was the major concern of investors. This debt made many of them highly illiquid and
threatens their viability as on-going enterprises. Some of this debt originated from the Government's
directed credit policies prior to 1993 (for example orders to supply other state entities with grain, flour or
bread without receiving payment). When these combinats were privatized, the sales price was reduced
by the amount of the debt, but the methodology for valuing assets probably overstated their true



economic value and the sales price, although low in absolute terms, was still too high. In some cases, the
assets of the combinats in.cluded debt from other enterprises (poultry farms, for example) that have since
gone out of business. In retrospect, resolution of this debt should have been included as part of the
APEAC program. This would have facilitated privatization of the major bread combinats and would
have increased the likelihood for their survival. This issue was discussed with the Government in a
number of cases, but no decisive measures were taken. Currently, resolution of this debt was deferred to
the Debt Recovery Agency (DEBRA) established under the successive adjustment operation program,
FINSAC. During the latest supervision missions, the Bank urged the Government to examine again its
role in creating this debt and absorb the share of debt that can be truly attributed to its previous policies.
38.   The former agro-processing conglomerate, Kyrgyz Tamak-Ash (KTA). was formally dissolved
by the Presidential Decree No. 191 of May 25, 1995. By January 1996, all enterprises in KTA's system
were converted into individual joint stock companies (JSCs) and divested from the holding company. As
of June 1996, 64 of the 96 JSCs were fully privatized, and the others were put through various stages of
coupon and cash auctions. The residual state shares in all these enterprises were expected to be fully
privatized by the end of 1996. The progress of divestiture of the state shares is shown in the following
table.
PROGRESS OF DIVESTITURE OF STATE             12/95    3/96        6/96        2/97
SHAREHOLDING IN KYRGYZ TAMAK'ASH
Enterprises with no residual state shareholding  36    57         64          74
Enterprises with minority state shareholding  34       19         13          6
Enterprises with majority state shareholding  26       20         19          16
39.   The highly centralized Union of Consumer Cooperatives (KyrgyzPotrebsouyz) was involved in
a wide range of activities, including food production, construction, transportation, and retail business and
was under direct influence of the Government, especially at the oblast level. These regional associations
had control over purchasing centers, wholesale units and transportation networks whose assets were
owned by the National Union. The continued predominance of Potrebsouyz in rural procurement and
distribution was a fundamental impediment to the creation of a competitive environment and new entry.
This was mainly because Potrebsouyz cooperatives had distinctive advantages over independent,
individual business establishments owing to their integrated marketing and procurement system,
negotiating power, and relatively easy access to capital,
40.   Under APEAC, support was provided to lay the groundwork for establishing true market based
member servicing cooperatives. A special study was initiated to review interlinkages and
interdependencies of Potrebsouyz, and the legal framework for cooperatives, with a view to designing a
restructuring plan. An OperationalAudit of Potrebsouyz was completed by December 1995, which
included Restructuring Plan. The Audit Report was submitted to the Government and was well received.
The Government agreed to further restructuring of Potrebsouyz system and by its Resolution No. 511 of
January 1996 created a special Commission to initiate reorganization process. However, reorganization
of the Potrebsouyz system was not completed by date. Although the process is likely to take additional
time, its monopolistic influence over procurement and distribution system in the country was
substantially reduced as a result of the program implementation ensuring a competitive environment for
emerging private sector.



- 12 -
41.   14 agro enterprises under the Ministry of Agriculture. By June 1997, 14 agricultural
enterprises which, according to the APEAC program, were to be transferred to the SPF for privatization
remained under the Ministry of Agriculture. At the beginning of the APEAC program implementation,
all these enterprises were transferred to the SPF and 5 of 14 were fully privatized. However these
enterprises were not included into 1996-97 privatization program originally. The SPF then transferred
these enterprises back to the Ministry. It stated that the Ministry was authorized to privatize
agroenterprises in accordance with the Presidential Decree of February 22, 1994. The Ministry started
the privatization process for these enterprises using different methods of privatization. Seven of
remaining 9 enterprises have gone through were privatized by date.
Enterprise Restructuring
42.   State enterprise reform and restructuring was initiated under PESAC program. Under PESAC,
the Government transferred 29 large loss making state owned enterprises to a temporary semi-
autonomous agency, the Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA) (ICR for PESAC; Report
No. 16698). The reason for focusing on large loss-making enterprises was that they comprised the bulk
of the financial problems in the country. Support to the enterprise restructuring process was continued
under APEAC. Viability assessment for all 28 ERRA enterprises was completed by December 1995.
Decisions on their liquidation and/or restructuring were taken for all enterprises by the end of March
1996. In the event, four companies exited the program without having received funds from ERRA, five
enterprises were slated for full liquidation, and the rest for partial restructuring with liquidation of
unneeded assets. Liquidators were appointed for the five enterprises slated for full liquidation and
carried out the process under court supervision. The remaining enterprises were significantly downsized
and "hived-off' into new joint stock companies. Most of these restructured companies have been
provided with the working capital loans, in accordance with ERRA's key operating principles, to
demonstrate viability before being sold as part of the bankruptcy/liquidation process of the former
enterprise. The restructured enterprises were scheduled to be sold during the third quarter of 1996,
which went through the agreed timetable, except for two companies which were working with IFC to
improve their operations and attract strategic investors. It was agreed that if investors were not found
within reasonable timeframe, these two companies will also be sold through competitive procedures.
Legal Reform
43.   The Government has been undertaking significant efforts to adjust its legal and regulatory
framework to the needs of a market economy. Substantial progress has been made towards modernizing
Kyrgyz commercial laws to meet the demands of private investors. General legal reform was launched
under the Rehabilitation Credit. These included revised Civil Code Part 1, the Tax Code, Mining Code, a
new Banking Law, Foreign Investments, and Bankruptcy legislation. APEAC supported specifically a
National Procurement Law, Law on Pledge (Collateral), Land Code and Immovable Property Rights
Registration Law. A Procurement Law, which establishes government-wide procedures in line with
international standards, was adopted in April, 1997. Under this Law, the Government has established an
Independent Procurement Agency whose function is to implement and supervise the procurement
procedures enacted by the Procurement Law. Land Code and Immovable Property Rights Registration
Law were submitted to the Parliament in May 1995, but not yet enacted. Consideration of these two
pieces of legislation was delayed till now for several reasons described above in paragraph 16.
D. Project Sustainability
44.   Prospects for the sustainability of reforms are strong. Since 1993, the Government's efforts in
economic reforms were widely supported by the international donor community. The Government is



- 13 -
strengthening its institutional capacity in order to meet ambitious requirements of transition to a market
based system. A special body, the State Commission on Foreign Investments and Economic Assistance
(GOSCOMINVEST), was created in 1993 to coordinate an external aid and identify a priority areas
potential for economic recovery. The Government elaborated economic reform program, sectoral policy
papers, and the public investment program. The progress in implementation of the reform program was
substantial and the results started to be felt. Last two years witnessed a positive real GDP growth geared
by the expanding private sector activity in the agricultural sector. The Government is committed to
deepen the economic reforms and confident in maintaining a sustainable growth in the economy.
Successor projects for enterprise, agricultural and financial sector adjustment are being implemented
satisfactorily, and the IMF has provided continuing support. However, much remains to be done in
strengthening the institutional and regulatory basis, fiscal system, building the legal, administrative and
institutional framework required by the dynamic market economy, and building or rehabilitating vital
physical infrastructure. The Bank and other donors remain committed to assisting the Government in
these efforts.
E. IDA Performance
45.   The performance of IDA was satisfactory. A number of policy matters were resolved during the
project preparatory process, including adoption of a number of Presidential Decrees on (i) elimination of
the local governments' interference into commercial activities; (ii) elimination of the remaining export
taxes; and (iii) demonopolization and restructuring of the main agricultural conglomerates. Project
supervision was consistent and rigorous, with timely identification of the issues and their prompt
resolution. The follow-up adjustment operations of the Bank Group (FINSAC and PSRMAC) have been
prepared and delivered without delays, thus providing continuity in support to structural reforms,
including privatization and enterprise restructuring. Also, follow-up IDA's investment operations in
agricultural sector were prepared during implementation of the program, that provided continuation of
the reforms initiated under APEAC (Rural Finance, Agricultural Support Services, Real Estate
Registration).
F. Borrower Performance
46.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory with a few shortcomings.- For the purposes of the
project management and monitoring reform progress under APEAC, the Government has established a
Working Group headed by the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of agrarian reforms. Other members
included Minister of Agriculture, high level representatives from the Committee on Economy, State
Property Fund, the Ministry of Finance, GOSCOMINVEST, and the agricultural conglomerates to be
reorganized and privatized under APEAC, as well as experts from the Prime-Minister's office.
Unfortunately, there were no signs that the Group functioned as a true steering group and as a result there
were no meetings, no instructions, no progress reports, etc. The program nevertheless succeeded due to
the fact that its basic components were run by the Government Agencies that were already deeply
involved in the reform efforts (Ministry of Agriculture, SPF, and ERRA). The areas that were not so
covered, for instance, wheat reserve policy, export taxes, fell between cracks, and the Bank had to make
special efforts with individual units of the Government to get things moving. The Project Management
Unit (PMU) established in the Ministry of Finance continued its functions for APEAC. PMU maintained
records of all transactions under the Credit and submitted requests for withdrawal of funds in a timely
manner.



- 14-
G. Assessment of Outcome
47.   The project outcomes were satisfactory, as it achieved all its major objectives, initiated
consolidated approach for implementation of agrarian reforms and created an enabling environment for
emerging private sector in agriculture. The project initiated demonopolization of state conglomerates
dominating in agricultural sector, and their further privatization process, liquidation of the remaining
price and trade distortions in agriculture, and creation of legal basis for development of land market.
48.   The development outcomes were significant. The reforms supported by APEAC helped to: (i)
maintain an environment of free market prices for agricultural products during a critical period of
transition by further price liberalization, ending state orders, eliminating interference by local officials in
pricing and trade of agricultural goods, and removing the remaining export taxes; (ii) reinforce the farm
restructuring and land share distribution efforts of the MAWR by preparing the legal underpinnings for
the eventual registration of land use rights, i.e., Land Code and a Land Registration Act; (iii) establish a
clear policy concerning the future role of the state in the trade of wheat; (iv) demonopolize and, to date,
nearly complete privatize Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Bread Complex) and Tamak Ash (agro-processing)
conglomerates; (v) continue the general privatization program by basic completion of the 1994-95
program, and launching the 1996-97 program; and (vi) continue an enterprise restructuring program.
H. Future Operations
49.   APEAC was followed by two successive adjustment operations: Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FINSAC - Cr. 2890-KG, SDR 31.2 million) approved in June, 1995; and Public Sector Resource
Management Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC - Cr. 8521-KG; SDR 32 million) approved in April, 1997.
The FINSAC operation is nearing completion, its second tranche was fully disbursed in November 1997.
A Pension Reform Adjustment Credit (PRAC) is under preparation with target Board date in FY99. The
APEAC was the first IDA's operation in the Kyrgyz Republic to support agricultural reforms. Most of
the sector reforms supported under APEAC were continued under the successive IDA's investment
operations, such as Rural Finance under implementation and Agricultural Support Services under its final
stage of preparation.
L. Key Lessons Learned
50.   Development of land markets was too ambitious an objective to be realized within 12-15
months of the program implementation. It was unrealistic to expect that land markets could be
created during 15 months of program implementation. While APEAC helped further this process, many
essential developments are still required before the ultimate objective of functioning land markets will be
obtained (para. 13). They involve fundamental changes in society's mentality concerning land use and
ownership, as well as institutional changes in the legal and administrative systems. Difficulties are
illustrated by fact, that debates on which of the existing land agencies would be the "single authority" for
land registration are still going on in Parliament. Full achievement of the development objective of
"developing land markets" will only be possible once proper land registration system is established.
Definitions of success could have been more clearly specified in the President's Report on APEAC.
APEAC should have identified important milestones for the development of land markets and agreed on
which would be attained under the program.
51.   Resolution of debts of grain combinats should have been addressed during the program
design before proceeding with their privatization. This would have facilitated privatization of the
major bread combinats. The Government's Letter of Development Policy said that the Government
would handle this issue, but in fact it didn't. An important development in privatization of KDA's



- 15 -
combinats has been the repossession by the SPF of share blocks previously sold in eight of the Dan
Azyk bread combinats due to full or partial non-payment of installment payments by the purchasers,
despite additional time that was given to make these payments. Repossessions have taken place during
the first few months of the 1997. The reason for non-payment for shares by the investors appeared to be
the high level of debt that still burdens many of these combinats, which was the major concern of
investors. This debt made many of them highly illiquid and threatens their viability as on-going
enterprises. This issue was discussed with the Government during each supervision missions, but no
decisive measures were taken. In retrospect, the Bank should have required action to be taken by second
tranche. If the Working Group on APEAC had functioned, perhaps it could have dealt with this problem.
In the event, this matter is being handled by the Debt Resolution Agency (DEBRA) created under the
successive adjustment operation program, FINSAC, as part of the banking sector reform.
52.   Liberalization and privatization measures and elimination of legal impediments is not
sufficient for the creation of a competitive environment for agrobusiness. Even after implementation
of policy measures under APEAC, there are other major factors impeding the emergence of competitive
markets in the agricultural sector. Emerging private agrobusiness enterprises are facing considerable
commercial risks and relatively high costs for goods and services (e.g., high interest rates) which weaken
their ability to participate and compete in markets. A large proportion of agroenterprises privatized
under APEAC are hardly operating for several reasons, including: (i) lack of access to working capital to
purchase raw materials and agricultural input; (ii) lack of access to term capital to finance renovation of
equipment and machinery, inventory, and receivables; (iii) lack of "know-how" and access to modern
technologies; and (iv) lack of management skills due to the dominance of state agrobusiness enterprises
in the past. Weak financial markets and management skills have inhibited the capacity of the emerging
private enterprises to respond effectively to the opportunities created by APEAC.
53.   Adjustment programs can succeed even if not well coordinated by a Central Working
Group. but only if there is a strong working level commitment to individual components Since
APEAC contained reforms to be introduced in a number of areas in the sector and required involvement
of the different agencies, a special interministerial high level Working Group was created under the chair
of Vice Prime Minister on agrarian policy. The mandate of the WG was to consolidate the agrarian
reforms, and coordinate and monitor implementation of the APEAC program. Unfortunately, there were
no signs that the Group functioned as a true steering group. To the Bank's knowledge there were no
meetings, no instructions, no progress reports, etc. The program nevertheless succeeded due to the fact
that its basic components were run by agencies that were already deeply involved in the reform efforts
(Ministry of Agriculture for land reform, SPF for privatization, and ERRA for enterprise restructuring).
The areas that were not so covered, for instance, wheat reserve policy and removal of export taxes, fell
between cracks, and the Bank had to make special efforts during supervision with individual units of the
Government to get things moving.
54.   Legal framework is necessary but not a sufficient condition to implement policy reforms.
Institutional development, which is a much slower process than passing Presidential Decrees, is equally
important for making progress on the ground. For instance, the policy objective of helping to develop
land markets was not consistent with the time it will take to develop and implement a functioning land
registration system.



PART H. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Features for Project Implementation
Table 6:   *Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 7:   *Technical Assistance financed under the Project
Table 8A:  *Project Costs
Table 8B:  *Project Financing
Table 9:   *Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  *Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
* Tables 6, 7, 8 and 9 are not included because they are not applicable to the Agricultural
Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit. Table 11 is not included because there have
been no reported instances of non-compliance with Operational Manual Statements.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negli-ible      Not alica1k
4acro Policies                                       E                E                  El
Sector Policies                                      El               E                 El
Financial Objectives                                  5               E                  El
Institutional Development              l             El                                 [
Physical Objectives                  E               E                E                 [X
Poverty Reduction                    El              E                E                  X
Gender Issues                        E               E                E                    I
Other Social Objectives              x               E                El                 E
Environmental Objectives             E               E                E                 I
Public Sector Management            I3                 l              E                  E
Private Sector Development          L3                 l              E                  E
Other (specify)                      E               E                E                  E
B. Proiect Sustainability             Lky                       Unlikely                  Uncertain
Hfighly
C. Bank Performac                    satisfactory              Satisfactorv               Deficient
Identification                       E                       I                           El
Preparation Assistance              El                       [El                        El
Appraisal                            El                                                  El
Supervision                          Ex
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory              Satisfactor                Deficient



Preparation                         a                      IxI                       Cl
Implementation .                                                                     1=1
Covenant Compliance                 3                       z                        C
Operation (if applicable)           al                                               [=1
Highly                                            klighl
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatit
Policy                             EI             [E                al
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit title                     Purpose                          Year of approval           Status
1. Rehabilitation Credit   Umbrella operation to support the design  FY93           completed 4/97, ICR
and implementation of the Govermment's                      Report No. 16630,
policy thrust while more detailed                           May 30, 1997
adjustment operations were prepared
2. Privatization and     Support for enterprise restructuring and    FY94            completed 6/95, ICR
Enterprise Sector        the 1994-95 privatization program                           Report No. 16698,
Adjustment Credit                                                                   June 16, 1997
(PESAC)
3. Financial Sector      Bank and financial sector reform and       FY96             2nd tranche was fully
Adjustment Credit        continuation of 1996-97 privatization                       released in
(FINSAC)                 program                                                     November, 1997
4. Public Sector         Reform of budget formulation,              FY97             approved 4/97, under
Resources Management    implementation and its control, and                          implementation
(PSRMAC)                intergovernmental fiscal affairs
5. Social Sector         Reforms in pensions, social assistance     FY99             under preparation
Adjustment Credit        and sectoral financing
(SOSAC)



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned               Actual Date/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)       07/94                       07/94
Preparation                                      09/94                        12/94
Appraisal                                        02/95                       03/95
Negotiations                                     05/95                        05/95
Board Presentation                               06/95                       05/95
Signing                                          07/95                       07/95
Effectiveness                                    07/95                        10/95
Release of First Tranche:                        07/95
I installment                                                                11/95
II installment                                                               12/95
III installment                                                              01/96
Release of Second Tranche                        03/96                       06/96
Project Completion                               02/97                        06/96
Loan Closing                                     02/97                        02/97
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Estimated, Actual and Cumulative
(US$ million equivalent)
FY96
Appraisal estimate               45
Actual                           41.815a
Actual as % of estimate         100
Date of final disbursement June 26, 1996
a Actual total amount of the credit is less than original amount due to appreciation of US Dollar against SDR.



Table 5: Key Features for Project Implementation
Policy Matrix
Objectives                          Actions Introduced              Implementatio
n Timing
I. Consolidating Agrarian Reforms
(i) Ensure secure access to land     By the Presidential Decree, land use rights were   Second Tranche
extended from 49 to 99 years; draft Land Code    and beyond
and draft Land Registration Act were submitted
to the Parliament in May, 1995 and expected to
be enacted shortly; Law on Pledge allowing land
to be used as collateral was enacted by the
Parliament in April, 1996
(ii) Create more efficient farm units  The Government facilitated development of land   Second Tranche
through land reform and farm         markets by: (a) eliminating maximum and
restructuring                        minimum size requirements in various land
categories; (b) issuing a uniform land use
certificates
Establishment of one-step land registry system in  Will take several
each rayon.                                more years (see
the main text for
description)
The Borrower launched an extensive public  Letter of
education compaign informing the public about   Development
the status of laws and decrees concerning land  Policy
reform and their rights under them.
II. Create a More Competitive
Environment for Agroenterprises
(i) Continue to establish competitive trade  State orders and ceilings on marketing margins    Prior to Board
and price regimes.                   were eliminated.
Law on State Procurement was submitted to the    Second Tranche
Parliament; Remaining export taxes were
abolished.
Law on State Procurement was enacted.      April, 1997
Export licensing requirements were abolished;    Feb.-March, 1995
Export taxes on wool, cotton, hides, skins and
silk cocoons were abolished; Decree on
introduction of a draft law with price controls
was repealed; Price Commission was abolished.
(ii) Reduce local governments'       The Borrower issued Presidential Decree: (a)  Feb.-March, 1995
interference in commercial decision  directing the Government to review and take
making.                              necessary actions against unlawful creation of
holding companies by local governments; (b)
ensuring strict enforcement of the procedures
established by the legislation of the Kyrgyz
Republic; (c) forbidding local governments from
controlling procurement, distribution and pricing
decisions of privatized and corporatized
productive enterprises.



The Borrower has taken a decision and is    May-June, 1997
implementing the Governmental decisions that
budgetary credits will not be allocated to farmers
by local government administrations, but through
a rural credit scheme.
(iii) Improve efficiency and competition    The Borrower has issued a Governmental  March, 1995
in agro-industry and rural trade by  Resolution for the reorganization and
effecting institutional changes in    privatization of the Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Bread
organizations that dominate these sectors.  Complex).
The Borrower completed privatization of mini-    March-May, 1995
bakeries through auctions and tenders, and
offered for sale large bread enterprises.
The Borrower has completed implementation of   Second Tranche
the new Resolution on KDA, including offering
for sale all factories and combinates slated for
privatization in the same Resolution.
The Borrower has issued a Governmental      March, 1995
Resolution for reorganization and privatization of
the Kyrgyz Tamnak Ash (Processing Complex)
and its enterprises.
The Borrower offered for sale state shares in at    March-May, 1995
least 5 Tamak Ash enterprises.
Completion of the implementation of the     Second Tranche
Governmental Resolution on KTA, including
offering for sale all the enterprises listed in the
Resolution.
Initiation of study to review interlinkages and  April, 1996
interdependencies of the Kyrgyz Potrebsouyz
(Cooperatives' Union), and the legal framework
for cooperatives, with a view to designing a
Restructuring Plan.
(iv) Reduce the role of the state wheat  The Government has adopted a Concept Note  Second Tranche
markets.                              satisfactory to IDA establishing clear guidelines
for the management of the state wheat reserves,
including maximum amount of wheat to be
purchased and kept in the State Wheat Reserve,
namely 100,000 tons, of which 60,000 for
strategic reserve and 40,000 for supplying remote
areas.
III. Continuing the Momentum in
Privatization, Governance and
Enterprise Restructuring
(i) Establish a larger private sector.  The Government revised privatization methods to  February, 1995
include auction and competitive bidding, and
limit privileges of labor collectives. The State
Property Fund has issued Resolution introducing



new methods in privatization.
The SPF has offered for sale: (i) all 100% state    Second Tranche
owned enterprises included in 1994-1995
Privatization Program; (ii) state shares targeted
for coupon auctions in all enterprises already
privatized; and (iii) all remaining state shares
slated for privatization in cash auctions.
Approval of 1996-1997 Privatization Program  Second Tranche
with the same principles as in 1994-1995
Program (with the addition of speedy
privatization method).
(ii) Impose financial discipline on  Complete the viability assessment of the     By May, 1995
enterprises.                         remaining ERRA enterprises (3).
Start implementing liquidation or restructuring  By May, 1995
process for three enterprises.
The Board of ERRA has taken decisions       Second Tranche
regarding the restructuring or liquidation of at
least 10 enterprises in compliance with the agreed
operating principles of ERRA.
The Government has provided evidence        Second Tranche
document that restructuring and/or liquidation
plans for ERRA enterprises have been
implemented within the timeframe agreed in the
operating principles of ERRA.
The Government has submitted evidence       Second Tranche
acceptable to IDA, that at least 5 enterprises no
longer have access to funding from ERRA.
The Government completed all necessary actions  January, 1996
and completed the viability studies for all
remaining ERRA enterprises.
The Government has completed the            December, 1996
implementation of the turnaround and/or
liquidation plans of all ERRA enterprises.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Kyrgyz Republic
Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Text        Sch. 3       12       C        02/96       02/96    The Borrower has submitted to           Done
Reference:  para. 1                                             Parliament a draft law for
competitive procurement of
goods, works and services by the
Borrower and its agencies.
Text        Sch. 3       12       C        02/96       02/96    The Borrower has abolished all          Done
Reference:  para. 2                                             remaining export taxes.
Text        Sch. 3       12       C        01/96       01/96    The Borrower has implemented             Done
Reference:  para. 3                                             all measures identified in Decree
No. 192 of May 25, 1995, and
offered for sale all bread
combines and factories under the
Kyrgyz Dan Azyk Holding
identified for privatization in the
Appendix to such Decree.
Text        Sch. 3       12       C        05/96       05/96    The Borrower has adopted a               Done
Reference:  para. 4                                             concept note, satisfactory to the
Association, establishing
guidelines for State operations in
the wheat market.
Text        Sch. 3       12       C        01/96       01/96    a) The Borrower has implemented         Done
Reference    para. 5                                            all measures identified in Decree
No. 191 of May 25, 1995 relating
to Kyrgyz Tamak Ash Holding.
b) The Borrower has offered for
sale all state-owned shares in
enterprises, formerly held by
Kyrgyz Tamak Ash.
Text        Sch. 3       12       C        11/95       11/95    The Borrower has adopted                Done
Reference    para. 6                                            legislation instituting automatic
renewal of the right to use land
after 49 years, clear and limited
grounds for termninating such right
of land use and has clarified the
procedures for land to be used as
collateral, or, if the Kyrgyz
Constitution is amended to allow
for private ownership of land, the
Borrower has established to the
satisfaction of the Association that
the existing legislation allows the
transfer of land and that land can
be collateralized.
Text        Sch. 3       12       C        11/96       11/96    The Borrower has provided for:   Parts a) and b) are fully
Reference    para. 7                                            (a) the elimination of maximum    met, and c) partially met.



and minimum farm size            See main text for
requirements in various land     description.
categories; (b) the establishment
of a uniform land title or
certificate; and (c) the
establishment of streamlined land
registration procedures vesting
responsibility in a single authority.
Text         Sch. 3        12        CP        01/96        01/96    The SPF has offered for sale:               Done
Reference    para. 8                                                  (a) all 100% state-owned
enterprises identified in the 1994-
1995 privatization program;
(b) state shares targeted for
coupon action in all enterprises
already privatized, in accordance
with the principles of the Concept
of Denationalization and
Privatization of State and
Communal Property in
Kyrgyzstan for 1994-1995 (known
as the "Concept Note"); and (c) all
remaining state shares, for cash
auction, of the partially privatized
enterprises, in accordance with the
principles of the "Concept Note".
Text         Sch. 3        12        C         02/96        02/97    The Borrower has issued a decree            Done
Reference    para. 9                                                  setting forth a privatization
program, acceptable to the
Association, for the years 1996-
1997.
Text         Sch. 3        12        C         12/95        12/95     ERRA has, on the basis of a                Done
Reference    para. 10                                                 completed viability assessment,
taken decisions regarding the
restructuring or liquidation of at
least ten additional enterprises, in
compliance with the operating
principles of ERRA, as approved
by the Association.
Text         Sch. 3        12        C        06/96         06/96     The Borrower has provided                  Done
Reference    para. II                                                 evidence acceptable to the
Association that the restructuring
or liquidation measures taken by
ERRA for any enterprise under its
authority, for which liquidation or
restructuring decisions have been
taken, have been implemented
within the time frame set forth in
the operating principles of ERRA,
as approved by the Association.
Text         Sch. 3        11        C         06/96        06/96    The Borrower has provided                   Done
Reference    para. 12                                                 evidence acceptable to the
Association that at least five
enterprises no longer have access
to funding from ERRA.
Covenant types:                                     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/     Present Status:
regulatory/institutional action
11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other                                             C = covenant complied with
resource allocation                                                                          CP = complied with partially



Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratingz
Stage of project cycle  Month!   No. of Days in  Specialization'  Implementation Development  Types of
Year   Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through appraisal        09/94        6      21    E, A, P, T, U
11/94       7      20    E,A,F
Appraisal through Board    03/95      8      14    E, L, P, U, A
approval
Supervision              01/96        5      15    E,P,U,A,Q             S              S         F,T
04/96       2       8    E,P                    S              S        F,T
06/96       2       8    E,P                    S              S        F,M
Completion               04/97        1      15    E, RX                 S              S          T
Total                        32      101
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:      2 - Key to Performance Ratings:
E = Economist/Macroeconomic               S - Satisfactory
A = Agriculturist                         U - Unsatisfactory
L = Lawyer
F = Financial Sector Specialist
P = Private Sector Development Specialist  3 - Key to Types of Problems
RX = Resident Mission Operations Officer  F - Financial
T = Trade Sector Specialist               T - Technical
Q = Land Registration Specialist          M - Managerial
U = Public Enterprise Specialist
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                      Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks       US$        Weeks         US$             Weeks        US$
Preparation to appraisal*   74.5      280.4         74.5        280.4            74.5        280.4
Appraisal*                   9.9       45.1          9.9         45.1             9.9         45.1
Negotiations through Board    7.1      13.4          7.1         13.4             7.1         13.4
approval*
Supervision                 67.5      243.8         66.1        178.1            63.2        178.0
Completion                   16.0      57.7          7.2         27.1             2.2         12.2']
Total               175.0     640.4        164.8        544.1            156.9       529.1
* Planned and Revised data unavailable. Actual data used instead.
1] As of end August, 1997.



Annex A
Page I of 5
GOVERNMENT OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
BISHKEK, THE HOUSE OF THE GOVERNMENT
Date          March 24, 1997
19 - 585
To            Mr. Michael Rathnam, Head of the World Bank Resident Mission in the
Kyrgyz Republic
Dear Mr. Rathnam,
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic expresses through you the gratitude to the
World Bank for assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic, as rendered during the period of transition
towards market-based economy.
The Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC)
implementation is on a stage of completion. This project has played a certain role in promoting
the economic development of the Republic's national economy.
In view of the afore-mentioned we present to you the report of the KR Government
referring to the completion of APEAC Project.
Yours respectfully,
A. Jumagulov, Prime Minister



Annex A
Page 2 of 5
Bishkek, House of the Government
REPORT
on completion of the project on privatization in agriculture and restructuring of
enterprises (APEAC), loan #2750-KG
In implementation of the terms of the agreement for the loan on privatization of
agriculture and restructuring of enterprises (APEAC) #2750-KG the Govemment of the Kyrgyz
Republic has achieved considerable progress on the way to the market economy, carrying out
further program of stabilization and system changes in a number of activities within the
framework of the economic reform.
Despite of the hard economic situation we are firmly intended to continue
implementation of the agrarian reform on the basis of clear and strict policy principles.
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has undertaken a number of actions from the
beginning of the project implementation and has achieved considerable progress in the process of
implementation of the reforms which are being supported within the framework of APEAC
program, hence, we believe, that all the terms of this agreement have been fulfilled.
Land COd
The Land Code of the Kyrgyz Republic, which was approved by the Resolution of the
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on May 10, 1996, #207, was submitted to the Parliament of
the Kyrgyz Republic in May 1996. At present the draft Land Code is under the process of being
cleared and amended. More than half of the draft has been amended within the process of legal
consideration of its new wording. The following issues have been added for the first time or
gained the new wording:
* land legal relations;
* competence of governmental and managerial authorities in the sphere of regulation
of legal relations related to the land,
* granting and leasing of lands;
* protection and guarantee of the land users rights;
* carrying out deals with the right to use land;
* economical mechanism of land utilization;
* temporary possession;
* protection of lands;
* state control over use and protection of lands.
It is supposed that the updated wording of the draft Land Code will be discussed this
March at the seminar of the Legislative Chamber of the Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic with
the participation of the Agrarian Commission members, leaders of the republican land and
agricultural authorities, after which the draft will be submitted to the Legislative Chamber of the
Kyrgyz Republic for consideration.



Annex A
Page 3 of 5
Law on Collatera
The Law on Collateral submitted tot he Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic by the
President of the Kyrgyz Republic in May 1996 in the form of the legislative initiative, is
currently at the stage of consideration.
Policy of State Reserve of Grain
In order to establish major principles and lines in the operation of the state during the
transition to the free and private trade with grain, complying with the recommendations of the
World Bank, the Resolution of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic as of May 10, 1996
assigned the Fund of State Reserves to restrict annual purchases of the grain to 100 thousand tons
of the needed for increase and maintaining of the reserved funds, which makes up one month of
the national consumption in the amount of 60 thousand tons plus 40 thousand tons for supply to
remote areas and hardly achieved high lands.
In order to provide reserves of bread resources the Resolution of the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic as of July 10, 1996 #318 has established the price for purchase of wheat grain
from agricultural producers amounting 2700 Som per one ton VAT inclusive. The information
on the purchase price and the volumes of purchases was communicated to the producers and to
the population through local authorities and mass media ("Vecherny Bishkek" newspaper as of
November 12, 1996 and November 15, 1996).
In order to provide the purchases of grain, Fund of State Reserves purchased only 20.3
thousand tons of grain at the fixed price from the local producers.
The remnants of the grain in the Fund of state reserves as for January 1, 1997 made up
92.2 thousand tons. There were no sales of wheat grain at the end of 1996 and beginning of
1997, thus the issue of sales of grain was not published in mass media this year.
Mass Privatization
Offering of the remaining package of state shares included in the privatization program in
1994-1995for sale
By the first of February 1997 shares of 815 joint stock companies were offered at 90
open money auctions and 336 joint stock companies were offered at 49 closed auctions. Shares
of 4 joint stock companies were offered for sale at the exchange stock of the Kyrgyz Republic,
shares of 2 joint stock companies were sold. Shares of 992 joint stock companies were sold at
234 coupon actions. In 1996, 72 joint stock companies of 99 joint stock companies, on which
privatization projects were to be considered, were sold. In total, 152 companies of 238 were sold
on the basis of competition of competing and individual projects.



Annex A
Page 4 of 5
Kyrgz-TamakAsh
114 companies of Kyrgyz-Tamak-Ash system have been restructured. 82 joint stock
companies were created, 59 of which do not have state share, 23 joint stock companies have the
state package of shares above 5%.
The reasons of remaining of the state share in 23 joint stock companies are as follows:
* one joint stock company is not included in PESAC program;
* one joint stock company was submitted to the exchange stock of the Kyrgyz
Republic for sale through it;
* two joint stock companies have gone bankrupt (liquidation procedure are being in
place currently);
* ten joint stock companies were offered at the auctions and the competition, but were
not sold because there was no demand. Sale of the remaining state share will
continue;
* one joint stock company (joint stock company Kyzyl-Kiya tobacco fermenting
plant) was added to the State joint stock company "Kyrgyztamekisi"
(Kyrgyztobacco), the remaining of the state share will be sold at the coupon action
this May;
* search of investors is being made and individual projects are being worked out for 6
entities;
*   state package of shares of one project (state joint stock company "Kayindi-Kant")
was passed to the managing department;
* one joint stock company (state joint stock company -- Bishkek meat and can plant)
is producing meat and vegetable cans for the fund of state reserves.
Kgy-rganAAza  k
92 companies of Kyrgyz-Dan-Azyk system were restructured. 44 joint stock companies
were created. The work is being done to eliminate the state share. In 27 joint stock companies
the state share was sold fully, 2 joint stock companies have the state share less than 5%, 15-
above 15%, of them 8 joint stock companies - less than 50%, 7 joint stock companies were
offered at the auction and competition, but not sold, 3 joint stock companies (state joint stock
company "Oshgulazyk", state joint stock company "Unaa-Nan" state joint stock company "Jalal-
Abad Nan" were sold, but because of non payment the share was revoked, individual project are
being worked out for 4 joint stock companies.
Individual projects of 16 bread complexes were considered and adopted, 8 of them were
revoked because of non payment.
State share was reduced in three corporations, selected for storage of the state reserve of grain.
In the companies, selected for storage of the state reserves of grain the remaining state
share makes up:
*   Kara-Suu bread complex  - 42%;
*   Balykchi bread complex  - 32.3%;
*   Frunze bread complex    - 10%.



Annex A
Paae 5 of 5
Investors are being searched for Kara-Suu bread complex. Individual privatization
projects have been adopted for Balykchi and Frunze bread complexes, but because of non
payment the share were revoked, sale of state package shares will be continued.
Including of 14 companies of agricultural chemicals, repair stations, transport and water
supplying companies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Supply in the mass privatization
program.
5 of 14 companies have been privatized and passed through the coupon auction. One of
the rest 9 companies was leased to the ministry of water supply with the following purchase, the
second one was transformed into a limited company and their offering at the auctions is not
possible, because they are not joint stock companies.
In 1996 the decisions to sell 5% of the preserved of the state share of the property of 258
joint stock companies were made.
Restructuring of enterprises
Kyrgyz Metallurgical complex, Mayli-Say "Kyrgyzelectroizoit" plant, Kant cement
plant have been deleted from the list of PESAC companies and passed to the state property fund.
Kyrgyz metallurgical company and Kant cement plant have been transformed into state
joint stock companies. Investors are being searched for them, that requires quite a time. 14% of
the state package of shares of Kant cement plant have been passed to manager department for 5
years. Plant "Kyrgyzelectroizoit" is in the landslide zone and under the Resolution of the
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on 20 April 1996 # 163 shall be moved to another area, that
is why it was removed from the privatization program.
On the basis of the aforementioned the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic considers
that the timely assistance of the World Bank by means of the APEAC Project loan was a serious
push in the development of the economy of the Kyrgyz Republic on the way to the new
formation of a democratic state.
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic hopes to have further fruitful cooperation with
the World Bank for the sake of achieving common aim of progress in the market economy.
A. Jumagulov
Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic



Annex B
Page I of 3
Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise
Adjustment Credit (APEAC)
Aide-Memoire on Implementation Completion Report
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Mr. Peter Hansen and assisted by Mrs. Sarina
Abdysheva visited Bishkek from April 10-25, 1997. The purpose of the mission was to discuss
the Government's report on completion of the APEAC program that was submitted to the Bank
on March 27, 1997, and to gather additional information for preparation of the Bank's own
implementation completion report.
2.    The mission met with the officials listed in the Attachment and held a wrap-up meeting
with the Deputy Minister of Finance on April 25, 1997. The views expressed in this Aide-
memoire are subject to review and confirmation by the Bank's management in Washington.
Subsequently, the Bank will prepare an Implementation Completion Report on APEAC and will
send it to the Government for comment. The Bank's final report will then be submitted to the
Bank's Board of Directors for information and review.
3.    The mission agrees with the conclusion of the Government's report that the objectives of
the APEAC program were largely achieved. Those objectives were:
i)   to develop land markets as the basis for sound agrarian reform;
ii)   to demonopolize and privatize the large state-owned conglomerates that
dominated agricultural procurement and processing;
iii)  to eliminate the remaining price and trade distortions in agriculture, including
local government interference in commercial decisions; and
iv)   to further the privatization and enterprise restructuring process started under the
Public Enterprise Structural Adjustment Credit (PESAC).
4.    Progress in achieving these objectives was sufficient to warrant release of the second
tranche of APEAC in June 1996. Since then, the Government has continued to pursue the above
objectives, and further progress has been achieved in a number of areas, including continued
distribution of land use shares (over 1.5 million have now been issued), continued privatization
of the former Kyrgyz Dan Azyk and Tamak'ash conglomerates (the state retains a majority
shareholding in less than 20 percent of these enterprises), reduction in the State's holding of
wheat reserves to under 100,000 tons (the agreed limit); and continuation of the general
privatization program, which the Bank is now monitoring under the Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FINSAC).
5.    There are nevertheless a few issues that the mission would like to call to the attention of
the Government with the view to furthering the policy reforms supported under APEAC.



Annex B
Page 2 of 3
Land Code and Land Registration Act
6.    The Government sent draft legislation to Parliament in May 1996. Since then, there has
been much less progress in passing this legislation than there has been in implementing land
reform. Additional land use shares have been distributed to farmers, preparations are underway
to distribute 50 percent of the land held by the National Land Fund, and a pilot land registration
project is underway collecting relevant information for preparation of a land and immovable
property registration system. Land transactions are not occurring, however, because people do
not have a firm and clear juridical basis for doing so. Similarly, the pilot land registration project
has not been able to test the registration of land use rights for lack of a juridical basis. In these
regards, the objectives of APEAC have not yet been fully met.
7.    The delay in passing land legislation has been attributed by various officials to a desire to
incorporate the results of the pilot project in the legislation, to a heavy legislative agenda in
Parliament, and to insufficient effort by the Government in following up on the draft legislation
it submitted to Parliament. The Agrarian Committee of the Legislative Assembly of the
Parliament has recently begun to consider the Land Code, however.
8.    Despite the delays in passing this legislation, it is important that the Government and
the Parliament give careful consideration to the basic thrust of the Land Code and take the
time to produce a sound final piece of legislation. The current draft of the Land Code
overemphasizes the control of land use by the authorities and limits the ability of individuals to
make the best use of the land entrusted to them within the context of a free market economy.
9.   It is also important that the Land Code be viewed as a key element for the entire
economy. It is not just a law affecting the agricultural sector. As such, the participation of
the authorities responsible for urban land use should be more closely involved in the final
drafting of the Land Code. The preparation of the Land Code also needs to be carefully
coordinated with the draft Land Registration Act. A more detailed commentary on the draft
Land Code was provided by the recent Bank mission for the Land Registration Project, and the
views of this mission should be taken into consideration before finalizing the legislation.
Privatization of Kyrgyz Dan Azyk
10.   Privatization of KDA enterprises proceeded well through June 1996. Of 44 medium and
large enterprises, 28 were fully privatized, 6 remained with minority state shareholding and 8
remained majority state owned. Recently, however, the State Property Fund has repossessed
shares in eight of the KDA bread kombinats due to non-payment for shares by the investors. As
a result, the SPF continues to hold a majority interest in three of the 16 large kombinats (Karakol,
Chui and Naryn) and a minority share in another five kombinats.
11.   The reason for non-payment for shares by the investors appears to be the high level of
debt that still burdens many of these kombinats. This debt makes many of them highly illiquid
and threatens their viability as on-going enterprises. Some of this debt originated from the



Annex B
Page 3 of 3
Government's directed credit policies prior to 1993 (for example, orders to supply other state
entities with grain, flour or bread without receiving payment). When these kombinats were
privatized, the sales price was reduced by the amount of the debt, but the methodology for
valuing assets probably overstated their true economic value and the sales price, although low in
absolute terms, was still too high. In some cases, the assets of the kombinats included debt from
other enterprises (poultry farms, for example) that have since gone out of business.
12.   In retrospect, resolution of this debt should have been included as part of the
APEAC program. This would have facilitated privatization of the major bread kombinats and
would have increased the likelihood for their survival. Previous APEAC supervision missions
have discussed this problem, but resolution of this debt was deferred to the Debt Recovery
Agency (DEBRA) established under the FINSAC program. The mission urges the
Government to examine again its role in creating this debt and to absorb the share of debt
that can be truly attributed to its previous policies.
Privatization of Agricultural Input Enterprises
13.   The APEAC program did not focus on privatization of the enterprises in the former
Selkhoz Chemica (agro-chemicals) and Selkhoz Technica (farm machinery) conglomerates, since
many of the enterprises in these conglomerates were privatized prior to 1995. The responsibility
for privatizing the remaining enterprises in these conglomerates was then transferred to the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, but privatization did not occur during the past two years
despite reminders from previous APEAC supervision missions. During this time the
Government continued to channel credits for fertilizer and farm machinery through the Ministry
of Food and Agriculture, but not always with success. Delivery of fertilizers has been late and,
in some cases, the validity of agro-chemicals expired.
14.   Resolution No. 121 of March 4, 1997 transferred 12 state enterprises of the former
Selkhoz Technica to a new state joint stock leasing company "Aiyltechservice" which will act as
an umbrella company for the enterprises under its control. This new SJSC is currently looking
for investors and intends to convert itself into a private sector company when private investors
are found. The State Property Fund and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
should nevertheless proceed with privatization of the 12 enterprises that were transferred
to Aiyltechservice. Privatization of these individual enterprises does not need to wait for a
strategic investor to be found to invest in the umbrella company, Aiyltechservice. Also, the SPF
and the MARW should move quickly to privatize any enterprises from the former Selkhoz
Chemica that remain unprivatized and under their control.
Bishkek, April 24, 1997



IBRD  2/H   .'I; I
KAZAKHSTAN
T, T-                      ,, 11uY.(*.. 
(  Ko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o BoRo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      R  O
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bk
.r.   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .
,-i 'V  ~                                      RoE DzEok1-Ab.'
K,,,       ' zKl AEoo
' r   ^~5_ +  %.NA~R~YN  - Karo                                                               SQ                                                                                                                                               A
7l D 1~l                                                                                                                                                                                             KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
TAJIKISTAN
L I~~~~~~~                                                                                         -,--,---,--,   B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A LROADS
T. a,-b                               TAATA,O,   (                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS
-'1A All-  OTHER ROADS
AZERBAIJAN~~~~~~~ ANZ A K  STT A                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
\/~~~~~~~~~  \  r                                                                                                                                     OBLAST CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(E  BAS  APTL
C                                                                            ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED CITIES
y                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~~A  I                                                                                                                                -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERN5ATIONAt BOUNDARIES
'A   '.TATp AAAdbTAS  ,U,ATAAEA                                                                                                 KILO&AFERS
RE~~~pu'G'L~~~~~' ~CHINA                               AAT,      AP6-AoAAA, yhAA-APAJTRTSWOidASAAGrAAA
(EF-HAFISBSTAN.                                           -(5d      ,zeA  JA -! -AA AT    -YA Ad,z                                      25        50        SO       iOS
I>  J                                   AA(AIOA,A(A ABA~ (SbAAAAAAA>                                                          1 -
r  X        */         c?s---                                  \'      b         d                                                             M LES
w   *y   2  a-a'   H _'  <                                    / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   f~~~ ~  ~         ~         PRLI-



