Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6583-KG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 28.6 MILLION
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
JUNE 1, 1995
Country Operations Division I
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(after May 10, 1993)
Currency Unit   =  Som
I Som    =  100 tiying
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Som per US dollar
Period Average         End of Period
1993
Quarter 11                   4.1                    4.3
Quarter III                  5.6                    6.5
Quarter IV                   7.8                    8.0
1994
Quarter I                    10.7                   11.7
Quarter II                  12.6                    11.3
Quarter III                 10.2                    10.5
Quarter IV                  10.7                    10.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                -  Country Assistance Strategy
C&M                -  Care and Maintenance
ERRA               -  Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency
FSU                -  Former Soviet Union
GDP                -  Gross Domestic Product
ICB                -  International Competitive Bidding
IDF                -  International Development Fund
IMF                -  International Monetary Fund
KDA                -  Kyrgyz Dan Azyk
NBK                -  National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
NLF                -  National Land Fund
PESAC              -  Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
PHRD               -  Policy and Human Resource Development
PMU                -  Project Management Unit
POTREBSOYUZ    -  Union of Consumer Cooperatives
SOE                -  State-owned Enterprise
SPF                -  State Property Fund
STF                -  Systemic Transformation Facility
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
CONTENTS
CREDIT SUMMARY . ............................................... i
PART I. COUNTRY PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS . .                                                         2
A. Background.                                                                            2
B. Progress on Stabilization.                                                             3
C. Experience with Structural Adjustment.                                                3
D. The Need for Further Adjustment.                                                      5
PART II. TOWARD ECONOMIC RECOVERY  ............................  7
A. Consolidating Agrarian Reform   ...............................  7
-   Farm Restructuring and Privatization  .........................  7
-   Developing Credit and Input Markets .........................  9
B. Creating a Competitive Environment for Agroenterprises  .......... .                  9
-   State Procurement, Trade and Prices  .........................  9
-   Demonopolization and Reorganization of Agroenterprises
and Rural Trade  .....................................   11
C. Alleviating Poverty ....................................... 14
D. Sustaining Momentum in Privatization
and Enterprise Restructuring ................................. 16
-   Privatization   .........................................  16
-   Oversight of State-Owned Shares ............................ 17
-   Enterprise Restructuring  ..........           ....................... 18
-   Legal Reform ........................................ 19
PART III. THE PROPOSED APEAC  ................................... 20
A. Features of the Proposed Credit ............................... 20
B. Benefits and Risks  ....................................... 25
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION ...................................... 26
Attachment I    Letter of Development Policy
Attachment II    Policy Matrix
Attachment III   Operating Principles of ERRA
Attachment IV    Timetable of Key Credit Processing Events
Attachment V    Status of Bank Group Operations
Map               IBRD 25844
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Kyrgyz Republic
Amount:                   SDR 28.6 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:                    IDA terms, with 35-year maturity, including 10 years of grace
Objectives:               The proposed APEAC supports the Government's efforts to establish an
enabling environment for the agricultural sector by: (i) helping to
develop land markets as the basis for sound agrarian reform;
(ii) demonopolizing and privatizing the large state-owned conglomerates
that dominate agricultural marketing and processing; and (iii) eliminating
remaining price and trade distortions, as well as local governments'
interference in commercial decisions. At the same time, APEAC will
help further the privatization and enterprise restructuring process started
under PESAC.
Credit Description:       The proposed Credit will be quick-disbursing and will provide balance
of payments support linked to Board presentation and second tranche
conditions. The proceeds of the Credit would be used for financing of
foreign exchange costs of general imports, except for a small list of
ineligible goods.
Benefits:                 The proposed Credit will support the Kyrgyz Republic's continued efforts
towards establishing a market economy.  The reorganization and
privatization of major agricultural procurement agencies and enterprises
would facilitate farmers' access to marketing channels, thereby providing
them with the incentive to increase production. The proposed Credit will
also support sound agrarian reform whose effective implementation is
key to generating supply response in the agricultural sector. At the same
time, this Credit will help accelerate and consolidate the implementation
of privatization and enterprise restructuring initiated under the PESAC
program.
Risks:                    There are three possible risks associated with the program: (i) the
Government may not be able to continue its commitment to the reform
because of slow economic recovery and potential conflict with the
Parliament on the speed and depth of socially sensitive reforms such as
land privatization (the Government has a good track record on sustaining
reform momentum, but deepening of reform may be increasingly
difficult); (ii) there may be vested interests in the agricultural
conglomerates to be reorganized and privatized resulting in some internal
resistance (this risk has been minimized by involving at the initial
-Ii-



preparation stage of the Credit the managers and the staff of these
conglomerates in designing the reorganization plans); and (iii) the
country's limited administrative capacity may prove to be a bottleneck
during implementation (technical assistance has been mobilized early in
the process to reduce this risk; also measures to be taken under the
proposed Credit are to build on the Government's initial initiatives, and
reduce its involvement in several areas).
Poverty Category:          Measures to increase agricultural productivity and improved marketing
channels, as supported under the proposed Credit, would be effective in
increasing farmers' income and thereby alleviating poverty in rural areas
where the most impoverished part of the population live. Also, the
program under APEAC will ensure that the breaking up and the
privatization of the Bread Complex would not result in severe wheat
shortages and drastic price increases in remote areas where the poorest
of the rural population live.
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Map:                       IBRD 25844
Project Identification No.:   KG-PA-8516
-11-



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following Memorandum and Recommendation on a
proposed Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC) for the
equivalent of SDR 28.6 million to support the Government's structural adjustment program. The
proposed APEAC is the third in a series of policy based operations in support of the
Government's overall stabilization and economic reform program. Its main objective is to create
an enabling environment to facilitate supply response in the mainstay of the economy--
agriculture. For this purpose, APEAC will address some of the constraints to response at the
farm level, including a misconstrued agrarian reform process. It will help create a more
competitive environment through reorganization/privatization of major monopolistic agricultural
conglomerates and marketing channels. Finally, APEAC will sustain the momentum of overall
privatization and enterprise restructuring started under the Privatization and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (PESAC) program.
2.    This Report is accompanied by a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Paper that sets out
the Bank Group's assistance strategy for the next three years within the context of the country's
medium term economic prospects and external environment. Therefore, the APEAC's President
Report does not include sections on Economic Outlook and External Requirements and Bank
Group Assistance Strategy which are covered in the CAS. An Economic Report No. 12942-KG
was distributed on May 13, 1994.
3.    The Kyrgyz Republic is at a difficult juncture in its stabilization and adjustment process.
It has succeeded in bringing about a drastic decline in the inflation rate and in stabilizing the
exchange rate. But economic growth has not yet resumed. This results partly from the country's
geographic isolation, the lack of readily exploitable natural resources, and the severe disruptions
in trade relations. It also arises from the rigidity of institutions and their limited ability to
respond to changing market signals and conditions. The challenge that the reform-minded
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic faces is twofold: (i) to sustain and deepen structural
reforms, and (ii) to bring about changes in key institutions, thereby setting the stage for the
resumption of growth.



- 2 -
PART I. COUNTRY PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS
A. Background
4.    The Kyrgyz Republic, a landlocked Central Asian country with a population of
4.5 million, is among the poorest republics of the FSU with a per capita income of US$830 in
1993. Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for 40 percent of GDP and
employment. Industry is the second largest sector at about 30 percent of GDP. The country
depends almost entirely on imported petroleum products, and there are very small known
deposits of oil and natural gas. At the same time, the Kyrgyz Republic has substantial
hydroresources, and is a net exporter of peak electrical energy. There are some gold, antimony,
mercury, and coal deposits, a few of which were heavily exploited during the Soviet era.
5.    Since its independence, the Kyrgyz Republic has been severely affected by adverse
external developments. The unprecedented decline in output and real incomes from 1991 to
1994 - the cumulative real GDP decline during this period was 43 percent - was triggered in part
by the breakdown of interrepublican trade in the FSU area, and in part by the collapse of central
planning. The industrial sector experienced the highest output loss, at 60 percent, with capacity
utilization as low as 30 percent in some subsectors. Although agricultural output declined by
only 24 percent during this period, this was the continuation of a longer downward trend in the
sector, caused by decreasing productivity and a deteriorating natural base. More recently, the
situation in this sector has been exacerbated by unclear ownership rights, lack of inputs and
credits, distorted pricing policy and the lack of reliable marketing channels. While a private
sector has emerged in small scale services and agriculture, it has not been sufficient to
compensate for the drastic output loss in the other sectors.
6.    At the same time, the rapid rise in prices of imported energy led to a significant
deterioration in the terms of trade, amounting to about 40 percent during the past two years.
Given the drastic contraction in the aggregate demand of the FSU, the Kyrgyz Republic's
external trade has continued to shrink, with export volume having declined by 40 percent during
the last two years. Despite a substantial reduction in imports, the fall in exports has resulted
in a trade deficit of around 12 percent of GDP in 1994.
7.    After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Kyrgyz Republic was among the first states
of the FSU to embark on a program of macroeconomic stabilization and market-oriented
reforms. The President has been the driving force behind the adoption of this strategy. The
stabilization program was supported by one of the first IMF stand-by arrangements in the FSU,
an STF purchase, and an ESAF program that has been in place since June 1994. The structural
reform efforts were strongly supported by the Bank and the international community through
consultative group meetings organized by the Bank.



B. Progress on Stabilization
8.    Since late 1993, the Government's stabilization program, supported by successive IMF
operations, has introduced radical changes in monetary and financial policies to move toward
market-based allocation of resources. The National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) has
eliminated directed credits, and has been channelling resources to the banking system through
refinance credit auctions at competitive interest rates. Credit and deposit interest rates have been
liberalized. The NBK has also established a foreign exchange auction market, a floating
exchange rate, and full currency convertibility.
9.    On the fiscal front, the Government has managed to reduce the budgetary deficit on a
cash basis from 14 percent of GDP in 1993 to 10 percent in 1994. Further deficit reduction will
be difficult to sustain in the future unless some structural issues of fiscal policy are addressed
(para. 19). While the Government was able to limit wage increases and streamline generous
welfare expenditures, some essential current and capital expenditures had to be drastically cut,
and budgetary arrears accumulated to compensate for a precipitous decline in tax revenue.
Initially, the fall in tax revenue was mainly due to a multitude of tax exemptions and the
weakness of tax administration. Although the Government has been trying to address these
issues, tax performance remains disappointing because of the ineffectiveness of new tax
measures, increased barter activity, inadequate tax sharing arrangements between central and
local governments, and the inability to bring private sector activities into the tax net. In 1994,
over 80 percent of the budget deficit was foreign financed.
10.   On balance, progress under the stabilization program has been satisfactory. The inflation
rate has fallen faster than targeted, averaging 3 percent per month in the second half of 1994,
as compared to a monthly average of 25 percent in the second half of 1993. Tight credit
policies bolstered confidence in the som, the national currency, resulting in increased willingness
by economic agents to hold higher money balances. This has contributed to the nominal
appreciation of the som vis-a-vis the US dollar. As a consequence of tight monetary policy,
credit to the economy has been greatly constrained, and interest rates have been highly positive
in real terms. This situation, however, has made the resumption of growth in industry and
agriculture more difficult.
C.  Experience with Structural Adjustment
11.   The two main objectives of the Government's reform program were to eliminate rapidly
distortions inherited from the command system and to reduce the state's role in the economy.
Early on, most prices were liberalized and legal barriers to the private sector eliminated.
Restrictions on both imports and exports have been lifted on all but a few products. In
interrepublican trade, the number and quantity of commodities subject to interstate trade
agreements have been reduced, allowing more latitude for decentralized trade.
12.   The Government has given high priority to privatization. Early in 1994, with the support
of the PESAC program, it revised its original privatization strategy with emphasis on the free



-4-
use of individual shareholding rights, auction of state-owned shares against vouchers, and
systematic use of competitive methods for privatization. This created the framework for
effective management structures which had been inhibited by the predominant form of
privatization via transfer of share ownership to labor collectives. However, many privatized
enterprises have continued to remain under the direct influence of sector ministries, holding
companies and local authorities, in part due to the absence of effective oversight mechanisms
for remaining state-owned shares by the State Property Fund (SPF). The PESAC program
supported the design and implementation of the 1994-95 privatization program, including an
ambitious pace for small-scale enterprise privatization, introduction of a competitive framework
for privatization of a sizeable number of medium- and large-scale enterprises, and voucher
auctions of shares originally retained by SPF.
13.   Despite the pressing need for adjustment, the process of restructuring and liquidating
nonviable enterprises has begun only recently. Under the PESAC program, the Government has
identified 29 large loss-making state owned enterprises (SOEs) and put them under a special
restructuring program. For this purpose, it established a time-bound high level agency, the
Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA), with the mandate to close down these
enterprises, or to restructure them by downsizing and by spinning off their assets. These
enterprises have been effectively cut off from bank credits and their care-and-maintenance
programs financed through the budget until restructuring and/or liquidation programs are
developed to enable their exit from ERRA.
14.   In the financial sector, NBK has increased its monetary and supervisory control over the
financial system. NBK and the Government are improving the overall framework for banking,
and are moving ahead with an agenda of legislative and regulatory reforms. A few good, albeit
small banks are emerging, which are likely to lend in an efficient way to the emerging private
sector and viable state enterprises. Nonetheless, a comprehensive adjustment effort in the
fnancial system is still ahead to strengthen the infrastructure for banking, to deal with the non-
performing loans, and to restructure and privatize the financially troubled state-owned banks.
15.   The introduction of an ambitious systemic reform program has not been accompanied by
sectoral policies to facilitate adjustment of agricultural production and marketing.  The
experience in farm privatization and restructuring has been disappointing because of lack of
transparency in distributing assets, unclear lease-hold rights, lack of support services, and the
continued control of state conglomerates over inputs, procurement and distribution channels.
In early 1994, the Government renewed its reform effort in the agricultural sector, and issued
a number of decrees to solidify the principles of private rights to land, setting the stage for the
establishment of more efficient private farm holdings; but a comprehensive and well-articulated
agrarian reform program is not yet in place.
16.   As part of its reform program, the Government introduced major changes in its system
of social protection to reduce expenditure and to better target benefits. Child allowances were
reduced in coverage so that only people with incomes below a set minimum were eligible, while
bread price compensation payments were made only to particular groups (such as pensioners and



- 5 -
child allowance recipients). In response to a potentially important unemployment problem, the
Government rationalized and simplified unemployment benefits, and increased the employers'
contribution. It also instituted a strong training program. Detailed work is underway with
World Bank assistance to design ways to introduce more accurate income and means testing
systems, including specific ways of better targeting the newly introduced system of cash transfers
to families most in need.
D. The Need for Further Adjustment
17.   The Kyrgyz Republic, led by a reform oriented government, has been vigorously
pursuing a wide range of systemic reforms. Yet, the economy is still dominated by large and
inefficient SOEs which continue to claim an excessive share of economic and financial resources.
The contribution of the privatized farms to agricultural output is small, and the large state farms
that have been so far privatized as shareholding companies continue to operate as in the past.
Thus, the improvements in trade policies, price regime and regulatory framework have induced
little change and supply response in the real economy.
18.   There are several reasons why supply response has been slow to occur. First, although
the budget constraint on enterprises and farms has considerably hardened through tight credit
policy and the elimination of budgetary subsidies under the stabilization program, until the end
of 1993, enterprises had been able to dampen the effect of financial constraints by accumulating
large arrears to suppliers, employers, banks and the budget. This initial overall lack of financial
discipline in the economy and the lack of effective ownership in privatized enterprises (including
agriculture) have perpetuated past patterns of production and resource allocation. Second, the
liberalization measures so far taken have tended to be those which are least demanding in
administrative terms. More complex actions, such as restructuring of public marketing and
procurement agencies and enterprise liquidation, have presented major challenges to the
implementation capacity of the state, and have provided opportunities for opposition from vested
interest groups. Third, the lack of a well-formulated strategy for the agricultural sector, has
become a hindrance to consistency in reform implementation. Fourth, liberalization measures
decided and announced at the national level have been poorly implemented at the local level.
19.  In the years ahead, the Government will have to maintain its progress in macroeconomic
stabilization. Fiscal policy is expected to play a central role in sustaining the stabilization
program. The Government's fiscal objectives will need to extend beyond reducing deficits, to
more fundamental restructuring of the policies and institutions in the areas of taxation and tax
administration, and expenditure prioritization and management. The Government is in the
process of revising its tax system to make it more efficient and equitable, and better geared to
a market economy and the emerging private sector. Extensive efforts are underway--with
considerable technical assistance--to improve tax administration. At the same time, the current
intergovernmental fiscal system--which does not give local governments any incentive to increase
tax efforts--will need to be overhauled by improving revenue sharing arrangements between the
central and local governments. On the expenditure side, the Government is reviewing current
outlays in key sectors such as health with a view to streamlining them, and a public investment



- 6 -
program is under preparation. A rationalization of intergovernmental transfers with greater
accountability at the local level would ensure that key social expenditures are protected, and
expenditures are better controlled.
20.   The Government's stabilization efforts will have to be accompanied by measures to
increase supply response, especially in agriculture. Agriculture is the mainstay of the Kyrgyz
economy, and the experience of other reforming economies has shown that it is also a sector that
could quickly turn around and contribute to economic recovery. Appropriate sequencing of
reforms in agriculture is critical to their success. The first priority, arguably, is the adequate
implementation of an agrarian reform program with land ownership or secure user rights.
Agrarian reform is a process whose principles and implementation guidelines should be clear,
transparent, and aimed at creating efficient and market-oriented private enterprises. Equally
important is the need to accelerate the privatization and the reorganization of state-owned
conglomerates that dominate agricultural marketing and processing.  Until this is done,
competition in rural markets will continue to be stifled, thereby perpetuating major discrepancies
between domestic and border prices, despite the elimination of almost all formal price and trade
regulations. The continuation of the status quo would be a disincentive to increasing agricultural
production. Moreover, lack of alternative marketing channels and the associated uncertainty at
the farm level have been the major factors making farmers hesitate to break links with the old--
albeit collapsing--supply and delivery arrangements, hence, inhibiting progress in farm
restructuring. As a result, newly privatized state and collective farms have generally remained
unchanged after the initial asset valuation and share distribution, as few shareholders have opted
to leave the existing farms.
21.   The agricultural sector has the potential to contribute measurably to the reduction of
poverty in the Kyrgyz Republic, as large numbers of the poor and the very poor reside in rural
areas. To make this happen, the Government will need to pursue a two-pronged strategy. First,
it will have to take the necessary measures to improve productivity and efficiency as the
agricultural sector makes the transition from "plan to market". The implementation of the
policies outlined above (para. 20) would be crucial in this regard. Second, the Government will
have to target interventions where pockets of poverty are distinct and likely to remain impervious
to improvements in living standards resulting from enhanced agricultural productivity.
22.   To promote economic recovery, greater competition will have to be introduced in the
economy more broadly; and the institutions and the structure of the economy will have to be
changed in a way that the economic agents are able to respond to new economic signals. The
APEAC will support a sound land reform and farm restructuring program to create profit-
motivated structures based on clear ownership and user rights and an incentive system
encouraging individual responsibility. The APEAC will help to ensure that the remaining price
distortions in the economy are eliminated; that agricultural conglomerates are demonopolized and
privatized; and that the interference of local governments in commercial activities are minimized.
At the same time, the APEAC will help to reinforce the privatization and enterprise adjustment
process started under the PESAC program. These structural reforms to be supported by the
APEAC program are described in Part II.



- 7 -
PART II. TOWARD ECONOMIC RECOVERY
A. Consolidating Agrarian Reform
Farm Restructuring and Privatization
23.   Transfer of agricultural land and assets to private ownership and the establishment of
more productive farms are essential components of the reform program in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The creation of strongly market-oriented private commercial farms is key to the economic
recovery of the country in the short-term. The Government is committed to designing and
implementing a program through which private ownership of land will be allowed or individual
producers will receive long-term rights to use land, thereby establishing new and more
responsive farm structures. While completion of this process will by necessity take a longer
time than the life of the proposed credit, APEAC will support a sound basis for the agrarian
transformation.
24.   In the Kyrgyz Republic the main mechanism for farm reorganization has been the
distribution of shares of land and assets and registration of new and existing farms. This
approach places documented transferable leasehold rights to farm land and property in the hands
of farmers, and accords the opportunity to new owners to decide voluntarily on how to use their
newly acquired property rights, ultimately resulting in a diversity of farm types. A simple
transfer of ownership to members and employees of state and collective farms would not,
however, by itself create viable and competitive production units, as past experience has shown.
Additional mechanisms and a clear legal and institutional framework will be needed within which
owners/lease holders can create new farming units, either within the former farm or through
exit. In this respect, the existing land reform decrees provide only general guidance with little
detail.
25.   Security of land use is fundamental to the success of agrarian reform. A Presidential
Decree (February 1994) allows 49-year use rights for land, with an option to renew. The
Government wants to go further in this regard, and will submit to the new Parliament a
constitutional amendment instituting private ownership of land, and a Civil Code with
appropriate provisions on the right to own land. But given the complex ethnic and political
context of such a constitutional change, it is difficult to predict whether private land ownership
can be legislated within this year. But clear signals will have to be given to farmers in this
respect, as soon as possible. Therefore, if the constitutional amendment has not been enacted
before the end of 1995, the Government will put in place the necessary legislation to ensure the
following principles: (i) automatic renewal of the right to use land after 49 years, and; (ii) clear
and limited grounds for terminating the right of land use. The Government will ensure that the
existing legislation (in particular the Land Code, the Law in Lease, and the Law on Pledge) do
not introduce any undue restrictions on transferability of land and its use as collateral.
26.   Agrarian reform needs strong and clear signals from the central administration, and
enhanced compliance and implementation at the local level. One reason for the failure of past



- 8 -
reform efforts in the agricultural sector has been the large degree of discretion given to local
authorities in interpreting and implementing unclear central directives in this area. Recent
decrees provide the basis for improved implementation by giving full authority at the national
level to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, instead of being divided among agencies, as in
the past. Local state administrators continue to retain a strong role, however, including that of
setting up rural committees for implementation and supervision.  Moreover, widespread
appointment of senior officials of state and collective farms to these rural committees is not
likely to create an environment conducive to reform.
27.   During farm restructuring, 25 percent of the arable land is to be retained by the state
under the National Land Fund (NLF). While the original purpose of establishing the NLF was
to increase ownership of irrigated land by the ethnic Kyrgyz, its current objectives remain
unclear. The state is to retain ownership of NLF lands, whereas the power to lease them is
delegated to rural committees.  To introduce greater transparency to this process, the
Government will need to clarify (i) the quality of land to be selected for the National Fund;
(ii) criteria, procedures and timetable through which land will be allocated to individual farmers;
and (iii) the institution to administer NLF.
28.   While current enactments on land reform have provided broad guidelines to proceed with
agrarian reform, they are not sufficiently detailed or comprehensive to promote a sustainable
program of land distribution and farm size adjustment in response to market forces. The
Government will thus have to establish the necessary legal and institutional framework by
consolidating the existing legislation and regulations, and enacting new ones, if needed to:
(i)    Facilitate exit and functioning land markets including:  (a) elimination of
specification of maximum and minimum private farm size requirements in various
land categories; (b) abolishing the power of rural committees to approve land
transactions; (c) full marketability of shares inside or outside the enterprise in the
case of corporate farms; and,
(ii)   Establish clear implementation procedures by:  (a) putting in place separate
procedures for adjudication of disputes; (b) issuing a standard land title or
certificate; and (c) vesting responsibility in a single authority for land registration.
29.   The establishment of an environment conducive to efficient farm restructuring will benefit
from the experience of ongoing pilot programs that the Government has launched to test
alternative models and approaches to restructuring. The lessons from these field tests will be
taken into account when revising legislation and guidelines, as appropriate. The Government
will also launch an extensive public education campaign informing people about the status of the
laws and decrees concerning land reform and farm restructuring and their rights under them.



- 9 -
Developing Credit and Input Markets
30.   A successful supply response by the emerging private farms is being constrained in part
by the lack of seasonal credit. Problems of agricultural finance will remain acute for some time.
Until real interest rates decline, and the banking sector, especially Agroprombank, is effectively
restructured and privatized, the agricultural sector will continue to face poor access to credit.
The stage is being set for a comprehensive adjustment effort in the financial system (with
possible future IDA support) to strengthen the infrastructure for banking, to deal with non-
performing loans and to restructure some specific banks, including Agroprombank. Most of the
necessary conditions that would ensure the success of such an operation are being put in place.
These include; (i) financial stability; (ii) increasingly strict financial discipline on enterprises;
(iii) intensive technical assistance to familiarize the banking sector with project evaluation
techniques and modem banking practices, and (iv) the preparation of diagnostic studies of the
three state-owned banks.  The Bank is considering ways to accelerate assistance to the
Government and the NBK in identifying interim measures to ensure provision of seasonal credit,
with a focus on the emerging private farm sector and in a way consistent with the thrust of
planned financial sector reforms.
31.   Access to inputs by farmers is being further constrained by the dominance of inefficient
state-owned enterprises. Kyrgyz Selchozchimia is the conglomerate enterprise in charge of
importing and distributing fertilizers and pesticides. Some small independent fertilizer dealers
and importers have emerged, but their volume of business is negligible in comparison to the
needs of the country. The Government will continue to privatize enterprises under Kyrgyz
Selchozchimia. Thirty five of these enterprises have already been converted into joint stock
companies, and the remaining 15 enterprises will be converted into joint stock companies by the
end of June 1995. The state's shares in all these enterprises will be offered for sale by the end
of 1995. The service organization for pesticides will be retained by the Ministry of Agriculture,
until adequate pesticide regulations and enforcement capability has been developed under the
Ministry of Agriculture. Thereafter, the Kyrgyz Selchozchimia amalgamation itself will have
no reason to exist. Its operational staff will be absorbed into individual enterprises or the
Ministry of Agriculture, as appropriate.
B. Creating a Competitive Environment for Agroenterprises
State Procurement, Trade and Prices
32.   State Procurement. In early 1994, the Government abolished state orders, and replaced
them with a new procurement system of "state needs" to be implemented by voluntary supply
contracts at negotiated prices. Nonetheless, the method employed by the state agencies to
procure from private traders lacks transparency, as no public advertisement and tendering
process is being used. The role of the public sector in procurement of goods is likely to
continue, though at a much reduced scope than in the past. Therefore, the rules of such
procurement need to be clearly spelled out. The Bank is providing technical assistance through
an IDF grant for the design of competitive procurement procedures. A related law will be put



- 10 -
in place as soon as the competitive procurement scheme is developed, and detailed
implementation procedures will be issued. A tendering system will thus be introduced in which
commercial agents will invite priced bids from producers and trading firms for the supply of
commodities to the state. Contracts for delivery will be awarded to the lowest priced bidders,
and the Government will guarantee prompt payment to the suppliers. No preferences in
allocation of input or credit will be given to those who supply state needs. Competition will be
allowed in all products where the state is involved in supplying inputs or marketing products.
33.   Export Taxes. To demonstrate its continued commitment to price liberalization, the
Government has recently abolished a decree introducing a draft Law on Prices imposing price
controls on export commodities, and the Price Commission established to implement this Law.
The Government has also dismantled quantitative controls on exports.  Nonetheless, the
country's main export crops, wool, cotton, hides and skins, as well as silk cocoons have been
subject to specific export taxes which, when converted to ad valorem terms, could be as high
as 40 percent. Export taxes have been used as a means of subsidizing inefficient agroindustries
(textile and leather), at the expense of farmers. They have also constituted an impediment to
the expansion of trade, as in the case of cotton, practically the only crop whose production has
been recently increasing because of export possibilities. The export taxes have depressed already
low producer prices, especially for wool, thereby further reducing farmers' income. The
Government has recently eliminated export taxes on cotton and wool, and will abolish the rest
by end-1995.
34. Local Governments' Commercial Interference. Local government administrations have
traditionally played a major role in economic and commercial decisions at the local level. This
has included interference in pricing, marketing and production decisions of farms, as well as
industrial enterprises. Farms are still under the administrative jurisdiction of local agricultural
authorities, resulting in local price regulation despite liberalization at the national level.
Similarly, some corporatized and privatized enterprises have been put under the administrative
control of local authorities. As a result, the liberalization measures taken at the national level
have not been fully implemented locally.
35.   A number of steps will be taken to prevent the local authorities from interfering in
economic decisions and from slowing down the central government's liberalization efforts. As
outlined in para. 42, local authorities' role in holding companies will be eliminated. A
Presidential Order has been issued recently, expressly forbidding local government officials to
dictate their own procurement prices, and delivery requirements, and to impose restrictions on
trade across provincial boundaries. Two parallel actions will be taken to ensure that this Order
will be effective. First, as part of the process of reorganizing the Ministry of Agriculture (to
be supported by a possible Agricultural Services Support project currently under preparation),
the role and the terms of reference of agricultural departments at the oblast and rayon levels will
be redefined and limited to offering information and advice to farmers, but not administering
production or marketing. Also, farms (state owned, collective or corporatized) will be removed
from  the administrative jurisdiction of local agricultural authorities.   Second, local



- 11 -
administrations will no longer be in charge of allocating budgetary credit to individual farmers
starting with the 1996 Budget.
Demonopolization and Reorganization of Agroenterprises and Rural Trade
36.  Improvements in the efficiency of input and output markets is the identified priority in
the agricultural sector.  The Government has been dismantling the centralized trade and
distribution system that agroindustrial and marketing enterprises have been subject to in the past.
Nonetheless, the marketing and procurement of agricultural products still remain dominated by
a few state-owned and/or controlled conglomerates. Moreover, procurement, distribution and
most administrative services for enterprises have been recentralized at the holding company
level. Although some of these enterprises have been either totally or partially privatized (in the
form of share transfers to labor collectives), there has been little change in their market
behavior. Of particular importance are Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (the Bread Complex, comprising over
one hundred units including retail bread shops; mini-bakeries; and large grain procurement,
storage, and milling combines), Tamak'ash (a holding entity for 106 agroindustrial enterprises),
and Potrebsoyuz (Union of Consumer Cooperatives), which together control about 90 percent
of all procurement of agricultural output and inputs in the country. These conglomerates are the
holders of the largest debt to the banking sector (their outstanding debts account for about one-
third of the loan portfolio of the banking sector); they also continue to exert considerable
pressure for increased access to financial resources.
37.   The Government is committed to undertaking the demonopolization and privatization of
these conglomerates while, at the same time, allowing their component units to retain and
realize their productive potential in order to cause the least possible disturbance in the markets.
The guiding principles of this process will be to: (i) abolish the holding companies and convert
them (to the extent that they provide useful services) into private consulting companies;
(ii) ensure freedom of entry; (iii) transfer the administrative functions of the holding companies
to enterprises to assure that these are privatized as business entities rather than as factories; and
(iv) include most of these enterprises in the 1994/95 Privatization Program. How these
principles are to apply to specific institutions whose transformation is to be supported by the
proposed APEAC is summarized below.
38.   The Bread Complex.  The Government's original program  for privatization and
reorganization of the Bread Complex had several deficiencies. Kyrgyz Dan Azyk was to
continue centralized procurement and distribution, and privatized enterprises were to be
organized under Kyrgyz Dan Azyk, as the holding company. At the same time, the Government
intended to continue to hold large state wheat reserves with no consideration given to fiscal
implications, private sector development and pricing issues. With such an approach, there was
a definite risk that the financial costs associated with social considerations (interregional food
security) would not be clearly separated from the commercial functions of enterprises, thereby
becoming an impediment to financial viability of privatized enterprises. Under the program to
be supported by the APEAC, the Government will adopt an appropriate strategy to demonopolize
and privatize the Bread Complex, and to rationalize and reduce its role in the grains market,



- 12 -
with the ultimate objective of completely withdrawing from milling, bread production and
distribution activities.
39.   Kyrgyz Dan Azyk will no longer serve as a holding company: its administrative functions
will be delegated at the enterprise level, and its oversight functions will be transferred to the
State Property Fund (SPF). Kyrgyz Dan Azyk holding company, itself, will be considerably
downsized, and reorganized initially as a state-owned joint stock company to be privatized. Its
activities will be restricted to quality testing, fumigation/pest control, and the provision of
market information. Kyrgyz Dan Azyk will be divested of its current activities in construction,
transport and all other storage and production facilities. These will be transformed into
autonomous joint stock companies and offered for privatization. If needed, Kyrgyz Dan Azyk
may provide quality certification and other related services to enterprises on a fee basis. All
combines and bread factories will be transformed into joint stock companies, and included in the
1994/95 privatization program, with the exception of three combines (one in the South) to handle
state grain reserves held as a temporary measure to ensure a steady flow of interregional wheat
supplies to remote areas, which is a legitimate food security concern in the Kyrgyz Republic.
40.   Domestic state procurement of wheat will be limited to 60-80,000 tons, or no more than
10 percent of total wheat consumption in the country. Official purchasing and selling of wheat
will take place at market prices (through competitive tenders or spot market purchases or sales),
without allowing a divergence between official and market prices. The full costs of operations
will be explicitly budgeted, and are not expected to exceed about 0.1 percent of GDP. The
Government will prepare a Concept Note on the management of state wheat reserves to establish
clear guidelines for its operations in the wheat market (para. 53). Other food security concerns
of the Government are being addressed through adequate foreign exchange reserves and the
promotion of private grain marketing channels under the Kyrgyz Dan Azyk privatization
program.
41.   Kyrgyz Tamak'ash.  Agroindustrial enterprises--where the supply response may be
expected earlier and stronger than in most other subsectors of the industry--will have to gain full
operational autonomy, and be privatized in ways conducive to the emergence of effective
ownership. This will require a fundamental change in the current organization of this subsector,
as summarized below.
42.   The oversight functions for the state shares in the corporatized companies in Tamak'ash
portfolio has been delegated to the Tamak'ash holding company by the SPF. While these
enterprises are awaiting privatization, it is important that their autonomy not be undermined by
having the Tamak'ash holding company manage the state shares, thereby perpetuating the past
unhealthy interdependency between the holding company and enterprises. Therefore, the
oversight function for the state shares in these enterprises will be transferred back to the SPF
under the proposed new oversight scheme (para. 59). In the case of 54 corporatized Tamak'ash
enterprises, local authorities have assumed both the oversight function on behalf of SPF, and the
administrative control of these enterprises. Measures will have to be taken to prevent oblast
level and other local administrations from re-exerting government control on privatized or



- 13 -
corporatized enterprises at the local levels. To that end, a Presidential Order has been recently
issued to direct the Government to review the situation and take action against the unlawful
creation of holding companies by local governments. The same Order also instructs the
Government to ensure strict enforcement of the legislation concerning the creation of holding
companies.
43.    The Tamak'ash Holding Company itself will be corporatized and privatized to make its
functions consistent with the requirements of a market economy. Currently, the enterprises
receive valuable services from Tamak'ash for their sales, marketing, procurement, finance and
other commercial activities.  Many of these services will continue to be needed by the
enterprises. As the enterprises in the Tamak'ash portfolio become private, Tamak'ash will no
longer have access to the corporate levies that it presently collects from the enterprises for these
services. Tamak'ash will transform itself to a private consulting company charging fees directly
to enterprises for its services. The administrative functions of Tamak'ash (such as production
planning and control, tax administration, information processing and reporting, personnel
administration) will also be relegated down to the enterprise level to ensure that individual
enterprises are autonomous commercial entities with the least possible reliance on Tamak'ash.
44.   A clear privatization timetable will be established for the enterprises under the Tamak'ash
umbrella as part of the 1994/95 Privatization Program. All state-owned shares in partially
privatized enterprises will be offered for divestiture through cash and coupon auctions.
Privatization through distribution of a portion of shares to suppliers of raw materials will be
avoided. All constituent enterprises will be converted into joint-stock companies immediately,
and offered for sale under the various modalities available in line with the country's privatization
program (paras. 55 and 57), no later than December 1995. This will result in an addition of 33
agroindustrial enterprises to be included in the 1994/95 Privatization Program.
45.   Kyrgyz Potrebsoyuz (Cooperatives).  The highly centralized Union of Consumer
Cooperatives (Potrebsoyuz) is involved in a wide range of activities, including food production,
construction, transportation, and retail business. While the primary cooperatives are in principle
"private," they are dominated by six regional cooperative unions which are under the direct
influence of the Government, especially at the oblast level. These regional associations have
control over purchasing centers, wholesale units and transportation networks whose assets are
owned by the National Union.  The continued predominance of Potrebsoyuz in rural
procurement and distribution is a fundamental impediment to the creation of a competitive
environment and new entry. This is mainly because Potrebsoyuz cooperatives have distinctive
advantages over independent, individual business establishments owing to their integrated
marketing and procurement system, negotiating power, and relatively easy access to capital.
46.   Support will be provided under the APEAC to lay the groundwork for establishing true
market-based member servicing cooperatives. If needed, the existing Cooperative Law will be
amended to further enhance cooperative members' rights, to sever the obligatory ties between
regional cooperatives and the Union, and to allow primary cooperatives to dispose of their assets
without the Union's approval. To guide the reorganization of Potrebsoyuz, the Government has



- 14 -
agreed with the management of Potrebsoyuz to conduct a full operational audit of the national
and oblast level organizations (with technical assistance facilitated by the Bank), with a view to
developing a reorganization plan which will clarify ownership rights, create a decentralized
pattern of ownership over warehouses and product purchase and distribution, and transform the
national Union into a center for technical support for member cooperatives. These changes will
set the stage for the creation of viable cooperative institutions to serve the private sector, with
particularly favorable impact on rural financial intermediation and agricultural marketing.
47.   Debt of Agroenterprises. It is important that enterprises remaining in business have the
financial strength to offer adequate marketing services to producers.  As part of the
reorganization and privatization process of Kyrgyz Dan Azyk, Tamak'ash and Potrebsoyuz, the
bad debt of these conglomerates need to be addressed. A large portion of the debt incurred in
1993 by Kyrgyz Dan Azyk, and to a lesser extent by Tamak'ash and Potrebsoyuz, financed the
losses arising from non-commercial activities imposed on these enterprises by the Government.
These included sales of bread at below production cost, forced delivery of goods to remote
areas, and fulfillment of obligations under interstate trade clearing agreements, without payment
by the state. Almost all of these bank credits were funded by the NBK refinance credits to the
lending banks. The Government will establish an interagency commission to review the debts
of these enterprises with a view to determining the amount of debt that resulted from the
Government's past policies. The Government intends to take these debts and corresponding
liabilities to the NBK off the balance sheets of the lending banks, having the NBK assume the
debt. The NBK may write off these debts or reschedule them over a longer period, depending
on the nature of the debt. This exercise would not involve recapitalization of ailing banks, as
it would result only in downsizing of their balance sheets (assets and liabilities alike). This
would not require new fiscal or monetary resources, as these debts were funded by past money
creation and the cost was paid in ensuing high inflation. The remaining debts of enterprises
under Tamak'ash will continue to be the liabilities of enterprises and be passed onto the new
owners as they are privatized. As for the debts of Potrebsoyuz, its management is developing
a program to settle its overdue debt through a combination of asset divestiture and debt-asset
swaps.
C. Alleviating Poverty
48.   Before independence about one-third of the population had a "socially unacceptable"
standard of living. Much of that poverty was in the rural areas, especially on collective farms,
and it was also concentrated in families with large numbers of children. During the transition
period, poverty has increased, and now about half of the population is poor, and about one-
fourth is severely poor. The rural population is roughly 1.6 times more likely to be poor than
the urban population. This increase in poverty has been largely due to the decline in output,
coupled with exogenous factors such as a serious deterioration in the country's terms of trade.
But is has also been caused partly by some inappropriate internal policies and measures. In the
agricultural sector, the rural poor have suffered from an adverse movement in the internal urban-
rural terms of trade, and the inefficiencies and the collapse of traditional marketing channels.
Agricultural producers have been unable to sell their crops or have been subject to long payment



- 15 -
delays, which in the face of high inflation have wiped out their actual earnings. To the extent
that the producers have been able to find private marketing channels, they have accepted very
low prices reflecting the monopsonistic structure of the market. Measures to be supported under
APEAC, mainly the reorganization and privatization of major parastatals and the old style
"cooperatives" involved in input supply and agricultural marketing, are critical for establishing
competitive and financially sound marketing channels. These changes would be instrumental in
increasing farmers' cash incomes, and improving the terms of trade facing the agricultural
sector.
49.   A development that would contribute to increased farmers' income is the change in
cropping patterns in line with relative price adjustments, and export possibilities. There are
recent indications that such changes are occurring, albeit on a small scale, as farmers start to
take advantage of newly emerging market opportunities. The continued interference of local
administrations, however, in farmers' cropping decisions is an impediment to this much needed
flexibility. All necessary legal actions will be taken by the Government under APEAC to
prohibit the kind of interference that reduces farmers' ability to respond to changing price and
market signals. Also, for ensuring longer term supply response, APEAC will support the
Government in developing the framework for effectively functioning land markets, as the basis
for the creation of commercially oriented farms.
50.   As stated above, some rural poverty, however, is of a more permanent nature, and would
not be ameliorated by measures to stimulate output growth. This includes pensioners and the
aged, large families unable to earn enough income from rural activities, and households located
in the especially deprived mountainous areas with difficult access. These groups will continue
to need targeted interventions whose modalities are being developed by the Government with
assistance from donors.
51.   A legitimate concern of the Government is ensuring the food security of the population,
especially for bread which is a basic consumption commodity of the poorer segments of the
population. The state will not, however, continue to hold large and expensive stocks of wheat
as part of its overall food security strategy. Possible mismanagement of such reserves may
further depress producer prices and prevent the development of private marketing channels. On
the other hand, during the transitional period, there is a case for the state to hold a minimum
level of wheat reserves for regions where wheat production falls short of consumption, as
explained below.
52.   One significant effect of the reduced role of the state and the privatization of the
marketing system will be possible disruption of wheat and flour supplies to remote areas, and
significant price increases in the Southern Region of the country because of its extremely
difficult transport links with the North. Until now, prices of wheat products have been the same
in all parts of the country because Kyrgyz Dan Azyk implicitly subsidized differential transport
costs. Shortage of supplies in remote areas and/or drastic price increase of wheat products in
the South (where the poorest of the rural poor live) would be socially unacceptable. The



- 16 -
program under APEAC will have to ensure that the adverse social impact of the
reorganization/privatization of the Bread Complex is minimized.
53.   For this purpose, as explained in para. 39, three bread combinats (at least one in the
South) will be converted into state-owned joint stock companies. The limited amount of wheat
under state reserves will be released onto the market through auctions or competitive tenders to
prevent severe shortage and sharp price fluctuations. The state wheat reserves will not be solely
destined for the South, but could also be directed to other remote areas, if needed. The
transport cost of wheat to the South will be minimized by directly sending food aid there, (as
it is much more economical to re-route the wheat to the South from major markets rather than
transport it from the northern part of the country, when needed). If the Government no longer
receives food aid, it will subsidize for a limited time the transport cost of commercial imports
or transfers from surplus regions, depending on whichever is most cost effective. Technical
assistance is being provided to the Government: (i) to establish an early warning system and
clear guidelines for its operations in the wheat market; (ii) to accurately quantify the fiscal
implications of the program; and (iii) to put in place appropriate institutional arrangements.
D. Sustaining Momentum in Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring
54.   The second tranche of PESAC which supports the programs for privatization and
enterprise restructuring was released on June 1, 1995. In addition to expanding the program to
encompass agroenterprises, the proposed APEAC will sustain the momentum of PESAC
program implementation into 1995-96, the years spanned by this credit. It will introduce two
new elements to the program: the accelerated method of privatization, and an innovative
oversight scheme.
Privatization
55.   Under the PESAC program, the Government is implementing a divestiture strategy which
relies primarily on: (i) cash auctions for small enterprises; (ii) the sale of state-owned shares in
already privatized enterprises through coupon and cash auctions; and (iii) the privatization of
medium and large-scale enterprises through the free distribution of 5 percent of their shares to
their workers and managers, the sale of 25 percent of their shares in voucher auctions, and the
cash sale of up to 70 percent to investors selected on the basis of competing privatization
proposals. At the same time, the Government's Concept Note for Privatization also includes a
number of other methods, such as direct negotiations with foreign investors (for enterprises in
certain sectors), or the direct sale of significant shareholding rights to suppliers and other
enterprises in the same line of business. In the first five months of 1995 alone, the SPF held
76 coupon auctions for the shares of 390 medium and large-scale enterprises, largely surpassing
the progress expected under PESAC. During the same period, it also conducted 27 cash
auctions for the shares of 226 enterprises. Under PESAC, 70 enterprises have been offered for
sale through competitive privatization proposals (i.e., through competitive tenders to strategic
investors wishing to purchase up to 70 percent of shares in an enterprise).



- 17 -
56.   The APEAC will further the implementation of the 1994-95 Privatization Program by
supporting the SPF program to: (i) include the enterprises under the Bread Complex and the
Tamak'ash umbrella in the 1994-95 Privatization Program; (ii) privatize all remaining small-
scale enterprises through coupon and cash auctions, (iii) invite competitive privatization
proposals for all remaining medium and large scale enterprises, (iv) implement an accelerated
method of privatization (para. 57). The Government will also adopt (by December 1995) the
1996-97 Privatization Program, with all objects offered for sale no later than the end of 1997.
57.   To achieve its time-bound targets for the privatization of medium and large-scale
enterprises, the SPF will adopt a revised procedure that will accelerate the divestiture process.
The SPF will limit attempts to attract core investors to two offers, using different methods of
sale. If the second attempt is unsuccessful, the unsold share or property will be channeled to
the voucher and/or the cash auctions, as appropriate. The voucher auction mechanism used in
the Kyrgyz Republic ensures disposal of all shares offered in one round. As for the cash
auctions, they will be limited to two rounds of bidding, with the shares or property sold to the
highest bidder on the second round, without reference to a floor price. If no purchaser can be
found to acquire the property offered for sale, SPF will attempt to attract a private manager
through a leasing mechanism, or initiate liquidation procedures, as appropriate. The adoption
of such a simple and general back-up approach applicable to all medium and large-scale
enterprises (that do not get fully privatized in the first round of competing privatization
proposals) is needed to ensure divestiture of the largest possible number of enterprises as soon
as possible.  This would prevent SPF from  reverting to the transfer of shares to the
managers/workers or to suppliers and associated enterprises in order to reach its privatization
targets.
Oversight of State-Owned Shares
58.   Even with the most rapid privatization program, the state may retain significant
shareholdings for some time consisting of: (i) state-owned enterprises excluded for the time
being from the privatization program, (ii) shares retained by the SPF in already privatized
enterprises on a temporary basis, pending their disposal through cash and voucher auctions, and
(iii) shares in enterprises included in the privatization program but not yet fully privatized. SPF
has been formally entrusted with the task of managing the state's ownership interest in these
enterprises but, so far, it has not been able to exercise this responsibility effectively. This has
been a particular problem for the agroenterprises, both agroindustry and agricultural marketing
conglomerates. As a result, SPF has delegated its oversight functions in some key sectors back
to line ministries or to state holding companies such as Tamak'ash and Kyrgyz Dan Azyk,
thereby perpetuating the old patterns of control and intervention.
59.   To overcome these problems and to put in place a lean and market-based oversight
mechanism, SPF has developed an innovative approach based on the appointment of independent
private financial and management experts acting as fiduciaries on behalf of SPF, as owner.
These experts will be selected in a transparent manner on the basis of their expertise and
experience in management, appointed on a one-year renewable contract, and their compensation



- 18 -
will be linked, at least partially, to the improvement of the performance of the enterprise they
will supervise. The fiduciaries will receive clear instructions regarding the state's expectations
as a shareholder, and be given the authority necessary to assume their responsibilities. SPF
plans to implement this approach in 1995 on a pilot basis in approximately 20 enterprises--
including agroindustries--distributed across various sectors in which the state still holds 50
percent or more of the shares. If the experiment succeeds, it would be extended widely. This
approach will be further developed by incorporating the following components: (i) the powers
and authorities attached to each level in the corporate governance scheme will be explicitly
documented; (ii) qualification profiles for the fiduciary positions will be prepared; (iii) the
selection process will be documented in a set of clear and transparent rules and procedures; and
(iv) a model contract will be adopted to ensure that the fiduciaries will act in the best interest
of the owner they represent.
Enterprise Restructuring
60.   Under the PESAC program, the Government has moved rapidly and boldly to establish
an Enterprise Restructuring and Insolvency Resolution Agency (ERRA) to address the problems
of 29 large state-owned enterprises in financial distress. The Government has demonstrated its
commitment to the operating principles of ERRA by: (i) preparing a comprehensive set of
insolvency implementation regulations that gives ERRA the legal authority to act as liquidator
for the selected enterprises; (ii) stopping the production of all of the selected enterprises with
a negative gross margin; (iii) setting aside in the 1995 budget the resources needed to support
the care and maintenance program, including financial support to employees on administrative
leave, funding for essential social services, and the resources necessary to implement the passive
restructuring of enterprises that have a chance to survive in a different (reduced) form; and
(iv) undertaking the preparation of viability assessments and restructuring/liquidation plans for
three enterprises.
61.   Despite the understanding reached on scope and time-bound nature of ERRA support,
pressure continues to be put on ERRA to use the available resources to bolster the output of the
selected enterprises. Satisfactory progress on restructuring and liquidating enterprises under
ERRA and firm adherence to the principles underlying ERRA require continued support. The
Government has already taken some tough decisions to restructure/liquidate three enterprises
whose diagnostic studies have been completed. The APEAC will help further the pace and
direction of enterprise reform under ERRA. The decisions on the first three enterprises will be
speedily implemented. The program under APEAC will also set clear targets and strict time
limits for the preparation, and implementation of liquidation or restructuring plans for at least
7 additional enterprises, which will adhere to ERRA's principles of exit policy. These principles
and operating guidelines are described in detail in Attachment III. Actions on the ERRA
enterprises for which liquidation/restructuring plans have been prepared will include:
(i) creating new JSCs with the assets and personnel that can be reorganized into potentially
viable individual enterprises, and immediately offering them for sale through the privatization
program; (ii) speedily terminating the employment contracts of all other employees; and
(iii) initiating the settlement of liabilities under the recently adopted liquidation procedures.



- 19 -
62.   As part of the restructuring process, enterprises will consider divesting most of their
social assets. These facilities provide services to enterprise employees and their immediate
families, but they also often include the operation of major public services, such as district
heating, electricity, water and sewage. In this process, some enterprises may choose to retain
some social assets that support their policies, such as kindergartens and medical centers,
provided the cost of their operation does not impair their profitability as commercial enterprises.
Other services, such as home maintenance and repair, may be privatized and run on the basis
of full cost recovery. Recreational facilities of enterprises transferred to the Ministry of Tourism
are good candidates for privatization. Finally, responsibility for the operation of utilities such
as heating will revert to the Energy Company, or the local authorities, as appropriate.
Currently, social assets are transferred to local governments in an ad hoc manner, and without
adequate funding. In some oblasts, social assets formerly operated by enterprises, such as
kindergartens, are "privatized, " meaning that the buildings are sold and the service is
discontinued. Other oblasts have no plans to manage these assets. It is critical that all these
services be transferred in a way that does not cause a major disruption in their delivery. Based
on pilot studies undertaken in several oblasts and the experience to date in ERRA enterprises,
the Government will consider developing a national plan that will: (i) determine which of these
services are essential and should be provided by the oblasts, the relevant public agencies, or by
the enterprises on a cost recovery basis, (ii) estimate the costs of these outlays and
(iii) incorporate these expenditures in the intergovernmental fiscal system.
63.   The scale of enterprise restructuring that is required in the Kyrgyz Republic cannot be
achieved by administrative decisions under ERRA, alone. Also, the banking sector is not yet
in a position to play a major role in restructuring the enterprise sector, as most banks simply
lack skills in credit analysis and debt restructuring. On the other hand, the Government is
committed to establishing financial discipline in the economy and maintaining a macroeconomic
framework that would force enterprise adjustment. This is being accomplished mainly by a tight
credit policy and limited liquidity relief to large state-owned banks, thereby minimizing the risk
of allocating resources to nonviable enterprises. This overall financial tightness has already sent
the right signals to economic agents, resulting in a slowdown of interenterprise arrears in 1994.
At the same time, NBK had started tracking 140 large borrowers in early 1994. Until a debt
clearing/netting exercise is conducted for these enterprises (only to the extent that their bad debts
were due to the Government's inappropriate policies), major "net borrowers" are not to be
financed through new credits. Moreover, NBK has tightened prudential guidelines with the
intention of moving rapidly against distressed banks in violation of these guidelines. It has
already closed some troubled banks and put six other under a special program. If sustained,
these measures would constitute the most effective way to bring about enterprise adjustment in
the short term.
Legal Reform
64.   The Government is undertaking significant efforts to adjust its legal and regulatory
framework governing the economic activities in the Kyrgyz Republic to the needs of a market
economy with a view to encouraging private sector development. It is in the process of



- 20 -
reviewing the legal framework relating to the transferability of rights to land and ways to use
land as collateral. This issue will be addressed in a variety of legal acts currently under
preparation, such as Book I of the Civil Code, the Land Code, the Law on Lease and the Law
on Pledge. Part I of the Civil Code has been submitted to Parliament in October 1994 and is
in the process of being further revised by a drafting committee specifically set up for the
purpose. A Law on Bankruptcy was enacted with implementation regulations for banks and
enterprises. The Government has also made progress in the preparation of a new Company
Law.
65.   The Government is committed to the further implementation of its legal reform action
plan. To assist the Government in this undertaking, technical assistance is being provided to the
central Legal Reform Unit in the Office of the President, financed under the legal reform
component of the Rehabilitation Credit. Before the end of 1995, the Government intends to
submit to Parliament, in particular: (i) the draft Law on Company; (ii) the draft Law on
Collateral (providing, in particular, for land to be used as collateral); (iii) the amendment to the
Law on Lease; and (iv) the draft Law on Public Procurement. The Government will also take
all necessary legal measures to clarify the ownership rights to land, and the procedures under
which such rights will be freely transferable.
PART III. THE PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION
AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A.  Features of the Proposed Credit
66.   Relationship with the CAS.  The proposed Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise
Adjustment Credit is fully consistent with the country assistance strategy for FY96 and beyond,
which is being considered by the Executive Directors concurrently with this proposed Credit.
The Bank has worked closely with the Government in developing a program of key structural
reforms in the agricultural and the enterprise sectors to help with the overall adjustment process
to a market economy and to facilitate supply response in the agricultural sector.  The
establishment of a competitive agricultural sector, providing a reliable source of income to
farmers is the cornerstone of Government's development strategy. It is also the only sustainable
way to alleviate rural poverty. The proposed Credit will support the Government's reform
agenda, and help create a sound policy framework within which investment projects can
effectively support the transformation of the agricultural sector over the medium term.
67.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower is the Kyrgyz Republic. The credit amount
is SDR 28.6 million, or US$45 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, with a 35-year
maturity, including a 10-year grace period. Financing for technical assistance to support a
number of policy measures in the Government's reform program has been obtained from various
donors, exclusively as grants.



- 21 -
68.   Project Management, Reporting, and Auditing. To monitor reform progress under
APEAC, the Government has established a commission headed by the Deputy Prime Minister
in charge of agriculture, consisting of the Minister of Agriculture, high level representatives
from the Committee on Economy, State Property Fund, the Ministry of Finance, Goscominvest,
and the agricultural conglomerates to be reorganized and privatized under APEAC, as well as
experts from  the Prime Minister's office.  Policy measures for enterprise reform  and
privatization will continue to be monitored by the PESAC Working Group. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) established for PESAC in the Ministry of Finance will continue its
functions for the APEAC as well, such as submitting withdrawal applications. The PMU will
maintain records of all transactions under the Credit in accordance with sound accounting
practices. Project accounts will be audited no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, by auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, and submitted
to the Association.
69.   Procurement. Procurement under the Credit will follow standard procedures as spelled
out in the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," January 1995
edition. The proposed Credit would finance 100 percent of delivered costs of general imports
into the country, except the items contained in the standard negative list. The public and private
enterprises in the country generally conclude import contracts through competitive quotations
from different countries, and these practices are acceptable for procurement under the proposed
operation. The threshold for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be US$1.0 million
per contract. The imports below the contract threshold of US$1.0 million will be procured in
accordance with standard commercial practices being followed by the public sector and private
enterprises and through direct contracting under circumstances described in para. 3.7 of the
above mentioned "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits." All
contracts of US$1.0 million or greater shall be through simplified ICB procedures (using the
Bank's standard bidding documents). ICB contracts over US$10 million each will be subject to
prior review by IDA. Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to
IDA. Payments made for imports prior to the signing of the Credit Agreement will be eligible
for retroactive financing.  Payments made to suppliers before credit signing, but after
March 31, 1995, will be allowed for payment up to a maximum of SDR 5.7 million.
70.   The Bank has extended technical assistance to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
to develop and introduce the legal and institutional framework to manage public procurement,
and the framework is expected to be completed before the end of FY96. The possibility of
introducing the preshipment inspection for imports in the country will be discussed with the
Government in the context of preparation and introduction of legal and institutional framework
for public procurement, under the ongoing technical assistance program to reform the system.
71.   Disbursement.  The proposed credit will be disbursed in two equal tranches. The first
tranche (equivalent to US$22.5 million) will become available to the Government upon credit
effectiveness, expected in July 1995, and the second tranche six to eight months later. The
financing will be provided on the basis of (i) statements of expenditure, prepared in accordance



- 22 -
with the Bank's simplified documentation requirement for adjustment operations (i.e., based on
a customs certificate) for contracts valued at less that US$1 million; and (ii) full documentation
(i.e., contract, supplier's invoice, evidence of shipment, customs certificate, and evidence of
payment) for contracts of US$1 million and above, provided there are supporting documents that
the contracts were awarded on the basis of an open and competitive process. Contracts valued
at less than US$5,000 will not be eligible for financing. The project manager will prepare the
withdrawal applications and will keep photocopies of the customs documents on which the
applications are based. The original customs documents will be retained by the Customs
Department until three years after the closing of the project, and will be made available to Bank
supervision missions and to the auditors, as requested.
72.   Environmental Category. The project will have no direct impact on the environment.
For purposes of OD 4.01, it has been placed under Category U which does not require an
environmental assessment.
73.   Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release Conditions.   Continued satisfactory
performance in macroeconomic stabilization, will be a precondition for proceeding further with
the proposed APEAC.
74.   Pre-Board Conditions, which have been fully met, are listed below.
A More Competitive Environment
i.   Abolish export taxes on cotton and wool.
ii.   Repeal Decree #645 on price controls; abolish the Price Commission.
iii.  Issue decree of the Cabinet of Ministers (replacing Decrees #354 and 324),
satisfactory to IDA, for the reorganization and privatization of the Bread Complex
(para. 39).
iv.  Complete the privatization of mini-bakeries and bread distribution points through
auctions/tenders, and offer for sale a minimum of 5 large bread enterprises.
v.   Issue a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers (replacing Decree #394 of June 7, 1994),
satisfactory to IDA, for the reorganization and privatization of Tamak'ash Holding
Company and its constituent enterprises (paras. 42-44).
vi.  Offer for sale state shares in at least 5 Tamak'ash enterprises.
vii.  Initiate an operational audit of Potrebsoyuz with a view to designing a restructuring
plan.



- 23 -
viii. Issue a Presidential Order (a) ensuring strict enforcement of the procedures
established by the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic for the creation of holding
companies; (b) directing the Government to review and take necessary action against
the unlawful creation of holding companies by local governments; and (c) forbidding
local governments (regional and district administrations) from controlling the type of
production, the procurement distribution (including trade across provincial
boundaries) and pricing decisions of privatized and corporatized productive
enterprises, including farms.
Privatization, Governance and Enterprise Restructuring
i.   Issue a State Property Fund (SPF) resolution to speed up the privatization of all
medium and large-scale enterprises, which will (i) limit attempts to attract investors
to two rounds (using different methods of sale), and then channel the remaining
unsold shares or property to the coupons and/or cash auctions, as appropriate;
(ii) conclude the sale with the highest bidder in the second round of cash auctions;
and (iii) try leasing if there is no purchaser.
ii.   Design a scheme acceptable to IDA  for the management of state shares in
commercially oriented enterprises through private fiduciary arrangements.
iii.   Complete viability assessments of an additional 3 enterprises under ERRA.
iv.   Start implementing liquidation or restructuring of 3 enterprises. Implementation
includes: (i) creation of new legal entities with the assets and personnel that can be
reorganized into potentially viable individual enterprises; (ii) exit from ERRA through
the offer for sale of the shares or assets of these enterprises by SPF; and
(iii) retrenchment of significant number of excess employees in line with the recent
decisions of ERRA's Board on Kyrgyz Mining and Metallurgical Combinat, Maili-Sai
Electric Light Bulb Plant, and Bishkek Agricultural Machinery Plant.
Second Tranche Conditions
Agrarian Reform
i.    The Borrower to ensure secure rural property rights, as follows:
*  if the Kyrgyz Constitution does not allow the private ownership of land, the
Borrower to adopt legislation instituting automatic renewal of the right to use land
after 49 years, clear and limited grounds for terminating such right of land use,
and clear procedures for land to be used as collateral;
* if private ownership of land is instituted through Constitutional amendment, the
Borrower to establish, to the satisfaction of IDA, that the existing legislation



- 24 -
allows the transfer of land without undue restriction and that land can be
collateralized.
ii.   The Government to facilitate functioning of land markets by: (a) modifying the
administrative implementation guidelines of agrarian reform with a view to
eliminating maximum and minimum farm size requirements in various land
categories; (b) establishing a uniform land title or certificate; and (c) putting in place
streamlined land registration procedures vesting responsibility in a single authority;
A More Competitive Environment
i.    Submit to Parliament a draft law for competitive procurement of goods, works and
services by the state and its agencies.
ii.   Abolish all remaining export taxes.
iii. Complete the implementation of all measures identified in the Governmental Decree
on Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (Decree #192 of May 25, 1995), including offering for sale all
bread combines and factories slated for privatization in the Decree.
iv.   Complete the implementation of reorganization and privatization of Tamak'ash as
spelled out in Decree #191 of May 25, 1995, including offering for sale all the state-
owned shares in enterprises listed in the same Decree.
v.   The Government to adopt a Concept Note, satisfactory to IDA, establishing clear
guidelines for state operations in the wheat market.
Privatization. Governance and Enterprise Restructuring
i.    SPF to offer for sale: (i) all 100 percent state-owned enterprises included in the
1994-1995 program; (ii) the state shares targeted for coupon auctions in all
enterprises already partially privatized in accordance with the principles of the
Concept Note of Denationalization and Privatization for 1994-1995; and (iii) all
remaining state shares of the partially privatized enterprises in cash auctions.
ii.   The Government to issue a decree to set forth the 1996-1997 Privatization program
acceptable to IDA.
Enterprise Restructuring (ERRA)
i.    The Board of ERRA to take decisions regarding the restructuring or liquidation of at
least 10 enterprises (whose viability assessments have been completed) in compliance
with the agreed operating principles of ERRA, as approved by IDA.



- 25 -
ii.   Provide evidence, acceptable to IDA, that the restructuring/liquidation measures
decided by the Board of ERRA for any enterprise in its authority have been
implemented within the timeframe agreed in the operating principles of ERRA.
iii.  Submit evidence acceptable to IDA that at least 5 enterprises no longer have access
to funding from ERRA. Such evidence will include:
* offering for sale those enterprises or components thereof that have demonstrated
their viability;
* starting the liquidation procedures (including retrenchment of all employees) of
those enterprises and components thereof that have failed to become viable in the
agreed period.
B. Benefits and Risks
75.      Benefits. The proposed credit will support the Kyrgyz Republic's continued efforts
toward establishing a market economy. Past experience has shown that liberalization measures
in themselves do not necessarily generate market-oriented behavior on the part of economic
agents, in an economy long used to the command system where there are serious institutional
rigidities. This program under the APEAC, while further deepening Government's liberalization
measures, will try to bring about important structural changes in enterprises/institutions that
currently dominate the economy. It is expected that reorganization and privatization of major
agricultural procurement agencies would facilitate farmers' access to marketing channels, thereby
providing them with the incentive to increase production. The APEAC will also support the
Government's agrarian reform whose effective and adequate implementation is key to generating
the much needed supply response in the agricultural sector. Although the APEAC does not have
a direct social safety net component, measures supported under APEAC, aimed at improving
agricultural marketing channels and increasing agricultural productivity, will be instrumental in
alleviating rural poverty in the medium term.
76. Risks. There are three possible risks associated with the program. First, the Government
may not be able to continue its commitment to the overall reform because economic recovery
may be slow to materialize due to Kyrgyz Republic's unfavorable starting conditions. If this
were to be case, the non-reformists would be quick to put the blame on reforms and
liberalization measures, pressuring the policy makers to backtrack. Social discontent has not yet
become a major deterrent to the reform process, in part because several mechanisms such as the
postponement of payments for utility bills, the privileges accorded to labor collectives and
enterprise managers have helped preserve the relative income levels of certain social groups.
But as greater financial discipline is introduced in the economy and enterprise restructuring
proceeds, it would be increasingly difficult for the Government to overcome growing social
discontent. Second, there may be vested interests in the agricultural conglomerates that the
APEAC will help reorganize and privatize.  As a result, a transparent privatization and
restructuring program may encounter some internal resistance. This is not, however, a major
risk because the modalities of reorganizing these institutions have been extensively discussed and



- 26 -
agreed upon with managers thereof. Third, while appropriate policy design is critical, important
bottlenecks occur at the implementation stage. This is partly due to the fact that, in the past,
some reform components have failed to incorporate identified deficiencies in implementation
capacity, thus overestimating their prospects for realization. But it has also resulted from
institutional weaknesses and the lack of appropriate training. Technical assistance to some extent
can help overcome these deficiencies, but it will have to be carefully chosen, demand driven and
directly related to resolving practical issues.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Development Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1995



Attachment I
K bi P r hi 3                                    nPABHTEAbCCTBO
PECnYBJ1HKACbIHbIH                                        KblPrh13CKOF1
e K M 6 T Y                                   P E C n      Y B a X        K H
LIUIKEK Ui., eIMeT YMY                             r. BlE-IKEK, RaOM HPABWTEJIbCT8A
lPc'A *1J4si  199 s s . r.                                       S s9-3
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
Intenational Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Ca = 
'% m  .     1.   The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic has been  pursuing a
stabilization program and undertaling systemic reforms on several fronts to transform
ea   the economy. We already made significant progress towards establishing a market
economy. Inflation has been sharply reduced; the new currency is stable, and prices
* ~ give zlearer signals to economic agents. The Government is aware of the magnitude of
-< c   the structural adjustment that our economy would have to undergo, as result of price
3 .< liberalization, loss of the Former Soviet Union markets, and the massive deterioration
'a 4  in the terms of trade facing the Kyrgyz Republic.
2.    Current economic difficulties notwithstanding, we remain committed to
,_ >   following the reform path. The Government believes that stabilization efforts cannot
be sustained without deep structural reform. We started a comprehensive privatization
c    anad enterprise restructuring and/or liquidation program with World Bank assistance
X   under the Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC). The
Government believes that it would be difficult for the reform program itself to
continue unless there are visible signs of economic recovery. We will continue to
pursue agrarian reform based on clear and transparent implementation guidelines, with
a view to creating efficient private farm holdings for supply response. The
Government firmly believes that output recovery in the agricultural sector is also
essential to help alleviate rural poverty. At the same time, we continue to establish an
incentive framework compatible with a market economy. and focus our efforts on
measures that would induce effective changes at key institutions and enterprises,
especially in agroindustries and marketing, to set the adequate basis for the
resumption of growth.
3.    We would like to summarize below the progress to date in implementing
our reform program and the actions planned in the near future, to be supported by the
IDA-financed Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustnent Credit (APEAC).



Attachment I
2
Consolidating Agraian Reform
4.    Ft g at                            Agriculture is the mainstay of the
economy providing livelihood to over 40 percent of the population. The Government
is committed to transforming the agricultual sector into a private, market-based
system. The goal is to develop in the near future an agricultural sector dominated by
owner operated farm enterprises, involved in mixed crop and livestock production. A
number of decrees have been issued to solidity the principles of private rights to
land. The Government is in the process of preparing the constitutional amendment
allowing private ownership of land to be submitted to Parliament. Procedures,
consisting of the distribution of shares of land and other productive assets, have been
designed. Provisions are also being developed for shareholders to trade, bequeath, or
lease their shares. On the basis of the existing decrees and regulations, progress has
been made in farm privatization. Many private farms have been established, and the
share distribution is proceeding. The Government has also organized an Agricultural
Conference in November 1994, bringing together various stakeholders with a view to
developing a national consensus on some of the controversial issues of agrarian
reform.
5. Despite this progress, much more remains to be done. The Government is
particularly concerned by the fact that the newly privatized state and collective farms
have remained unchanged after the initial share distribution. Few shareholders have
opted to leave the existing farms establish private enterprises either individually or in
partnership with others. To  address the factors iahibiting true restructuring, the
Government will intensify its reform efforts in this area, recognizing that given the
enormous complexities and political sensitivities involved, a well prepared approach is
warranted.
6.    The Government is commaitted to ensuring secure access to land. It will
continue to pursue the constitutional amendment, and the enactment of the Civil Code
to allow private ownership of land. It will remove from the draft Civil Code,
restrictive clauses that would prevent the development of land markets. These include:
(i) the requirement that local governments have to approve all agricultural land
transactions; and (ii) the state's priority right to purchase agricultural land, except in
the case of eminent domain. If the legislative process becomes unduly constrained and
takes more time than initially envisaged, the Government will ensure through
appropriate modifications in the Land Code and the Presidential Decree of February
1994 that: (i) the right TO use land will be automatically renewed after 49 years and
not preferentially extended as the current legislation provides, and (iii) there will be
clear and limited grounds for termination of the land right use. Whether private land
ownership is instituted or not, the Kyrgyz laws on lease and on pledge will be
consistent with the development of agricultural land markets, including the righr to sell
or lease and use land as collateral.
7.   The Government will take stock of the outstanding issues based on past
experience with farn restructuring and ongoing pilot schemes, to guide the changes to
be introduced in existing decrees, regulations and implementation guidelines. The
Government will initiate work on a land reform consolidation program aimed at
further clarifying The following key elements of agrarian reform: (i) clear operational



Attachment I
3
procedures designed to facilitate exit from state and collective farms, as well as
corporatized farms either individually or in partnership through regrouping of shares
of land and other assets, when opting to establish a new enterprise; (ii) the purpose
of National Land Fund (NLF) and allocation of its land share; (iii) rights and
responsibilities of private farmers with respect to common irrigation system  and
pasture lands; and (iv) institutional responsibilities for implementing agrarian reform.
8.    The Government will amend the existing legislations, and enact new
ones, if necessary, to clarify and strengthen the following aspects of agrarian reform:
(  exit strateg  and functioning land markets including: (a) eliminating the minimum
and maximum private farm size requirements for various categories of agricultural
land, (b) abolishing the power of rurl committees to approve land transactions, (c)
limiting the period during which agricultural enterprises can lease land from
individuals to five years (to provide flexibility to shareholders in withdrawing from
the enterprise), and (d) full marketability of shares inside or outside the enterprise
in the case of corporate farms; (ii) Clarifi9ation of the NLF with regard to: (a) the
quality of land to be selected for the Fund, (b) criteria, procedures and timetable
through which land will be allocated to individual farmers, and (c) the institution to
decide on allocation; (iii) Transparent implementation procedures by: (a) establishing
separate procedures for adjudication of disputes, (b) issuing a uniform land title or
certficate, (c) streamlined land registration procedures vesting responsibility in a
single authority for land registration. The Government will launch an extensive public
education campaign informing the public about the status of laws and decrees
concerning agrarian reform and rights under them.
9.    Developing Credit and InRut Markets. The Government is concerned by
the farmers' lack of access to seasonal agricultural credit. This has been one of the
important factors constraining supply response in the agricultural sector. Unless a
comprehensive overhaul of the financial sector is undertaken, access to agricultural
credit will remain difficult. The Government believes that for the reasons outlined
below (para.10), the conditions are getting ready for a comprehensive financial sector
adjustment effort. In the meantime, the Government is exploring with the donors the
best possible interim measures to ensure provision of seasonal credit to newly
emerging private farmers.
10.   The national bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) has started to assert
control over monetary policies and the financial system in general. It closed three
banks and six bank's are under a special program. NBK has also raised minimum
capital requirements, and has tightened prudential guidelines. Diagnostic studies audits
according to international standards are planned for large state-owned financially
troubled banks, with a view to designing a restructuring and privatization program for
these banks. Several laws (The Chart of Accounts for banks, the Law on Banks and
Banking Activity, the Collateral Law) affecting banking sector are being drafted or
amended, and will be submitted to the Parliament in the course of 1995. Data are
being collecTed on enterprises' indebtedness to banks, to other enterprises and to the
budget, with the objective of going through a debt clearing exercise. Debt
restructuring of enterprises (other than those under ERRA and a similar scheme to be
established for state owned farms) will be undertaken, only if the debt of these
entexprises were due to inappropriate government policies, such as compulsory orders,
and non-payment by state agencies.



Attachment I
4
11.   Availability of and access to inputs by farmers are important for the
supply response in the agricultural sector. Kyrgyz Selchozchimia, the conglomerate
enterprise in charge of importing and distributing fertilizers and pesticides, has been
adyersely affected by the lack of demand for agricultural inputs owing to lack of
seasonal credit. The Government will continue to proceed with the privatization of
enterprises under Kyrgyz Selchozchimia. Thirty five of these enterprises have already
been converted into to joint stock companies, and the remaining 15 enterprises wiIl be
converted into joint stock companies by the end of June 1995. The state shares in all
these enterprises will be offered for sale by the end of 1995. The service organization
for pesticides will be retained by the Ministy of Agriculture, until adequate pesticide
regulations and enforcement capability has been developed under the Ministry of
Agriculture. Thereafter, the Kyrgyz Selchozchimia amalgamation itself will have no
reason to exist. Its operational staff will be absorbed into individual enterprises or the
Ministry of Agriculture, as appropriate.
Creatiny- a Competitive Environment
12.   Two overriding objectives of our reform program have been to rmpidly
eliminuate distortions inherited from the command system and to reduce the state's role
in the economy. Prices have been liberalized, and legal barriers Lo private sector
activity were eliminated. Resrictions on imports, quotas on exports, foreign exchange
surrender requirements, and state orders were abolished and a unified exchange rate
was introduced. In interrepublican trade, the number and quantity of commodities
subject to interstate trade agreements have been reduced, making room for
decentralized trade.
13.   We have abolished the export taxes on cotton and wool. We will
eliminate the remaining export taxes on hides and skins, and silk cocoons by the end
of 1995. We also repealed Decree #645 imposing price controls, and abolished the
price commiussion. At the same time, state procurement will be put on a competitive
basis through a tendering process in which commercial agents will buy on behalf of
the state, and the government will guarantee prompt payment for deliveries. An IDF
grant currenTly assists the Government in developing such a system. A related law will
be submitted to the Parliament in early 1996. Detailed implementation guidelines will
be issued after the enactment of the Procurement Law.
14.  The Government wants to ensure that the liberalization measures taken
and announced by the central government are adequately implemented at the local
level as well. For this purpose, the Government will take all the necessary measures
(either through a Presidential Decree, or through a Presidential Order), to forbid
local governments from dictating their own procurement prices and delivery
requirements to farms as well as to corporatized and partially privatized productive
enterprises and from restrictions on trade across provincial boundaries. During the
process of reorganizing the Ministry of Agriculture state owned as well as
corporatized farms will be removed from the administrative jurisdiction of local
governments. Also the Government will redefine the terms of reference of local
agricultural departments to include mainly implementation of agrarian reform and
technical support to farmers. Moreover, local administrations will no longer be in
charge of allocating budgetary credit to individual farmers starting in 1996; this will



Attachment I
5
be done either through a seasonal agricultural credit scheme to be established, or
through regular banking channels.
Demonopolization and Reorganization in Agroindustries
and Rural Trade
15.  The Government believes that price reform and liberalization measures
have to be accompanied by real and effective institutional ransformation. In an
economy dominated by large, state-owned, monopolistic enterprises and institutions,
improvements in the overall incentive framework would result in little structural
change. Moreover, the effectiveness of agrarian reform in increasing agricultural
productivity will in part depend on the availability of competitive and financaly
strong marketing channels. In this respect, of particular concern are the three
conglomerates (Kyrgyz Dan Azyk, Kyrgyz Tamak'ash, and Potrebsoyuz) that
dominate the agroindustrial sector and rural markets. The Government is committed to
take the necessary actions to reorganize and privatize these institutions, as summarized
below.
16.  KYi-yz Dan Azyk. The Government intends to reduce the role of sate in
grain and bread markets, with the ultimate objective of completely withdrawing from
those markets. For this purpose, it has almost completed the privatization of mini
bakeries through auctions; the preparation for the privatization of large combines and
bread factories is quite advanced; and, work on the new organizational structure and
functions of Kyrgyz Dan Azyk has been initiated.
17.  At the same time, the Government will reduce its role in the grain
markets. As a temporary measure, it will continue to hold state grain reserves to
ensure a steady flow of wheat supplies to remote areas. For this purpose, domestic
state procurement of wheat will not exceed 80,000 tons, representing about 10 percent
of total wheat consumption in the country. The level of procurement will be
progressively reduced as the private marketing system and the availability of working
capital develop. The transactions of state wheat reserves will take place at market
prices through competitive tenders or contracts on commodity exchanges. The
Government will prepare a Concept Note on management of state wheat reserves to
establish clear guidelines for its operations in the wheat market, and an early warning
system for its possible interventions.
18.  The reorganization and privatization of Kyrgyz Dan Azyk will include
the following elements: (i) all combines, grain elevators and bread factories will be
transformed into separate and independent joint stock companies, and be included in
the 1994/95 Privatzation Program with the exception of maximum 3 combinats (at
least one in the South required for storing interregional state wheat reserves referred
to above; (ii) the administrative links between Kyrgyz Dan Azyk and enterprises will
be severed, its oversight functions will be transferred to SPF; (iii) Kyrgyz dan Azyk
will be reorganized and downsized, and converted into a joint stock company that wil
include only units for quality testing, fumigation/pest control, and market information,
and (iv) other Kyrgyz Dan Azyk enterprises (construction, transport, storage and
produiction) will be converted into autonomous joint stock companies to be privatized.
The state will not seek to maintain minority shareholding in privatized enterprises.



Attachment I
6
The state ownership of these enterprises until their privatization wil not affect their
pricing and other commercial decision.
19. Kyrrz Tamak'ash. The Tamak'ash Holding Company will be
reorganized and privatized to make its functions consistent with the requirements of a
market economy. Tamak'ash will be privatized as a consulting company by December
1995, with 100 percent employee and management ownership, as it does aot own any
major physical assets. The corporate levies that Tamak'ash now receives (0.7 percent
of revenues from manufacturing enterprises and 20 to 30 percent of profits from
trading companies) wil cease by December 1995. Tamak'ash will provide its services
to enterprises, if needed, on a purely voluntary fee basis. At the same time, the
Governmeat will offer for sale (in line with the methods of the government's
privatization program) the state-owned shares in enterprises formerly and currently
under the Tamak'ash umbrella, no later than February 1996.
20.   The Government will take measures to prevent oblast level and other
local administrations from reasserting state control on privatized and corporatized
enterprises at the local level. To that end, through a decree, new holding companies
controlled by local governments for productive enterprises will be banned, and
existing holding companies for productive enterprises in which local authorities hold
directly or indirectly a controling shareholding interest will be dissolved.
21.   Kvrgvz Potrebsovuz. The Government will take all possible steps to
reduce the dominance of Potrebsoyuz in rural procurement, distribution and retail
trade, with a view to allowing greater competition. To facilitate the entry into rural
trade and to transform the existing cooperatives into true market-oriented
cooperatives, a cooperative law has already been enacted by Parliament- If needed,
the existig Cooperative Law will be amended to further enchance cooperative
members' rights, to sever the obligatory ties between regional cooperatives and the
union, and To allow the primary cooperatives to dispose of their assets without the
union's approval. As agreed between the Government and the maagement of
Potrebsoyuz, an operational audit of Profsoyuz will be undertaken with technical
assistance faciliTated by the Bank. The purpose of this study will be to design a
restructuring strategy for Potrebsoyuz that will clarify ownership rights, create a
decentralized pattern of ownership over warehouses and product purchase and
distribution, ensure supply of essential items TO rural areas without distorting prices or
other market mechanisms. The management of Potrebsoyuz is in full agreement with
this approach.
Privatization, Oversight and Enterprises Restructuring
22.   Privatization. The objectives of the Government's privatization program
are to ensure' that the methods of privatization are transparent, competitive, conductive
to achieving economic efficiencv, and equitable. The Government has revised its
privatization strategy to include free use of individual shareholding rights, auction of
state-owned shares against vouchers, the systemic use of competitive methods of
privatization, and imposed limits on privileges to be granted to labor collectives and



Attachment I
7
managers. The SPF has already conducted 76 voucher auctions for the shares of 390
medium- and large-scale enterprises, and 27 cash auctions for the shares or assets of
226 enterprises. Further, 70 large enterprises have been offered for sale through
competitive privatization proposals aimed at attracting strategic investors by offering
them the opportunity to acquire up to 70 percent of the shares of these enterprises.
23.   To achieve its ambitious time-bound targets for the privatization of
medium and large-scale enterprises, SPF will adopt a revised procedure that will
greatly accelerate the divestiture process. Under this procedure, The SPF will limit
attempts to attract strategic investors to two offers using different competitive methods
of sale. If the second attmpt is unsuccessful, the unsold shares or property will be
channelled to the voucher and/or cash auctions, as appropriate. The voucher auctions
are so designed that the shares offered are disposed of in a single round, and the
cash auctions will be limited to two rounds of bidding, with the shares or property
sold to the highest bidder, without reference to a floor price, in the course of the
second round. If no purchaser can be found, the SPF will attempt to lease the
enterprise to a private manager, or initiate liquidation procedures, as appropriate.
24.   It is expected that the speedy privatization method referred to above will
be instrumental in expediting the implementation of the 1994-1995 Privatization
Program within the timeframe originally envisioned. As a result, by the end of 1995,
the SPF should have completed the divestiture of all small-scale enterprises through
voucher and cash auctions, and offered for sale the shares of the medium-and large-
scale enterprises to strategic investors and voucher holders, including investment
funds. By January 1996, the Government will adopt the 1996-1997 Privatization
Program, based on similar methods of divestiture, with the Intention of offering for
sale all objects in this program no later than end-1997. This last Program aims at
completing the privatization of the commercially-oriented state-owned enterprises in
the Kyrgyz Republic.
25.   Oversight of state-owned shares. Although the Government is committed
to proceed with the privatization program as quickly as possible, it recognizes that the
state will nonetheless retain for some time a minority shareholding in some
commercially oriented enterprises and significant, if not complete, ownership of
unilities. So far, the supervision of the SPF over the state's interest as an owner has
been little more than formal, resulting in little accountability of enterprise managers to
their shareholders. The Government does not intend to create in SPF (or elsewhere
in the government) a large bureaucratic structure to perform oversight functions,
because this is a temporary issue since the Government's main objective is to complete
privatization rapidly.
26.   The SPF will, therefore, put in place a lean and market-oriented
mechanism to perform the oversight function of state-owned shares. For this purpose,
it will appoint independent financial management experts acting as fiduciaries on
behalf of SPF, as owner. This scheme will include the following main elements: (i)
the private fiduciaries will be selected in a transparent manner on the basis of their
expertise and will be appointed on fixed-term renewable contract; (ii) the fiduciaries
will be given clear instructions regarding the state's expectations as a shareholder,
which may vary from one enterprise to another; (iii) the process of contracring out



Attachment I
8
the responsibilities of SPF to the fiduciaries will be documented in a set of clear and
transparent rules and procedures; and, (iv) an incentive scheme will be designed
linking compensation to performance improvement in enterprises.
27.   Enteririse Restructing.  The Government has already initiated an
ambitious enterprise restructuring/liquidation plan with the assistance of the PESAC
program. The Government identified 29 large loss-making enterprises with doubtful
potential for future viability, and established the Enterprise Reform and Resolution
Agency (ERRA) to assess the prospects for viability of these enterprises, to design
and   to assist with the implementation of restructuring program  and possible
liquidation. Under a "care and maintenance" program, these enterprises have stopped
all production lines that cannot generate enough revenue to cover their direct
production costs, and to prevent further accumulation of non-performing loans in the
banking sector, they have been effectively cut from access to new bank credits. The
Government has set aside budgetary funds to finance: (i) the payment of workers on
administrative leave and the operation of essential social services; (ii) the
implemenmttion of downsizing, spining of assets and financial restructuring programs
in tie potentially viable components, and liquidation of the unviable ones; (iii)
severance payments and other legal rights for redundant workers; and (iv) the
provision, for a limited period, of the bridge financing strictly necessary to allow
potentially viable entities to resume production and demonstrate that they can generate
a positive operating cash flow.
28.  As part of the agreement under PESAC, the Government completed the
diagnostic sTudies for 3 enterprises and started acting on the recommendations of
these studies. Before June 1995, the Government will complete the diagnostic studies
of a minimrum of 3 additional enterprises. The Government will complete the
restructuring or the closure of 5 initial enterprises before February 1996. By that date,
it will also have completed the diagnostic of 5 additional enterprises and will have
initiated the necessary passive restructuring or liquidation measures according to the
operating principles of ERRA and strict time-bound implementation program agreed
under PESAC. Diagnostic studies will start with enterprises in the most difficult
economic and financial situation. During implementation of the recommendations of
the diagnostic studies, the Government wil demonstrate its commitment to the
principles of ERRA by: (1) implementing the passive restructuring measures required
to allow potentially viable entities to demonstrate that they can become financially
profitable within a reasonable period of time that will not exceed 6 to 9 months; (ii)
at the earliest possible date, pernanently closing the entities and laying off the
personnel of all entities that win initially be found to have no prospect of future
viability, and of those that will fail to return to profitability in spite of restructuring
efforts; and (iii) immediately offering all viable entities for sale in the privatization
program.
29.   The Government has created ERRA as a time-bound institution wilh a
lifespan of 4 years. Therefor, the Govemment wiWl take all necessary actions to
complete the viability studies of all ERRA enterprises by December 1995, to complete
The passive restructuring of the potentially viable entities by December 1996, and to
finalize the senlement of all claims on the enterprises to be liquidated in the course of



Attachment I
9
1998. Staling with the 1997 Budget, no funding will be provided by ERRA to any of
the enterprises, and The budgetary allocation of ERRA will be exclusively limited to
the amount necessary to complete its role as liquidator.
30.   As part of their restructuring process, enterprises will have to divest
assets that are not related to production. Some, such as mountain resorts, farms, and
hotels need to be run profitably on a full cost-recovery basis and will be privatized.
Others, such as hospitals, district heatiLg, electricity, water and sewage, provide
essential public services that cannot, for the time being, be fully financed from
revenues generated by the population they serve. The Government finds it essential
that these services are transferred in a way that does not cause major disruption in the
delivery of services, or continue to constitute a financial burden adversely affecting
enterprises' future viability. Therefore, based on pilot studies undertaken in several
oblasts and based on the experience of ERRA enterprises, the Government intends to
develop a national plan that will: (i) determine which of the services are essential and
should be provided by the oblasts, or any other govenmment agency; (ii) include a
timebound program for achieving cost recovery for the above-mentioned services; and
(iii) estimate the magnitude of expenditures that will remain the responsibility of the
local administrations, and incorporate these expenditures in the intergovernmental
fiscal system starting with the 1996 Budget.
Legal Action
31.   The Government has been undertaking significant efforts to adjust its
legal and regulatory framework governing the economic activities in the Kyrgyz
Republic to the needs of a market economy. To that end, a law on bankruptcy was
enacted, with implementation regulations for baaks and enterprises. The Government
has also prepared draft laws on lease, collateral, and public procurement.
32.   The Government is committed to the further implementation of its legal
reform action plan. Before the end of 1995, the Government will submit to
Parliament: (a) the draft Law on Company; (b) the draft law on collateral (providing,
in particular, that land may be used as collateral); (c) the amendment to the Law on
Lease: and (d) the draft law on public procurement. In addition, by the same date,
the Government will prepare and submit to Parliament: (i) a draft civil code (first
part), the contents of which will be consistent with the draft laws listed under letters
(a) to (d) above. Finally, the Government will: (i) take all the necessary measures to
clarify the rights to land and the procedures under which such rights shall be freely
transferable; and (ii) start work on the preparation of a draft law on arbitration. We
intend to submiT these drafts to IDA for review.
Sincerely yours,
A. Dzhurnagulov
Prime Minister



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                      Attachment II
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                  ACTIONS INTRODUCED                   ISSUES              ACTION PROGRAM                     TIMING
I. Consolidating Agrarian
Reform
(i) Ensure secure access to land. The Government will submit to   The timing of the approval of the  If the Kyrgyz Constitution is    Second Tranche
Parliament a constitutional    constitutional amendment is    not amended to allow for pri-
amendment allowing private     uncertain. Lack of clear       vate ownership of land, the
ownership of land.             definition of ownership rights to   Borrower to institute automatic
land constitutes an impediment to  renewal of the right to use land
the development of land markets. after 49 years and clear and
limited grounds for terminating
land use rights, and to clarify
the procedures for land to be
used as collateral.
If the Kyrgyz Constitution    Second Tranche
allows private ownership of
land, the Borrower to establish
to the satisfaction of IDA that
the existing legislation does
allow land to be transferred and
to be used as collateral.
(ii) Create more efficient farm    The Government resumed the  Current enactments on land    The Government to facilitate   Second Tranche
units through land reform and    land reform and farm         reform are not sufficiently    development of land markets
farm restructuring             restructuring process.         detailed or comprehensive to   by: (i) eliminating maximum
promote a sustainable program of and minimum farm size require-
land distribution and farm size    ments in various land cate-
adjustment.                    gories; (ii) issuing a uniform
land title or certificate; and
(iii) establishing one-step land
registry system in each rayon.
Launch an extensive public    Letter of
education campaign informing    Development Policy
the public about the status of    (LDP)
laws and decrees concerning
land reform and their rights
under them.
-1-



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                       Attachment II
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                  ACTIONS INTRODUCED                    ISSUES              ACTION PROGRAM                      TIMING
I. Create a More Competitive
Environment for
Agroenterprises
(i) Continue to establish      State orders and ceilings on    Implementation of a competitive   Submit to the Parliament the  Second Tranche
competitive trade and price    marketing margins eliminated.    procurement system not yet in    legislation for a competitive
regimes.                       Government to prepare a law on   place.                         procurement system for state
procurement (PESAC).                                           needs.
Export licensing requirements  Export taxes on cotton, wool,   Abolish export taxes on cotton   Done
abolished; number of goods     hides and silk cocoons.         and wool.
subject to export taxes reduced
(PESAC).                                                       Abolish remaining export taxes.  Second Tranche
Decree #645, August 22, 1994,   Repeal Decree #645; abolish the Done
introduces a draft law with price   Price Commission.
controls; a Price Commission
was established.
(ii) Reduce local governments'                                 Local governments' interference  Issue a Presidential Order:  Done
interference in economic decision                             in commercial decisions reduce   (i) directing the Government to
making.                                                       the impact of liberalization     review and take necessary act-
measures taken at the national    ion against unlawful creation of
level.                         holding companies by local gov-
ernments; (ii) ensuring strict
enforcement of the procedures
established by the legislation of
the Kyrgyz Republic for creat-
ing holding companies; (iii) for-
bidding local governments from
controlling procurement, distri-
bution and pricing decisions of
privatized and corporatized
productive enterprises.
Take and implement a govern-   LDP (Starting in
mental decision that budgetary   1996)
-2-



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                    Attachment II
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                 ACTIONS INTRODUCED                  ISSUES             ACTION PROGRAM                    TIMING
credit will not be allocated to
farmers by local government
administrators, but through a
rural credit scheme.
(iii) Improve efficiency and                                The original privatization    Issue a governmental decree  Done
competition in agro-industry and                            program of the Bread Complex   (replacing Decrees #354 and
rural trade by effecting                                    was deficient and unrealistic.  324) for the reorganization and
institutional changes in                                    Kyrgyz Dan Azyk (KDA) to      privatization of KDA with the
organizations that dominate these                           continue centralized          following provisions:
sectors.                                                    procurement; privatized
enterprises to be organized under * converting all units (bread
a holding company.               combinats and bread factor-
ies) into independent
commercial JSCs;
* eliminating all administrat-
ive and oversight functions
of KDA;
* downsizing KDA to include
only units for testing, fumi-
gation/pest control and
market information, and
converting it to a JSC;
* converting all other enter-
prises under KDA (construc-
tion, transportation, storage
and production) to JSCs.
Complete privatization of mini-  Done
bakeries through auctions and/
or tenders, and offer for sale at
least 5 large bread enterprises.
Complete implementation of the  Second Tranche
new Decree on KDA (Govern-
mental Decree #192 of May 25,
1995), including offering for
sale all factories and combinats
-3 -



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                      Attachment II
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                 ACTIONS INTRODUCED                   ISSUES              ACTION PROGRAM                     TIMING
slated for privatization in the
same Decree.
Plans announced for restructuring  Agroindustries and rural trade  Repeal Decree #394 and replace Done
Tamak'ash and Potrebsoyuz.     dominated by monopolistic SOEs  with a decree with the following
preventing competition and the    provisions to demonopolize or
establishment of strong marketing  privatize Tamak'ash and its
channels.                      enterprises:
* Corporatize Tamak'ash
Holding as a consulting
company with no ownership
rights or administrative
control over enterprises;
* corporatize all state-owned
enterprises at Tamak'ash;
* transfer oversight functions
back to SPF;
* transform Tamak'ash
Holding into a private
consulting company.
Offer for sale state shares in at Done
least 5 Tamak'ash enterprises.
Complete the implementation of  Second Tranche
the new Decree on Tamak'ash
(Government Decree #191 of
May 25, 1995), including
offering for sale all the
enterprises listed in the Decree.
The integrated structure of rural  Initiate study to review inter-    Done
cooperatives (Potrebsoyuz)     linkages and interdependencies
prevents entry to rural trade.  of Potrebsoyuz, and the legal
framework for cooperatives,
with a view to designing a
restructuring plan.
-4-



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                      Attachment 11
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE AWIIUSrMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                 ACTIONS INTRODUCED                   ISSUES              ACTION PROGRAM                     TIMING
Develop a strategy and       January 1996, LDP
implementation plan for
Potrebsoyuz that will:
(i) clarify ownership rights;
(ii) create a decentralized
pattern of ownership over
warehouses, and product
purchase and distribution; and
(iii) transforn the union into a
center for technical support for
member cooperatives.
(iv) Reduce the role of the state                             The state used to hold large  The Government to adopt a     Second Tranche
wheat markets.                                                wheat reserves with no consider-  Concept Note satisfactory to
ation given to fiscal implications  IDA establishing clear guide-
and impact on wheat markets.    lines for the management of
wheat state reserves.
III. Continuing the Momentum
in Privatization, Governance
and Enterprise Restructuring
(i) Establish a larger private  The Government revised privati-  New methods are needed to   Issue a State Property Fund  Done
sector.                        zation methods to include auction  speed up the privatization of all  (SPF) resolution to: (i) limit
and competitive bidding, limit    medium and large-scale      attempts to attract investors to
privileges of labor collectives,    enterprises.              two rounds (using different
and removal of business profiles.                            methods of sale), then channel
Four voucher auctions conducted                               the remaining unsold shares or
for shares still held by SPF; pri-                            property to coupons and/or cash
vatization proposals invited for                             auctions, as appropriate;
70 enterprises (PESAC).                                      (ii) conclude the sale with the
highest bidder in the second
round of cash auctions;
-5.



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                       Attachment II
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTrMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                  ACTIONS INTRODUCED                   ISSUES               ACTION PROGRAM                     TIMING
and (iii) try leasing if there is
no purchaser.
SPF to offer for sale: (i) all    Second Tranche
100% state-owned enterprises
included in the 1994-1995
program; (ii) state shares target-
ed for coupon auctions in all
enterprises already privatized;
and (iii) all remaining state
shares slated for privatization in
cash auctions.
Approval of the 1996-97       Second Tranche
Privatization Program with the
same principles as in 1994/95
Program (with the addition of
speedy privatization method).
ii) Impose financial discipline on   The Government established  There is a risk that political  Complete viability assessment   Done
enterprises.                   ERRA to deal with the 29 loss-   pressures may deviate ERRA    of 3 additional enterprises under
making enterprises, and        from its initial objectives.   ERRA.
restructuring/liquidation plans
adopted for three enterprises                                 Start implementing liquidation/   Done
(PESAC).                                                      restructuring of 3 enterprises.
Implementation to include:
(i) creation of new legal
entities with the assets and
personnel that can be reorgan-
ized into potentially viable
enterprises; (ii) exit from ERRA
by offering for sale assets and
shares of the enterprises;
(iii) retrenchment of significant
number of excess employees.
-6-



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                        Attachment II
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTEPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                  ACTIONS INTRODUCED                    ISSUES               ACTION PROGRAM                      TIMING
The Board of ERRA to take     Second Tranche
decisions regarding the restruc-
turing or liquidation of 10
enterprises in compliance with
the agreed operating principles
of ERRA.
Provide evidence that restruc-    Second Tranche
turing and/or liquidation plans
for ERRA enterprises have
been implemented within the
timeframe agreed in the
operating principles of ERRA.
Submit evidence, acceptable to   Second Tranche
IDA, that at least 5 enterprises
no longer have access to
funding from ERRA.
The Government to take all    December 1995,
necessary actions to complete    LDP
the viability studies of all
remaining ERRA enterprises.
The Government to complete    December 1996,
the implementation of the     LDP
turnaround and/or liquidation
plans of all ERRA enterprises.
(iii) Improve corporate                                        The lack of proper oversight    Design a scheme acceptable to   Done
governance of SOEs to prevent   The SPF is in the process of   mechanism over enterprises has,  IDA for the management of
the unhealthy relationship     developing institutional capacity   de facto, led to either control of   state shares in commercially
between enterprises, ministries    to manage the state's share in    these enterprises by sectoral  oriented enterprises through
and holding companies.         enterprises.                    ministries, or almost complete    private fiduciary arrangements.
lack of accountability of
managers to shareholders.
-7-



Attachment III
ENTERPRISE REFORM AND RESOLUTION AGENCY (ERRA)
Key Operating Principles
I. Introduction
1.    Under the PESAC reform program, the Government has established a high level, semi-
autonomous agency, the Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA) to tackle the
liquidation/passive restructuring of up to 30 large loss-making state-owned enterprises (LLMEs)
which are in serious financial difficulty. These enterprises have been selected on the basis of
their level of indebtedness to the Government, to the banks and/or to other enterprises as of
January 1, 1994. At present, there are 28 enterprises under ERRA.
2.    ERRA's primary task is to oversee the passive restructuring/liquidation of these
enterprises within a period of two to four years.
II. Key Operating Principles of ERRA
3.    The operations of ERRA are being guided by the following set of fundamental principles:
The Working Presumption
a.    As the enterprises placed under ERRA are currently bankrupt, the working
presumption of ERRA is liquidation, i.e. time-phased closure and divestiture of
assets. The burden of proof is on each enterprise arguing against liquidation to
show that it is "economically viable", and can become "financially viable".
Viability Assessment of Enterprises
b.    As a priority task, ERRA is to undertake a diagnostic study of each individual
enterprise, with the assistance of outside experts to determine current and
potential "economic" and "financial" viability of the enterprise. Until such time
as the viability diagnostic study for each enterprise has been completed, each
enterprise is put under a "care and maintenance" program to limit further
financial losses and additional build-up of arrears.
The Care and Maintenance Program (C&M)
c.    Under the "care and maintenance" program, the enterprises immediately close
down their operations to prevent further build-up of inventories and reduce costs



-2-                                Attachment III
to a minimum pending a detailed assessment of the viability of their product
line(s). Under the C&M program, only a core team of personnel is kept at work
in the premises to maintain the buildings, ensure that the equipment is kept in
good working condition and safeguard the property. No further purchase of new
machinery and equipment and raw materials takes place, and energy consumption
is limited to the minimum required for the above. The company might also keep
a number of sales staff to endeavor to sell the existing inventory and raise some
revenues. Essential social services, chiefly enterprise-related health care and
schooling facilities, continue to be provided to the employees and their families.
All other employees are put on administrative leave, and paid a percentage of
their salary, pending the conclusion of the viability study of the enterprise and
a decision regarding its restructuring, or closure. Once that decision is made,
their employment contracts will be renegotiated or canceled. All costs incurred
by ERRA enterprises for district heating during the winter months are assumed
by ERRA, until end-December 1995;
d.    Enterprises under the C&M program are not allowed bank credit.
e.    Financial assistance during the C&M period of an enterprise, and during the
i-mplementation of passive restructuring/turnaround plans for potentially viable
enterprises, will be provided by the Government, through ERRA, in a
transparent manner from the State budget.
Passive Restructuring
f.    All ERRA supported restructuring will be passive and will focus on hiving off
potentially viable units from the original, liability-burdened, entity that will then
be liquidated. The new viable units will be immediately offered for sale under the
privatization program. The proceeds of the sale of these new entities, and of the
assets that cannot be reorganized into new viable production units, will be used
by the liquidator to settle the liabilities of the old entity. The passive restructuring
program will result in: (i) business rationalization and down-sizing; (ii) closure
of non-viable business units and disposal of excess or unproductive assets;
(iii) separation and disposal of activities peripheral to the core business;
(iv) elimination of over-staffing; and (v) settlement of liabilities. As a rule, new
investments in plant and equipment will not be financed. In exceptional cases,
limited investment in equipment, such as replacement of a machine tool, may be
considered only if it is essential to maintain in operation a clearly profitable
production line and it guarantees a high and quick financial return;



-3-                              Attachment III
Financial Support to ERRA from the State Budget
4.    Counterpart funds generated under adjustment operations from IDA are made available
to the State Budget. As part of the annual budget preparation process, the Ministry of Finance
and the Management of ERRA will agree on a fixed amount of funds to be transferred from the
State Budget to ERRA, to finance the C&M program, and passive restructuring of ERRA
enterprises in the coming fiscal year.  Before finalizing the decision on the amount of
counterpart funds to be transferred to ERRA, the Minister of Finance will have consultations
with the IMF and IDA, to ensure consistency with the macroeconomic program, and to
guarantee that ERRA has the resources necessary to carry out its mandate.
Financial Support from ERRA to Enterprises: Use of ERRA Funds
5.  ERRA funds would be used for the following purposes in the given order:
(i)   paying the salaries of workers of enterprises under the C&M Program placed on
administrative leave during the period of diagnostic studies, and other ancillary
costs of the C&M program;
(ii)   providing severance pay -- including payments of accumulated wage arrears and
overdue payments to the social fund -- for employees to be laid off;
(iii)  paying for enterprise-related health care and schooling services which will
continue to be provided to the employees and their families under the C&M
program;
(iv)  paying for heating (and hot water) traditionally provided by some ERRA
enterprises to their employees, and to the residents of nearby towns until end-
December 1995, when these services are transferred from ERRA to the energy
company, or the local governments, as appropriate;
(v)   financing technical assistance requirements of those enterprises or their specific
units which the viability assessment has found potentially viable;
(vi)  financing, until they generate enough cash flow, the minimum initial working
capital required for those enterprises or their specific units which the viability
assessment has found potentially viable to resume their activity.
6.  ERRA's Board will approve all financial transfers to enterprises, before these funds are
committed. The management of ERRA will have the authority to monitor the use of funds by
the enterprises, and to compel changes in expenditure and investment by the enterprise's
management to ensure compliance with the specified restructuring plan.



-4-                                Attachment III
7.    In all but exceptional cases, an enterprise will be "deemed financially viable" if it has
been able to generate a "positive operating cash flow" over a two month period. A positive
operating cash flow occurs when the "gross profit" (sales revenue, including barter, minus cost
of goods sold) for a given period exceeds the sum of the value of: (i) change in stocks; and
(ii) change in accounts receivables.
Transfer of Social and Public Services
8.     After the completion of diagnostic studies, as part of "passive" restructuring of ERRA
enterprises, the "management" and "financing" of Social and Public services provided by ERRA
enterprises, will be transferred to local authorities or the appropriate agencies in the following
way:
-     social assets that could be run as profitable independent entities, will be offered for sale
by SPF within 1 month of the Board's decision;
-     all other "social" and "public" services will be taken over by the local authorities or
other appropriate agencies (such as the Energy Company), with the personnel strictly
necessary for their operation, within 2 months of the Board's decision;
-     all costs traditionally incurred by ERRA enterprises for heating and hot water, during
the winter months, will be compensated by ERRA, until end-December 1995;
-     in the context of the preparation of the 1996 budget, the Ministry of Finance, the utility
companies and the local governments will work out a timebound action plan to establish
and gradually improve cost recovery for the provision of these social and public services.
If budgetary transfer is necessary to the local authorities, this will be decided in the
context of the budget preparation exercise.
Provision of Working Capital
9.    Working capital from ERRA will be provided only after the completion of the viability
assessment, and only to new joint-stock company(ies) that have been found potentially viable.
enterprises under ERRA which are operating some production lines pending the result
of their full viability assessment, will not receive working capital from ERRA, as their
product lines were kept open on the condition that they generate enough positive cash
flow to cover their direct operating costs;
companies that require technical assistance to demonstrate their viability will not receive
working capital until after the technical assistance is positioned in the company;



-5-                                Attachment III
ERRA will provide working capital on the basis of month-by-month cash-flow projections
covering the 6 to 9 month period during which the company has to demonstrate its
viability. The cash flow projection will assess the bridge financing required for initial
purchase of raw materials necessary to restart production, and to cover expenses during
the production cycle until the company generates a positive operating cash flow;
ERRA will provide working capital in the form of a loan, at commercial interest rates
with a maximum maturity of 12 months, to be disbursed monthly, based on a review of
the actual results of the enterprises compared with the original cash flow projections.
Debt Clearance
10.   No debt clearance would be accorded by ERRA to the old liabilities-burdened entities,
until ERRA proceeds to liquidate the (old) entities. Under the Kyrgyz Insolvency Legislation,
the creditors would be paid by the liquidator in the following order: (i) liabilities to secured
creditors; (ii) expenses of the liquidator; (iii) debts to employees; (iv) liabilities to non-secured
creditors; (v) debt to the budget; (vi) creditors who agreed to postpone their demands; and (vii)
shareholders.
Exit Policy from ERRA
11.   The Board of Directors of ERRA will decide on the liquidation or restructuring of the
enterprises no later than one (1) month after the Russian version of the final report of the
diagnostic study teams has been submitted. The decision of the Board must adhere to the
following principles and timing for exit from ERRA:
(a)   enterprises, or parts thereof, that have been found to have no prospect of future viability,
will be permanently closed and all the personnel employed by the enterprise, or attached
to the unviable component(s), will be laid off. The retrenchment process will start no
later than 1 month after the Board's decision. The period to complete retrenchment of
all personnel could take into account the number of employees affected, but would not
exceed 4 months from the date of Board's decision;
ERRA as liquidator (or SPF as its agent) will start auctioning off the assets of the closed
structure within 1 month after Board decision and the process of settlement of the
liabilities will be completed at the earliest possible date.
(b)   enterprises, or components thereof, that can operate as viable self-contained entities
without retrenchment of personnel and/or debt settlement will be converted into new
JSCs (or other forms of separate legal entities) within 3 month of the Board's decision
and will be offered for sale by SPF, within 1 month of their registration as new legal
entities;



-6-                               Attachment III
(c)   core businesses, or components of the enterprises, that could become viable provided
their liabilities are cleared in whole or in part will be transformed into new joint-stock
companies within 3 month of the Board's decision. The new joint-stock company(ies) will
be organized with the assets, personnel and part of the debt (if any) that can be
transferred from the existing structure without impairing their viability as new businesses.
The new joint-stock company(ies) will have to demonstrate their viability within a
maximum  of 6 month after registration as new entities.  If the new joint-stock
company(ies) requires technical assistance, this assistance would have to be provided
(contract signed with the necessary consultants) no later than 3 months after Board
decision, and the company(ies) would then have a maximum of 6 month after contract
signature to demonstrate viability;
(d)   all funding from ERRA will stop at the end of a maximum period of 6 to 9 months
allowed in order to exit from ERRA. If potentially viable enterprises (i) have
demonstrated their viability, they will be offered for sale by SPF, within 1 month of exit
from ERRA. If potentially viable enterprises (ii) have failed to demonstrate their viability
within the agreed period, they will still be offered for sale by SPF, within 1 month of
exit from ERRA. If SPF fails to find a buyer for the enterprises described in (ii) above,
these company(ies) would be permanently closed and liquidated.



Attachment IV
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Credit Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:     8 months
Prepared by:               The Government of Kyrgyz Republic with assistance from IDA
Identification Mission:    September/October 1994
Appraisal Mission Departure: March 11, 1995
Date of Negotiations:      May 10, 1995
Planned date of effectiveness: July 30, 1995
This report is based on the findings of preparation and appraisal missions that visited Kyrgyz Republic
between September 1994 and March 1995, comprising Messrs./Mmes Z. Taymas (Senior Economist,
Mission Leader), T. Yaprak (Country Economist), L. Brefort (Senior Public Enterprise Specialist),
S. Sen Gupta (Senior Private Sector Development Specialist), A. Duncan, S. Jones (consultants),
S. Migot-Adholla (Senior Sociologist). The peer reviewers were Mr. P. Harold, Mr. Y. Shahid, and
Ms. K. Brooks. Mr. K. Yurukoglu and Mr. Y. Huang are the managing Division Chief, and Department
Director, respectively. The Report was processed by Ms. Ala Cubukcu.



Kyrgyz Republic - Status of Bank Group Operations
STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(As of 05/26/95)
Original amount        Difference              Last ARPP
in US$ millions      between actual        supervision rating
Project    Fiscal                                                                     and expected    Development        Overall
ID       Year        Borrower             Purpose       IBRD   IDA   Undisbursed  disbursements       Objectives       Status
KG-PA-8512    93                         Rehabilitation             60.0         19.63          14.38         S               S
KG-PA-8518    94   Gov't of Kyrgyzstan   Telecommunications         18.0         19.80            .10         S               S
KG-PA-8514    94   Gov't of Kyrgyzstan   Priv. & Ent. SAC           60.0        34.61           29.86                         S
KG-PA-8515    95   Gov't of Kyrgyzstan   Social Safety Net          17.0         18.39            -.48
KG-PA-8524    95   Gov't of Kyrgyzstan   Private Enterprise         15.0         15.00           0.00
Support Project a/
TOTAL                                                              170.0        107.42          43.85                   N/A
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)        74.35
Of which has been repaid             0.0
Total now held by IBRD and IDA        74.35
Amount sold                   :        0.0
Of which repaid              :       0.0
Total Undisbursed             :        107.42
Number of closed Loans/Credits         0.00
a/ Approved May 4, 1995 - Not yet effective.
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
FY95  Kumtor Gold Company  Senior Loan              Subordinated Loan
$30 million             $10 million



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25844
T                                           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- -.   R A I O A
TASHK <  E
U u Z B E K I S T A N   4*                              <              /    g                              <    ~                   -                                 t.  -)                     //           ~~<ti-TC
/                 .                    >9          ,                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
;                                     /           (   z                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE
1.~-x X z  -  SECTOR  ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
ro T  A J I K I S T A N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& t71m __ Jr- RAILROAD5~~~~~~~~~~~~~RALRAD
708            .-w~~~~T No.A-b                                                                                                                                            - Ow      MAIN ROADS
l^-  "r                                                                                                         -   OTH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IER RAS
N.>  , _,  >far  _  . 2 NATIONALCAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()   ATOALCAITL
AZ\R5^L^N ,'   /   ' :'21    K A Z A K H S T A N   y<  )                                                                                           97  OaLAST CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( OBASTCAPTAL
-. OBLAST BOUNDARIES
*L~<   \  . '            )                                                                                                        V_ILOERS            1                          -  - KINTERNATIONAL aOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~Ic                                        -d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                       50          0o          '50
Sw0CfUL     >      ',7)so                    N A         T,hm~   oon h -f d.,o,,ng pyono, th,S ^rygfIher ,Id eg,,nk
;TEBUC    A    '        /-.)yT-            CHINA           ,,,,dE,,,,Lo,0E.FTeV4Sn                                                                           5 
OF [pAN. -. -~.a~ ~d,,0, .~c spas,. O                                                   I,OaPpO oedn,-
CA rar  fi N STA    \                       eeou. le,,,udRmenT or oeoe e occal soh o, i ,g-y                      9         25 _O0             75       100
MAY 199A









IMA G ING
Report No: F-   6583 kG
Type: PR



