Report No. PIC799
Project Name       Kyrgyz Republic-Economic Reform Support Credit
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                KGPA8516
Responsible Entity        To Be Determined
Date PID Prepared         September 1994
Projected Appraisal Date February 1995
Projected Board Date      May 1995
Country Background (see 1/)
1.   The Kyrgyz Republic has been at the forefront of the reforming
countries in the Former Soviet Union (FSU). It has also been among
the countries most adversely affected by the transition. Most of the
causes of transitional difficulties lie in the inherent
characteristics of the country, as well as the legacy of the Soviet
Union: small size and being landlocked, unavailability of resources
readily exploitable, and a relatively high level of specialization
within a Union-wide production process that is no longer viable.
Moreover, the country suffered from a large deterioration in the terms
of trade. But the relatively poor economic performance is also due to
inadequate design of reforms (such as privatization in the form of
transfer to labor collectives), at times conflicting and poorly
diffused signals to economic agents, and an economy-wide lack of
financial discipline which did not provide the right incentive for
economic agents and institutions to change.
2.   Notwithstanding transitional difficulties,   The Kyrgyz Republic
has made substantial progress in the areas of both stabilization and
systemic reforms. The country's reform program has been supported
with substantial concessional assistance from the Bank and the IMF and
a large number of donors. The Kyrgyz Republic's stabilization efforts
were intensified with the introduction of the national currency, the
som, in May 1993. There are indications that these efforts are
yielding favorable results, as the monthly inflation rate drastically
reduced in the second quarter of 1994. The som has become a
"respectable" means of domestic payment, and has been appreciating
strongly vis-a-vis the currencies of neighboring countries and even
vis-a-vis the dollar. Concerning structural reforms, considerable
progress was made in price liberalization; aost all export and import
licensing requirements were lifted; the list of goods subject to
export taxes was drastically reduced; and the system of state orders
was abolished. On the other hand, although the Government had
privatized about one third of state-owned fixed assets, the form of
privatization has not been conducive to the emergence of an effective
private ownership. Moreover, key ministries and local administrations
continued to manage the remaining state shares, thereby preserving the
structure of the command economy. Progress has also been slow to
start in enterprise and farm restructuring, and land reform.



The Country's Adjustment Program (see 2/)
3.   The Government has agreed on a three-year program of policy
reform with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World
Bank/IDA, an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility with the IMF, and
a series of policy changes under the IDA Privatization and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC). The most important of the
structural reform measures underway are: (i) a new privatization
strategy with emphasis on the free use of individual shareholding
rights, auction of shares against vouchers, systematic use of
competitive methods for privatization, and less state control over
privatized enterprises; (ii) liquidation/passive restructuring of 29
large loss-making enterprises with action expected for three of them
before end-1994; (iii) no reimposition of compulsory state orders and
supply contracts; and (iv) further liberalization of external trade.
With these measures, the Government has set the stage for a
comprehensive reform package, the successful implementation of which
will require continued support over time.
Credit Objectives
4.   The main areas of reform to be supported by the proposed Credit
are likely to include: (i) rationalization of, and elimination of
distortions in, the system of agricultural marketing, pricing, and
trade; (ii) demonopolization and privatization of trade, transport,
and marketing institutions for major commodities; (iii)
rationalization of regional finance and agricultural taxation; (iv)
divestiture of social assets and reform in health sector financing;
and (v) continued support toward restructuring and liquidation of
major loss making state enterprises.
5.   The proposed Credit would allow increased production and private
sector growth through the provision of foreign exchange to be sold on
the foreign exchange auction to private or public sector importers.
Credit Description
6.   The proposed credit will be quick-disbursing and will provide
balance of payments support. The proceeds of the Credit will be
disbursed in two equal tranches, subject to a number of policy
conditions, to be specified at a later date, from the above-mentioned
areas of reform. The Credit would reimburse 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs of eligible imports, with eligibility
determined by a small negative list, agreed between the Government and
IDA.
Credit Financing
7.   The proposed Credit would amount to US$60 million (on IDA terms)
to be provided towards the country's external financing requirements,
estimated in the range of US$350 to $400 for 1995.     Through the
Consultative Group process, IDA would assist in mobilizing the
remaining financing needs from other donors.
Poverty Category
-2-



8.   Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
9.   As the Credit is an adjustment operation, no environmental rating
has been assigned. The project would be consistent with IDA policies
and procedures.
Program Objective Categories
10. Provision of foreign exchange to be sold on the foreign exchange
auction would enhance private sector activity and access to necessary
inputs. The sale of foreign exchange will also mobilize non-
inflationary budgetary finance as the local counterpart funds will be
transferred to the central budget.
Implementation Arrangements
11. To be determined.
1/   For a complete review of progress under Goverment's Economic
Reform Program, see Kyrgyz Republic Economic Report, May 13,
1994.
2/   For a description of the complete policy agenda under PESAC, see
the President's Report on a Proposed Privatization and Enterprise
Adjustment Credit, report no. P-6341-KG, June 1994.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



