Page  1
TF020877
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2750 KG
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the 
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated October 1, 1996
TF020877
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1996 between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF 
THE NETHERLANDS (the Minister).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Agricultural 
Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit), dated July 28, 1995, between the 
Recipient and the Association (the IDA Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed 
to extend to the Recipient a credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,600,000) to 
assist in the financing of urgently needed imports (the Imports) required during the 
execution of the Program, as defined in the IDA Credit Agreement; and
(B)
pursuant to an arrangement dated September 27, 1996 between the Minister 
and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the 
Association, the Minister has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and 
the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds (the Grant) to be made 
available by the Minister for the financing of the Imports, in accordance with the 
provisions of such arrangement and in addition to grant funds made available by the 
Minister for the same purpose pursuant to an arrangement dated November 16, 1995 
between the Minister and the Bank and the Association;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) 
and (13), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
 (vii) Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in 
Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association 
acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the arrangement between the 
Minister and the Bank and 
the Association referred to in Recital (B) of this 
Agreement, except 
that in Section 6.02, the term “Association” shall also 
include the International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
(iii)
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General 
Conditions, means this Agreement except that in 
Section 6.02 (a), the term “
Development Credit Agreement” means the 
IDA Credit Agreement;
(iv)
the term “Credit”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the 
amount of the Grant is credited; and
 (vi)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
“Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Netherlands 
Guilders; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant have been 
paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the 
Recipient, purchase such currency 
with the proceeds of such withdrawal.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth; and the terms “Netherlands Guilders” and “NLG” mean the currency of the 
Netherlands.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a Grant in an 
amount of eight million seven hundred and fifty thousand Netherlands Guilders (NLG 
8,750,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of the Imports to be financed out of the Grant.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Imports to 
be financed out of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Article III of the 
IDA Credit Agreement, including the Schedules referred to therein, are hereby 
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully 
set forth herein, it being understood that all references in said Articles to the 
“Association” shall be deemed to be references to the Association as Administrator of 
the Grant under this Agreement, all references to the “Borrower” shall be deemed to be 
references to the Recipient, and all references to the “Credit” and the “Credit 
Account” shall be deemed to be references to the Grant and the Grant Account, 
respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
Erkindik Str. 58
720874 Bishkek
Kyrgyz Republic
Page  4
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
 Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                         
By /s/ Kemelbek Nanaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
    % of
  (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
         in  NLG)       
to be Financed
(1)
Imports
  8,750,000
       100%
  _________
TOTAL
  8,750,000
  =========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the IDA Credit 
Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts not 
exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
Page  5
