CREDIT NUMBER 2750 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       /,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2750 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated __         LA \_ _  /_ __     , 1995, between Kyrgyz
Republic (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 25, 1995 from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution; and
(B)    on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
" 'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)    Sectior 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their


﻿-2-
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.";
(c)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(d)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "ERRA" means the Borrower's Enterprise Reform and Resolution
Agency;
(b)    "Kyrgyz Tamak'ash Holding" means the food and processing industry
holding company established by Decree No. 394 of June 7, 1994.
(c)    "SPF" means the Borrower's State Property Fund; and
(d)    "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
34/Rev. 3 (1986).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1997 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 1 and August I commencing August 1, 2005 and ending February 1, 2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2015 shall be
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the


﻿-4-
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program,
including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or customs
certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal


﻿-6-
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Prime Minister of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Prime Minister
Government House
720003 Bishkek
Kyrgyz Republic
Fax:
7 3312 218627


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By )5!A/rneos IT                     iti'
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By )        Yt'GAif k/       L6Va9
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-
groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group         Sub-group                  Description of Items
112                                      Alcoholic beverages
121                                      Tobacco,  unmanufactured,  tobacco
refuse
122                                      Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                                      Radioactive and associated materials
667                                      Pearls, precious and  semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
718           718.7                      Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
nuclear reactors
728.43                                   Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3                      Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿-9-
Group         Sub-group                  Description of Items
971                                      Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(b)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for expenditures,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 5,700,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after March 31, 1995;
(d)    expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000
equivalent;
(e)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose
or for luxury consumption.
3.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contract for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 may be permitted by the
Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify.
4.     No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of SDR 14,300,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken; and (c) that the Borrower's macro-economic policy
framework is consistent with the objectives of the Program, as measured on the basis of
indicators satisfactory to the Association.
5.     If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Association
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are
not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have


﻿-10-
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part
thereof.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to the
provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
A.     Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured:
(1)    under contracts awarded in accordance with the standard commercial
practices followed by public sector and private enterprises; and
(2)    in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the
Guidelines.
B.     Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels
of competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $10,000,000
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.


﻿-12-
2.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph I of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.     The Borrower has submitted to Parliament a draft law for competitive procurement
of goods, works and services by the Borrower and its agencies.
2.     The Borrower has abolished all remaining export taxes.
3.     The Borrower has implemented all measures identified in Decree No. 192 of May
25, 1995, and offered for sale all bread combines and factories identified for privatization
in the Appendix to such Decree.
4.     The Borrower has adopted a concept note, satisfactory to the Association,
establishing guidelines for State operations in the wheat market.
5.     (a)    The Borrower has implemented all measures identified in Decree No. 191
of May 25, 1995 relating to Kyrgyz Tamak'ash Holding.
(b)    The Borrower has offered for sale all state-owned shares in enterprises,
formerly held by Kyrgyz Tamak'ash Holding, identified in the Appendix to Decree No.
191 of May 25, 1995 relating to Kyrgyz Tamak'ash Holding.
6.      The Borrower has adopted legislation instituting automatic renewal of the right to
use land after 49 years, clear and limited grounds for terminating such right of land use and
has clarified the procedures for land to be used as collateral, or, if the Kyrgyz Constitution
is amended to allow for private ownership of land, the Borrower has established to the
satisfaction of the Association that the existing legislation allows the transfer of land and
that land can be collateralized.
7.     The Borrower has provided for: (a) the elimination of maximum and minimum
farm size requirements in various land categories; (b) the establishment of a uniform land
title or certificate; and (c) the establishment of streamlined land registration procedures
vesting responsibility in a single authority.
8.     The SPF has offered for sale: (a) all 100% state-owned enterprises identified in
the 1994-1995 privatization program; (b) state shares targeted for coupon action in all
enterprises already privatized, in accordance with the principles of the Concept of
Denationalization and Privatization of State and Communal Property in Kyrgyzstan for
1994-1995 (known as the "Concept Note"); and (c) all remaining state shares, for cash
auction, of the partially privatized enterprises, in accordance with the principles of the
"Concept Note".


﻿-14-
9.     The Borrower has issued a decree setting forth a privatization program, acceptable
to the Association, for the years 1996-1997.
10.    ERRA has, on the basis of a completed viability assessment, taken decisions
regarding the restructuring or liquidation of at least ten additional enterprises, in
compliance with the operating principles of ERRA, as approved by the Association.
11.    The Borrower has provided evidence acceptable to the Association that the
restructuring or liquidation measures taken by ERRA for any enterprise under its authority,
for which liquidation or restructuring decisions have been taken, have been implemented
within the time frame set forth in the operating principles of ERRA, as approved by the
Association.
12.    The Borrower has provided evidence acceptable to the Association that at least five
enterprises no longer have access to funding from ERRA.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


