Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9818-TR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 1991
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their officijl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authozation.



CURRENCY BOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (TTS)
US$1.00  -   TT$4.25
TT$1.00  *   US$0.23
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CARIRI             -     Caribbean Industrial Research Institute
CARICOM            -     Caribbean Community
CRT                -     Common External Tariff
EDC                -     Export Development Corporation
EIA                -     Environmental Impact Assessment
ETAF               -     Export Technical Assistance Facility
FZC                -     Free Zone Company
GDP                -     Gross r[omestic Product
GNP                -     Gross National Product
IBRD              -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB               -      International Competitive Bidding
IDB               -      Inter-American Development Bank
IDC               -      Industrial Development Corporation
IFC               -      International Finance Corporation
IID               -      Inter-American Investment Corporation
IMA               -      Institute of Marine Affairs
IMF               -      International Monetary Fund
LIB                -     Limited International Bidding
MOPAM              -     Ministry of Planning and Mobilization
PFI                -     Participating Financial Intermediary
PSD               -      Private Sector Development
RSU                -     Restructuring Support Unit
SAL               -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE               -      Statements of Expenditures
TAL                -     Technical Assistance Loan
T&T                -     Trinidad and Tobago
T&CPD              -     Town & Country Planning Division
TTBS               -     Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of Standards
TTDFC              -     Trinidad and Tobago Development Finance Company
TTMA               -     Trinidad and Tobago Manufacturers Association
UWI                -     University of the West Indies
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pane No.
Loan and Project Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        i
I.    THE ECONOMY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       I
II.   THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR  .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            3
Institutional Framework   . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . .                      3
Overview of the Sector    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      4
Trade Policy Actions Initiated Under the SAL    . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
Prospects for Business Expansion & Industrial Restructuring                     . . .      6
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .                       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 7
Evolution and Structure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7
Instruments of Monetary Policy    ...  .              .  .  .     ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Monetary Management   ....  .             .  .  .  .     . .g....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Banking Supervision and Prudential Regulations  .                     . . . . . . . . .    9
Interest Rates .                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Actions to Address Financial Sector Issues    . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Term Lending for Productive Purposes .                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Credit Demand   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    12
IV.   BANK ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    13
V. THE PROJECT                     ................ . 13
Background  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Project Cost and Loan Amount .. .17
Project Management agement.. ..17
Project Implementation - Credit Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Project Implementation - Technical Assistance Component   . . . . . .   19
On-lending Arrangements and Subloan Criteria, Terms and Conditions  .   19
Procurement   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .     . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    23
Disbursements   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    25
Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing  ...  .               .  .     .....  .   .  .  .  .     .   25
Benefits and Risks               .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Trinidad and Tobago
in June 1991. The mission consisted of Messrs. Christopher Barham (Task Manager) and Mark
Dorfman (Consultant, LATTF). Preparation missions visited Trinidad and Tobago in September and
December 1990, and January and April 1991. Participants in those missions included: Arturo
Meyer, Hamid Alavi, Robert Toth, Carl Goderez, Nicholas Roe, Javier Nogales (Consultants); and
Ileana Boza, Abderrahmane Megateli, and Edmund Mangan (Bank Staff). Peer Reviewers were Barbara
Mierau-Klein (LA3C1) and Mariluz Cortes (LA4TF). Valuable support was provided by Julie Phillips
and Mayela Rojas (LA3TF)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANU4EXES
I.        Data on Industry
Table 1:  Manufacturing Employment by Kind of Activity
Table 2:  Distribution of Manufacturing Employment by Kind of
Activity
Table 3:  Gross Domestic Product at Factor Cost by Kind of Activity
Table is: Distribution of Gross Domestic Product at Factor Cost by
Kind of Activity
Table 5:  Gross Domestic Product at Factor Cost by Kind of Activity
Table 6:  Distribution of Gross Domestic Product at Factor Cost by
Kind of Activity
Table 7:  Rate of Growth of Productivity
Table 8:  Exports, 1980-89
Table 9:  Geographical Distribution of Exports, 1984-88
Table 10: Manufacturing Excluding Sugar and Oil, 1984-89
II.       Data on Financial Sector
Table 1:  Total Financial System Assets
Table 2:  Monetary Developments, 1970-89
Table 3:  Interest Rate and Price Indicators
Table 4:  Commercial Banks - Outstanding Loans By Type, 1985-90
Table 5: Commercial Banks - Total Outstanding Loans By Sector -
Monthly, 1985-89
Table 6:  Financial System -- Domestic Credit
Table 7:  New Credit Extended by Banks and Finance Houses
Table 8:  Combined Investment and Employment Projections of
T.T.M.A. Membership
III.      The Tourism Sector
IV.       Industrial Incentive Framework
V.        Export Development Facility (ETAF) Component
VI.       Technology Component
VII.      TA Component for Town & Country Planning Division (T&CPD)
VIII.     TA Component for Ministry of Finance for Regulatory Reform in
Insurance Industry
IX.       Project Cost Table and linancing Plan
X.        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
XI.       Project Implementation Schedule
XII.      List of Documents Available in Project Files
XIII.     Draft Terms of Reference for Studies for MOPAM
XIV.      Proposed Eligibility Criteria & Certification Procedures for PFIs
XV.       Items for Mid-Term Review
XVI.      Implementation Schedule for Studies
XVII.     Policy Statement Regarding Business Expansion & Industrial
Restructuring
IBRD Map No. 20573R



- 1 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
Exgcuting Afencies: Ministry of Planning and Mobilization and Centtal Bank.
Beneficiaries:       Private industrial and service enterprises, and the
Bureau of Standards, CARIRI, Town & Country Planning
Division, and the Ministries of Planning and Mobilization
and Finance.
Amount:              US$27.0 million equivalent.
Terns:               Payable in 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:    The Government, through the agency of the Central Bank,
would relend US$20.0 million equivalent from the loan to
accredited PFIs. The Central Bank would charge the
Government an administrative fee of 0.5 percent of
disbursements from the credit component for such
services. Such relent resources would be denominated in
TT dollars or US dollars, and would bear interest rates
equal to PFIs' estimated marginal coet of mobilizing
domestic or foreign resources. For resources denominated
in TT dollars, such rate would be the weighted average
domestic six-month CD rate, adjusted upwards for the
avoided cost of reserve requirements. For resources
denominated in US dollars, such rate would be six-month
LIBOR + 1.5 percentage points. Maturities of proceeds
relent to PFIs would conform to the maturities of
subloans made by PFIs to subborrowers. PFIs would blend
relent proceeds with their counterpart funds and on-lend
them to eligible subborrowers at freely-negotiated
interest rates and terms, which implicitly reflect
foreign exchange risk premia. In the case of relending
denominated in US dollars, the Government would bear
explicitly the cross-currency risk between US dollars and
the Bank's currency basket. In the case of relending
denominated in TT dollars, the Government would bear the
entire foreign exchange risk. The Government would cover
costs related to the foreign exchange risks and loan
administration from the spread between: (i) its relending
rates to PFIs; and (ii) the charges paid to the Bank and
the Central Bank. The Government would transfer US$7.0
million equivalent in funds allocated for technical
assistance to the various beneficiaries as a grant.



- ii 
Proiect Obiectives: The project would promote development and/or
restructuring of private manufacturing or service firms
(except primary producers of oil, gas or agricultural or
livestock products), especially to enter and compete in
export markets. Ancillary objectives would be to: (i)
strengthen the supervision of financial intermediaries
and the safety and soundness of the financial system;
(ii) improve the technical standards used to assess the
environmental impact of public and private sector
projects in T&T, and (iii) strengthen the capacity of the
Town and Country Planning Division (T&CPD) to review
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs).
Project              The project would include components for productive
Descrintion:       sector credit and technical assistance.  The credit
component would help private enterprises finance a wide
range of investments, including plant and equipment,
incremental working capital, and technical services
related to development of productive activities within a
liberalized incentive regime. Technical assistance wovld
be provided to: (i) establish an Export Technical
Assistance Facility (ETAF) to assist private
manufacturing and service firms to enter extra-CARICOM
markets; (ii) enable the Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of
Standards (TTBS) and the Caribbean Industrial Research
Institute (CARIRI) to provide T&T industry with
internationally-recognized industrial standards, quality
management, metrology, and testing services; (iii)
develop improved environmental pollution control
standards inter alia for evaluating investment proposals,
and strengthen T&CPD's capacity to review EIAs; and (iv)
finance studies aimed at: (a) building the Government's
understanding inter alia of the organizational and
ownership options, including the role of private
investment, to best encourage the growth and
diversification of the steel and petrochemical
industries; and (b) reviewing the effectiveness of T&T's
new foreign investment regime and defining a foreign
investment promotion strategy; and (v) assist the
Ministry of Finance to strengthen the regulatory
framework for the insurance industry.
Proiect Benefits:   TA activities would help develop internationally-
competitive productive activities and encourage the
transition from adjustment to growth in the economy.  The
improved framework of prudential regulation and
supervision which the project would support would help
improve the efficiency and stability of the financial
system. Funds provided under the credit component would
assure availability of resources for firm reorientation
and/or expansion. Improved environmental standards and



- iii -
EIA review proceduras would enhance national
environmental management.
Prolect Risks:       Main riske are that: (i) policy backtracking could result
in diminished incen,ives for export-led economic
diversification; (ii) lengthy contracting procedures
could delay TA activities; and (iii) delays in
implementing satisfactory banking regulations could
occur. These risks are being handled by: (i)
conditioning the loan on maintenance of adequate
policies; (ii) paying special attention to contracting
arrangements during project preparation; and (iii)
linking disbursement of the credit component to actions
on banking regulations and adoption of specific
eligibility criteria to screen PFIs; the substance of the
regulatory reforms and the eligibility criteria have both
been agreed.
Estimated Cost:L/                   Local           Foreizn         Total      Z
---- US$ millions ---
Private Sector Credit         20.0             20.0           40.0      81
Export TA Facility             0.1              2.8            3.0       6
Other TA                       1.2              4.0            5.2      10
Project Administration         0.7              0.1            0.8       2
Price Contingencies            0.2              0.3            0.5       1
Total Cost              22.2            27.2            49.5    100
Financ:n- Plan:
Private Beneficiaries
(Credit)               14.8              -              14.8     30
Private Beneficiaries
(ETAF)                  0.1              1.4             1.5      3
PFIs                           5.2              -              5.2      10
Beneficiary Public Agencies   0.2               -              0.2       1
Government                     0.7              0.1            0.8       2
IBRD                           1.2            25.7            27.0      54
Total Financing        22.2             27.2            49.5    100
1/   Rounded.  Excludes taxes and duties.



- iv -
Estimated
Disbursements:  (Based on Composite Profiles for Regional IDF and TA loans)
---____-----_-----US$ millions-------------------
FY       92      93     94      95     96      97      98    99
Annual                      0.4    1.7    4.1    5.7    7.6    3.5    2.8    1.2
Cumulative                  0.4    2.1    6.2   11.9   19.5   23.0   25.8   27.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
MAP:               IBRD 20573R



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.    THE ECONOMY
1.          During 1974-82, surging oil prices led to real averaga GDP growth
of over 6X per annum, and GDP per capita reached US$6,450 in 1982. Government
savings averaged 18% i GDP, and gross foreign exchange reserves averageu ten
months of rapidly-increasing imports. After an initial cautious saving of
surplus earnings abrcad, the Government embarked upon a rapid program of
investment in heavy industry and infrastructure. State enterprises and other
public agencies mushroomed, and government subsidies and current transfers
grew from 3% of GDP in 1977 to 16% of GDP by 1983. The economic pclicies
favored inward-looking development and undermined the growth of competitive
agriculture, non-oil manufacturing, and tourism. After 1982, as the petroleum
sector's output fell sharply due to decreasing oil prices and depleting oil
wells, a dramatic economic decline began. Real GDP fell secularly for the
next seven years, and by 1989, GDP per capita had declined to US$3,160. Until
1985, the mounting pressures for adjustment were met, inappropriately, with
protectionist policies and fiscal expansion. As a result, public savings and
investment declined sharply, foreign exchange reserves were depleted, and
domestic unemployment shot up to about 23%. Although the TT dollar (which is
linked to the US dollar) was devalued in December 1985, complementary monetary
and fiscal policies were not pursued, and the pre-devaluation exchange rate
was retained for essential goods.
2.          The Government which assumed office in 1987 improved markedly the
quality of economic management by introducing a number of important short and
medium-term reforms which have been supported by an IMF Standby and ongoing
Bank SAL and TAL operations. In the short-term, Government reforms included:
(i) unification of the exchange rate followed by devaluation of the currency
by 15.3% in August 1988. As a result, the real exchange rate improved to
about its 1976 level; (ii) reduction in public expenditures and transfers. A
three year program to cut civil service salaries and employment was adopted,
beginning in 1989. Moreover, some public enterprises have been divested, and
strict financial disciplir.e and accountability have been imposed on most of
the remaining ones to make them more commercially-oriented; (iii) liberalizing
the Treasury Bill market to improve resource allocation; and (iv) rescheduling
of official and commercial debt through the London and Paris Clubs in 1989.
3.          For the medium-term, the Government has articulated a planning
framework for restructuring the economy and promoting renewed growth, with
emphasis on development of non-oil exports by the private sector. Maintenance
of a competitive exchange rate and improved fiscal management comprise the
essence of its strategy. These will be combined with a phased trade
liberalization to raise the efficiency of domestic production and eliminate
the anti-export bias in the trade regime (para. 16). Key aspects of the
program to enhance the business incentive framework and encourage business
expansion and restructuring include: (i) dismantling of all price controls



- 2 -
(except on a few essential items consumed mainly by lower-income groups)1/;
(ii) adoption in 1989 of a comprehensive tax reform program which inter alia
reduced marginal tax rates, encouraged equity investment, increased the
coverage and equity of the tax system, and introduced a 15% VAT; (iii.)
revision in 1988 of the tax regime for petroleum companies, offering private
investors new blocks for oil exploration, and adopting a program to
rationalize the publicly-held petroleum sectcr; (iv) elimination at end-1990
of the foreign exchange allocation system; (v) adoption of a phased program to
dismantle most import restrictions and reform the import tariff (para. 16);
(vi) liberalization of the Alien's Landholding Act, which had been a major
impediment to foreign investmenc, and simplification of the foreign investment
application process 2/; (vii) adoption in 1988 of Free Zone legislation,
designed to foster the development of new export ind'istries in a liberalized
regime; the establishment of Free Zones is viewed as one of a menu of policy
instruments to encourage FI; and (vii'i) undertaking of important port and
airport improvements in Trinidad (some with private sector participation) and
neighboring Tobago, and liberalization of airline service to Tobago. These
latter actions are intended to support an enhanced tourism development effort.
1/ Price controls remain on 11 basic food items, as well as on medicines and
school books.  The authorities are committed to continuing the policy of
approving requests for price increases of controlled items to reflect cost
increases with a minimum of delay. Generally, requests for price increases to
reflect higher costs are processed by the Prices Commission within 14 days.
2/ Prior to August 1990, foreign investment (FI) was discouraged because: (i)
the Aliens Landholding Act required that foreign ownership of all T&T assets
(including shares) be licensed, and (ii) the incentives and license
application process was very cumbersome. Under Lhe Government's adjustment
program, the climate for FI has been much improved. First, the Foreign
Investment Act of August 1990 repealed the Aliens Landholding Act and created
a more liberal regime for FI. 100% foreign ownership of privately-held
companies and up to 30% foreign ownership of publicly-traded companies is
allowed without a license. Moreover, foreigners are automatically allowed to
own up to 5 acres and I acre of land, for business or residential purposes,
respectively. Capital must be registered with the Central Bank, which
regulates the conditions under which repatriation ( capital and dividends may
take place, and work permits must be sought by non-nationals; and second, a
"one-stop-shop" has been established to expedite investor applications. The
Government has signed agreements with OPIC and is a irTer of ICSID, MIGA and
the International Chamber of Commerce, and has exempted IFC/IIC participation
in public companies from treatment as "foreign" participation. In summary,
T&T is increasingly hospitable to Fl, and the project would assist the process
of liberalization by financing a study aimed at: (i) reviewing the
competitiveness of T&T's FI regime; and (ii) developing a promotion strategy
to attract FI to the country.



- 3 -
4.           The Governmert's reform program has begun to bear fruit.  The
devaluations and general economic decline over recent years have sharply
reduced real and nominal wages, increasing the flow of labor to agriculture as
well as the competitiveness and viability of formerly economically
unattractive activities. Mon-oil exports have begun to expand rapidly, albeit
from a small base; non-traditional agriculture and manufacturing exports grew
in excess of 20% per year in real terms since 1988. Interest by foreign
investors in Trinidad and Tobago is picking up, and local investors have
articulated plans to step up investments in iiew lines of busineso, especially
for export. In 1990, the economic decline bottomed out; real CDP grew at
about 0.7Z on the strength of a recovery in the major productive sectors,
especially petroleum. Unemployment, however, remained at about 20%,
emphasizing the need to step up productive investment. Although its
adjustment program has shown some success, the Government acknowledges that
the economic recovery remains fragile, and has signalled its intention to
continue with cautious policies, even in the face of oil price windfalls, such
as that which occurred at end-1990. Assuming that the Government maintains
its recent policy stance and that moderate real growth occurs in the petroleum
and related sectors (based on current activities), economic growth is expected
to increase gradually. Annual GDP growth is projected to reach 2.5% by 1993,
remain at about 3.5% over the next three years, and average 4.3% during 1997-
99. During this period, private investment 3/ is projected to increase
gradually from 17.4% of GDP in 1990 to 18.0% of GDP in 1999.
II.   THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Institutional Framework
5.          A range of institutions assists development of the industrial
sector. The Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) develops industrial
estates, prepares industrial profiles, and administers applications for
foreign investors and investment incentives. The Export Development
Corporation (EDC) provides a range of services (Annex V) to support the
development of non-traditional exports and certifies CARICOM exporters; it
will have an important role to play in assisting nascent exporters to enter
new markets. The Free Zone Company (FZC) is responsible for promoting and
regulating free zones for export industries. These institutions are supported
by the quality certification, testing, and research facilities of the Bureau
of Standards (TTBS) and the Caribbean Industrial Research Institute (CARIRI)
(both in Annex VI). The Institute of Business at the UWI offers management
education at the executive level. Activities of these public sector agencies
are complemented by a considerable range of private technical and management
consulting firms.
3/ Including public enterprise investment of about 3.0-3.5% of GDP.



4-
Overview of the Sector
6.          Output and EmPlovment. In 1989, manufacturing value-added totalled
TT$6.0 billion (US$1.4 billion), and accounted for 36% of GDP and 18% of total
employment, or 66,000 jobs. Petroleum, incl-ding petrochemicals, dominates
the sector, accounting for 74% of manufacturing GDP and 27% of manufacturing
employment. Food, Beverages and Tobacco (including sugar production) ranks
second, accounting for about 15% of manufacturing GDP and 37% of manufacturing
employment. Data on sectoral output and employment are included in Annex I.
7.          In 1989, the total value of non-oil, non-sugar manufactured
products was TT$1,142 million (US$269 million), accounting for 21% of value-
added 4n manufacturing, but for more than 50% of manufacturing employment.
Data on non-oil, non-sugar production is included in Annex I, Table 10
8.          Reduced dependence on petroleum and diversification of the economy
have long been objectives of Government policy. Accordingly, a wide range of
incentiv,.s were introduced since the 1950s. These included import
prohibitions, mainly through a changing "negative list" of prohibited imports;
duty free concessions for import of capital equipment and raw materials; tax
holidays; and the construction of industrial parks and conduct of promotional
programs by the IDC (Annex IV).  These actions, combined with the Government's
wider exchange-rate and economic policies, led to the development of a heavily
protected non-oil manufacturing sector, aimed principally at import-
substitution in domestic and regional markets. During the bocm years of the
1970s, manufacturers expanded rapidly, often with the purcV ,ee of "state of
the art" technology and oversized plants. These developments were
complemented by a Government industrial strategy which focussed on development
of large-scale, gas-based industries (steel, fertilizer and methanol) with
state participation.
9.          Growth.  The economic contraction of the 198'< ttit the non-oil
manufacturing sector hard. Following 4% growth in 1986, sectoral output fell
in 1987, 1988 and 1989, by 8%, 6% and 1%, respectively. As the internal
market contracted, many manufacturing firms cut operations, mergad or closed;
others learned to market offshore, mostly within CARICOM, to utilize excess
capacity and survive. As foreign hard currency exchange became scarcer in the
mid-1980s, extra-regional markets were sought.
10.         The net result of these developments was that at the end of the
1980s: (i) the gas-based industries were technically competitive, but suffered
from operational or financial weaknesses (which were being addressed under the
Government's state enterprise reform programs); and (ii) industrial output
remained low by historical standards, but was shifting towards export-led
growth.
11.         Compared to previous (historic) production peaks (Table below), in
1989, total manufacturing output lagged by 11%. However, major differences
existed across subsectors. Sugar, with a decline of only 1%, came closest to



- 5 -
closing its production gap 4/ because its growth had continued during 1984-
1988, and only a minor output decline was recorded in 1989. The most dramatic
declines had occurred in Wood and Related products (-852) and Assembly-type
and Related Industries (-642). The Food Drink and Tobacco subsector was the
least severely hit; 1989 output was only 4% percent below its peak in 1984.
MANUFACTURING OUTPUT
(output in 1989 compared to prior historic peak)
Sugar Industry                                                  -1%
Petroleum Industries                                           -12%
Food, Drink and Tobacco                                         -4%
Textiles, Garments, Footwear                                   -37%
Printing and Publishing                                        -35%
Wood and Related Products                                      -85%
Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals                            -22%
Assembly-type and Related Industries                           -64%
Miscellaneous Manufacturing                                    -19%
TOTAL MANUFACTURING                                            -11%
Source: Mission estimates, based on data furnished by CSO
12.         Productivity.  The sharp declines in subsectoral output caused
employment to decline. Employment changes, however, usually lagged those in
output. As a result, in 1989, productivity levels fell below their previous
peaks for every industrial subsector. For the manufacturing sector as a
whole, average productivity in 1989 stood 36% below the productivity of 1986.
Data on employment and productivity are included in Annex I, Tables 1, 2 and
7.
13.         Exports.  TT's exports are heavily concentrated in the US market,
the proportion ranging between 56-62% between 1984-88. CARICOM accounts for a
relatively steady 9-12%, and the EEC for about 12-15% except for an abrupt
fall in its share to only 8% in 1988. Non-CARICOM Caribbean countries and the
rest of the world account for approximately 7-12% each.
14.          Whereas total exports (measured in nominal terms and in units of
a depreciated local currency) in 1989 (TT$ 6,656 million) were barely 7% above
their level a decade before, there were sharp variations in the performance of
various subsectors. For example, although exports of mi.neral fuels (oil and
oil products) declined by 27% between 1980-89, non-oil exports increased more
than 300Z, from TT$ 600 million in 1980 to TT$ 2,570 million in 1989. Thus
their relative share of total exports increased from 10% in 1980 to almost 402
in 1989. Data on the structure and direction of exports are included in Annex
I, Tables 8 and 9.
4/ Under the T&T statistical system, sugar growing is included as part of
industry.



- 6 -
15.         Chemicals and Other Manufactured Goods (OMG) were the most dynamic
components of non-oil exports. The former reflected the completion of plants
(most notably urea) that were built under the Government's strategy to develop
downstream petrochemicals. Notwithstanding operational and financial
difficulties at the plant level, exports of OMG increased tenfold during the
decade, reflecting the dynamic behavior of a wide array of products, ranging
from steel to agro-industrial products.
Trade Policy Actions Initiated Under the SAL
16.         Under the SAL, a program to reform the trade regime, including
phasing out of duty exemptions, was agreed. Regarding trade reform, the first
stage will begin to rationalize the system of import protection by: (i)
gradually replacing administrative barriers by tariffs; and (ii) setting the
stage for a medium-term tariff reform to decrease the average rate and
dispersion of effective protection to manufacturing. Specifically, the
Government has agreed to remove most QRs on non-oil manufacturing products
(represented by a "negative list") by end-1991 and to reduce maximum import
charges to the CARICOM CET by end-1994. The QRs to be abolished include
several affecting agro-industries. In the interim, temporary import
surcharges (to be phased out by end-1994) on items removed from the negative
list would not exceed 100% of the c.i.f. price (except for textiles and
garments, where the maximum would be 120%, and dairy products, where the
equivalent tariff (to be estimated) would apply). The Government also agreed
to undertake studies of: (i) the protection system for the agricultural
sector; and (ii) the impact of removal of specific items from the negative
list on domestic industries. As of November 1991, the Government had reduced
the negative list, consistent with the SAL second-tranche condition.
Moreover, progress was being made to initiate the agreed studies.5/
17.         Regarding dutv exemptions, the Government agreed to cease their
award for parts and raw materials for new industries. It also initiated a
review to assess their practical importance for T&T's competitiveness in
CARICOM, and to formulate a program for their phased removal over three to
five years. Formulation of such program is a condition of SAL second tranche
release.
Prospects for Business ExRansion and Industrial Restructuring
18.         Owing to the reforms introduced under the Government's adjustment
program (paras. 2 and 3) and its continued commitment to private-sector led
business expansion (Annex XVII), the enabling environment affecting the non-
agriculture real sectors increasingly favors growth of an efficient private
sector. The legal and administrative reforms affecting foreign investment,
if backed by continued efforts to simplify enabling regulations and more
aggressive promotion, should enhance prospects for firm entry and technology
and skills transfer. Meanwhile, sustained implementation of policies to: (i)
5/ Generally, actions under the SAL are progressing, although compliance with
financial targets for the power and water companies is lagging.



- 7 -
manage the exchange rate impact of oil revenues with the needs of the non-oil
sector in mind; (ii) implement the medium-term trade reform program agreed
under the SAL; and (iii) reduce the weight of the public sector in the
economy, should permit the Government's past policy reforms to effectively
improve incentives for efficient investment and heightened adoption of new
technology. Reform of export/import procedures under the TAL should encourage
trade-based production. Procedures governing company formation do not
materially impede firm entry. Labor regulations focus generally on
administrative and legal recourse against health and safety dangers,
employment of child labor, and funding of Social Security and do not
materially affect wage determination or deter firm exit. Continued
improvements in the policy environment, complemented by selective reforms in
the physical and institutional infrastructure for industrial development,
should enable the country to capitalize on its human and physical endowments
for the continued development and diversification of T&T's non-oil sector,
especially its reorientation towards exports.
19.         The country enjoys a literate and technically-skilled work force,
abundant energy supplies, a sound basic infrastructure, an able business
clasa, and some tourism potential, especially in Tobago. In industry, an
initial round of technical and financial restructuring has already taken place
in response to the economic contraction of the 1980s. This has given rise to
an emergent set of exporting enterprises, a few of which are competing in
world markets. Moreover, there is growing industry awareness of the bases of
international competitiveness, including the importance of quality, design and
service. However, T&T industry still suffers from a lack of marketing
capability and inadequate product quality and service standards. If
unaddressed, these weaknesses will continue to hamper the entry of T&T non-oil
exports into important extra-CARICOM markets, where demanding product and
service standards are increasingly the norm.
20.         Increasing competition resulting from carrying out the trade
liberalization program agreed under the SAL may be expected to enhance
industry demand foe improved technology and certifiable access to foreign
markets with demanding standards. Moreover, increased investment will be
required to support: (i) continued technical restructuring by firms facing
increased competition in the domestic market; (ii) development of tourism;
(iii) firm entrance and expansion to serve export markets; and (iv) the
development of supporting industries and services to complement the
aforementioned processes. Ready access by firms to necessary advice,
technology and finance will be essential to underpin this process.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Evolution and Structure
21.         Evolution.  Before Independence, T&T's banking system was
dominated by branches of British and Canadian banks that primarily provided
working capital, overdrafts and short-term credit to foreign and domestic
clients. This was increasingly supplemented by lending for consumer purchases



-8-
and mortgages. After Independence, Government policy mandated national
ownership of banks and encouraged the growth of indigenous financial
institutions by: (i) requiring the transfer of ownership of foreign banks to
nationals; and (ii) restricting foreign and commercial banks from opening new
branches. The Government also established state-owned development finance
institutions (DFIs) for specific economic purposes, including the Agricultural
Development Bank (ADB), T&T Development Finance Company (TTDFC), Home Mortgage
Bank (HMB) and Small Business Development Company (SBDC). In the late 19808,
the process of indigenization began to be reversed. In 1988, two foreign-
owned merchant banks were established, and in 1989, one bank was returned to
foreign ownership. Moreover, the TTDFC was restructured, reducing Government
equity to a minority share.
22.         Structure.   At end-1989, there were eight commercial banks in
T&T, five of which were fully owned by nationals, two majority owned and one
foreign owned. The banks operated 118 branches and accounted for 53.7% of the
financial system assets, excluding the Central Bank. Six trust companies
(affiliated with commercial banks) and two mortgage finance companies together
represented 10.9l of assets.  Approximately 17 life insurance companies, 33
other insurance companies and the National Insurance Board together comprised
approximately 25% of assets. Three DFIs together represented 4.9% of assets.
Eight active finance companies comprised 3.6% of assets. There were also two
merchant banks, more than 300 registered credit unions, over 140 registered
pension funds, the T&T Unit Trust and the stock exchange. The structure of
the financial system is summarized in Annex II, Table 1.
23.         In general, the Central Bank's functions have been limited to
conducting monetary policy and prudential regulation (assisted by the
Inspector of Banks).
Instruments of Monetarl Policy
24.         Three monetary policy instruments are employed: (i) reserve
requirements; (ii) Central Bank rediscounts; and (iii) a limited set of credit
allocation measures.
25.         Reserve Requirements.  Both primary and secondary reserves have
been used. Non-interest-earning primary reserves are held in cash at the
Central Bank; secondary reserves are held as treasury bills. The secondary
reserve requirement was decreased to zero over the period 1989 to end-1990;
meanwhile, the primary reserve requirement for banks was raised in August 1991
to the current 16%.
26.         Central Bank Rediscounts.  Beginning in 1988, the Central Bank
initiated a process to anchor the rediscount rate on market rates and use the
rediscount facility to meet genuine liquidity needs.  This involved: (i)
raising the rediscount rate to 9.5% in late 1988; (ii) establishing a
timetable for commercial banks to reduce their Central Bank advances during
1989; and (iii) adopting a policy to maintain the rediscount rate at least 2
percentage points above the weighted average interest rate on commercial bank
time deposits.



- 9 -
27.         Credit Controls.   Official interventions in market allocation of
credit have been minimal in Trinidad and Tobago and generally less
distortionary than in many other countries. Three credit allocation
guidelines affect commercial banks: (i) Bank lending to non-resident borrowers
is subject to Central Bank approval. In 1988, as part of the thrust to
attract foreign investment, this rule was liberalized to automatically permit
credit extension to companies with minority foreign ownership, subject to a
10% cap on total advances per institution, and a 5% cap on total advances
system-wide; (ii) Installment and consumer credit volume is limited to 30% of
system-wide credit. In practice, the limit has rarely been binding, and the
perceived need for it may diminish under an active exchange rate regime; and
(iii) under the Government's 1989 stabilization program, bank credit expansion.
to state enterprises and statutory authorities is restricted, unless approved
by the Central Bank.
Monetary Management
28.         In the 1970s and early 1980s, monetary policy was expansionary.
Beginning in 1974, the Government turned from a net debtor to a net creditor
to the Central Bank, a situation which prevailed until 1986. Government's
expanding deposits during 1974-81 enhanced the Central Bank's ability to
create money. Thereafter, the Government's reliance on the Central Bank for
deficit financing was curtailed by a legal provision requiring that the
outstanding advances of the Central Bank to the Government should be limited
to 15% of the Government's expected annual revenues. This provision became
binding in 1987. However, during 1988/89, despite the binding limitations of
the law, the Central Bank provided several distressed banks with liquidity
support.   As a result of the policies pursued, money growth accelerated
between 1970 and 1982, before turning negative in the ensuing six years ending
in 1988. In 1989, Ml increased by 13.3%. Inflation during the period 1974-82
ran between 10-22Z per annum, but fell into the range of 7.7-11.4% in the
period 1986-89. For 1990, it was 11.4%, taking into account a one-time 4%
increase attributed to VAT implementation. The Government is targeting an
inflation rate of about 5% for 1991.
29.         The net result of recent monetary shifts mentioned in the
preceding paragraphs has been that: (i) market forces now play a greater role
than previously in setting deposit and lending rates and in mobilizing and
allocating financial savings; and (ii) more credit has become available for
the private sector. Beginning in 1989, there was a sharp rise in liquidity ir
the financial system. During 1990, nominal deposit and lending interest rates
fell, while the yield on Government securities increased.
Banking Supervision and Prudential Regulations
30.         The Central Bank regulates deposit-taking and non-bank financial
institutions through the Inspector of Banks, who is responsible for licensing
them. Since its establishment in 1986, all deposit-taking financial
institutions must contribute to the Deposit Insurance Corporation (DIC). The
Central Bank can take control of insolvent banks through the Inspectorate.



- 10 -
31.         As in many other countries, the legal and institutional frameworks
governing banking supervision, prudential regulation, and the management of
financial crises need updating in T&T. Current weaknesses originate in the
Banking Act of 1964 and the Financial Institutions (Non-Banking) Act of 1979,
which do not provide for: (i) appropriate coverage of prudential aspects;
(ii) sufficiently-defined powers for the Inspector to issue regulations and
enforce them; or (iii) clear mechanisms to allow for the resolution of banking
crises in an effective and timely manner. The regulatory authority is
therefore unable to apply and enforce adequate accounting and reporting
standerds and rules. Moreover, for lack of clear procedures to resolve
banking crises, their resolution has in the past become politicized, and
transparent solutions have not always been chosen. Nevertheless, despite the
limitations imposed upon the Inspector and his staff, those financial
institutions which have come under the control of the regulatory authorities
to date have largely remained stable and solvent.
Interest Rates
32.         Interest rates in T&T are market determined.  The observed
interest rate variance between banks for similar deposit instruments and
anecdotal evidence of stiff competition for loans implies that collusion is
not a material factor in setting interest rates. As Annex II, Table 3
indicates, median weighted average deposit rates decreased from 6.1X at end-
1987 to 5.7% at end-1989, reflecting an increase in liquidity over the period.
Real average deposit rates were negative during the period. This stemmed,
however, not from formal interest rate repression, but rather from risk
aversion among savers, the depressed economy, the lack of alternative short-
term savings instruments, the likely effectiveness of foreign exchange
controls, and the inflationary impacts of devaluations and the introduction of
the VAT. As economic activity picks up and credit demand increases, real
interest rates may be expected to rise. Weighted average lending rates also
declined from 13.5% at end-1987 to 11.9% at end-1989, reflecting the same
liquid conditions indicated above. However, T&T's real average lending rates
were consistently positive during the period. In September 1991: (i) the
median commercial bank prime lending rate was 13.5%; (ii) the median six-month
CD rate was 6.1%; and (iii) retail prices were increasing at about 1%
annually. As a result, both deposit and lending rates were positive in real
terms.
33.         Interest rate spreads, defined as the difference between the
"prime" lending rate and the rate on 6-12 month time deposits, have ranged
between 4-6% for commercial banks in the period 1985-89. This spread has
shown an upward trend recently, reaching 7% in 1991, primarily owing to
increased provisioning for loan losses, reflecting the economic contraction.
Actions to Address Financial Sector Issues
34.         Consistent with the above, the FY91 Bank Financial Sector Review
concluded that: (i) T&T's financial sector was largely free of market
distortions; (ii) interest rates were market determined; and (iii) the
financial system was reasonably competitive. However, accounting and



11 -
disclosure requirements, and the prudential criteria9 enforcement powers, and
resources mado available to the Inspector of Banks (Inspector) needed
strengthening. Moreover, procedures to handle banking crises needed to be
improved. Other medium term issues affecting the development of financial
markets more generally which were identified by the Bank review included the
need to: (i) improve the transparency of financial markets; and (ii) update
the regula:ory frameworks for companies, the stock and bond markets, and the
insurance industry.
35.         The Gove-.nrnment is aware of these needs and is preparing
legislative reforms aimed at: (i) strengthening prudential regulations, bank
supervision, accounting standards, and the handling of ailing banks; and (ii)
updating the regulatory frameworks for companies, the insurance industry, and
the stock and bond markets. The latter reform relating to the bond market was
undertaken following consultation with the IFC. As indicated in para. 81: (i)
disbursement of the credit component would be linked to the satisfactory
implementation of measures to strengthen the regulatory framework for the
financial system (including participating financial intermediaries (PFIs));
and (ii) a commitment under the loan would be that the Central Bank would
routinely compute and publish the most current weighted average CD rates and
their dispersion, thereby improving financial market transparency. Moreover,
the technical assistance component of the project would include financing for
a program (Annex VIII) to assist the Ministry of Finance to strengthen the
regulatory framework for the insurance industry.
Term Lending for Productive Purposes
36.         Term lending for productive purposes is carried out mainly by
commercial banks and their affiliated trust and mortgage or finance companies,
or DFIs like the TTDFC. Typically, commercial banks lend up to 7 years; trust
companies up to 15 years for commercial mortgages; and the TTDFC up to 15
years, with grace periods related to project needs. However, much term
financing still effectively occurs through "permanent" overdrafts from
commercial banks. While existing institutions appear to readily serve most
borrowing needs of commercial clients, financial institutions are cautious
about lending to smaller and medium-scale borrowers in emergent export
markets, which are still perceived as risky. In a context of ongoing policy
reform (upon which continued commitments under the loan are conditioned), the
Bank loan should help to remedy this situation in two ways: (i) the programs
supported by the technical assistance components should act to progressively
increase the expected returns from export projects; and (ii) the credit
program would assure availability to PFIs of foreign long-term resources for
firms to upgrade or expand productive operations during the transition period
while the economy moves from adjustment to export-led growth. The
disbursement provisions of the credit program (para. 72) have been designed to
encourage PFIs to contribute an increasing share of their own resources to
fund project subloans as the project progresses.
37.         Lending terms and interest rates are negotiated with each client;
interest rates on TT dollar denominated loans are typically tied to local
"prime".



- 12 -
38.         A range of loan contracts are used in T&T to support financial
"workouts" and firm restructuring investments. These include quasi-equity
instruments (e.g. "conditional loans"), which have been used by the TTDFC and
selected merchant banks. Contemporary loan contracts normally provide for
adjustable interest rates. There has been little experience with lending
denominated in foreign currencies; however, the TTDFC is test marketing such
instruments. Given T&T's recent experience with devaluations, borrowers are
presently risk-averse to such lending; however, it is believed that a market
could emerge among exporters for well-priced loans. Under the proposed
project, subject to the policies of individual PFIs, subborrowers would have
the option of using either TT-dollar denominated contracts or US- dollar
denominated contracts, in an effort to widen the range of available financial
instruments.
Credit Demand
39.         Consistent with the economic turnaround which began in 1990,
credit extended by commercial and merchant banks, finance houses and the TTDFC
grew by US$448 million equivalent in 1990. This represented a US$65 million
increase (17%) above the similar figure for 1989. Greatest increases for
commercial bank lending (US$56 million equivalent) occurred in lending for
terms of 1 to 10 years. These data, supported by anecdotal evidence, are
consistent with stepped up borrowing for investment purposes.
40.         In 1991, the momentum of private sector credit demand has
continued to strengthen; from January - June fresh credit extended by the
banking system and the TTDFC was US$544 million equivalent on an annualized
basis, implying an incremental credit demand of some US$96 million for 1991
(over that of 1990) on an annualized basis.   Moreover, in 1992 and subsequent
years, system-wide credit demand is expected to grow further.  In the private
sector, the recent policy reforms have begun to make export manufacturing and
tourism more profitable, thereby encouraging new investment; this trend is
reflected in the macroeconomic projections (para. 4) which indicate that
private investment will increase gradually from 17.4% of GDP in 1990 to 18.0%
of GDP in 1999, even as GDP continues to grow in the period. Indeed, in 1990
business confidence was high, and a survey carried out by the T&T
Manufacturers' Association (TTMA) revealed that member manufacturers expected
to invest about US$107 million during the period 1990-94 (Annex II, Table 8).
Additionally, despite expected tight fiscal management (the 1991 fiscal
deficit is projected to be near zero), the Government is expected to raise
some US$177 million through the local bond market in 1991, owing to lower than
expected oil prices. Additional similar Government borrowing could
materialize in 1992 if oil prices remain near current levels. As a result of
these developments, liquidity in the financial system is expected to tighten
during the project period, and the proposed US$20 million credit component --
which would be priced at market terms -- would represent a modest share of
expected credit demand.



- 13 -
IV.   BANK ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY
41.         The first Bank loan to Trinidad and Tobago (T&T) was made in 1961.
Between that date and 1979, 13 loans totalling US$93.0 million were provided
in agriculture, finance, power and transportation, education and population.
The country graduated from Bank lending in February 1984 owing to its (then)
high GNP per capita of US$6,450 and its favorable access to capital markets.
Owing to economic difficulties, the Government returned to the Bank for
assistance in 1989. As a result, the Bank renewed its lending to T&T in
January 1990, when the Executive Directors approved a US$40.0 million
equivalent SAL and a US$4.0 million equivalent Technical Assistance Loan. A
US$20.7 million loan for a Youth Training and Employment Project was approved
by the Executive Directors in May, 1991. The IFC has continued to make
investments in the country. The most recent, in FY89, assisted the capital
restructuring of the T&T Development Finance Company. Further projects are
being considered for development of petrochemicals and privatization of the
existing steel plant and a hotel.
42.         The thrust of the Bank's assistance strategy is to help the
Government to strengthen the foundation for renewed broad-based growth,
focussing on policies and programs promoting the diversification of the
economy away from over-dependence on oil, as well as supporting
infrastructure, education and the environment. The three main policy areas to
be addressed are the streamlining of the public sector, the strengthening of
the incentive system for the private sector, and the management of petroleum
resources. The objective of fostering sustainable economic growth would be
pursued through investment loans and policy advice integrated into the lending
activities. As the economic recession has exacted a high social price in
terms of employment, income and living standards, the Bank is also assisting
the Government to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programs to
protect poor and vulnerable groups. The proposed operation would serve as a
vehicle to continue Bank support and monitoring of the medium-term trade
reform program agreed under the SAL. It would also assist the economy's
return to growth by addressing a number of real and financial sector issues
which would encourage private sector investment to underpin sustainable and
diversified economic activity.
V.    THE PROJECT
Backaround
43.         At the request of the Government, which wishes to draw upon the
Bank's wider restructuring experience to help T&T firms meet the opportunities
and challenges resulting from its macro reforms, project preparation missions
visited Port-of-Spain in September and December, 1990 and January and April
1991. Appraisal was completed in June, 1991, and negotiations took place in
Washington D.C. in October/November 1991, 1991. The Trinidadian delegation
was led by Hon. Winston Dookeran, Minister of Planning and Mobilization.



14
44.         Based on OED'8 findings regarding Regional Indu3trial Credit
projects, essential pre-conditions for their success include: (i) a stable
macro-economic framework, with sound fiscal and exchange rate policies and low
inflation; (ii) an undistorted financial sector, with low segmentation and
market-determined interest rates; (iii) industrial sector policies which inter
alia favor subproject profitability based on efficient production; (iv) use of
existing financial institutions as delivery vehicles for project credit, so
that project resources are delivered competitively; (v) use of an APEX
inotitution which serves only as a wholesaler of project funds, and which is
able to maintain capable staff; and (vi) the need to link continued
disbursement of project funds to maintenance of a sound policy framework.
45.         The proposed project has been designed taking into account these
lessons, and to reflect as well the current "best practice" within the Bank
concerning the design of the credit intermediation system and the content of
the technical assistance components, viz: (i) T&T's economy is slowly emerging
from a successful stabilization rrogram which has been supported by an IMF
program and a Bank SAL, both of which supported Government policies to control
the fiscal deficit and liberalize the trade and incentive regimes. The
continued commitment of the proposed loan would be conditioned upon
maintenance of the agreed trade reform measures and adequate interest rate
policies; (ii) the Central Bank, which has capable career staff, will serve as
the APEX institution to cl.annel credit through existing financial institutions
upon market terms; and (iii) the various TA components have been prepared in
close consultation with PRE and/or embody experience drawn from similar
successful Bank projects elsewhere. Moreover, in the context of the project,
the findings of a FY91 Bank Financial Sector report are being taken into
account through: (i) work with the Inspector to improve prudential regulations
and (ii) funding under the project for technical assistance for the Government
to strengthen the regulatory framework for the insurance industry (para. 47
(f)).
Proiect Obiectives
46.         The project would promote development and/or restructuring (i.e.
startup, expansion or reorientation) of private manufacturing or service firms
(except primary producers of oil, gas or agricultural or livestock products),
especially to enter and compete in export markets. Ancillary objectives would
be to: (i) support the development of an efficient and sound financial system;
and (ii) improve the technical standards used to assess the environmental
impact of public and private sector projects in T&T, and strengthen the
capacity of the Town and Country Planning Division (T&CPD) to review
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs).
Prolect Description
47.         To achieve these objectives, the project would include the
following components:



- 15 -
(a)   Multi-sectoral Credit Program.  This component would cost US$20.0
million equivalent. It would provide financing for investments
and working capital to enable private-sector enterprises to
initiate, expand or reorient production. To accommodate the wide
range of needs which restructuring or emergent companies may have
to address, the end-uses eligible for financing with Bank funds
(if participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) so agreed under
their individual lending policies) would also include: (i) startup
investments in product marketing and distribution; (ii) product
research and development; (iii) worker retraining; and (iv)
technical services to prepare enterprise restructuring or
expansion programs.
(b)   Export Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF).  This component would
cost US$1.5 million equivalent. It would fund -- on a 50:50 basis
with beneficiary private-sector firms -- a program of cost-shared
grants, administered by an ETAF Grants Committee within the EDC to
help firms with good export potential hire expertise to help them
enter extra-CARICOM export markets. The program would be governed
by Operating Guidelines acceptable to the Bank.6/ Such
Guidelines would require inter alia that the EDC appoint at least
two senior marketing officers, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, to promote the ETAF to beneficiaries.
The appointment of two such marketing officers would be a
condition of Effectiveness of the Bank loan. Each firm or product
division would be eligible to receive only one grant for one
export expansion program, to enable it to "learn the ropes" about
exporting. Further assistance for export development could be
funded under the credit program. A promotional program would be
financed from the component to make potential beneficiaries aware
of the existence of the ETAF. The program would assist emergent
exporters to hire a freely-selected set of diversified consulting
services to: (i) diagnose their supply capacity; (ii) prepare
plans to upgrade their plant and equipment to meet export market
requirements; and (iii) identify and develop specific strategies
to penetrate export markets. Firms wishing to market inputs to
enterprises established in the Free Zones would also be eligible
for assistance under the ETAF. The ETAP would thereby assist: (i)
the emergence of a new cohort of Trinidadian exporters serving
extra-CARICOM markets; (ii) development of an "exporting culture"
in T&T; and (iii) the development of linkages between the Free
Zones and the rest of the economy.
6/ The adequacy of the Operating Guidelines would be reviewed by the Bank and
the Government at least annually. At least one month prior to the mid-term
review for the project (para. 77), the EDC would submit to the Bank a report
co2ntaining a qualitative analysis of the progress achieved under the ETAF,
including its recommendations for modifications to the program, where
warranted.



- 16 -
(c)   Technologv Component.  This component would cost an estimated
US$3.4 million equivalent. Consistent with their institutional
objectives as reflected in the ongoing strategic plans of TTBS and
CARIRI, the component would: (i) enable TTBS to obtain
international certification, broaden the range of standards and
testing services which it can provide its clients, and strengthen
its capacity to promote quality awareness and control programs
within the community-at-large and local industry. In so doing,
TTBS would focus its activities on meeting market-driven industry
needs to upgrade product quality and specifications as a
prerequisite to competing successfully in demanding extra-CARICOM
markets; and (ii) enable CARIRI to upgrade its testing facilities
sufficiently to obtain international certification for them, and
to develop new labs to serve emergent lines of business in the
areas of chemicals and non-metallic minerals.
(d)   Program to Develop Pollution Standards and Strengthen EIA Review
Capacitv. This component would: (i) support development and
promulgation through T&CPD of an improved set of environmental
standards and mitigation measures which would be adopted for use
in screening investment projects within T&T; and (ii) strengthen
T&CPD's capacity to review EIAs. This latter activity would help
T&CPD solve practical problems which it is encountering, and would
provide for: (a) skills training for T&CPD staff; (b)
establishment of an information bank of technical expertise
relevant to the carrying out of EIAs; (c) access by T&CPD to
specialized consulting services on an ad hoc basis to help it
solve specific problems requiring environmental review as they
arise; and (d) development of a pilot program to establish
planning data to inform physical planning decisions for southwest
Tobago, Pt. Lisas and Chaguaramas, where development pressures are
increasing. An allocation of US$709,000 would be included for
T&CPD under the loan.
(e)   Studies.  This component would finance three studies for the
Ministry of Planning and Mobilization (MOPAM) aimed at: (i)
building the Government's understanding inter alia of the
organizational and ownership options, including the options for
increasing the role of private investment, to best encourage the
growth and diversification of the steel and petrochemical
industries. In undertaking these studies, the Government wishes
to inform itself of contemporary developments in the markets,
technology, organization and economics of these two nationally
important industries to assist it to better meet its policy making
and negotiating responsibilities; and (ii) reviewing the
effectiveness of T&T's new foreign investment regime and defining
a foreign investment promotion strategy, in order to help assure
that T&T can market itself effectively in attracting foreign
investment. Terms of reference for all studies would require that
action programs be developed, where appropriate, to implement



- 17 -
study recommendations. An allocation of US$850,000 would be
included for these purposes under the loan.
(f)   Support for Reform of the Regulatory Framework for the Insurance
Industry. This component would support the Ministry of Finance in
strengthening the regulatory framework for the insurance industry.
Under the component, a consultant expert advisor and essential
equipment would be made available to the Supervisor of Insurance
to help him develop systems, identify training requirements, and
identify essential areas for improvement to strengthen regulation
of the industry. An allocation of US$250,000 under the loan would
be included for consulting services, equipment and training in
support of these objectives.
Project Cost and Loan Amount
48.         The project cost is estimated at US$49.5 million equivalent, as
shown in Annex IX. Price contingencies, which have been calculated for costs
for the technical assistance components and project administration, have been
based upon the Bank's projected US dollar average inflation rate of 3.4Z per
annum for each year in the project period. The same inflation factor has been
applied to local and foreign cost items because it is assumed that any
differential between local and foreign inflation rates will be offset by
exchange rate adjustments. The proposed Bank loan of US$27.0 million
equivalent would cover 54% of total estimated project costs, which is
consistent with the standard Bank cost-sharing ratio for T&T. Bank financing
would cover 502 of the estimated cost of private sector subproject investments
and 73% of the costs of technical assistance components. The proposed Bank
loan would be made to the Government at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate and charges. It would bear a term of 15 years, including 5 years of
grace. It is expected that the Bank loan would be fully committed within
three years following effectiveness.
Proiect Management
49.         The Director of the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) within MOPAM
would manage overall project implementation. The RSU was established to
contract studies and monitor activities under the Bank's ongoing TAL and SAL
loans (para. 41) and is the public sector entity which is most familiar with
the Bank's procurement and operating procedures. The Director of the RSU
would report to the Permanent Secretary in MOPAM, who would chair a Steering
Committee (composed of the Permanent Secretaries from the Ministries of
Industry, Finance, and Foreign Affairs, and representatives from the Central
Bank and the TTMA) to review periodically project execution and ensure that
necessary actions to assure project success were brought to the attention of
relevant authorities. The RSU would act as Secretariat to such Steering
Committee. Requisite technical, secretarial, accounting and bookkeeping
support will be provided by the RSU. The RSU would delegate administration of
the credit component and the Special Account to the Central Bank.



18 -*
50.         The RSU would monitor execution of the project as a whole and have
specific responsibilities for assisting and monitoring execution of the
various technical assistance components by the beneficiary agencies. It would
specifically: (i) act as the focal point for communication between the Bank
and the Borrower for all aspects of the project; (ii) coordinate and monitor
the execution of the various TA activities carried out, respectively, by EDC,
TTBS and CARIRI, and certify the eligibility of a expenditures by those
agencies for payment by the Central Bank from the Special Account. The RSU
would also act as the primary source of advice on Bank contracting,
procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures for beneficiaries under the
project; (iii) contract consultants to carry out the various training,
advisory activities or studies on behalf of Ministry of Finance, T&CPD, and
MOPAM; (iv) prepare and forward semi-annual monitoring reports regarding
project status to the Bank (para. 75); and (v) ensure that all project
accounts, the Special Account and supporting Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
are audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 78).
51.         The Central Bank would manage the Specitl Account and, as the APEX
institution, implement and monitor the credit program through eligible
participating financial intermediaries (PFIs). Its responsibilities in these
regards, which would be discharged through a Project Administrator
satisfactory to the Bank, would be to: (i) manage payments to and from the
Special Account (para. 71); (ii) ensure that FIs had been certified for
participation by the Inspector of Banks (para. 53); (iii) ensure that
subprojects satisfy agreed eligibility criteria (paras. 60 - 69); (iv) claim
reimbursements from the Bank for subloan rediscounts and forward supporting
documentation to the Bank as necessary; (v) make debt service payments to the
Borrower for repayments on the portion of the loan drawn down to fund the
credit line; and (vi) prepare semi-annual monitoring reports regarding credit
component operations and forward them to the RSU for inclusion in its semi-
annual reports to the Bank on project status (para. 75). A satisfactory
Project Administrator has been appointed. Designation by the Government of
the Central Bank as its agent to enable it to implement the credit component
would be a condition of Effectiveness.
Project Im2lementation - Credit Component
52.         Bank funds for the credit component wo-uld be borrowed by the
Government and on-lent through the Central Bank (as agent for the Government).
The Central Bank, acting as a wholesale bank (or APEX institution), would on-
lend the funds to interested and eligible financial intermediaries (PFIs)
through a rediscounting arrangement (para. 72). These PFIs, in turn, would
blend their counterpart resources with the Bank resources to fund subloans to
eligible final sub-borrowers. At the option of individual PFIs and final
subborrowers, sub-loans would be denominated either in TT dollars or in US
dollars.
53.         Eligibility Criteria and Certification of FIs.  In principle, all
licensed financial institutions (e.g. commercial banks), which are supervised
by the Inspector, would be eligible to participate as first-tier financial



- 19 -
intermediaries under the project. Additionally, the TTDFC (which is not now
supervised by the Inspector but which could be monitored by external auditors)
would also be eligible to participate, provided it met satisfactory
performance and eligibility criteria. The eligibility of FTs to participate
under the project would be certified by the Inspector (or external auditors in
the case of the TTDFC), in accordance with procedures and performance and
eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Bank (Annex XIV). Failure to
continue to meet such criteria would disqualify participating FIs from making
further commitments of project funds. The Government has taken initial steps
to formulate reforms in the legal and regulatory framework for the financial
system. Disbursement of the first US$7.5 million from the credit component
would be contingent upon satisfactory progress by the Government in
formulating proposals for the reform of its financial system by strengthening
its regulatory framework; disbursement of the remaining US$12.5 million from
the credit component would be contingent upon satisfactory progress by the
Government in implementing such reform of its financial system. Additional
conditions of disbursement of the credit component would require: (i) signing
of satisfactory Participation Agreements between the Central Bank and at least
two eligible PFIs; and (ii) signing of a satisfactory Participation Agreement
between the Central Bank and each PFI, prior to disbursement of project funds
through the respective PFI. Agreements have been reached regarding: (i) those
legal principles and regulatory reforms that would provide a satisfactory
regulatory framework for purposes of satisfying the disbursement conditions;
and (ii) project-specific performance and eligibility criteria to be used to
screen PFIs under the project.
Project Implementation - Technical As&istance (TA) Component
54.         Bank funds for technical assistance (TA -- i.e. all components
except the credit program) would be m&ie available by thp Borrower to public
sector beneficiaries as a grant. TechEiial activities would be contracted and
implemented by beneficiary firms and/or institutions in coordination with the
RSU. In the case of the activities to br contracted by MOPAM, Ministry of
Finance and T&CPD (paras. 47 (d),(e),(f)' the RSU would carry out the
requisite contracting of consultants. The capacity of various participating
entities to contract activities under the proposed project was strengthened
during project preparation by: (i) delivery by the Bank in T&T of a seminar on
the Bank's procurement procedures; and (ii) contracting under the TAL of a
procurement expert who worked with the RSU and relevant Government departments
(Central Tenders Board and the State Solicitor's Office) to develop model
contracts and streamlined processing procedures for contracting arrangements
under Bank projects.
On-lending Arrangements and Subloan Criteria. Terms and Conditions
55          Re-lending Mechanism.  The Government, which would be the
Borrower, would re-lend the portion of the Bank loan allocated for the credit
component through the Central Bank to the PFIs through a rediscounting
arrangement. The PFIs, in turn, would blend such proceeds with their
counterpart resources for on-lending to eligible enterprises. The Central
Bank would establish a separate project account to channel loan proceeds to



- 20 -
the PFIs, and to accumulate subloaii repayments until they become due for
repayment under the Bank loan.
56.         Commitment. Guarantee. and Administrative Fees.  The Government
would assume the cost of the Bank's loar charges and the fee charged by the
Central Bank to administer the credit component, and would recover costs in
line with the provisions of para. 59.
57.         Re-lending Rates of the Government to PFIs.  The Government would
re-lend project funds denominated in TT dollars or US dollars to the PFIs at
their estimated marginal cost of borrowing. In the case of TT-dollar
denominated subloans, this rate would be the weighted average domestic six-
month CD rate, adjusted upwards to take account of the avoided cost of reserve
requirements. In the case of US-dollar denominated loans, the re-lending rate
to PFIs would be six-month LIBOR + 1.5 percentage points. The interest rate
charged by the Central Bank to PFIs would be adjusted every six-months
throughout the life of each subloan.7/ The proposed LIBOR-based relending
rate is consistent with the commercial rate payable by T&T financial
institutions on US-dollar denominated resources. In order to improve the
transparency of the CD market, the Central Bank would compute, according to a
methodology acceptable to the Bank, and publish monthly the most current
weighted average CD rates (including the six-month rate used as the basis for
computing the onlending rate from the Central bank to PFIs for subloans
denominated in TT dollars) and their dispersion. The adequacy of re-lending
interest rates would be reviewed by the Bank and the Government at least
annually.
58.         On-lending Rate by PFIs to Subborrowers.  The interest rate to
final borrowers and the frequency of its adjustment, both for subloans
denominated in TT dollars or US dollars, would be freely determined by PFIs
and their clients. PFIs would bear the credit risk on subloans. The relative
attractiveness to subborrowers of subloans denominated in TT dollars versus
those denominated in US dollars would vary over time depending inter alia
upon: (i) the relative levels of interest rates on TT dollars and US dollars;
and (ii) subborrowers' assessment of the foreign exchange risk associated with
US-dollar denominated borrowing.
59.         Foreign Exchange Risk and Spread to Government.   The Government
would bear explicitly the foreign exchange risk. The earnings accruing to the
Government from the spread between the Central Bank's variable onlending rates
to PPIs for subloans and the loan charges and fees paid by the Government,
respectively to the Bank and the Central Bank, would be used to cover this
risk. However, at those points in time when TT dollar deposit rates or LIBOR
/I    In September 1991, the median 6-month domestic CD rate for commercial
banks was 6.1% (the weighted average 6-month CD rate was not available);
the Bank's variable lending rate was 7.73Z; and six-month LIBOR was
about 5.63%. Reserve requirements applicable to commercial banks were
16X.



- 21 -
are sufficiently low relative to the rate on the Bank Loan, the lending system
employed under the project might imply a negative spread for the Government on
onlent funds. This would be the logical result of a market-based lending
system experiencing what would be expected to be a temporary disequilibrium.
Over time, as the efficiency of domestic investment and the demand for credit
increase, it is expected that real domestic deposit rates will align
themselves with international rates, thereby yielding a positive spread to the
Government. Similarly, the magnitude and/or sign of the spread between the
Bank's rate and LIBOR will vary through time. Therefore, the likelihood that
the Government would bear any cumulative net cost as a result of channelling
Bank funds over the life of the project would be low.
60.         Eligible Subsectors.  The project would finance productive
investments in all liberalized subsectors, except primary production of oil
and gas. Protected activities in the agricultural or livestock subsectors
would be excluded from financing. A wide range of private manufacturing and
service activities would therefore be eligible for financing under the project
(including, for example, construction, non-oil mining, tourism and service
industries supporting the productive sectors).
61.         Eligible Subproiects.  Credit under the project would be extended,
in principle, for eligible expenditures in support of incremental productive
investment in eligible subsectors proposed by local or foreign private-sector
clients of PFIs. The PFIs would select subprojects in accordance with their
own criteria, and the proviso that no Bank funds would be used for the
purchase of existing assets (including land) or re-financing of liabilities.
62.         Subloan Size Limits and Maturities, and Subproiect Financing
Plans. The minimum subloan size would be US$30,000 equivalent, and the
maximum subloan (funded from Bank resources) to any single company by a PFI or
group of PFIs would be US$1.5 million equivalent. These limits are adequate
to cover a wide range of eligible subprojects in T&T. Subloans could have
maturities of up to 15 years, including up to 5 years of grace; however, the
maturity and grace period of individual subloans would be freely determined by
PFIs and their clients. The financing plan for each subproject would conform
to the normal policies of the PFI. In order to promote an increasing degree
of domestic resource mobilization for investment lending by PFIs, the
rediscount percent applied by the Central Bank to subloans made by PFIs would
decline from 85% for commitments made in the first two years in which
disbursements were authorized from the credit component, to 75% in the third
and subsequent years.
63.         Eligible Expenditures.  Under the credit program, project-related
expenditures made within 180 days of receipt by the Central Bank of subloan
re-discount applications would be eligible for financing under the project.
Financing of fixed assets would include installation costs, building
construction, handling and storage facilities, and civil works. Incremental
working capital needs financed with loan proceeds would include raw materials,
spare parts, other physical production inputs, work in process, and
inventories of finished products. In addition to the above-mentioned items,
expenditures related to startup investments in product marketing and



- 22 -
distribution, product research and development, worker retraining, and
technical services (including preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments
(EIAs)) to prepare enterprise restructuring and expansion programs would also
be eligible for financing from the loan. However, ultimate decisions
regarding items to be financed by individual subloans would remain with the
PFIs, which would bear the credit risk.
64.         Environmental Requirements.  Proposals for all new land and
building developments in T&T are reviewed from an environmental perspective by
the Town and Country Planning Division (T&CPD) in MOPAM, which may require
that Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) be prepared. The main problems
with the environmental review process in T&T are: (i) there is limited
expertise within T&CPD to evaluate EIAs when they are carried out; and (ii)
there is an absence of national environmental standards against which project
impacts can be judged.
65.         Under the project, programs would therefore be implemented through
T&CPD (para. 47 (d) and Annex VII) to: (i) develop a set of "best practice"
environmental standards (e.g for effluent discharge, emissions); and (ii)
strengthen the capacity of T&CPD to review EIAs. These programs would be
carried out in consultation with the Ministry of Environment and other
relevant agencies. Moreover, PFIs would be required to certify that all
subprojects financed under the project would be screened in accordance with
national environmental procedures and standards. The Operating Policy
Guidelines (para. 67) for the credit program would include provisions to this
effect. A dated covenant under the Loan would require that the Government put
into effect by June 30, 1995 the national environmental pollution standards
developed under the project.
66.         Sub2ro1ect Review Procedures.  Subloans approved by PFIs in an
amount equivalent to US$1.0 million or less ("free-limit") would be
rediscounted by the Central Bank, following the Central Bank's review of the
subloan documentation to assure conformity with the agreed subloan eligibility
criteria. However: (i) the first two subloans presented by any PFI, following
its initial certification or re-certification following a lapse in eligibility
to participate; and (ii) all subloans exceeding the US$1.0 million equivalent
"free-limit" would be subject to ex-ante review by the Bank prior to re-
discounting by the Central Bank. During project supervision, Bank staff would
review a sample of subprojects bearing subloans less than the "free-limit".
67.         The Central Bank has adopted satisfactory Operating Policy
Guidelines (OPG) which detail: (i) the application process for FIs under the
project; (ii) the subproject parameters detailed in paras. 57 to 58 and 60 to
63 above; and (iii) the procurement (para. 68) and environmental (para. 65)
procedures applicable under subprojects.
Procurement
68.         Goods L d services to be financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The RSU,
Central Bank, and PFIs would be responsible for ensuring the competitiveness,



.123 -
in price and quality, of items procured. A breakdown of procurement by method
is shown in the table on the following page.
69.         For subprojects financead undr the credit Program and executed by
subborrowers, PFIs would ensure that contracts exceeding US$1.5 million
equivalent would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. In the case of contracts for
goods procured through ICB, for purposes of bid evaluation, local or CARICO04
suppliers would be granted a margin of preference in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. For contracts costing less than US$1.5 million equivalent,
procurement would be carried out in accordance with normal commercial
practices. In order to assure efficiency in contracting, beneficiaries would
be required to award contracts on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three eligible suppliers under the Guidelines, taking
into account price, quality, and delivery capacity. All subproject appraisals
would include a discussion of procurement procedures used, and the PFIs would
maintain records of the methods of procurement followed by all enterprises,
summarizing offers and awards for each investment. The Bank would
periodically review these records on a sample basis in the course of project
supervision. Prior review by the Bank of procurement documentation would be
carried out for: (i) all contracts procured through ICB; and (ii) the first
contract procured by other methods submitted by each PFI. Procurement
procedures and documents under other contracts would 'be subject to random
review by the Bank during project supervision.
70.         Under the TA component, goods (mainly laboratory equipment) would
be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.   Miscellaneous items costing
less than US$20,000 which cannot be procured under a single contract (up to an
aggregate amount of US$60,000) will be procured by obtaining price quotations
from at least three eligible suppliers. In the case of laboratory and pilot
plant equipment to be purchased by TTBS and CARIRI, the precise equipment list
and most appropriate bid packaging and related procurement arrangements,
consistent with Bank Procurement Guidelines, would be identified by
specialized consultants during project implementation. Items costing more
than US$20,000 would be procured through ICB or LIB, with the prior agreement
of the Bank. In the case of contracts for goods procured through ICB, for
purposes of bid evaluation, local or CARICOM suppliers could be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Prior review by the
Bank of procurement documentation would be carried out for: (i) all contracts
under ICB or LIB; and (ii) the first two contracts following other procedures.
Procurement procedures and documents under other contracts would be subject to
random review by the Bank during project supervision. Consultant and training
services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Consultants.



- 24 -
PROCUREMENT METHODS
Project Element                  Procurement Method                                  Total
ICBILIB             LCB          Other    N.A.  Cost
- _____----(US$000)-
Subloans
Goods & Works             10,000                             30,000 8/      40,000
(5,000)                            (15,000)        (20,000)
Enuipment
TTBS                     649                                                    649
(649)                                                 (649)
CARIRI                  827                                                     827
(827)                                                 (827)
T&CPD                                                       30 9/                30
(30)                (30)
MOP                                                         30 9/                 30
(30)                (30)
Consulting Services   Trainin  10/
ETAF                                                        3,000             3,000
(1,500)         (1,500)
TTBS                                                        1,558             1,558
(1,376)         (1,376)
CARIRI                                                      662                 662
(622)              (622)
T&CPD                                                       773                 773
(773)              (773)
MOPAM                                                       931                 931
(931)              (931)
MOF                                                         262                 262
(262)              (262)
Administration                  II/                                             839    839
(0)    (0)
Total                    11,476                             37,246      839  49,561
(6,476)                            (20,524)  ( 0) (27,000)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
8/  Normal commercial practice, but requiring bids from at least three eligible suppliers.
9/ To be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers.
10 To be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
II/ Operating costs to be financed by the Government.



- 25 -
Disbursements
71.       To facilitate pro4ect execution, a Special Account would be
established in the Central Bank in US dollars. The Bank would make an initial
deposit into it of US$2.5 .uillion, based on four months' estimated average
disbursements.
72.       Under the credit component, the Bank would finance 85% of amounts
disbursed by PFIs for subloans committed in the first and second years in
which disbursements were authorized from the credit component, and 75% of
those committed in the third and subsequent years. In all cases, Bank
reimbursements would be related to expenditures made not more than 180 days
prior to submission of the discounting application by the PFI to the Central
Bank.
73.       Under the component of direct technical assistance to the ETAF,
TTBS, CARIRI, MOPAM, Ministry of Finance and the T&CPD, the Bank would
finance: (i) 100% of approved consultant contracts; (ii) 100% of foreign
expenditures or ex-factory local costs for equipment; (iii) 100% of
installation charges; and (iv) 70% of the costs of locally-procured imported
equipment.
74.       Expenditures for individual contracts valued at under US$1.0 million
equivalent financed by subloans and for consulting services and equipment and
supplies for TA activities of less than US$20,000 equivalent would be
disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Central
Bank and the RSU, respectively, for the credit component and for all TA
components. Detailed documentation evidencing expenditures would be retained
by the Central Bank and implementing agencies and would be made available for
the required audits (para. 78) and for the review of Bank supervision
missions. The proposed loan is expected to take about three years to commit
and seven and one half years to disburse. For purposes of calculating
disbursement forecasts (Annex X), the loan has been treated as a "hybrid"
technical assistance and industrial credit operation. A composite forecast
based upon standard Regional disbursement profiles for each constituent type
of operation has been calculated.
Monitoring. Reporting and Auditing
75.       The RSU would prepare semi-annual reports on project implementation.
Additionally, it would: (i) submit monthly reports of transactions of the
Special Account; and (ii) collaborate with the Bank in preparation of a
Completion Report at the end of the project. The Central Bank would support
the RSU's monitoring and reporting responsibilities by providing it with
requisite information in a timely fashion on: (i) the status of the Special
Account; and (ii) execution of the credit component.
76.      Monitoring of project implementation would focus on: (i) the
accreditation of PFIs by the Inspector of Banks; (ii) the Central Bank's
adherence to the OPG; (iii) implementation of the TA components; and (iv)



- 26 -
maintenance of the trade, incentive and interest rate policies which underpin
the project.
77.      A mid-term review of project execution would be carried out by the
Bank and the Government between eighteen and twenty four months following loan
Effectiveness, to take stock of accomplishments and introduce agreed
corrective measures, where warranted, on the basis of implementation
experience gained to date. Such review would cover inter alia: (i) progress
with implementing the Government's strategy fcr business expansion and
industrial restructuring, (as articulated in a letter sent to the Bank --
Annex XVII); (ii) the prevailing degree of competition in Trinidad and
Tobago's financial markets, and the evolution of PFIs' interest rate spreads,
to assess whether deposit and lending interest rates continue to be determined
competitively; (iii) the advantages of introducing alternative mechanisms to
allocate productive credits channelled through the Government; (iv) the
adequacy of institutional arrangements and implementation of the various
components of the project; and (v) a discussion of the findings and
recommendations of all studies financed under the project. Project progress
would also be judged through specific monitoring indicators (Annex XV).
78.       The RSU, the various beneficiary public sector agencies, and the
Central Bank would each keep separate records and accounts for all
expenditures made under the project. The records maintained by the Central
Bank would be adequate to reflect the operations and financial situation of
the Special Account and the credit component. The Special Account, all SOEs,
and the project accounts maintained by the RSU, the various beneficiary public
sector agencies, and the Central Bank would all be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing. The audit reports, including
separate opinions regarding: (i) the supporting documentation for
disbursements based on SOEs; and (ii) the operations of the Special Account,
would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of
each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
79.       TA activities would help develop internationally- competitive
productive activities and encourage the transition from stabilization to
growth in the economy. Such transition would result in gains in employment
and foreign exchange earnings and encourage the development of an "exporting
culture" in T&T. The improved framework of prudential regulation and
supervision which the project would encourage in the financial sector would
help improve the efficiency and stability of the financial system. Funds
provided under the credit component would assure availability of resources for
firm reorientation and/or expansion. Improved environmental standards and EIA
review procedures would enhance national environmental management.
80.      Main risks are that: (i) policy backtracking could result in
diminished incentives for export-led economic diversification; (ii) lengthy
contracting procedures could delay TA activities; and (iii) delays in
implementing satisfactory banking regulations could occur. These risks are



- 27 -
being handled bys (i) conditioning the loan on maintenance of adequate
policies; (ii) paying special attention to contracting arrangements during
project preparation; and (iii) linking disbursement of the credit component to
actions on banking regulations and adoption of specific eligibility criteria
to screen PFIs; the substance of the regulatory reforms and the eligibility
criteria have both been agreed.
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
81.   The following actions have been taken by participants in the project:
(i)   A satisfactory Project Administrator has been appointed within
the Central Bank to manage the credit component (para. 51).
(ii)  A letter from the Government has been received by the Bank
outlining its strategy for business expansion and industrial
restructuring (Annex XVII).
(iii) An adequate "framework" legislative brief outlining proposed
reforms to the legal and regulatory framework for the
financial system has been adopted by the Government (para.
53).
(iv)  Satisfactory Operating Guidelines for the ETAF have been
adopted by the EDC (para. 47 (b)).
(iv)  The Boards of the TTBS and CARIRI have approved their
respective TA programs under the project (para. 47 (c)).
(vi)  The Central Bank has adopted satisfactory Operating Policy
Guidelines (OPG) for the credit component (para. 67).
82.      The implementation of the proposed loan would be subject to the
following additional special actions:
(a)   As conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)   Designation by the Government of the Central Bank as its agent
to implement the credit component under the proposed project
(para. 51).
(ii)  Signing of satisfactory agreements between the Borrower and
each of the autonomous beneficiary entities under the TA
program (TTBS and CARIRI).
(iii) Designation of satisfactory Project Coordinators,
respectively, in EDC, TTBS, CARIRI, T&CPD and Ministry of
Finance, to implement all project-supported activities for the
respective institutions.



- 28 -
(iv) Appointment by the EDC of two marketing officers, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to
promote the program supported by the ETAF.
(b)    As conditions of Disbursement of the credit component:
(i)   (a) Disbursement of the first US$7.5 million would be
contingent upon satisfactory progress by the Borrower in
formulating proposals for the reform of its financial system
by strengthening its regulatory framework; (b) disbursement of
the remaining US$12.5 million would be contingent upon the
Borrower formally adopting such reforms and certifying that
agreed new prudential criteria are being applied system-wide.
(ii)  Signing of satisfactory Participation Agreements between the
Central Bank and at least two eligible PFIs (para. 53).
(iii) Signing and furnishing to the Bank of satisfactory
Participation Agreements between the Central Bank and each PFI
would be a condition of Disbursement for Bank funds
intermediated by the respective PFI (para. 53).
(iv)  The PFIs are in compliance with agreed performance and
eligibility criteria.
(c)   As covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(i)   Continued commitment of the loan would be subject to the
maintenauce of the trade policy reform program consistent with
agreements under the SAL (para. 16).
(ii)  The most current weighted average CD rates and their range
(including the six-month rate used as the basis for computing
the onlending rate from the Central Bank to PFIs for subloans
denominated in TT-dollars) would be included among the
statistics published monthly by the Central Bank (para. 57).
(iii) At least annually, the Bank and the Government would hold
reviews of the adequacy of the re-lending interest rates by
the Central Bank to PFIs (para. 57).
(iv)  At least annually, the adequacy of the Operating Guidelines
governing the operation of the ETAF would be reviewed by the
Bank and the Government. At least one month prior to the mid-
term review for the project (para. 77), the EDC would submit
to the Bank a report containing a qualitative analysis of the
progress achieved under the ETAF, including its
recommendations for modifications to the program, where
warranted (para. 47 (b)).



- 29 -
(v)  TA programs would be carried out in the context of agreed
Performance Plans for TTBS and CARIRI.
(vi) The Bank and the Government would carry out a review of
progress in implementing all aspects of the project between
eighteen and twenty four months following loan Effectiveness,
to take stock of accomplishments and introduce agreed
corrective measures, where warranted, on the basis of
implementation experience gained to date. Such review would
cover inter alia: (i) progress with implementing the
Government's strategy for business expansion and industrial
restructuring (Annex XVII); (ii) the prevailing degree of
competition in Trinidad and Tobago's financial markets, and
the evolution of PFIs' interest rate spreads, to assess
whether deposit and lending interest rates continue to be
determined competitively; (iii) the advantages of introducing
alternative mechanisms to allocate productive credits
channelled through the Government; (iv) the adequacy of
institutional arrangements and implementation of the various
components of the project; and (v) a discussion of the
findings and recommendations of all studies financed under the
project. Project progress would also be judged through
specific monitoring indicators (Annex XV).
(vii) EDC would be required to assist exporting enterprises in
applying for grants under the ETAF.
(d)   As  dated covenants in the Loan Agreement:
Mi)   By September 30, 1992 the Government will submit to
Parliament: (a) amendments to the Standards Act to facilitate
the adoption of international product and service standards;
and (b) proposed legislation for the adoption of the
International System of Units to regulate weights and
measures.
(ii)  By June 30, 1995 the Government, as national environmental
standards, would adopt ie environmental pollution control
standards developed by r&CPD through the TA component (para.
47 (c)).
(e)   As a remedy in the Loan Agreement:
(i)   That continued disbursement of the credit component would be
contingent upon the maintenance of market-determined interest
rates.
83.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$27.0 million equivalent on the terms and conditions outlined in para. 48.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page I of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
lable 1: MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT BY KIND OF ACTIVITY
------------------------ (no. of persons) ----------
1984      1985    1986       1987      1988     1989
Sugar Industry La                        11400       9800    9700    10000    13300    13200
Petroleum Industries                     14100      13000   17800    17100    17800    18000
Food Drink and Tobacco                   10800      10000    8300    10800    12000    11400
Textiles, Garments, Footwear             10400      10000    3200      2500      3000      3300
Printing and Publishing                   3500       3300    3400      3400      3800      3200
Wood and Related Products                 5500       6400    4700      4600      4000      3900
Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals       4200       3900    4000      3200      4600      4200
Assembly type and Related Industries     12300      10000    9700      7900      7300      7200
Miscellaneous Manufacturing               1900       1800    1300      1600      2000      1700
TOTAL MANUFACTURING
EMPLOYMENT                              74100     68200   62100    61100    67800    66100
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT                        406700    399300  390500   372300   371600   365700
/A Includes activity in the cane fields.



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSONI AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 2: DISTRIBUTION OF MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT BY KIND OF ACTIVITY
1984      1985    1986      1987      1988     1989
Sugar Industry L/                        15.4       14.4    15.6      16.4      19.6     20.0
Petroleum Industries                      19.0      19.1    28.7      28.0     26.3      27.2
Food Drink and Tobacco                    14.6      14.7    13.4      17.7      17.7     17.2
Textiles, Garments, Footwear              14.0      14.7     5.2       4.1       4.4      5.0
Printing and Publishing                   4.7        4.8     5.5       5.6       5.6      4.8
Wood and Related Products                 7.4        9.4     7.6       7.5       5.9      5.9
Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals       5.7        5.7     6.4       5.2      6.8       6.4
Assembly type and Related Industries     16.6       14.7    i5.6      12.9      10.8     10.9
Miscellaneous Manufacturing               2.6        2.6     2.1       2.6      2.9       2.6
TOTAL MANUFACTURING                      100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
PERCENT OF TOTAL EMPLOYMENT               18.2      17.1    15.9      16.4      18.2     18.2
La Includes activity in the cane fields.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 3: MANUFACTURING GDP AT FACTOR COST BY KIND OF ACTIVITY
(constant 1985)
1984      1985    1986     1987      1988     1989
(millions of TT$ of 1985)
SugarIndustry a                         108.9     111.2   128.0    128.0    139.7    138.7
Petroleum Industries                  4482.7    4814.7  4712.0   4363.7   4225.0   4261.0
Food Drink and Tobacco                 638.2      560.3   576.0    595.9    573.7    614.6
Textiles, Garments, Footwear            86.5       68.5    85.0     76.0      54.1     55.8
Printing and Publishing                 111.3     112.1   122.1    127.8      92.9     84.1
Wood and Related Products               63.4       38.1    38.0     27.4      10.8      9.7
Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals    254.1      221.3   231.3    190.9    193.9    198.6
Assembly type and Related Industries   398.1      288.7   289.2    195.5    186.8    144.9
Miscellaneous Manufacturing             35.6       35.9    41.0     38.1      38.7     34.4
TOTAL MANUFACTURING                   6178.8    6250.8  6222.6   5743.3   5515.6   5541.8
TOTAL GDP AT FACTOR COST              18850.1   17907.3 17477.3  16391.7  15819.4  15403.6
La Includes activity in the cane fields.



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 4: DISTRIBUTION OF MANUFACTURING GDP AT FACTOR COST
BY KIND OF ACTIVITY
(in constant 1985 prices)
1984      1985    1986      1987      1988     1989
Sugar Industry /a                          1.8       1.8      2.1      2.2       2.5      2.5
Petroleum Industries                     72.5       77.0    75.7      76.0      76.6     76.9
Food Drink and Tobacco                    10.3       9.0     9.3      10.4      10.4     11.1
Textiles, Garments, Footwear               1.4       1.1      1.4      1.3       1.0      1.0
Printing and Publishing                    1.8       1.8     2.0       2.2       1.7      1.5
Wood and Related Products                  1.0       0.6     0.6       0.5       0.2      0.2
Chemnicals and Non-Metallic Minerals      4.1        3.5     3.7       3.3       3.5      3.6
Assembly type and Related Industries      6.4        4.6     4.6       3.4       3.4      2.6
Miscellaneous Manufacturing               0.6        0.6     0.7       0.7       0.7      0.6
TOTAL                                    100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
PERCENT OF TOTAL GDP AT                  32.8       34.9    35.6      35.0      34.9    36.0.
FACTOR COST
/a Includes activity in the cane fields.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PQOJECT
able : MANUFACTURING GDP AT FACTOR COST BY KIND OF ACTIVITY
(current prices)
1984      1985    1986      1987     1988     1989
Sugar Industry La                      237.3      361.2   264.9    271.7    306.4    222.4
Petroleum Industries                  4971.9    4819.4  3831.1   4246.2   3978.8   4437.0
Food, Drink and Tobacco                507.5      493.2   540.2    580.0    587.3    674.0
Textiles, Garments, Footwear            89.1       67.0    72.4     67.5      54.1     66.8
Printing and Publishing                114.8      110.6   120.7    125.0    107.0    129.8
Wood and Related Products               47.2       37.6    32.2     30.4      14.4     14.5
Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals    204.1      210.6   216.6    181.7    196.4    214.6
Assembly Type and Related Industries   325.3      243.1   261.2    218.0    218.4    172.3
Miscellaneous Manufacturing             32.1       34.9    39.3     47.4      49.5     46.5
TOTAL MANUFACTURING                   6529.3    6377.6  5378.6   5765.9   5512.3   5977.9
TOTAL GDP AT FACTOR COST              18651.4   17825.0 16734.2  16811.8  16598.5  16690.5
/A Includes activity in the cane fields.



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCURING PROJECT
Table 6: DISTRIBUTION OF MANUFACTURING GDP AT FACTOR COST
BY KIND OF ACTIVITY
(in current prices)
1984      1985    1986      1987      1988     1989
Sugar Industry a                          3.6        5.7     4.9       4.7       5.6      3.7
Petroleum Industries                     76.1       75.6    71.2      73.6      72.2     74.2
Food, Drink and Tobacco                   7.8        7.7    10.0      10.1      10.7     11.3
Textiles, Garments, Footwear               1.4       1.1      1.3      1.2       1.0      1.1
Printing and Publishing                    1.8       1.7     2.2       2.2       1.9      2.2
Wood and Related Products                 0.7        0.6    0.36       0.5      0.3       0.2
Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals       3.1        3.3     4.0       3.2       3.6      3.6
Assembly Type and Related Industries      5.0        3.8     4.9       3.8       4.0      2.9
Miscellaneous Manufacturing               0.5        0.5     0.7       0.8       0.9      0.8
TOTAL MANUFACTURING                      100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
PERCENT OF TCTAL GDP AT                  35.0       35.8    32.1      34.3      33.2     35.8
FACTOR COST
/a Includes activity in the cane fields.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINES         NIOA            USRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 7: RATE OF GROWTH OF PRODUCTIVITY
(percent per annum)
1984      1985    1986      1987     1988      1989
Sugar Industry a/                                  18.8    16.3      -3.0    -17.9       0.0
Petroleum Industries                               24.9    -1.1    -10.2    -27.2        1.6
Food Drink and Tobacco                              2.1      3.9      0.4    -27.6       7.9
Textiles, Garments, Footwear                        -7.9    25.4    -13.3    -46.5       3.9
Printing and Publishing                             17.2    10.0      1.5    -45.3      -8.8
Wood and Related Products                         -30.1      0.8    -30.1    -70.4      -9.5
Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals                 1.3      5.6    -19.9    -23.6       3.2
Assembly type and Related Industries              -15.6      1.2    -34.4    -28.2    -21.8
Miscellaneous Manufacturing                        17.3    15.4      -9.9    -23.6    -10.4
TOTAL                                               17.7     0.6    -10.5    -27.8       1.2



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 8: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: EXPORTS, 1980-1989
(million of TT$)
Oils                Other  Mach        Misc                                 Non-oil
Year     Food   Bev/Tob         Fuels    &       Chem        Manuf  Tran        Manu   Other  Total    Non-oil    Total
Fats                Goods  Equip       Goods  Goods Exports   Exports          %
1980      173        23         5623      0       263         48        52       35       8       6225      602        9.7
1981      157        21         5412       1      281          75       85       42       11     6084       672        11.0
1982      123        29         4460      0       383          113      189      28      9        5334      874        16.4
1983      105        23         3936      0       456          140      156      31      9       4855       919        18.9
1984      99         22         4090      0       566          164      76       29       11      5055      965        19.1
1985      87         23         4107      0       659          110      154      21       12     5173        1066      20.6
1986      156        49         3529      0       764          312      93       33       11     4946        1418      28.7
l087      191        46         3740       1      742          371      72       49       11     5223        1483      28.4
1988      239        79         3279      2        1134       492       70       74       13     5381       2102       39.1
1989      332        103       4090       4        1226       702       86        101     12     6656       2566       38.5



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 9: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF EXPORTS, 1984-88
1984          1985            1986           1987             1988
Exports to:
USA                   2961           3196           3043           2971              2993
(58)          (62)            (62)          (57)              (56)
CARICOM                490           596             460            558              651
(10)          (12)            (9)            (11)             (12)
Other Caribbean        480           360             370            491              678
(9)           (7)             (8)            (9)              (13)
EEC                    781            686            716            628              412
(15)          (13)            (15)          (12)              (8)
Rest of the World     354            333            344            554               628
( 7)          ( 6)            ( 7)           (I11)            (12)
TOTAL EXPORTS         5066           5171           4933           5202              5362
(100)         (100)           (100)         (100)             (100)
Source: Central Statistical Office and mission estimates



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 10 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 10: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: MANUFACTURING EXCLUDING SUGAR AND OIL,
1984-89
--------------------Selected Indicators---------------------------
1984     1985     1986      1987      1988      1989
Employment (persons)             48600    45400    34600    34000    36700    34900
% of manufacturing emp.         65.6      66.6     55.7      55.6      54.1      52.8
% of total employment            11.9     11.4     8.9       9.1       9.9       9.5
GDP fc (IT$ million of 1985)     1587      1325     1383      1252      1151      1142
% of manufacturing GDP          25.7      21.2     22.2      21.8      20.9      20.6
% of total GDP                  8.4       7.4      7.9       7.6       7.3       7.4
Productivity (GDP per worker)    32658    29183    39960    36812    31360    32725
Growth of productivity (%)                -10.6    36.9      -7.9      -14.8      4.4
Growth of output (%)                      -16.5    4.4       -9.5      -8.0      -0.8
Source: Mission estimates, based on data furnished by the CSO.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AN INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TabLe 1: TOTAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM ASSETS
(T&T Dollars in BiLlions, End of Year)
X of Total
1984  1986  1987  1988  1989    1984  1986  1987   1988  1989
...     ----   ---   ---   ----  ----   ---   ---  ....    . .... .....
1. Central Bank                   4.2   4.6   4.1   5.1   5.9
-external assets             3.5   2.3   1.4   1.6   2.4
-Domestic and other assets   0.7   2.3   2.7   3.5   3.5
2. Commercial Banks              10.1   9.9   9.8  10.1  10.6   58.5  54.7  53.6  52.1  52.5
3. Finance Companies              1.3   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.9      7.3   3.2    3.6   3.7   4.4
4. Trust & Mortgage Companies    1.6   1.9  2.1   2.2   1.8        9.3  10.5   11.3  11.3  8.8
Sub-total                   12.9  12.4  12.5  13.1  13.3   75.1  68.3  68.5  67.2  65.7
5. DeveLopment Finance Inst.      0.9   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0      5.5   5.7    5.4   5.1   5.1
6. Life Insurance Companies /a   1.7   2.7   2.4   2.9  3.1        9.7  15.1   13.2  14.8  15.5
7. National Insurance Board La   1.6   1.8   2.0  2.1   2.3       9.1  10.1  10.9  11.0  11.3
8. Unit Trust Corporation        0.02  0.03  0.06  0.08  0.14      0.1   0.2    0.3   0.4   0.7
9. Deposit Insurance Corp.                   0.06  0.03  0.04                   0.3   0.2   0.2
10. Home Mortgage Bank                 0.01  0.13  0.16  0.21            0.0    0.7   0.8   1.0
11. Thrift Institutions          0.08  0.09  0.11  0.11  0.10      0.5   0.5    0.6   0.5   0.5
TOTAL (Inct. Central Bank)   21.4  22.7  22.3  24.5  26.1
TOTAL (Exct. Central Bank)    17.2  18.1  18.2  19.4  20.3    100   100    100   100   100
Real X Change
(Constant EOY 1989 T&TS in Billions)    1984- 1986-    1984-  1986-  1987-  1988-
1989  1989     1986   1987   1988   1989
1. Central Bank                   6.5   6.1   5.0   5.5   5.9    (9.8)  (4.2)   (5.8) (18.9)  11.4    6.0
-external assets             5.5   3.0   1.7   1.8   2.4  (56.5) (21.6)  (44.5) (45.2)   6.1   34.9
-Domestic and other assets   1.1  3.1   3.3   3.8   3.5   230.1   12.7  192.9    6.7  14.1  (7.5)
2. ComnerciaL Banks              15.6  13.2  12.0  11.1  10.6  (31.9) (19.1)  (15.9)  (9.0)  (7.5)  (3.9)
3. Finance Conpnies               2.0   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.9  (54.6)  17.1  (61.2)  6.8  (2.3)  12.2
4. Trust & Mortgage Companies    2.5   2.5   2.5   2.4   1.8  (27.7) (28.8)    1.6    0.0  (4.4) (25.6)
Sub-total                   20.1  16.4  15.3  14.3  13.3  (33.6) (18.9)  (18.2)  (6.9)  (6.7)  (6.7)
5. Development Finance Inst.      1.5   1.4   1.2   1.1   1.0  (30.3) (25.8)   (6.1) (12.4) (10.4)  (5.5)
6. Life Insurance Companies L    2.6   3.6   2.9  3.1   3.1    21.7  (13.5)   40.6  (18.9)   6.7
7. National Insurance Board Lb   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.3   2.3   (6.3)  (6.2)   (0.1)  (0.1)  (4.2)  (2.0)
8. Unit Trust Corporation         0.0   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.1   315.3  219.3   30.1  59.2  29.3  55.1
9. Deposit Insurance Corp.                    0.1   0.0   0.0                                 (53.8)  24.4
10. Home Mortgage Bank                  0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2           2,166          1,637    9.7  18.9
11. Thrift Institutions)          0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   (19.7) (12.2)   (8.5)   9.7  (11.8)  (9.3)
TOTAL (Inct. Centrat Bank)   33.2  30.2  27.3  26.8  26.1   (21.3) (13.4)   (9.2)  (9.6)  (1.9)  (2.4)
TOTAL (Exct. Central Bank)   26.7  24.1  22.3  21.3  20.3  (24.2) (15.7)  (10.0)  (7.2)  (4.8)  (4.6)
Sources:   Central Bank Quarterty Statistical Digest, March 1990; Review of the Economy 1989. Central
Bank, "Anrmal Economic Survey, 19881: N. Crichton and C. de Silva, "Financial Development and
Economic Growth in Trinidad and Tobago," paper presented at the Regional Monetary Studies
Conference held in Trinidad and Tobago, November 16-18, 1988. Inflationary indices taken from
IMf (1985-1989).
L   1989 data not available.  Figure projected assuming zero real growth or decline from 1988. For the
purposes of this table, General Insurance Conpanies were not Included.
lb  Figures obtaiined by averaging June 30th F.Y. end data points except for 1984 figure which is a June 30,
1985, total.



Table 2: MONETARY DEVELOPEWNTS, 1970-89
(In Percentages)
19?0-M       ' 1974-9k       190-82t           1983-850          1986        1987        1988            1989
Reserve mm":s  watsgrowth rate              17.6          26.3           39.3              -0.6            -16.7      -23.3         1.4            14.9
Red1scowt rate                            5.0-6.0k        6.0             6.0              7.5              7.5         7.5      8.5-9.5            9.5
Reserve requirements:  total               10-12k         14Q          14.mrrl5&      14.srrl5.221&         2C          204         20            1618e
Of which: primary                         5.7k          9d           9*mrrI51       9+mrrl5171P\         15t         9(           9            9-12t
seconda,9                      5             5               S                5                5          I1           11            5-98     0
N
Monet,ary  Amresates
Narrow  money growth rate                   11.8          34.7           29.1              -3.7            -11.5       -2.1        -16.5           13.3     m
Broad mone growth rate                      19.2          29.0           28.5              2.8              -3.6       2.5          0.1             6.3     m
Marrow money to (DP ratIo                   9.0           9.0            11.1              11.6             10.7       10.5         8.8            10.0    r
Broad moe  to CDP ratio                     32.5          30.8           33.8              44.6             46.4       47.6        48.0            51.1     M
Selected interest Rates                                                                                                                                       S
Sped at deposit rate=                    2.75-4.25       3.0P             3.0              3.0             4.0e         4.0         4.0             4.0     w
Treanury bl (l rate                      3.31-5.79    3.1-4.92         3.05-3.07         3.1-3.46          3.98        4.63         5.07           7.19    0
Av. yield on govt. bonds CIO-20 yrs)   7.17-7.77    7.55-8.62           8.3-8.7         8.84-10.02          9.7        9.54         9.77           10.79
Weighted av. deposit rates                  7.6         3.7-5.9         6.1-6.6          6.3-6.8            6.0         6.1         6.0             5.7     Z s
Weighted av. Lending rates                8.2-10.3     9.8-10.8        11.7-12.7         13.3-13.7          13.1       13.5         12.4           11.9        5
Oth rlnl>or                                                                                                                                                N F
oter nal  eoange rate (TYS per USS)           k           2.4&           2.40             2.40k             3.60       3.60     3.60-4.25k         4.25        E
The rate of infLationi                    2.5-9.3      10.2-21.9       11.4-17.5        7.7-16.7ft          7.7        10.8         7.8            11.4
Excess*/-shortage of bank reserves
as percent of bank deposits             0.6-5.0      6.3-17.6        3.4-7.5           -0.4-2.8           -0.1       -0.1         0.2             0.9     N
Sources:  Central Bank of Trinided and Tobago, and staff estimates.
b The data are averages for growth rates and rawges for others.
L The rediscount rate was sat at 5 from October 1971 to July 1973.
tc The rediscount rate was set at 7.5X with effect from 9/11/83.
d The rediscount rate was raised to 8.5X w.e.f. July 20. 1988, and to 9.5X w.e.f. 2/11/88.
Le  The primary reserve requirement was raised from the statutory lower level of 5.0X to 7.0X from 7/2/73.
LI The primary reserve requirement was raised from 71 to 91 as of November 27. 1974.
LS  As of 6/2/80 the primary reserve requirement was set at 9X plus marginal reserve requirement of 151.                                                      0
As of 7/11/84 the primary reserve requirement was set at 17X of deposits.
L  As of 2/7/86 the primary reserve requirement was lowered to 15X.                                                                                                       v
Li As of Deceober 16. 1987 the primary reserve requirement was lowered to 91 whlle the secondary reserve requirement was raised from 5X to 11X.               :           z
L   The secordary reserve requirement was lowered to 91 on January 25. 1989 and to 7X on 3/5/879. On July 26, 1989 the primary reserve requirement                     o  z
was raised to 12X while the secondary reserve requirement was lowered to 5.                                                                                      Cx
Li  The secondary reserve requfrement, or "voluntary" reserve requirement, Is a percentage of deposits that banks must hold In the form of Treasury    ti
Blis or Specalt Deposits with tho Central Bank.                                                                                                                  o
LS  The specfat deposit rate Is the rate paid on the secondary reserve hetd by banks fn the form of speciol Deposits with the Centrat Bank.                           t
In The specale deposit rate was between 3.25 and 3.5 In 1974.
/o  As of 2/7/86 the special  deposit rate was raised to 4X.
LR Prior to 1976 the TT doltlr was pegged to the pound sterling and floated with the pound sterling against the US dollar.
/o As of June 1946 the TT dollar was pegged at USS2.40.
A s of Decesber 1985, except for Ioports of essentials, the TT dollar was devalued to USS3.60.
is The TT dollar was devalued to USS4.25 as of August 17. 1988.
Li The rate of inflation Is ea sured by the rate of Increase In retalt prcee indeg.
ju The roeC of 1nftatlon was Less than 102 only in 1985.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINE_S EXPANSION MND  NDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Tabte 3: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: INTEREST RATE AND PRICE INDICATORS
(In Percent per Annum; End of Period; Median Rates Unless Otherwise Specified)
1985        1986        1987        1988        1989         1990
Retail price irndex (end of period)                              6.7         9.8         8.3        12.1         9.3         11.4
CommerciaL Banks:
Savings deposits - OrdInary                                    3.5         3.1         3.3         3.3         3.3          2.8
* Special                                   6.1         5.9         6.0         6.0         6.0          6.0
Time deposits: 6 months - 1 year                               8.4         7.8         7.0         8.0         7.1          7.0
Weighted Average Deposit RateLl                                6.3         6.0         6.1         6.0         5.7          n.a.
Weighted Avg. Deposit Rate (Rest Ex-Post)                     (0.4)       (3.8)       (2.2)       (6.1)       (3.6)         n.a.
Weighted Average Lending RateLl                               13.4        13.1        13.5        12.4        11.9          n.a.
Weighted Avg. Lending Rate (Real Ex-Post)                      6.7         3.3         5.2         0.3         2.6          n.a.
Weighted Average Spread                                        7.1         7.2         7.4         6.4         6.2          n.a.
Prime tending rate:                                           12.8        12.0        11.5        13.5        13.5         12.9
Trust & Mortgage Finance Conpanies - Mortgage toans:
Residential                                                   13.8        13.0        12.4        12.5        11.8         11.8
ConmerciaL                                                    14.7        14.4        12.5        13.3        13.5         13.5
Central Bank Rediscount Rate                                     7.5         7.5         7.5         9.5         9.5          9.5
Difference from InfLation (Ex-post)                             0.8        (2.3)       (0.8)       (2.6)        0.2          (1.9)
Difference from weighted avg deposit rate                       1.2         1.5         1.4         3.6         3.8
Difference from Treasury Bill Rate                              4.0         3.5         2.9         4.4         2.3          2.0
Securities Market:
Treasury BtiLsLb                                               3.5         4.0         4.6         5.1         7.2          7.5
Government bonds:
1-10 Years:Lc                                                8.7         8.7         8.8         9.0        10.0         10.1
over 10 years                                                9.7         9.7         9.5         9.8        10.8         10.8
Treasury bills:  United StatesLd                                 7.5         6.0         5.8         6.7         8.1          n.a.
Source: IMF.
LA  Methodology revised in 1988.  Period averages.
& Weighted average discount rate for the year.
Lc Average yietd.
Ld Period averages.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
TRINIDAD ANID TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION-AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 4: COMMERCIAL BANKS - OUTSTANDING LOANS BY TYPE, 1985-90
(TTS mittion)
X OF TOTAL
...... .......... ............... .................... ...............
June                                         June
1985   1986   1987   1988    1989   1990    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Overdraft                 3,548  3,494  3,828  3,693  3,258  2,829    52.7   51.0   51.6   50.9   43.9   38.5
Demand                    1,362  1,671  1,877  1,788  1,852  1,989    20.2   24.4   25.3   24.7   24.9   27.0
Time La                             27      25     48     50     71             0.4    0.3    0.7    0.7    1.0
InstaLlment Lb            1,258  1,007  1,010  1,068  1,167  1,167    18.7   14.7   13.6   14.7   15.7   15.9
Commercial bills
discounted                 44     38     28      17    140    156      0.7    0.5    0.4    0.2    1.9    2.1
Bridging finance /c                 71      59     42     41     28             1.0    0.8    0.6    0.5    0.4
Real estate mortgages       519    550    585    594    923  1,114       7.7    8.0    7.9    8.2   12.4   15.1
TotaL               6,731  6,858  7,413  7,249  7,429  7,353   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
CONSTANT JUNE 1990 TTS MILLION                     PERCENT CHANGE
1985-
June                                June
1990   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
,.....  .....  ..... .. .....  ..... .. ..... .................... 
Overdraft                 5,487  4,921  4,978  4,285  3,458  2,829    (43)   (10)        1    (14)   (19)   (18)
Demand                    2,106  2,353  2,441  2,074  1,965  1,989    (15)    12         4    (15)    (5)      1
Time /a                             39     32      56     53     71      83            (16)    73     (5)    33
InstalTment lb            1,945  1,418  1,314  1,239  1,239  1,167    (18)   (27)    (7)    (6)    (0)    (6)
Commercial bilis
discounted                 69     53     37      19    148    156    194    (23)   (31)   (47)   661         5
Bridging finance X                 100      76     48     43     28    (72)            (23)   (37)   (10)   (34)
Real estate mortgages       803    775    761    689    979  1,114       44     (3)    (2)   (10)    42       14
TotaL               10,409  9,658  9,640  8,410  7,885  7,353    (24)    (7)    (0)   (13)    (6)    (7)
Source:  CentraL Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, Monthly Statistical Digest, August 1990.
/a  Prior to 1986 time Loans were reported as installment Loans by some institutions and as demand loans by
others.
L   Includes lease fInancing.
Le Bridging finance was inctuded in real estate mortgages prior to 1986.



44  -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
B3USINESS  EXPANSION  AND  INDUSTRIAL_RESTRUCTUJRING  PROJIt~T_
Table 5: COMMERCIAL BANKS - TOTAL OUTSTANDING LOANS BY SECTOR - MONTHLY, 1985-89
(TTS million)
% of total
1985/c  1986   1987   1988   1989          1985Lc  1986   1987   1988   1989
Public sector La                       242    270    403    184    179            3.9    3.9    5.4    2.5    2.4
Ncn-financiaL state enterprises        714    871  1,036  1,348  1,226            11.6   12.7   14.0   18.6   16.5
Private financial institutions          143    128    166    171    180           2.3    1.9    2.2    2.4    2.4
Incorporated businesses              2,306  2,787  3,020  2,742  2,593           37.4   40.6   40.8   37.8   34.9
Unincorporated businesses              409    820    788    721    687            6.6   11.9   10.6    9.9    9.2
Individuals /b                       2,354  1,983  1,989  2,085  2,565           38.2   28.9   26.9   28.8   34.5
Total                           6,168  6,858  7,403  7,249  7,429          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
CONSTANT EOY 1989 TTS                          PERCENT CHANGE
1985-
1989   1986   1987   1988   1989
Pubtic sector /a                       353    359    493    201    179            (49)     2      38    (59)   (11)
Non-financial state enterprises    1,040  1,155  1,270  1,473  1,226               18     11      10     16    (17)
Private financial institutions         208    169    204    186    180            (13)   (19)    21      (9)    (3)
Incorporated businesses              3,359  3,698  3,701  2,997  2,593           (23)    10        0    (19)   (13)
Unincorporated businesses              596  1,087    966    788    687             15     83    (11)   (18)   (13)
Individuals Lk                       3,430  2,631  2,437  2,279  2,565           (25)   (23)    (7)    (6)    13
Total                           8,986  9,100  9,070  7,923  7,429           (17)      1     (0)   (13)    (6)
Source:  Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, Monthly Statistical Digest, March 1990.
La Prior to August 1988, public sector included loans to TeLco.
lb Prior to 1986, loans to individuats included consumers, other customers, and non-resident.
/c Data do not include real estate mortgage loans and cormercial bills discounted.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSXON AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table : FINANCIAL SYSTEM -- DOMESTIC CREDIT
(TTS Millions)
1985        1986         1987        1988         1989        1990
Credit to Private Sector                9,280.8    8,697.4       9,281.6      9,065.7     9,171.6      9,456.5
Commercial Banks                      5,839.7    5,809.9    6,091.3         5,887.5     6,163.9      6,299.1
Non-Banks of which:                   3,441.1      2,988.5     3,190.3      3,178.2     3,007.7    3,157.4
Trust & Mortgage Finance Co.         1,516.6      1,633.5     1,736.4      1,769.1     1,482.0      1,509.2
Finance Houses & Merchant Banks        981.1       364.2        414.8        414.1       503.1        581.2
Development Banks (p)                  883.5        929.2       965.3        919.4       948.3        993.4
Thrift Institutions (p)                 59.9         61.6        73.8         75.6        74.3         73.6
Cp) -- provisional
Source: Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Table 7: New Credit Extended by Banks and Finance Houses
COMMERCIAL BANKS
New Credit by Agreed Period of Installment
and Real Estate Mortgage Loans
(US$ Million)
Agreed Period of Repayment       1988    1989    1990    1991 1/
Up to 1 year                     46.0    52.0    48.9    33.0
1-3 Years                      132.6   147.9   179.1    81.4
3-10 Years                      95.5    96.4   121.7    69.9
Over 10 Years                    48.2    26.2      9.4     6.1
SUB-TOTAL (A)                   322.2   322.5   359.0   190.4
FINANCE HOUSES AND MERCHANT BANKS
New Credit by Agreed Period of Repayment
(US$ Million)
Agreed Period of Repayment       1988    1989    1990    1991
Up to 1 year                     13.4    15.5    26.7    16.7
1-3 Years                        19.7    18.0    18.1      8.2
3-10 Years                        9.1    11.6    14.3    48.7
Over 10 Years                    10.4     5.7    18.4      1.4
ESUBTOTAL (B)                    52.6    50.8    77.5    75.0
LENDING BY TTDFC
(US$ Million)
1989    1990    1991
SUBTOTAL (C)                              9.4    11.4      7.0
TOTAL (A+B+C)                   374.8   382.7   447.9   272.4
1/ 1991 comprises January to June figures only.
Antirce: Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 8: COMBINED INVESTMENT AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECTIONS OF
APPROXIMATELY 35% OF T.T.M.A. MEMBERSHIP SURVEYED
1990           1991           1992          1993        1994      TOTAL
INVESTMENT: By Sector, by year: ($Mill)
Assembly & Related Products                      50.6           19.0          11.0           3.5                   84.1
Building Material Sector                         23.1          22.6            0.6         100.0           -      146.3
Cosmetics, Toiletries & Household Products    9.1              22.0            8.7          10.1         10.1      60.0
Feed Milling Sector                              12.3           7.8                                                20.1
Furniture & Related Products                      1.0           0.9            0.2           0.5          1.0       3.6
Food & Beverage Sector                           36.1          46.6            7.9           3.1         8.0      101.7
Paper, Printing & Packaging                      11.8          23.7            2.2           0.5          0.5      38.7
Garment, Footwear & Related Products              1.6            0.2            --             -           -        1.8
TOTAL                                           145.6         142.8           30.6         117.7         19.6     456.3
EMPLOYMENT: By Sector, by year: (#)
Assembly & Related Products                       219             35             15           35           --       304
Building Material Sector                          675            236             3            --           --       914
Cosmetics, Toiletries & HousehoLd Products         53             63            51           168           47       382
Feed Milling Sector                               182             57            --            --           --       239
Furniture & Related Products                       14             16             8             8          54        100
Food & Beverage Sector                            223           216             42            --            5       486
Paper, Printing & Packaging                        54             68            11             3            3       139
Garment, Footwear & Related Products               29              3            --            --           --        32
TOTAL                                            1449           694            130           214          109      2596
Source: Trinidad and Tobago Manufacturers' Association.



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
THE TOURISM SECTOR
Background
1.    Owing to a historic neglect of tourism development in T&T, the industry
remains embryonic by Caribbean standards. The accommodation base consists of
2,100 rooms, compared to 6,700 rooms in neighboring Barbados and 14,000 rooms in
Jamaica. The two largest hotels in the country are in Trinidad: the Hilton (438
rooms) and the Holiday Inn (235 rooms).  Tobago, where the best beaches are
concentrated in the western tip of the island, is better suited for tourism; the
three largest hotels have 110-125 rooms each, while all others have less than 100
rooms. In 1989 the industry contributed about 1% to GDP, employed 4,500 persons
and grossed approximately US$ 300 million in foreign exchange.
2.    Tourist arrivals (excluding cruise-ship passengers) were about 200,000,
approximately the same as a decade earlier.  Moreover, cruise-ship visitors
declined from 66,0000 in 1978 to only 12,000 in 1988.   Increasingly larger
proportions of visitors to Tobago originate in Europe, a healthy development in
view of the European visitors' higher propensity to spend, based on the relative
strength of European currencies vis-a-vis the US$, and lengthier stays,
determined by longer vacation entitlement.
Development Strategy.
3.    The Government has announced policies aimed at developing the sector as a
source of foreign exchange earnings and employment. With assistance from the
EEC, it established a Tourism Development Authority (TDA) in 1989. The basic
thrust of its marketing strategy is to establish different marketing identities
for Tobago and for Trinidad. Resort tourism will be the specialty of Tobago,
while events-related tourism, eco-tourism, and cruise-ship tourism will be the
key themes in Trinidad.   The airport and deep water harbor in Tobago have
recently been upgraded, and direct international air service to Tobago is being
developed. Plans are afoot (with IDB involvement) to improve sewage and potable
water facilities in Tobago. In Trinidad, the cruise ship port has been improved,
and a new airport is in the planning stage.
Proiections.
4.    Visitors are projected to approximately double between 1989 and 1994. The
larger share of this increase would take place in Tobago. Such an increase would
imply: (a) increasing the room capacity in Tobago, from approximately 800 rooms
in 1989, to about 1500 rooms in 1994; and (b) average occupancy rates in Tobago
of 73-762, compared to 48X in 1988.   These higher occupancy rates would place
the Tobago hotels on a much sounder financial footing.
5.    Given the low-key style and medium to small-size of the resorts in Tobago -
-which the GOTT wishes to preserve-- both as a desirable strategy and to assist



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
in conserving the environment, a substantial share of the new developments in
this island are likely to be undertaken by nationals.   This process would
generate a corresponding demand for medium and loug term project financing.



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Industrial Incentive Framework
1.        Foreign Exchange Regime.  Owing to the critical foreign exchan6e
shortage in the 1980s, the Government instituted exchange controls. Firms
were granted foreign exchange quotas by the Central Bank equal to 90% of their
previous years' foreign exchange consumption. Additionally, firms earning at
least 80% of their foreign exchange requirements ("net exporters") were
permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts. Requests for foreign
exchange above the basic allocation were awarded by the Central Bank on a
discretionary basis. As the adjustment program supported by the Bank and Fund
took hold, access to foreign exchange was liberalized. In January 1991,
foreign exchange became freely available for all bona fide imports.
2.        Import Restrictions.  T&T's industrial incentive framework is
characterized by a system of import taxes and administrative barriers (e.g.,
import licenses, prohibitions, and quotas) which have afforded industrialists
substantial protection.
3.        Nominal protection is afforded mostly through the "negative list"
of imports subject to licensing and quotas. This has constituted the most
important source of protection. Generally, import licenses have been issued
only to cover the balance between domestic production and consumption.
Although formal import quotas are only applied to a few products, a recent
Bank study (Report 8381-CRG) estimated that roughly half of Trinidad's non-oil
manufacturing was protected by QRs.
4.        As a CARICOM member, T&T applies the CARICOM Common External Tariff
(CET), which provides inter alia for: (i) duty free trade between CARICOM
countries; and (ii) specific and ad-valorem duty rates. A new CET was put in
place in January 1991. Inter alia, the number of tariff bands was reduced
from 17 to five, and duties ranging from 5-45% would apply to most goods. A
large share of goods entering T&T is exempt from duties. As a result, import
duty collections in 1977 averaged only 5% of imports. Most such exemptions
originate with the investment incentives schemes, where approved firms are
authorized to import inputs tax free. The overall rate of import tax paid by
the remaining 28% of imports that are considered dutiable amounts to 18%.
While these nominal tariff protection levels are relatively low for a
developing country, when the effect of QRs is taken into account, the picture
changes. Indeed, nominal protection in T&T is estimated to average 522 for
consumer goods, 32. for intermediate goods, and 28% for capital goods.
Estimates of effective protection rates are not available. However, based on
the foregoing figures, for an "average" product for which value-added



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
represents 50% of the value of gross output at world market prices, the rate
of effective protection is estimated at about 70%.
5.        Exemptions.  As mentioned above, most such exemptions originate
with the investment incentives schemes, where approved firms are authorized to
import inputs tax free.
Fiscal Incentives
6.        Trinidad and Tobago's fiscal incentives for investment in the
manufacturing sector consist of: (i) duty exemptions for all imported raw
materials and inputs; (ii) income tax holidays, as specified by the CARICOM
Harmonized Scheme of Investment Incentives; and (iii) income tax exemption on
profits earned from exports. Under the SAL, the Government agreed to initiate
studies to quantify the importance of the direct and indirect tax content of
different types of exported goods. The underlying objective was to set up a
scheme to rebate the indirect taxes built into the value of exports.
Foreign Investment
7.        Until recently, foreign investment was hampered in T&T owing to:
(i) cumbersome administrative procedures; and (ii) provisions of the Aliens
Landholding Act, which restricted purchase ot land in T&T by non-nationals and
the degree of foreign ownership of firms. In the context of the SAL, a "one-
stop-shop" was established to process investor applications more expedi-
tiously. Moreover, the Aliens Landholding Act was modified in 1990 to relax
its most deleterious provisions. Additionally, establishment of Free Zones
should prove especially attractive to certain classes of foreign investors.
Trade Policy Actions Initiated Under the SAL
8.        Under the SAL, a program to reform the trade regime, including
phasing out duty exemptions, was agreed with the Government. Regarding trade
reform, the first stage will begin to rationalize the system of import
protection by: (i) gradually replacing administrative barriers by tariffs;
and (ii) setting the stage for a medium-term tariff reform to decrease the
average rate and the dispersion of effective protection to manufacturing.
Specifically, the Government has agreed to remove most QRs (represented by the
negative list) by end-1991 and to reduce maximum import charges more generally
to the CARICOM CET by end-1994. In the interim, temporary import surcharges
(to be phased out by end-1994) on items removed from the negative list would
not exceed lOOZ of the c.i.f. price (except for textiles and garments, where
the maximum would be 120%, and dairy products, where the equivalent tariff (to
be estimated) would apply). The negative list is expected to be reduced in
two stages: (i) QRs affecting 40% of the production coverage of non-oil
manufacturing will be removed prior to second tranche release; and (ii) the
remaining 60% will be removed by end-1991. The QRs to be abolished include
several affecting agroindustries. The Government also agreed to undertake



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
studies of:  (i) the protection system for the agricultural sector; and (ii)
the impact of removal of specific items from the negative list on domestic
industries. As of January 1991, the Government had reduced the negative list,
consistent with the SAL second-tranche condition. Moreover, progress was
being made to initiate the agreed studies.
9.        Regarding duty exemptions, the Government agreed to cease their
award for parts and raw materials for new industries. It also initiated a
comprehensive review of them in order to assess their practical importance for
T&T's competitiveness in CARICOM and to formulate a program for their phased
removal over three to five years. Formulation of such program is a condition
of second tranche release.



- 53 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 11
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Export Development Corporation (EDC)
Description and Scope of Activities
1.    The EDC was established by Act 2 of 1984 to promote and develop exports.
Its specific objectives are to: (i) provide exporters with general advisory
services on exports and establish a trade information service;   (ii) provide
financial assistance to exporters by way of market development grants; (iii)
coordinate the export related activities of the Government and the private
sector; (iv) assist exporters in penetrating foreign markets, create new trade
channels and increase market share in existing markets; (iv) stimulate export
awareness and; (v) advise on policies and implement programs approved by
Government for developing non-oil exports. Additionally, the EDC acts as the
Certifying Authority concerning rules of origin for T&T.
Ownership
2.    The EDC is classified as a Statutory Board.   However, by its Act its
employees are not classified as civil servants, and it is exempted from
procurement regulations applicable to Central Government bodies. Thus, the EDC
enjoys greater autonomy in its pay, personnel and contracting procedures than
branches of the Central Government. As a Government Agency, the EDC is audited
by the Auditor General.
Management and Staff
3.    The EDC is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by the Minister. Of
its nine members, all but one are from the private sector; the other is a
representative of the Ministry of External Affairs. The current Chairman is from
the private sector; his current substantive position is CEO of a private finance
company.
4.    The current CEO, who is also an "ex-officio" member of the Board, is a
well-regarded ex-private sector entrepreneur with extensive prior experience in
shipping and insurance.   He joined the EDC at its inception and has led it
through a period of impressive growth, despite a limited budget. The EDC is run
like a private-sector company and has achieved considerable public recognition;
it is well regarded by the private business community.
5.    EDC employs 40 skilled and computer-literate staff, including 16 graduate
professionals with experience in marketing, finance, corporate planning,
operations management, international trade, bio-technology and business
administration, and 14 staff trained in other technical disciplines, a variety
of language skills,  and computer programming.   EDC's operations are fully
computerized.



- 54 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 11
Business Strategies
6.    In 1990, the EDC had some 600 registered exporters, up sharply from the 150
exporters registered in 1985. This is partly explained by the number of services
the corporation offers to exporters, including advice on product requirements and
regulations, negotiation of freight rates, identification of buyers, and checks
on  the  creditworthiness  of  potential  buyers.    Through  the  support  of
international agencies, the corporation has undertaken locally 12 sectorial
studies which serve to identify potential exporters, coordinate group activities
and enhance supply capabilities, and advise those already exporting on best
practice to increase efficiency and marketability.
7.    The EDC has made an effort to promote T&T as a purveyor of quality goods
and services, to create new trade channels, to increase market share in existing
markets, to diversify its markets and product range, and to develop within the
exporting community the levels of expertise required to survive and prosper in
the business of export trading.
8.    In this regard,  it has developed a range of  information,  training,
technical and promotional services to respond to perceived needs of the export
business community. These include operation of: (i) a computerized data network
with access to a range of international import/export market data files; (ii) a
computerized trade information system which can produce company export profiles
and performance records for the individual exporting companies; (iii) a finder
service;  (iv) conduct of group training activities related to export issues
(product quality, packaging, pricing, freight and insurance, export financing
instruments and marketing channels); and (v) organization of trade fairs. The
EDC has also helped organize smaller-scale producers of flowers, wood furniture
and spices into associations, for purposes of receiving technical assistance and
export supply on a group basis. It also operates a display showroom with export
products in Port-of-Spain. In selecting its business lines, EDC does not seek
to supplant the private provision of export services. Rather, it seeks to be a
catalyst in overcoming market gaps.
Financial Performance and Resources
9.    Since  its  inception  in 1984,  the EDC received Government transfers
totalling TT$25.84 million, for an average of TT$3.3 million per year. At end-
1990, its capital stood at TT$1.4 million. The EDC's limited cash inflow has
constrained expansion of its operations, e.g. to establish a viable export
marketing grants scheme to assist firms with good export potential to access new
markets. Given T&T's continuing climate of budgetary austerity, the EDC has
sought to develop fee-based businesses (para. 8). It has also sought to mobilize
funds from international institutions.
Conclusions
10.   In  summary,  the  EDC  is  a  commercially-oriented  trade  development
organization, run along private sector lines.   Both the institution and its



55 -
NNLEX V
Page 3 of 11
management are generally well-regarded by the private sector. However, expansion
of its activities have been constrained by tight public-sector budgets.
The Export Technical Assistance Facility (ETAFI
Draft Statement of Policies and ORerating Procedures
Obiectives
11.   The Export Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF) will be administered by the
EDC. Its objective will be to assist actual and potential exporters to search,
enter and maintain export markets. More specifically, the aim is to motivate and
assist individual firms with the preparation and implementation of export
expansion plans that will create cost-effective expansion of export sales and
provide learning experiences in exporting and entering new markets.
Resources and Level of Supnort
12.   Resources to be Provided.  During the three-year commitment period of the
project, the ETAF will be provided with US$ 1.5 million of World Bank funds. It
is expected that on average, the ETAF will extend around 30 grants each year,
averaging US$ 20,000 equivalent per grant (for a minimum US$40,000 total cost of
average export expansion program per firm).
13.   Leve3 of Sunport.  Under the program, exporters and potential exporters
could qualify for financial assistance of 50% of eligible expenditures incurred
in entering sligible export markets (para. 24).
14.   Grant support will be restricted to one export expansion program per firm.
The intention is that grant support will encourage the firm or division to adopt
a planned approach to export expansion and to gain further knowledge "about the
ropes" of exporting. once this encouragement has been given a single time, it
would not be repeated, and the firm would be expected to fund further export
expansion out of its own resources. The benefits of advice on export planning,
help in identifying suitable consultants, and the promotion of exports may be
obtained and or provided by the EDC beyond the first grant-assisted expansion
plan without accessing ETAF funds.
15.   Maximum Grant Amount.   The program will  reimburse up to US$60,000
equivalent per firm for one export development program, and a cumulative total
of US$100,000 equivalent for group-related companies or companies with the same
ownership.   The export expansion plan will state the set and sequence of
activities that will need to be undertaken under the program. No reimbursement
will be provided for subsequent activities in the export expansion plan if the
previous activities have not been satisfactorily undertaken.
16.   Maximum amounts of grant support will be set for each subset of activities
("subcomponent") to be undertaken in the export expansion plan. Grant funds will
be allocated "pari-passu" with the proportional cost of individual sub-components
relative to the total cost of the export expansion plan (up to one third for each



- 56 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 11
stage of the plan). The EDC will work with individual firms and will assist them
with the preparation of their export expansion plan.
Manaaement of the Program
17.   The EDC will manage the ETAF.  The EDC will be in-charge of approving in
principle a potential candidate; assisting the firm in designing the export
expansion plan; approving the export expansion plan; monitoring each step
performed by the firm under the export expansion plan and approving reimbursement
for the activities performed in compliance with the export expansion plan. The
export expansion plan should specify the future levels of export sales to be
achieved and the stages of work planned, giving indications of timing and
approximate costs.   Normally, a firm's export expansion plan would have an
implementation period of 1-3 years.
18.   The EDC, as manager of the grant fund, will actively promote to promising
eligible enterprises: (i) the notion of exporting; (ii) the use of consultants
or other internationally-recognized expert service suppliers to help overcome the
firm's leading problems in expanding exports; and (iii) the use of a grant from
the ETAF as part of the firm's efforts to expand exports. The EDC would offer
each eligible firm assistance in preparing an export plan showing the services
and travel most needed and the exports to be expected. It would also help the
firm prepare an application for a grant.
19.   Selection of Consultants.  The EDC will maintain a roster ("long-list") of
consultants, selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines 1. Such roster would
be made available to exporters, who could freely invite proposals from the firms
most suited to provide the range of services required to implement their
particular export expansion plan.
20.   Due to EDC's role as administrator of the ETAF, grant resources would not
cover services provided by the EDC, or promotional events such as trade fairs and
trade missions organized by the EDC, or in which the Government is a major
participant; nor will it be used for other government services that have not been
fully commercialized. Trade fair participation outside T&T will be eligible for
reimbursement only if it is part of an approved export expansion plan.
Eliaibility Criteria
21.   Eliaible Sub-Sectors.  ETAF resources would support: (i) all manufactured
exports (including agroindustries), except primary production of oil and gas; and
(ii) service exports other than tourism and cultural activities (coverage will
include, for example, data entry and consulting service exports).
U sLe of Consultants bv WB Borrowers, 1981.



- 57 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 11
22.   Eligible Firms.  To be eligible, in order to maintain the integrity of T&T
exporters' reputation for quality and supply capacity, firms must be registered
exporters with the EDC or be selected as potential exporters by the EDC. It is
expected that grant fund clients will come predominantly from the private sector.
Operations primarily funded from the government budget would not be eligible.
23.   Grant assistance is intended primarily for manufacturing firms.  However,
trading exporters may be considered in exceptional cases, subject to the
following limitations:
(a)   The supported export activity should be on the basis of
stable  sourcing  relationships  with  manufacturing
suppliers, not on the basis of pure trading.
(b)   The exporter should add significant value within the
complete transaction chain either by providing support
services to manufacturers that they are not in a
position to provide themselves, or by providing sourcing
services to foreign buyers.
24.   Eligible Export Markets.  Support will be restricted to markets outside
CARICOM, since in these markets, the effectiveness of export marketing and
adaptation is most likely to be a significant determinant of export success, and
existing firm capability is generally less developed. However, in the interest
of promoting "backward linkages" between the Free Zones and the wider T&T
economy, firms interested in supplying eligible products to the T&T Free Zones
could also be supported.
25.   Eliaible Activities.    In principle,  any activity within a properly
formulated eligible export expansion plan (consistent with para. 26) that is
cost-effective and leads to export expansion would be eligible for support. The
following list of typical eligible activities is provided for guidance:
(a)   Desk Research.  As a means to direct field research at
most promising geographical areas and product market
segments.
(b)   Overseas Field Market Research.        With the aim of
identifying an export marketing strategy: (i) which
products are required; (ii) what are the channels of
distribution; (iii) who makes the purchasing decision;
and (iv) what factors affect this decision.
(c)   Minor Product Adaptation.  When market research shows
product adaptation to be justified, support will be
given for advisory and technical services in product
redesign, advice on packaging and product testing.



- 58 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 11
(d)   Overseas Travej by Company Executives.   Travel and
subsistence costs would be supported for purposes
directly related to the development or implementation of
an export expansion plan e.g. (i) finding and appointing
agents and distributors;   (ii) direct selling;  and
(iii) keeping up-to-date with product developments.
This activity would be supported only when travel is
directly related to a strategy based on adequate market
research.
(e)   j'roduct Inanection Services.   In order to maintain
product quality and consistency, companies should be
encouraged to use the seal of approval of an
internationally-recognized  inspection  agency.    The
choice of inspectLon agency will be open to the company
which, in direct consultation with the EDC, should
choose the most appropriate one.
(f)   TraininG.   To encourage a more informed,  strategic
approach to export marketing and ^xport procedures and
financing services, particularly in industrialized
countries. Support will be given to training in export
marketing, includings export marketing methods such as
pricing, distribution channels, and promotion methods;
export market research; organizing an export department;
export financing arrangements; and export procedures
including support schemes, shipping and forwarding.
(g)   Establishinc Overseas Operations.   Support would be
given for planning and start-up phases of such
operations and cost of advisory and technical services
on warehousing siting, recruiting local staff, and sales
force organization. No direct operating expenses would
be funded.
(h)   travel to T&T by Potential Buyers.  Support will apply
only when a buyer is invited by one or more exporters
and will extend only to the contribution to travel costs
and hotel accommodation made by these buyers.
(i)   Productivity Consultants and Technicians.  These would
assist in analyzing and implementing: (i) cost reduction
and quality improvement moves which firms could make
with or without fixed investment but which would
increase sales volume, achieve on time delivery,
increase production efficiency, and achieve consistent
quality;   (ii) choice of process/product technology
which would be compatible with a significant expansion



r ,)9
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 11
in exports to more demanding markets; (iii) shared R&D
efforts to increase production efficiency.
(j)   Tard  Faire.   Participation in specialized product-
specific trade fairs abroad, which are part of a well-
structured export expansion plan approved by the EDC.
(k)   Design and Product Adaptation.  Consultancy and small
material expenditures to undertake design and product
adaptation   in   response   to   identified   market
opportunities at unit level or through group cooperation
and action.
(1)   Exposure to plants in competing countries and to other
factories operated with foreign collaborators.
(m)   Workshops, seminars and firm level work by potential
collaborators or institutions which see potential for
expanding into exports, with such exercises directed at
productivity and technology improvement.
26.   Eliaible Export Expansion Plans. The plan should take a firm, or division,
from its present exporting situation to a future situation representing a
significant expansion in export performance. Normally, such a plan would take
the form of three distinct stages;
Stage (1):  Market exploration.   An export expansion plan should
normally start with exploration of market opportunities.
Desk work in T&T should firstly determine the most
suitable import markets to visit.   The field market
research would then use one-to-one personal interviews
with potential buyers and others, to answer: (i) what
products are being bought; (ii) what are the channels of
distribution; (iii) who makes the buying decision; (iv)
what factors affect this decision.   This information
from the market is then compared with the firm's
capability, not just in terms of product specification
itself, but covering all aspects of the supply package,
including delivery times and reliability, maintenance of
quality,  speed of response to letters,  etc.   This
analysis leads into the next stage.
Stage (2):  Suvnlv gackaae adaptation.   This stage consists of a
series of specific measures, which will upgrade those
supply package aspects highlighted in the first stage
analysis.   The measures might,  for instance,  be in
product   redesign,   quality   maintenance   systems,
packaging, export office efficiency, training of export
staff, etc.



- 60 -
ANNEX V
Page 8 of 11
Stage (3): Sales promotion. This third stage will only begin once
adequate progress has been made in adapting the supply
package, so as to meet market preferences. Firms which
are certified as having met stages (1) and (2) prior to
their participation in the ETAF program may also be
eligible if they have already been exporting related
products  to  similar markets.    Activities  directed
specifically at achieving sales will take place during
this stage. They might include direct selling visits by
representatives of the firm, visits to appoint agents or
distributors, or participation in specialized trade
fairs.  Sales promotion expenditures would need to be
justified by evidence that progress with adaptation had
created a supply package adequately in line with market
preferences, as revealed by the initial exploration.
27.   Eliqible Suppliers.  Privately-supplied consulting and technical services
would be selected by the exporter from the consultants roster to be maintained
by the EDC in line with para. 19. The EDC will assist the exporter in choosing
a service supplier, if requested, but the firm will make the hiring choice. The
EDC would approve the terms of contract and levels of remuneration for the
services provided.
28.   Eligible Exoenditures.  Grant support will be given for expenditures on
services and travel incurred specifically for eligible activities. Support would
be restricted to once-off start-up costs only. No ongoing expenditures, such as
salaries or rentals, would be supported. Similarly, support would be restricted
to incremental costs and would not cover any "sunk" costs. Purchase of jigs,
fixtures, tools, equipment, machinery and other hardware would not be eligible
for reimbursement under the ETAF program.   The grant support would not be
intended to cover every expenditure incurred in respect of a firm's export
activities but to motivate proper planned expansion, encourage particularly the
use of internationally-competitive expertise (foreign or local) to speed the
initial learning curve, and to encourage the use of overseas travel to speed the
process of comprehending and meeting the preferences of distant markets.
APolication. ARRroval and Reimbursement Procedures
29.   Procestina of Proposals.  A potential client would approach/apply to the
EDC stating his/her interest in obtaining assistance for entering new export
markets, expanding current exports, or diversifying his current operations into
exports. The client would present a short proposal with a reasonable description
of the activities he/she would like to undertake and for which he/she requires
assistance.
30.   The EDC will perform an initial evaluation of the exporter's proposal and
of the company and applicant. If the application appears to meet the ETAP grant
guidelines, the EDC will perform an initial visit to the firm, interview the
applicant and evaluate both the applicant and the product potential, access to



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 11
financing, export readiness and commitment to developing markets.   For this
purpose, the EDC will set up an ETAF Committee which will have the task of
approving in principle the firms eligible for support. Such firms will then be
assisted by the EDC to prepare their export expansion plans. The ETAF Committee
will be responsible for approving or rejecting the export expansion plan,
approving reimbursements under the program oari-passu with the export expansion
plan, and monitoring the performance and progress of the firms.
31.   Under the program, grants will be available to exporters and potential
exporters (registered with the EDC), and to companies and/or individuals that are
respectively incorporated, registered or resident in T&T.   Grants would be
provided on a partial reimbursement basis for a comprehensive export expansion
plan in accordance with paras. 13-16.
32.   The general guidelines for the ETAF scheme are outlined below:  (i) Grants
will be exempted from the payment of Corporation tax in accordance with the
Finance Act, 1984 and amendments; (ii) Applications for ETAF grants must be
received and approved in advance of commencement of the activity to be supported.
Retroactive applications would not be considered; (iii) The period in which the
grant-aided activity would be carried out should be established at the time of
approval of the grant; any changes would need to be agreed with the EDC, or the
grant would be canceled; (iv) The EDC would reserve the right to determine
reasonable levels of expenditure for approved activities which form the basis for
grant funding; (iv) Claims for payment of grants should be supported by original
documents and outputs (as defined at the time of approval) as specified in the
terms of approval; (v) Direct or indirect taxes, duties or levies imposed by the
Government would not be eligible for reimbursement; (vi) The EDC would review the
export performance of the applicant prior to consideration for grants for
subsequent activities in the export expansion plan under this scheme; (vii)
Grants would only be made for the expansion of exports of goods and services from
T&T.
33.   For reimbursement, the marketing officer at EDC would ensure that the terms
and conditions of the approval-in-principle from the ETAF Committee were met,
verify the activities undertaken, the reasonableness of the costs and the
comprehensiveness of the reports submitted.   With his recommendation,  the
Committee meets again and approves reimbursement of the performed activity. The
Committee would consider the guidelines of the ETAF grants Scheme, the company's
history, availability of finance, budget versus actual costs. It would evaluate
the reports presented and modify, approve, reject, confirm rejection or allow
appeals. The Committee's decisions would be reported in Minutes of the Meeting
which would inform all parties of the basis of the actions undertaken.
Advertising Prograi..
34.   Within the allocation for the ETAF, US$50,000 will be allocated to promote
the availability of the ETAF program. The purpose will be to inform the



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 11
exporting community of this new comprehensive program and assure it of the
availability of funding.
EDC Contribution
35.   The EDC would contribute a minimum of two full-time senior marketing
officers, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the World Bank, who
would be individuals capable of assisting managers with planning and
implementation of formal export expansion programs. In addition, the EDC will
provide administrative support for assisting firms in preparing their export
expansion plans and supporting the activities of the ETAF Committee (para. 36).
The EDC will be compensated for its incremental costs, estimated at US$45,000
(US$15,000/yr for 3 years) incurred in administering the ETAF program. These
costs will be paid by program beneficiaries from their own resources through an
appropriate fee charged by the EDC.
Management and Supervision of the Facility
36.   The ETAF Grants Committee.   The ETAF will be managed by an ETAF Committee
comprised of two members of the EDC Board (appointed by the Board), the EDC CEO,
the Manager of the Marketing Department, the Manager of the Research and
Development Department, and the EDC Accountant. When considering applications
for assistance, members of the ETAF Committee would be bound to declare any
interest by themselves or their families in the projects under consideration.
The Committee will have the task of supervising and overseeing the operation of
the ETAF and will:
(i)   approve  this  Statement  of  Policies  and  Operating
Procedures and any updates;
(ii) review progress with ETAF operations on the basis of
quarterly reports prepared by the marketing officers
from the EDC;
(iii) have the power to approve any proposal for grant funding
which would provide a single firm or product division
with a total cumulative level of grant support of
US$60,000 equivalent for one export expansion plan, and
a cumulative total of US$100,000 equivalent for group-
related companias or companies with the same ownership.
37.   Monitorina Impact.  Grant contracts will oblige recipients to provide to
the EDC export performance figures for three full years before grant approval,
and five full years after approval.  This will form the basis of determining
actual impact, compared to projections within individual expansion plans.
38.   Confidentiality.    EDC officers assisting the  firm in designing and
implementing their export expansion plans will need to gain access to
confidential business information, if they are to be effective in appraising



- 63 -
ANNEX V
Page 11 of 11
proposals.  Officers will have the right to view such outputs of grant-aided
activities as reports; market entry plans; upgraded prototype designs; etc.
However, they will not have the right to copy them or remove them from, clients'
premises.
39.   Planning and Reporting Cycles. The EDC will prepare a detailed action plan
in anticipation of each full 12-month period of the project. The plan, approved
by the ETAP Committee, would be submitted to the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU)
in the Ministry of Planning and Mobilization for prompt forwarding to the World
Bank. The EDC will prepare semi-annual progress reports each semester. These
reports will be submitted to the EDF Committee and to the RSU, in time for
inclusion in its semi-annual reports to the World Bank. Reports will detail:
(i)   whether or not the specific actions agreed in the annual
action plan for the ETAF have been achieved;
(ii)  totals per semester,  and cumulative to date,  for grants
approved by the Committee; grant applications rejected; grant
applications prepared, but pending; and grants disbursed
(total approvals and disbursements should be compared with
budgeted figures);
(iii) a report on the status of reimbursements from the ETAF to
beneficiaries, compared with agreed timetables;
(iv)  a  list  of  grants  by  firm,  with  export  expansion  plan
projections for the following five years given for each.
(v)   fully audited accounts for each operating year of the project,
prepared in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing.
Semi-annual reports are to be submitted to the RSU for inclusion in its project-
wide reporting to the World Bank. Annual accounts would be submitted to the RSU
within two calendar months of the end of the fiscal year. This reporting routine
will continue until the World Bank loan is closed.
40.   Monitoring. Supervision Missions by the World Bank will have the same
rights of access to firm-level outputs as the EDC officer who has been working
together with the firm in designing and implementing the export expansion plan.



- 64 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 10
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technoloav Component
1.    The technology component of the project would be implemented through the
T&T Bureau of Standards (TTBS) and the Caribbean Industrial Research Institute
(CARIRI). They would collaborate as necessary with other relevant institutions,
like the Institute of Business at the University of the West Indies.
T&T Bureau of Standards
Backaround
2.    The T&T Bureau of Standards (TTBS) was established under Act No. 38 of
1972.  Its  Act articulates the Bureau's mission as follows: "To improve the
quality of life in Trinidad and Tobago by ensuring that goods and services
produced and/or used in the country satisfy criteria for good performance as
established by the Bureau." A revised Act, which is still in draft form, will
make specific reference to TTBS' role in preparing environmental standards.
3.    The major functions of the Bureau are:
(a)   to produce and implement national standards;
(b)   to disseminate information on standards and specifications;
(c)   to educate the nation on standards; and
(d)   to advise manufacturers on quality control systems and on preparing
standards.
4.    The Bureau began operations in 1974, but it was not until 1982 when it
moved to its present quarters that sufficient staff, equipment and other
resources were available to address all of its assigned functions. Since then,
it has published about 350 TTBS standards.   The majority are adaptations of
international standards from major industrialized nations, primarily U.K. and
Japan.
5.    Most of the TTBS standards produced to date focus on consumer products.
Some of these promote safety and health, (e.g. electrical wiring, auto safety
belts).   Many more set standards for basic consumer products (e.g. bleach,
matches), or labelling requirements and advertising for garments, tobacco
products, and other consumer goods.  On the other hand, very few TTBS standards
have been published which could be considered as directly beneficial  to
producers.   While the Standards Act assigns TTBS responsibility for product
certification and quality technology, its efforts in these areas have been
minimal compared to the need.
6.    Industry perceives TTBS primarily as a consumer protection agency, and
secondarily as a contract testing facility.  TTBS is not yet identified as a
technical resource, much less a partner.



- 65 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 10
7.    TTBS has not really yet assisted industry to improve productivity and
quality as a way to increase profits and competitiveness. However, in T&T the
importance of standards is now being realized in some industries and government
agencies, though there is little appreciation for the strategic and operational
advantages that can be realized through industrial standardization at the company
or sectorial levels.  Similarly, some executives, particularly in the larger
companies and those with significant exports, are beginning to become aware of
the role of quality in gaining and maintaining competitiveness.   Moreover, a
number of industrialists appreciate the role that Total Quality Management (TQM)
could play in achieving requisite levels of quality for their end-products.
TTBS ODerations
8.    The TTBS Standards Council oversees management of the Bureau.  The Council
consists of 7- 13 persons from consumer groups i.x. business, as well as a
representative each from the Ministry of Industry, and Food and Drugs (Ministry
of Health).   Members are appointed by the Prima Minister.   TTBS is a semi-
autonomous agency; although it is located within the Ministry of Industry for
operational purposes, the Council sets goals and priorities, authorizes many
administrative practices, and oversees all aspects of the budget.  While the
majority of TTBS staff are members of T&T's Civil Service, the Bureau is exempt
from Professional Service requirements.  It can and does hire personnel on a
short-term or contractual basis and follows more flexible procurement procedures
than Government departments.
9.    TTBS technical staff consists of 5 professionals with postgraduate degrees
in science or engineering, 11 with baccalaureates, and 3 laboratory technicians.
Another 15 staff provide administrative and support services.  The Bureau is
organized  around two major  divisions:    Standardization,  and Testing  and
Certification.
10.   The Standardization Division consists of 5 professional staff and the
Division manager. Theoretically, this staff serves as the technical secretariat
for the following sectorial committees:
- Agricultural Products
- Automotive and Road Safety
- Civil Engineering
- Electrical Engineering
- Mechanical Engineering
- Petroleum and Related Products
- Quality Assurance
- Textiles and Apparel
11.   The standards development process in T&T is presently inefficient.  At many
national standards bodies, staff act as conveyors and facilitators, but the
drafting of standards is accomplished by experts from industry. Often, trade
associations and professional societies voluntarily draft standards for their



- 66 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 10
needs. These "voluntary industry standards" then form the basis for national
voluntary standards, which become mandatory when invoked in contracts and
purchase agreements, government regulations, or similar instruments. In T&T,
however, no one in industry has considered developing standards to solve industry
problems, and when standards are developed (in contrast to the adoption of
internationally-recognized standards), most of the work is done by TTBS staff.
The time-consuming tasks of determining requirements, researching relevant
existing standards, and preparing an initial draft is accomplished by TTBS staff
rather than delegating this effort to the sectorial committees.   Committee
members merely critique TTBS's drafts, rather then working together to develop
a consensus standard.   Often, the resultant standard can be a lowest common
denominator solution.
12.         The Testing and Certification Division has facilities for testing:
- Animal feeds and fertilizers
- Chemicals
- Electrical products
- Fibre products and footwear
- Mechanical tests of materials
13.   While the testing labs are fairly well equipped and maintained, they are
not fully utilized. A Metrology Lab has a few pieces of basic equipment as the
primary physical standards for length, mass, volume, and temperature and to
calibrate other instruments and measuring equipment. However, the Metrology Lab
is, for all practical purposes, inoperative.
14.   A number of problems are evident:
- While the equipment exists, there is no national system in place to use
the equipment for calibration purposes.
- Environmental controls are inadequate to maintain the accuracy of
precise measuring equipment and physical standards.
- Accuracy and repeatability of the existing equipment are suspect
because of fluctuating ambient conditions and lack of use.
15.   TTBS staff is aware of the deficiencies within its Metrology Laboratory and
the need for a comprehensive national metrology and calibration system.
Legislation was drafted in 1984 for a national system but has yet to be enacted.
The proposed Act would clarify TTBS' role as the agency responsible for the
operation of a national metrology reference laboratory.



- 67 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 10
16.   The TTBS library is the repository of approximately 70,000 standards. Many
are from countries which are neither major T&T trading partners, nor do their
standards represent technical levels which ought to serve as models for T&T. As
a point of reference, it should be noted that the standards of just the U.K.,
Germany, France, Japan, and the U.S.A. total more than 160,000. These, together
with 12,000 international standards, are the basic references in any national
standards library. An essential requirement nowadays is also the rapidly growing
body of European Community Directives, Mandates, and Norms; the national
standards of the 12 EEC countries exceed 90,000. In addition, T&T industry needs
ready access to the standards of its potential extra-CARICOM trading partners,
such as Canada, Mexico, Venezuela, Brazil, and Central America. Fortunately,
cost-effective new technology is enabling developing nations to access these
databases of the world's standards.
17.   Paralleling this requirement for more complete and timely information is
the need to redirect the library from being simply an archival repository
supporting primarily TTBS staff into a service-oriented information resource for
business and industry.
18.   The TTBS has been re-thinking the way it d-as business and has taken a
number of steps to improve its operations and relations with its constituencies,
including:
- Establishing in 1990 a formal planning, budgeting and reporting system
and preparing the Bureau's first Three-year Rolling Plan;
- Authorizing a market analysis to identify the Bureau's constituents and
their perceived needs; and
- Training TTBS staff in marketing practices, particularly identifying
"customers" and their needs.
19.   Over the past five years, TTBS's annual budget has ranged between TTS 4-5
million. Recently, about 7 percent (TT$ 200,000) of the budget has bean self-
generated through charges for testing, training, and product certification.
Government subsidy has made up the remainder. However, because of the climate
of fiscal retrenchment, T&T's investment in standardization has decreased by
nearly 25 percent in real terms over the past five years. As a result, there has
been little opportunity to expand services or do anything beyond maintaining the
status quo.
TTBS' Institutional Development Program
20.   TTBS management  has established objectively verifiable  indicators as
measures of its progress towards successful implementation of its Strategic Plan
for the years 1992-94. The following is a summary of those objectives in the
areas of staffing, financial self-sufficiency, interaction with industry, and
enhancement of the regional and international image of the Bureau.



- 68 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 10
(a    Staffing.  The professional (technical) staff shall be increased by
100% and the support staff increased by 24% by December 1994. The
ratio of professional (technical) to support staff shall be
increased from 0.5:1 to 1:1 by December 1992, and 2:1 by December
1994.
(b)   Financial Self-Sufficiency.  Income shall be generated from fees to
support 20% of the Bureau's operating budget by 1994.
(c)   Interaction with Industry.  (i) A total of 15 short courses and
seminars, with 225 participants from industry at the supervisory and
technician level, shall be developed over the three-year period;
(ii) A total of 20 students shall be graduated from a certificate
program in Quality Technology between 1992 and 1994; (ii) By the end
of 1994, 12 "ISO 9000"' assessors shall be trained; (iv) Products of
TTBS-assisted companies shall obtain a quality performance rating
among the top 25% of competitive products available on the local
market.
(d)   National Oualitv System.  (i) By 1994, a total of 50 companies shall
be registered under an ISO 9000 scheme which forms a part of the
National Quality System (NQS); (ii) Products targeted for export
shall meet established performance and other criteria under the NQS
by 1994.
(e)   Enhancement of the Bureau's Reaional/International Image.  (i) The
Bureau shall become the secretariat for one Working Group of an ISO
Sectional Committee by the end of 1994; (ii) There shall be
international recognition (Europe and North America) for Trinidad
and Tobago's quality registration system by the end of 1994.
21.   As indicated below (paras. 30-31), the Bank project would support TTBS in
a-hieving these self-set objectives.
CARIRI
Backaround
22.   CARIRI was established in 1970 with the assistance of UNDP under Act 19 of
1971 and 33 of 1981.  It reports to Ministry of Planning and Mobilization and
operates under a Board of Management.  CARIRI's mission focuses on:
- locating and transferring appropriate technology to T&T industry;
- providing laboratory-based consultancy and testing services; and
- product and process development.



- 69 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 10
23.   At its inception, CARIRI was able to acquire a wide range of equipment for
the conduct of chemical and physical tests. Some of this equipment was quite
sophisticated.   UNDP provided some training via foreign experts and overseas
attachments of newly recruited staff. The period 1971 to 1974 was a period of
institution-building when CARIRI set up laboratories, recruited and trained
staff, and developed operational procedures in relation to its program and its
clients.
24.   CARIRI is emerging from a period of self-assessment, resulting in refocus,
redirection and restructuring. Corrective action has been instituted to:
- implement strategic planning as the basis for effective management;
- become market driven and service oriented;
- develop and maintain partnership relationships with clients in
industry, government and other institutions;
- correct the perception of clients that CARIRI is an inconsistent
organization in terms of quality of output and delivery; and
- enhance CARIRI's image as an organization capable of making cost-
effective contributions to industrial development.
CARIRI Operations
25.   CARIRI  staff  totals  about  142,  including  47  professionals  and  52
technicians. Support personnel number about 43. As part of its rejuvenation,
CARIRI is taking action to recruit new staff and encourage retirement for those
who cannot contribute to the institution's redefined goals.
26.   In recent years, CARIRI has earned revenues of TT$ 1-1.5 million annually.
Expenditures have been TT$ 17-20 million, with the difference covered by
government subsidy. The Government has advised CARIRI that: (i) this subsidy
will be reduced significantly; (ii) structural and operational reforms must be
instituted; and (iii) the primary source of funding should be its client base.
CARIRI's management is implementing programs to achieve these objectives. They
include:
- becoming a market driven organization;
-instituting a marketing and business development program to build
awareness in industry and develop partnership relationships;
- focusing on quality of delivery and client service;
- emphasizing linkage of consultancy to laboratory-based and information-
based services;
- developing an outward-looking image based on a Partners in Industrial
Progress program.



- 70 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 10
27.   CARIRI has five labs, a machine shop, and pilot plant facilities.  The labs
provide services in the following fields:
- Analytical Chemistry
- Electronics and Calibration
- Food Technology
- Materials Testing
- Microbiology
- Petroleum
A considerable amount of the existing equipment dates from CARIRI's founding.
Some is inoperative, technically obsolete, inefficient, or no longer repairable.
28.   CARIRI is the only other third-party testing lab of any significance
besides TTBS which provides services to industry. While TTBS performs routine
or standard tests, CARIRI labs support industry by evaluating processes,
assisting in product development, developing indigenous resources, and performing
specialized tests to demonstrate product conformance. These functions complement
and do not duplicate TTBS's services. As long ago as 1980, plans were developed
to locate the laboratories of TTBS, CARIRI, and Food and Drug at a common site
to make more efficient use of support staff and facilities, improve industry
access and relations, and obviate any appearance of duplication or lack of
coordination. These plans, however, remain to be implemented.
CARIRI's Institutional Development Proaram
29.   In its development program, CARIRI has been charged with the following
major responsibilities:
(a)   To create new economic activity and broaden the nation's economic
base;
(b)   To convert the demand for foreign technological services into a
demand for local technological services;
(c)   To raise the present productivity of industry through technological
means;
(d)   To reduce the call on the Treasury and earn foreign exchange.
30.   CARIRI's Strategic Goals are:
(a)   To assist in doubling the GDP contribution of the Food and Beverage
i Agri-Business sector and the Chemicals and Non-Metallic Minerals
sector respectively to TT$1.2 billion and TT$370 million by 1994.
(b)   To facilitate ninety new entrepreneurs, of which seventy will be
small enterprises, nineteen will be medium scale and one will be
large scale;
(c)   To help earn or save foreign exchange of at least TT$200 million by
1994;



- 71 -
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 10
(d)   To facilitate direct  employment  for 1500 persons and  indirect
employment for 3500 persons;
(e)   To help increase productivity in ten plants per year by 5% p.a. per
plant.
31.   CARIRI's institutional development plan establishes targets in the areas
of financial self-sufficiency, resource allocation, staffing, institutional
focus, legal status and client satisfaction:
(a)   Financial.  Testing and other consultancy incomes will contribute
the following:
15-17.5%    of operating costs in 1991
17.5-20%    of operating costs in 1992
20-25%      of operating costs in 1993
25-30%      of operating costs in 1994
CARIRI's financial projections are summarized in the table below.
CARIRI
Tablet Proposed Sources of Funds to-1994 (in TTS000
1989     1990*    1991*      1992*      1993*      1994*
Government Subvention   11,445  11,445    11,445   11,445    11,445    11,445
(Operating Costs)
Other Revenues            1,500   2,000      2,400    3,000       4,000     5,000
Total Operating          12,945  13,445    13,845   14,445    15,445    16,445
Allocation Capital           500     600        750    1,000      1,000     1,000
* Projected figures
Funds are in constant 1989 dollars
(b)   Resource Allocation.   The following ratios of personnel to other
operating expenditures are planned:
Year                     Personnel Costs           Other op. Expenditures
1991                           67%                             33%
1992                           64%                             36%
1993                           62%                             38%
1994                           60%                             40%
(c)   Staffina Ratios. To achieve a technical to support staff ratio of
2.5:1 or better.



- 72 -
ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 10
(d)   Institutional Focus. To provide services  in:  (i) technological
sourcing and intelligence; (ii) laboratory-based consultancy and
testing services; (iii) product and process R&D; to the following
primary sectors:
-     Food Agribusiness
-     Beverage Agribusiness
-     Chemicals
-     Non-Metallic Minerals
(e)   Legal.  To work for the amendment of the CARIRI Acts # 19 of 1971
and # 33 of 1981 in 1991.
(f)   Client Satisfaction.  To aim for 100% client satisfaction in 1991.
Actions Under the Proiect for TTBS and CARIRI
32.   Under the project, a three year program would be developed to: (i) build
awareness of quality as an essential element of competitive strategy; (ii) bring
T&T's certification and testing systems up to international standards; and (iii)
make the activities of TTBS and CARIRI more responsive to the market-driven
demands of industry.  In all cases, the activities to be undertaken would be
screened carefully to ensure that they would be appropriate for T&T at its
current stage of industrial development. Specifically, the program would:
(a)   Obtain international accreditation for specific testing programs in
the labs of TTBS and CARIRI, thus ensuring that their test reports and product
certifications will be credible with trading partners worldwide. This would be
accomplished by: (i) upgrading the level and operation of metrology equipment
within TTBS; (ii) strengthening TTBS' and CARIRI's quality practices to ISO 9000
levels; and (iii) obtaining international accreditation for both institutions'
testing and lab services.
(b)   Establish a national quality management system to build awareness
within industry and Government of international criteria (ISO 9000) for effective
quality management systems; establish a national system for registering or
certifying enterprises which conform to these criteria; gain international
recognition for this T&T quality registration system; and introduce T&T industry
to the benefits of Total Quality Management  (TQM).   Activities under this
component would be carried out under the leadership of TTBS. The TTBS would work
in conjunction with the Institute of Business at the UWI to deliver instructional
programs at the high Executive level; meanwhile, the TTBS itself would
concentrate on building quality awareness at the factory level.
(c)   Upgrade the quality and range of consulting and testing services
available from CARIRI and TTBS, to enable them to be more responsive to industry
needs.   This would be accomplished by: (i) replacing obsolete equipment in
CARIRI; ($i) expanding testing capabilities within TTBS; (iii) establishing two



- 73 -
ANNEX VI
Page 10 of 10
new laos to enable CARIXRI to develop new lines of business serving the chemicals
and nor.-metallic minerals sectors (e.g. by assisting local firms to produce down-
stream chemical intermediates and finished products, and non-metallic mineral
users, like tile producers, to develop new products); and (iv) updating and
expanding TT8S' library of standards. These upgrades of physical resources will
be complemented by staff development and specialized training. Other initiatives
will strengthen relationships of these institutions with industry, expand their
client base, and improve the quality of services provided their clients. These
initiatives may include twinning arrangements with appropriate counterpart
institutions which have developed effective working relations with industry.
33.   The estimated total base cost of this component is estimated at US$3.4
million.  A detailed description, implementation schedule and costing of the
program is included in the Project File.



- 74 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION & INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Component to Strengthen Environmental Impact Assessment Review Capacity of
T&CPD and Develop Pollution Standards
Background
1.    By law, there are established procedures for the review of new land and
building developments in T&T. Proposals for all new developments are reviewed
at the central level by the Town and Country Planning Division (T&CPD) in MOPAM,
and at the local level by the local Health Authorities.  The Tobago House of
Assembly has environmental responsibilities regarding the management of Tobago's
natural resources and associated industries. Although presently, there is no
explicit provision in the Town & Country Planning Act requiring Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIAs), there is legal provision enabling the Minister to
require any additional information needed for the evaluation of an application.
This provision has been relied upon to require the preparation of EIAs for large-
scale projects and projects in sensitive environmental areas. Proposed
legislative changes which are being discussed would make EIAs mandatory in the
project review process.
2.    The T&CPD carries out two main responsibilities: Development Control and
Development Planninr.   The  control of development  involves  not only  the
evaluation of proposals for construction of buildings on sites (building
operations), but also those related to engineering, mining and other operations,
the change of use of buildings or land, and land subdivision. In the evaluation
of these categories of application, the wider environmental context is taken into
account.    Development  Planning  includes  the  process  of  preparation  and
consultation on longer-term development plans for districts, local areas,
regions, and for the country as a whole.   T&CPD is currently developing a
database for planning purposes on a pilot basis.
3.    While there are 26 posts of professional town planners on the T&CPD's
establishment, the Division is currently staffed with 14 professional planners.
There are no engineers curently on the Division's staff.
The EIA Preparation & Review Process
4.    The concept of EIA is of considerable interest in T&T, but the technical
capacity to carry it out is still emergent, both among EIA preparers and
reviewers. T&CPD disseminates a "Guide to Developers and Applicants for Planning
Permission," which describes the kinds of projects for which EIA may be required
and lists typical information contents of an EIA. However, the existing planning
guidelines mostly  reflect  traditional  town planning  concerns.    Regarding
submission of EIAs, private developers currently present applications to the
T&CPD which are often deficient in information. The T&CPD thus advises them, and
may even supply information and analysis, with which to re-submit their
applications. However, national environmental planning data is, in many cases,
of insufficient quality to support "best practice" EIA. With respect to EIA



- 75 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
review, while planners have become very sensitive to the needs of EIA, for lack
of relevant technical skills, T&CPD's capacity to review EIAs and to identify the
range of issues to be addressed in "best practice" EIAs remains limited. This
is especially true in the case of industrial and marine development applications.
In reviewing development applications, T&CPD therefore typically relies on input
from other agencies and invokes a committee.   The most important of these
committees is the Intersectoral Committee on Change of Land Use, convened to
assess the environmental aspects of proposals. However, the capacity of even the
committees to advise on "best practice" EIAs needs strengthening. Training in EIA
at St. Augustine campus of the UWI is as yet embryonic.
5.    In  summary,  owing  to  the novelty  of  EIAs  in  T&T,  they  are:  (i)
inconsistently required of developers; (ii) very variable in quality and content
when prepared; (iii) sometimes reviewed too slowly from the viewpoint of the
private sector; and (iv) not perceived to be playing a constructive role in the
project design process, since improvement is needed in the local capacity to
define the process, format and content of "best practice" EIAs and to service the
needs of developers effectively. Despite these dfficulties, however, there is
growing support and acceptance of the need for EIA in the private sector, and the
local consulting industry is keen to upgrade its technical capabilities in
environmental areas.
Coordination with Relevant Proiects in Trinidad & Tobago
6.   The project will be coordinated with a number of other relevant projects
in the environmental area that are either being implemented or are proposed for
executior. This coordination is intended to ensure that there is no duplication
of effort ond that maximum benefit is derived from use of resources.
Action Program Under the Project
7.    Discussions are underway with the UNDP to implement a program to develop
EIA guidelines for T&T and refine the role of EJA in the project approval
process.   To complement these activities and to strengthen the capacity of the
T&CPD to review EIAs and to service its clientele better, the project would
support programs within T&CPD to:
(i)   train T&CPD staff in EIA specification and review;
(ii)  establish an information bank of sources of expertise in technical
disciplines related to EIA;
(iii) access specific expertise, as required from time to time, to assist
it in the review of EIAs;
(iv)  develop a pilot program to establish planning data to assist with
physical planning in southwest Tobago, Pt. Lisas and Chaguaramas,
where development pressures are increasing; and
(v)   establish a comprehensive information base of industry-specific
environmental requirements, including identification of hazards,
recommended pollution and design standards, and mitigation measures.
These programs are detailed below.



- 76 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
Training
8.    Objective.    The objective of the  training will be  to enhance  the
capabilities of the T&CPD to meet project sponsor needs for constructive guidance
in satisfying regulatory requirements. Consideration would be given to making
such training available selectively to staff of other public agencies involved
in environmental matters, industry, and consulting firms. Capacities would be
strengthened to: (i) explain the rationale for EIA; (ii) identify the range of
issues which "best practice" EIAs should address; (iii) prepare Terms of
Reference for EIAs; (iv) assist with the critical assessment of professional
capacity to carry out EIAs; and (v) review the findings and conclusions of ETAe
supplied by project sponsors.
9.    Scope of Work.   The training is intended to inform the T&CPD, together
with invited representatives of other agencies as determined by T&CPD, of
international standards of "best practice" in EIA.  Foreign professionals are
expected, for the most part, to provide the service. Two people will be required
for a two-week period in each of three years of the Project. The cost of this
component is estimated at US$200,000.
Establish an Information Bank of Expertise
10.   Obiectives.  The objective will be to create a database for the T&CPD of
Trinidadian, Caribbean, and other international experts and firms specializing
in EIA and related environmental management.   Emphasis will be placed on
identifying specialist expertise within the broad array of environmental
disciplines (e.g. risk assessment, plume dispersion modelling, soil science and
management, reclamation, etc.). The information bank will serve as a general
resource for T&CPD and its clientele.
11.   Scope of Work.  The compilation of a register of qualified individuals and
firms which could be called upon to provide specific technical expertise as
inputs into the EIA process. Such information is expected to be obtained inter
alia through consultation with international agencies (e.g. CDB, UNEP) as well
as through invitation to potential consultants.  The cost of this component,
including an allowance for equipment, is estimated at US$25,000.
Enable Access to Expertise
12.   Objectives.  The objective of this sub-component is to make available to
the T&CPD a pool of funds for use in retaining short-term specialist expertise
related to EIA.
13.   Scope of Work.  Local and foreign experts could : accessed by T&CPD.  The
funds would be accessed as needed. Terms of reference for individual assignments
would be established by T&CPD. Over the three-year period of the Project, nine
person-months of fees and expenses would be funded on an ad hoc basis for this
sub-cemponent. The ^ost of this component is estimated at US$125,000.



- 77 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
Pilot Pro,rams to Upgrade Environmental Information Base
14.   Obiectives.  The objective will be to assist the T&CPD in implementing a
pilot program to establish a database to assist with physical planning in three
specific areas where development pressures are increasing sharply owing to
tourism and/or industrial development. The information base will be established
by undertaking field studies and related analyses.
15.   Scope of Work.  To carry out a comprehensive baseline environmental study
to serve as a platform for physical planning in Southwest Tobago, Pt. Lisas and
Chaguaramas. The cost of this component is estimated at US$150,000.
Industrv-Specific Environmental Requirements & Pollution Standards
16.   Objectives. The objective will be to establish a comprehensive information
base of industry-specific environmental requiremcnts, including identification
of hazards, recommended pollution and design standards, and mitigation measures.
This information base would serve to inform T&CPD in carrying out its
responsibilities and would serve as well as a national source of environmental
standards and mitigation methods. Resulting standards would be incorporated in
model regulations which could be implemented by the Government by June 30, 1995.
17.   Scone of Work. A priority list will be prepared of those industries and/or
types of public and/or private sector development projects for which pollution
and environmental standards are most needed. With input from an internationally-
recognized agency (e.g. UNEP or an appropriate national regulatory agency),
appropriate existing "best practice" standards and mitigatory measures would be
assembled and adapted to local conditions.  These would include establishing
pollution limits, test methods and sampling procedures for the range of
activities most likely to generate adverse environmental impacts in Trinidad and
Tobago. The cost of this component, including an allowance for equipment, is
estimated at US$209,000.
Estimated Total Costs
18.   On the basis of the above estimates, the total base cost of this component
to support T&CPD is estimated at US$709,000, split notionally between US$25,000
for equipment and US$684,000 for consulting services.



- 78 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component for Regulatorv Reform Affecting the Insurance
Industrv
Background
1.   Some 50 insurance companies are registered to operate in Trinidad and
Tobago, equally divided between life and general insurance companies.  Their
total assets were about US$600 million at end-1989.
2.        The insurance industry is regulated under the terms of the
j         Insurance Act (1980), which is in the process of amendment.  A Bill (draft
law) hae been issued for public comment, and it is expected that revised
legislation could be approved by Parliament by about September 1992.
3.   In the context of the Government's program of reform for the financial
sector, as broadly defined, the amendments seek to strengthen the regulatory
framework of the industry, and to enhance the powers of enforcement of the
Supervisor of Insurance, who reports to the Minister of Finance.
Obiectives
4.   Resulting from the amendments, it is expected that the capabilities of
the office of the Supervisor will need to be upgraded in order to meet new
responsibilities under the heightened powers that it will be granted. While
there iG an established staff structure, a need has been identified for expert
advice in the following areas:
(a) developing a suitable staffing structure and training programs to
upgrade skills in insurance supervision and regulatory enforcement;
(b) developing prudential returns for insurance companies;
(c) developing appropriate information systems, possibly involving
computerization; and
(d) monitoring industry trends, product development and ethical
practices.
Scone of_Work
5. A consultant would be hired for about 9 months to advise the Supervisor
in the above areas. During his or her assignment, the consultant would be
expected to work closely with the Supervisor and his staff in order to yield a
training benefit. Contracting of all activities for this component would be
through the RSU.
6.   An allocation of US$250,000 would be included in the Loan to cover
consulting foes, possible initial equipment requirements, and ad hoc training
needs directly related to strengthening the regulatory capacities of the
office of the Supervisor.



- 79 -
ANNEX TX
Page 1 of 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Local     Foreign    Total
. .us$ 000.
ESTIMATED COSTS 1/
(i)   Private Sector Credit Program              20,000      20,000    40,000
(ii)  Export TA Facility (ETAF)                     150       2,850      3,000
(iii) Other TA Programs
(a) Technotogy Component                          827       2,570     3,397
(i)  TTBS                                   492       1,527      2,019
(ii) CARIRI                                  335      1,043      1,378
(b)  T&CPD's EIA Review Capacity                   64         645        709
Cc)  Studies                                      255         595       850
'i)   Foreign Investment Promotion            45         105       150
(li)  Steel                                   90        210        300
.iii) Petrochemicals                         120        280        400
cd) NOF Regulatory Reform                          75         175        250
.iv)  Project Adninistration                        675          75        750
Base Cost                                       22,046      26,910    48,956
Price Contingencies                                242         363        605
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  22,288      27,273    49,561
1/ Net of taxes and duties.
FINANCING PLAN
(i)   Private Beneficiaries (Credit)             14,800          -      14,800
(ii)  Private Beneficiaries (ETAF)                   75       1,425      1,500
Ciii) PFIs                                        5,200          --      5,200
(iv)  Beneficiary Public Agencies
(a)  TTGS                                    150                   150
(b)  CARIRI                                   72                    72
(c)  T&CPD                                    --          -          0
(d)  MOPAM                                    --                     0
(e)  Ministry of Finance                      --          -          0
(v)  Govermnent (Project Admin)                     755          84        839
(v) IBRD
Ca)  Credit Program                           --     20,000    20,000
(b)  ETAF                                     75      1,425      1,500
(c)  Other TA                              1,161      4,339      5,500
TOTAL                                                22,288      27,273    49,561



- 80 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ESTIMATED BANK DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE, 1992-99
(In USS 000)
IBRD
Fiscal                                  Disbursements      Cumulative
Year            Semester              ' During Semester  Disbursements
1992           December 31, 1991                    --               --
June 30, 1992                      420              420
1993           December 31, 1992                   880            1,300
June 30, 1993                      880            2,180
1994           December 31, 1993                1,080             3,260
June 30, 1994                    2,960            6,220
1995           December 31, 1994                3,240             9,460
June 30, 1995                    2,440           11,900
1996           December 31, 1995                4,320            16,220
June 30, 1996                    3,240           19,460
1997           December 31, 1996                1,360            20,820
June 30, 1997                    2,160           22,980
1998           December 31, 1997                 1,080           24,060
June 30, 1998                    1,740           25,800
1999           December 31, 1998                   400           26,200
June 30, 1999                      800           27,000
TOTAL:                                              27,000           27,000



- 81 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Proiect
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
Project        Pre-Project          Project Year        Total Payment   Remarks
Element                           1       2        3
Loan Timing
Sign/Effec/Close                  XX
Subloans                          XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX       40,000
Ecruipment /Installation
TTBS                              XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX           649
CARIRI                            XXXXXXXXX                  827
T&CPD                             XXX                         30
HOF                               XXX                         30
Consultina Services
ETAF                              XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX         3,000
TTBS                              XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX         1,558
CARIRI                            XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX           622
T&CPD                             XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX           773
MOPAM                             XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX           931
MOF                               XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX           262
OReratina Costs
Project Administration            XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX           839
(7 years)
TOTALS                                              49,561
(Bank Financed)                                         (27,000)



- 82 -
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
List of Documents Available in Proiect Files
1.   Technology Development and Competition Policies in Trinidad and Tobago.
2.   Priority Needs in Trinidad and Tobago's Industrial Infrastructure.
3.   Assessment of the Free Zone Program:  Trinidad and Tobago.
4.   Commonly Accepted Terms and Conditions of Employment in Trinidad
and Tobago.
5.   Out of School and Nothing to Do:  Employment and Earnings in Trinidad
and Tobago and the Problem of Youth Idleness.



- 83 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 15
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Strategy Study for the Petrochemical Industry
Background
1.    Trinidad and Tobago has reserves of both oil and gas.  Proven oil reserves
are estimated at 522 million bbl., while proven natural gas reserves are
estimated at 9 trillion cubic feet.  About 21 percent of the gas produced is
flared; this includes the 11 percent which is used first in gas lifting
operations.   It also has an emergent petrochemicals (including fertilizers)
sector which presently consists of the following natural gas-based operations:
(i) TRINGEN (two ammonia plants, respectively with capacity 1,200 and 1,500 short
tons/day, operated in a 51:49 joint venture with Hydro Agri (Norsk Hydro); (ii)
FERTRIN (two ammonia plants with capacity each of 1,150 short tons/day, operated
in a 51:49 joint venture with AMOCO); (iii) Hydro Agri (Norsk Hydro) (pUivately-
owned ammonia plant with 750 short ton/day capacity); (iv) T&T Urea Company (100
percent state-owned urea plant with 1,790 short ton/day capacity; (v) TRINTOC
(100 percent state-owned urea-formaldehyde  plant with  1,200 short  ton/day
capacity); and (vi) TTMC (100 percent state-owned methanol plant with 1,520 short
tons/day capacity).   There is also minor 100 percent state-owned oil-based
petrochemical production at the Point-a-Pierre refinery, including aromatics,
normal paraffins, propylene polymers, and naphthionic oil residue. Several new
petrochemical projects are being considered, among which are two methanol plants
and projects for MTBE, acetic acid, and melamine and formaldehyde-based resins.
The first 1,650 short ton/day methanol project, sponsored by Caribbean Methanol
Co. (CMC), is being promoted by Colonial Life Insurance Co. (CLICO) (65 percent)
and a German consortium (35 percent). The second 2,430 short ton/day methanol
project to be operated by Point Fortin Chemical Co. is being sponsored 45:55 by
local SOEs and a foreign consortium. The other projects are still in the early
formulation stage.   A plant to recover LPG and gasolines from natural gas began
operations in August 1991
Objectives
2.    The Government is aware of the complexity of the petrochemical industry and
the continuous and rapid technological, structural and market  changes which
continue to occur world-wide. It is therefore interested in obtaining guidance
through a study on the strategies to be pursued and the related issues and
options to be faced in expanding this industry, inter alia by attracting private
investment, to optimize the risk-adjusted returns from: (i) the installed
petrochemicals base; and (ii) presently unutilized feedstocks which could be used
either for exports or new petrochemical production.
3.    The objective of the study is to strengthen the Government's capacity to:
(i) establish appropriate policies, institutions and programs to attract private
participaUion and to maximize national risk-adjusted returns from T&T's endowment
of hydrocarbon feedstocks; and (ii) make informed decisions about development
strategy and investment choices inter alia to permit crafting of informed



- 84 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 2 of 15
negotiating positions when reviewing investment proposals made by local or
foreign investors.
Scope of Assistance
4.    Five principal areas of investigation and analysis should be undertaken:
(i)   An assessment of the present operations and economics of the
petrochemical industry in T&T, including an analysis of the
factors which attract or impede local and foreign capital to
the industry and which affect the development of ancillary
service industries;
(ii) An outline of trends in the petrochemical industry at the
global level, with a view to conveying a sense for the context
in which T&T industry must operate;
(iii) Given T&T's endowment (both in terms of installed capacity and
primary   feedstock  availability)   and   industry   trends,
identification and evaluation of the optional Government
strategies to develop and diversify the T&T petrochemical
industry, with an identification of the associated critical
issues that would need to be addressed by the Government;
(iv) Identification of a recommended medium-term strategy and
associated action plan for the Government to promote the
development of T&T's petrochemicals industry in a fashion
likely to maximize national risk-adjusted returns from the
country's endowment of hydrocarbon feedstocks, together with
an identification of the necessary legal, regulatory,
incentive and institutional frameworks to implement such a
strategy; and
(v)   Design of a promotion campaign to attract  financial and
managerial resources to implement the recommended development
strategy for the sector.
In undertaking their work, the consultants will take into account any relevant
studies being undertaken through: (i) the Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)
financed by the World Bank; (ii) projects financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank; or (iii) any other multilateral or bilateral source.
5.    The first task will review the status of the existing industry, including:
(i) analyzing the structure and forms of ownership; (ii) identifying the type,
quality and quantity of products, installed capacity, technology and feedstocks
used, and specific plans, if any; (iii) analyzing, for each firm and product, the
prices of product sold and costs of production; feedstock source and pricing;
marketing and transport arrangements and customers; special organizational
issues, if any, and the regulatory and tax environment affecting the firm; and
(iv) assessing the availability of feedstocks from (a) existing petrochemical



- 85 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 3 of 15
operations; and (b) primary feedstock sources.   As part of this task, the
consultants will review the historic performance of the existing petrochemical
operations in T&T, inter alia to abstract lessons of experience about the local
industry (e.g. with respect to choice of technology, marketing, supply and
ownership arrangements) to be applied when considering new investments.  The
consultants will also identify those factors which have tended to attract or
deter commitment of local or foreign capital to the industry;
6.    The second task will discuss recent and ongoing trends in the global
industry and draw implications for development of petrochemicals and adjunct
industries as a means to promote economic diversification in T&T.   It will
include inter alia discussion of: (i) the current restructuring of the industry,
with an analysis of the main actors, new entrants and trends in technology,
markets, products, industrial organization and location, financing and risk-
sharing arrangements, and plans of T&T's competitors; (ii) trends in feedstock
availability, use, prices and international trade; (iii) an analysis of the pros
and cons of various forms of ownership and contractual arrangements and the role
of Government vis-a-vis the private sector which prevail in countries widely
regarded as having competitive industries, and the lessons which may be drawn for
countries of T&T's size and level of development; and (iv) emergent opportunities
or threats confronting T&T's petrochemicals industry.
7.    The third and fourth tasks will build upon the prior two to: (i) identify
and evaluate the alternative paths which could be followed for developing and
diversifying T&T's petrochemical industry, and (ii) select and make the case for
a recommended alternative, together with an indication of the necessary policies
and institutional arrangements, and a clear action program to carry it out. Such
an action program should detail the priority decisions which need to be taken.
If additional studies are required to investigate a subject further, the
consultant should make specific recommendations.  Topics to be treated under
these tasks, together with the various policy issues which they would raise,
include:
(i)   Pricing policy and marketing arrangements  for Government-owned
feedstocks and products;
(ii) The adequacy of ongoing efforts to identify new fields to replace
depleting feedstock resources;
(iii) Possible sale of surplus feedstock in the international markets
under various contractual arrangements;
(iv) The need for modernization of existing petrochemical plants;
(v)   Costs, benefits and implications of restructuring the existing
state-owned companies, including through varying degrees of
divestment;



- 86 .7
ANNEX XIII
Page 4 of 15
(vi)  Possible specific project identification by the Government, with the
option to let private investors present their own project ideas and
schemes for implementation;
(vii) Forms of ownership au.d industry organization to be considered in the
future, and their 4mplications for maximizing risk-adjusted returns
to T&T;
(viii) Environmental issues associated with the petrochemical industry, and
an outline of mitigatory actions which should be pursued;
(ix)   Regulatory policies, inter alia with respect to taxation.
8.    Under the fifth task, the consultants will describe and define the main
elements of a promotion campaign to implement the recommended strategic option.
The consultants should also suggest the best ways and means to carry out this
campaign to inform potential investors of the Government's policy in the sector.
Organization of the study
9.    The study would be carried out under the guidance of a Steering Committee
(SC) to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Planning and
Mobilization.   The Steering Committee would include representatives from the
Ministries of Energy, Finance, and Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism, the
Attorney General's office, NEC, NGC, TRINGEN, FERTIN, TTMC, TTUC, the oil
companies, and the TTMA. The Steering Committee will designate a study manager
(SM), who would be the Government's principal counterpart and channel of.
communication with the Consultants.   For the day-to-day work, the SM would
convene a task force (TF) comprising senior managers and technical specialists
from the various sector entities and petrochemical companies, as required for the
execution of the work.
10.   The study will be carried out in three phases.  The first phase will be
primarily fact-finding and information-gathering on all aspects of the T&T
petroleum and petrochemical industries and on the international petrochemical
industry. An integral part of this phase will be the training of local personnel
(paras. 11) and the implementation of measures to institutionalize local learning
and the capacity to update the study.   The second phase will focus on the
formulation and evaluation of various strategic alternatives for development of
the industry, and the crafting of a recommended medium-term strategy for its
optimal development (pars. 7).  The third phase will be preparation of the
promotion campaign that could be used by the Government later to implement the
recommended strategic option for development of the industry (para. 8).



- 87 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 5 of 15
Training
11.   The utmost importance is attached to the training and capability-building
aspects of the Consultant's work. Training should be provided by the Consultant
in the areas of modern methodologies of market analysis, economic and financial
analysis of feedstock cost and use, and development/application of computer
software.   Special attention should also be paid to the identification of
measures which could be taken to build the marketing capabilities of
Trinidadians.   Prior to the start of the study, both the Consultant and the
client should agree on the details and costs of programs to: (i) carry out
requisite training; and (ii) institutionalize local learning and the capacity to
update the study.
Staffing
12.   The consultant team should include: (i) a senior oil and gas economist with
experience in Latin America and the Caribbean; (ii) a petrochemical product
marketing specialist; (iii) a senior petrochemical engineer; (iv) a statistician-
computer expert; (v) a financial expert; and (vi) a local lawyer who is
knowledgeable about the T&T legal and regulatory framework affecting industry in
general and petrochemicals in particular. It is envisaged that this study will
take about 8 months to be completed.
Budget
13.   The budget required for the completion of the study is estimated at 20 man-
months, of which 10 would involve work carried out in Trinidad and Tobago. Other
costs include subsistence during travel, air tickets, administrative, training,
report writing and contingency.   Total cost of the study is estimated at
US$400,000.
Schedule and Reports
14.   By the end of the first week, the Consultants will submit an initial
program with the activities to be carried out in the time period established by
the contract. This program will consist of, but not necessarily be limited to,
the following:
(i)   definition of the data needed to be gathered and analyzed;
(ii)  the meetings that need to be organized, and the schedule of
interviews to be conducted;
(iii) the training to be conducted;
(iv)  the approach to be used to carry out the study and the
methodology; and
(v)   the planning of the review meetings.



- 88 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 6 of 15
15.   In addition to the initial program, the Consultant will submit: (i) monthly
reports to the SM during the period in which services are rendered; (ii) a draft
final report by the end of the contract; and (iii) a final report incorporating
comments on the draft final report by the Government and the Bank deemed
appropriate by the Consultants. The draft and final reports should contain a
concise executive summary with all major findings and recommendations of the
study.



- 89 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 7 of 15
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION & INDUSTRIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Strategy Study for the Steel Industry
Background
1.      The steel industry in Trinidad and Tobago (T&T) is dominated by the Iron
& Steel Co. of Trinidad & Tobago (ISCOTT), a state developed and owned integrated
steel plant with about 700,000 tons/year of crude steel capacity. It is based
on direct reduced iron technology and produces semi-finished billets and wire rod
products. The plant has operated recently at only about 50 percent of its crude
steel capacity, with about 20 percent of its production sold locally to the
Downstream Industries (DIs). The balance is exported worldwide, with about 30
percent going to the U.S. The Government is interested in divesting itself of
the plant, and since May 1989, it has been leased to Car-bbean Ispat Ltd. (CIL),
a foreign operator based in India. The lease provides for an option to purchase,
based upon an independent valuation of the plant. While the ISCOTT plant is well
equipped technically and capable of becoming an internationally competitive
producer, there is room to improve its capacity utilization and operating
efficiency.
2.   The  DIs  currently  consist  of  about  seven  private  companies  which
manufacture a wide range of products (e.g. wire mesh, nails, rebar, flats,
angles, channels, tools and dies, welded tubes, roofing, containers), using
feedstock supplied by CIL as well as imports. Currently, main issues affecting
the DIs include: (i) a shortage of feedstock supplied by CIL; and (ii) problems
with access to export markets.   Given T&T's abundant gas supplies,  good
infrastructure and the technical capacity of its labor force, a priori it appears
that the DIs could develop and deepen much further if adequate investments were
made, marketing arrangements were improved, and raw material inputs of
competitive price and quality were fraely available.
Obiectives.
3.    The Government is interested in obtaining guidance through a study on the
strategies to be pursued and the related issues and options to be faced in
furthering the divestment and expansion of the steel industry in T&T, and to
optimize the risk-adjusted returns from: (i) the existing ISCOTT plant and DIs:
and (ii) future investments in the industry.
4.    The objective of the study is to strengthen the Government's capacity to:
(i) establish appropriate policies, institutions and programs to maximize risk-
adjusted economic returns from T&T's steel industry; and (ii) make informed
decisions about development strategy and investment choices f^r the industry,
inter alia to permit crafting of informed negotiating positions regarding its
divestment of ISCOTT and for responding to proposals made by local or foreign
investors.



- 90 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 8 of 15
Scope of Assistance
5.    Five principal areas of investigation and analysis should be undertaken:
(i)  -Ai assessment of the present operations and economics of the
steel industry in T&T, including an analysis of the factors
which attract or discourage local and foreign investment in
the industry;
(ii)  An outline of trends in the steel industry at the global
level, with a view to conveying a sense for the context in
which T&T industry must operate;
(iii) Given T&T's endowment (both in terms of installed capacity and
basic resources) and industry trends, identification and
evaluation of the optional strategies which could be pursued
to promote development and diversification of the steel
industry, with an identification of the associated critical
issues which would need to be addressed;
(iv)  Identification of a recommended medium-term strategy and
associated action plan for the development of T&T's steel
industry in a fashion likely to maximize risk-adjusted
economic returns from the industry, together with an
identification of the necessary legal, regulatory, incentive
and institutional frameworks, and other Government actions
necessary to implement such strategy; and
(v)   Design of a promotion campaign to attract financial and
managerial resources to implement the recommended development
strategy for the sector.
6.    The first task will identify critical issues for the development of the
steel industry and the needs of ISCOTT and the major DIs based on: (i) a survey
of the steel plants, with a detailed diagnosis of their strengths and weaknesses,
including an analysis of production costs, operating and maintenance practices,
technical levels, environmental issues and problem areas, and identification of
short-term investment needs and operational improvements; (ii) a review of the
domestic steel market and opportunities for export of steel-based products; (iii)
an economic analysis assessing the competitive advantage of ISCOTT and the DIs,
along with changes needed in the policy environment to ensure the efficient
development of the industry and satisfaction of the needs of the steel consumers;
and (iv) a detailed analysis of sector investment plans, including
recommendations regarding those, if any, that the Government should promote.
7.    The second task will review the historic performance of the existing steel
operations in T&T, inter alia to abstract lessons of experience about the local
industry (e.g. with respect to choice of technology, marketing, sourcing of raw
materials, and ownership arrangements) to be applied when considering new



- 91 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 9 of 15
ir.vestments. The Consultants will also identify those factors which have tended
to attract or discourage local or foreign investment in the industry;
8.    The third task will discuss recent and ongoing trends in the global
industry and draw implications for development of the steel industry in T&T and
the contribution which it could make towards the diversification of the
Trinidadian economy. It will include inter alia discussion of: (i) the current
restructuring of the global industry, with an analysis of the main actors new
entrants and trends in technology, markets, products, industrial organization and
location,  financing  and  risk-sharing  arrangemni.ts,  and  plans  of  T&T's
competitors; (ii) trends in raw material availability, use, prices and
international trade; (iii) an analysis of the pros and cons of various forms of
ownership and contractual arrangements and the role of Government vis-a-vis the
private sector which prevail in countries widely regarded as having competitive
ateel industries, and the lessons which may be drawn for countries of T&T's size
and level of development; and (iv) emergent opportunities and threats confronting
T&T's steel industry. These discussions should include an analysis of emergent
market opportunities, including those for higher quality and new products that
may not be currently produced in T&T, but which could be produced after some
investment and/or restructuring in the industry.
9.    The fourth task will build upon the prior ones to:  (i) identify and
evaluate the alternative options which could be pursued for developing and
diversifying T&T's steel industry on the basis of market opportunities, and (ii)
select and make the case for a recommended option, together with an indication
of the necessary policies and institutional arrangements, and a clear medium-term
action program to carry it out.   The costs and benefits calculated for each
development option will be based on production volumes and costs and other
parameters developed during the study and would provide for:
(i)   identification of the particular processes that could be installed
in existing or new facilities and those that should be upgraded,
including a review of investment plans, costs, and expected
benefits;
(ii) identification of policy issues and options with regard to:
stimulation of competition, product/market orientation, pricing and
trade policy, institutional support for industry development,
technology development, distribution and/or concentration of
production capacities, raw materials and energy supply strategy,
management and organization, and environmental impact.
10.   The proposed action program agreed by the study participants  should
identify the specific opportunities which T&T could seize and detail the priority
decisions which need to be taken, including those which refer to operation of the
ISCOTT plant.   If additional studies are required to investigate a subject
further, the consultant should make specific recommendations.   Topics to be
treated under these tasks, together with the various policy issues which they
would raise, include:



- 92 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 10 of 15
(i)   Pricing policy and marketing arrangements for Government-supplied
inputs into steel-making (e.g. gas, electricity, infrastructure);
(ii)  Costs, benefits and implications of providing technical assistance
to improve operations of the ISCOTT plant and/or investing to
restructure its operations prior to divestment, with a view to
maximizing the economic returns from divestment;
(iii) Possible sale of all product from ISCOTT in the international
markets, and the concomitant development of the Dis on the basis of
imported inputs;
(iv)  The utility of specific project identification by the Government,
with the option to let private investors present their own project
ideas and schemes for implementation;
(v)   Forms of ownership and industry organization to be considered in the
future, and their implications for maximizing risk-adjusted returns
to T&T;
(vi)  Environmental issues associated with the steel industry, and an
outline of mitigatory actions which should be pursued;
(vii) Regulatory policies, inter alia with respect to taxation.
11.   Under the fifth task, the Consultants will describe and define the main
elements of a promotion campaign to implement the recommended strategic option.
The Consultants should also suggest the best ways and means to carry out this
campaign to inform potential investors of the Government's policy in the sector.
Organization of the study
12.   The study would be carried out under the guidance of a Steering Committee
(SC) to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Planning and
Mobilization.   The SC would include representatives from the Ministries of
Industry, Energy, and Finance, the Attorney General's office, CIL, ISCOTT, the
Downstream Industry Association, the TTMA, and the labor unions. The SC will
designate a study manager (SM), who would be the Government's principal
counterpart and channel of communication with the Consultants. For the day-to-
day work, the SM would convene a task force (TF) comprising senior managers and
technical specialists from the various sector entities and steel companies, as
required for the execution of the work. In the process of carrying out the study,
consensus on its findings would be sought from the TF.
13.   The study will be carried out in three phases.  The first phase will cover
the first and second tasks and will consist primarily of fact-finding on all
aspects of the T&T and international steel industries. The second phase will
focus on the third and fourth tasks, focussing on the formulation and evaluation
of various strategic alternatives for development of the industry, and the
crafting of a recommended medium-term strategy for its optimal development. The



- 93 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 11 of 15
third phase will be preparation of the promotion campaign that could be used by
the Government later to implement the recommended strategic option for
development of the industry.
Training
14.   The utmost importance is attached to the training and capability-building
aspects of the Consultant's work. Training should be provided by the Consultant
in the areas of modern methodologies of market analysis and monitoring of
industry trends (e.g. technology and establishment of new industry capacity),
economic and financial analysis of industry operations (including the derivation
and  application  of  technical  and  cost  parameters),  and  development  and
application of computer softwtre.  Prior to the start of the study, both the
Consultant and the client should agree on the details and costs of programs to:
(i) carry out requisite training; and (ii) institutionalize local learning and
build the capacity of Government agencies and local industry to update and re-
evaluate the study.
Staffing
15.   The Consultant team should include: (i) a senior steel sector economist;
(ii) a senior steel engineer; (iii) a statistician-computer expert; (iv) a
financial expert; (v) a steel marketing expert knowledgeable about international
trade; and (vi) local consultant assistance knowledgeable about T&T industry in
general.   It is envisaged that this study will take about 7 months to be
completed.
Budget
16.   The budget required for the completion of the study is estimated at 18 man-
months, all of which would be in Trinidad and Tobago. Costs for all subsistence
during travel, air tickets, administrative, training, report writing and
contingency are included in the total estimated cost of US$300,000.
Schedule and Reports
17.   By the end of the first week, the Consultants will submit an initial
program with the activities to be carried out in the time period established by
the contract. This program will consist of, but not necessarily be limited to,
the following:
(i)   definition of the data needed to be gathered and analyzed;
(ii) the meetings that need to be organized, and the schedule of
interviews to be conducted;
(iii) the training to be conducted;
(iv) the approach to be used to carry out the study and the
methodology; and
(v)   the planning of the review meetings.



94 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 12 of 15
18.   In addition to the initial program, the Consultant will submit: (i) monthly
reports to the SM during the period in which services are rendered; (ii) a draft
final report by the end of the contract; and (iii) a final report incorporating
comments on the draft final report bg the Government and the Bank deemed
appropriate by the Consultants. The draft and final reports should contain a
concise executive summary with all major findings and recommendations of the
study.



- 95 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 13 of 15
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION & INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Foreign Investment Promotion Study
Background
1.    In recent years, cognizant of the need to promote the growth of the non-oil
economy to generate employment and foreign exchange, the Government of Trinidad
& Tobago (T&T) has taken a number of important steps to enhance the
competitiveness of T&T as a location for investment, both local and foreign.
2.    Exchange rate adjustment, trade reform, removal of price controls, tax
reform, and liberalization of foreign exchange availability have improved
incentives generally for efficient investment and heightened incentives to adopt
new technology.   Reform of export/import procedures which are underway will
encourage trade-based production. Legal and administrative reforms affecting
foreign investment, including passage of the Free Zone Act (1988) and the Foreign
Investment Act (1990), and streamlining of investment application procedures have
enhanced prospects for foreign investment, with the concomitant prospects for
technology and skills transfer and linkage to global markets which this could
engender.  These policy actions are being complemented by the infrastructure
improvements which will result from construction of the proposed expansion of the
Piarco Airport Complex and the industrial estates being promoted by public
agencies like the IDC and PLIPDECO, as well as a number of private parties.
3.    The important actions discussed above have laid the basis for enhanced
investment flows.   However, in the face of the prevailing intense global
competition for foreign capital, if Trinidad and Tobago is to be successful in
realizing its full development potential and in capitalizing on these policy and
institutional reforms and the upgrading of infrastructure, local and foreign
private investment must be stepped up.
Obiectives
4.    The objectives of the study will be to: (i) undertake an assessment of the
effectiveness of the recently introduced foreign investment regime; and (ii)
develop an effective program for strategically promoting the country as an
attractive location for internationally competitive manufacturing and service
industries.
Scope of Work
5.    To achieve the above objectives, the consultants will, inter alia:
(i)      take into account the experiences of countries which have been
successful in attracting direct investment flows and review the
adequacy of Trinidad and Tobago's legal and regulatory framework and
promotional efforts. In so doing, the consultants will identify the
existing legal, regulatory and organizational factors, if any, whlch



- 96 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 14 of 15
hinder Trinidad and Tobago from fully realizing its potential to
attract foreign investment.   Having regard to the Government's
objective of attracting foreign investment, the review should
include a critical analysis of the following factors impacting on
investment decisions and the development of the local capital
market: (a) sectoral restrictions; (b) screening and approval
procedures;   (c)  share  of  ownership  limits;   (d)  operating
restrictions (e.g. employment of expatriates, local borrowing,
access to land, access to foreign exchange, Customs procedures); (e)
existing guarantees and protections, including those affecting
intellectual property rights; (f) access to investment incentives;
and (g) the adequacy of the institutional framework for
administering  the  foreign  investment  regime  and  promoting
investment.
(ii)     identify those industries in which Trinidad and Toba,o, based on its
essential economic and locational advantages, is likely to have a
high potential for attracting foreign investment, including
industrie6 which might be induced to locate in a Free Zone. In so
doing, the consultants will take into account such studies which
have been commissioned by the Central Government or parastatal
agencies in related fields. In respect of the above, the Consultants
should identify as far as possible the likely product markets which
should be targeted; and
(iii)    design a marketing strategy and detailed marketing plan to enable
Trinidad rnd Tobago to enhance the flows of foreign investment into
those industries with high potential. As part of such strategy, the
consultants should recommend ways in which the promotional agencies
could derive maximum returns from their efforts.   These should
include: (a) targeted marketing programs for the Free Zone Company,
IDC, etc.; (b) the rationalization of promotional organizations; (c)
sub-contracting; and (d) programs of specialized training for
personnel from the public sector promotional agencies. The proposed
strategy and marketing plan should detail, sequence, and budget a
comprehensive   program   of   activities   which  would   require
complementary actions by the relevant public sector agencies (Free
Zone Company, IDC) and the private sector. The plan should cover
both the short (one-year) and medium (two-to-five year) terms and
identify the possible sources of technical and financil resources
to effect its implementation.
In carrying out the above tasks, the consultants will take into account the
findings of relevant economic or sector studies carried out by the World Bank or
other multilateral or bilateral agencies or independent consultants.
6.    In  undertaking  the  assignment,  the  Consultants  should  seek,  in
collaboration with the RSU, to devise a structured program to involve and expose
local counterparts to contemporary issues and trends in investment promotion, and
to the identifiable factors which promote or impede success in such activities.



- 97 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 15 of 15
Level of Effort
7.    The study is estimated to cost US$150,000.
Organization
8.    The Consultants would be contracted by the RSU on behalf of the Ministry
of Tndustry. They would work under the direction of a Steering Committee chaired
by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry and including senior
representatives from the Ministries of Planning and Mobilization and Finance,
Central Bank, IDC, Free Zone Company, EDC, and TTMA.
Outputs
9.    In addition to its final report, the Consultants may be asked to present
their findings at a seminar organized by Ministry of Industry for the public and
private sectors.  External agencies involved in foreign investment promotion
(e.g. IFC, IIC) might also be invited. The purpose of such seminar would be to
promote discussion of the report's findings and public awareness of the issues.
Consideration might be given to disseminating summaries of the report to the
public.



- 98 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of 11
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Performance and Eligibility Criteria and Certification Procedures for
Participation of Financial Intermediaries
1.       Introduction - Eligible Institutions
1.       The purpose of the certification procedures detailed below is to
ensure as far as possible that Bank resources support only those Financial
Intermediaries (FIs) which can be reasonably determined to be solvent and
well-managed in accordance with sound banking practices, and which operate in
a way in which they will allocate funds productively.
2.       Participation under the Project would be open to all licensed FIs
supervised by the Inspector of Banks (the Inspector). Additionally, the T&T
Development Finance Company (TTDFC) would also be eligible to participate,
provided it meets the criteria indicated below.
3.       The eligibility of FIs to participate under the Project would be
determined on the basis of information and criteria set out in Sections II-V
below. In cases where Bank lending to a subsidiary of a licensed bank holding
company is proposed, the eligibility criteria would be applied to both the
parent on a consolidated basis and the subsidiary.
4.       FIs falling under the supervision of the Inspector would be certified
for initial participation under the Project and re-certified annually for
continued participation. Certification procedures would be as follows: (i)
applicant FIe would submit the information indicated in Section II below to
the Inspector (along with other routinely required financial information);
(ii) the Inspector would assess compliance with the eligibility and
performance criteria indicated in Sections III and IV below; and (iii) the
Inspector would have the right at any time to revoke the certification of FIs
found to not fully satisfy prudential regulations.
5.       The TTDFC would be certified as follows: it would annually request
that external auditors perform an independent assessment of its compliance
with the prudential, performance and special eligibility criteria indicated,
respectively, in Sections III, IV and V below. This assessment would be sent
to the Central Bank which would then communicate the auditors' findings to the
Bank. The Bank would confirm to the Central Bank whether or not TTDFC is
eligible to participate in the Project.
6.       The Bank may consult periodically with the Inspectcr and the Central
Bank about eligibility, certification procedures, and institutions certified.
The Inspector would notify the Bank in the event of material changes in the
policies or practices of certified Fls under his or her jurisdiction.



- 99 -                          ANNEX XIV
Page 2 of 11
II.      Information Reguired
7.       Information Required would be:
(a)   Annual audited financial statements for the previous three
years prepared according to generally accepted international
auditing principles. Additionally, information should be
provided indicating loan classification and provisioning
criteria and interest accrual policies.
(b)   Portfolio quality and interest accrual information according
to prudential criteria applied by the Inspector.
(c)   Unqualified opinion from external auditor or, if qualified,
satisfactory explanation and action plan from management for
remedying the problem.
(d)   Any other information the Inspector may consider necessary for
purposes of applying the eligibility or performance criteria.
III. Eligibility Criteria
8.       These criteria would reflect a set of prudential norms developed by
the Inspector 't. The set of prudential norms will include: (i) standards for
capital adequacy; (ii) loan and investment portfolio classification criteria
and standards; (iii) provisioning requirements; (iv) limits on loans to single
borrowers, unsecured loans, loans to related parties, and loans to directors
and shareholders; (v) interest accrual standards; (vi) write-off procedures;
and (vii) limits on loan reprogramming and rescheduling.
IV.      Performance Criteria for Banks and Licensed Financial Institutions
9.       The Inspector would assess financial institution performance,
examining the following variables, amongst others:
(a)   Management.  The effectiveness of the organization, its
management and staffing would be reviewed. Assurance would be
provided by the Inspector of satisfactory credit control
policies (including planning mechanisms), staffing and
information systems. The capacity of the institution to
effectively initiate, process, monitor and supervise loans
would be carefully scrutinized.
(b)   Portfolio Arrears.  The Inspector would certify that the level
of portfolio arrears was sufficiently low, controlled, and
provisioned, in order to ensure future solvency.
See "Proposed Prudential Criteria", Bank Inspection Department,
Trinidad and Tobago, October 4, 1991, as may be amended with the
agreement of the Bank.



- 100 -                         ANNEX XIV
Page 3 of 11
(c)   Collection Ratio.  The collection ratio on term loans should
be sufficient to avoid erosion of the capital of the FI.11
(d)   EarninRa Performance.  Net income should be sufficient to
support present and future operations, establish realistic
reserves, and maintain an adequate capibal base.
(e)   Liuiditv Position.  FaIs should be certified by the Inspector
to have sound liquidity positions and liquidity management
systerAs. Except in the case of the TTDFC, the following
indicators, amongst others, should be assessed: (i)
maintenance of minimum reserve requirements; (ii) frequency
and level of liquidity surport from the Central Bank; and
(iii) frequency of borrowings from the inter-bank market.
Additionally, for all FIs, including the TTDFC, liquidity
management should also be judged by: (iv) the relationship
between new commitments for loans and investments and the
resources available to finance such commitments; and (v)
liquidity maintained to meet maturing obligations (operating
expenses and debt-servicing liabilities).
V. Special Performance Criteria and Processes for the TTDFC
10.      The following additional information requirements and performance
criteria would be required of the TTDFC:
(a)   A risk-adjusted capital adequacy ratio of at least 20X, or a
credible capitalizaLion plan for mobilizing such capital in a
short time period. The capital adequacy ratio should be
computed in e manner consistent with Attachment 1.
(b)   The institution would be expected to achieve a minimum debt-
service cover ratio 91 of 1.25 (after tax). Such ratio would
be computed in a manner consistent with Attachment 2.
(c)   Financial projections for at least three years should be
provided to demonstrate the FI's future viability and
creditworthiness.
VI. Certification Procedures
11.      Certification procedures would proceed in two phases according to the
passage of the new Financial Institutions Act (the Act), the accompanying
2/       i.e. cash collections of principal and interest over total
collectibles during the last 12 months--total collectibles comprise
total atrears at the beginning plus amounts falling due during the
period.
3/       This is essentially the ratio of cash receipts [Profits received in
cash (including net interest income) + cash loan collections of
principal] to debt servicing (interest expenses + repayment of loans
and borrowings).



- 101 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 4 of 11
Ragulations, and the implementation of the Prudential Criteria contained in
the Act, Regulations, and Guldelines to be issued by the Regulatory
Authorities.
12.      Phase I would be the period from the date on which the disbursement
conditions for the credit component are first satisfied under the Bank loan to
the date on which the Act and the Regulations become effective. During Phase
I, the Inspector (or Auditing Firm (Auditors) in the case of the TTDFC) would
apply the eligibility and performance criteria mentioned above in order to
render an assessment of the soundness and solvency of the FIs.
(a)   An institution would be uncouditiot,ally aualified if it fully
satisfies the eligibility and performance criteria indicated
in Sections III and IV above (and Section V for the TTDFC).
An institution would also be unconditionally aualified if:
(i) The institution is found to not fully comply with the
eligibll4ty criteria, but
(ii) Such non-compliance in the opinion of the Inspector (or
the opinion of the Auditors in the case of the TTDFC) is
due to transitory conditions and does not represent a
structural deficiency in the institution with regard to
its solvency, liquidity position or management.
(b)   If an institution is in non-compliance with eligibility or
performance criteria, and in the opinion of the Inspector (or
the Auditors in the case of the TTDFC), such non-compliance is
evidence of structural deficiencies in the institution with
regard to its solvency, liquidity position or management, the
institution would be conditionally aualified and be subject to
the provisions of paras. 14 and 15 below.
13.      Phase II will encompass the period following effectiveness of the Act
and accompanying Regulatlons. In this phase, the Inspector (or the Auditors
in the case of the TTDFC) would apply the performance and eligibility criteria
mentioned above, as they are reflected in the Act and Regulations;
institutions found to be conditionally qualified under the terms of para. 12
(b) would be subject to the provisions of paras. 14 and 15.   Moreover, all
licensed Flo would be subject to the normal supervisory processes and
sanctions applied by the Inspector in the normal course of business. In the
case of the TTDFC, the Auditors, through the annual re-certification process,
would make the Central Bank (and ultimately the Bank) aware of the non-
compliance with prudential norms, if applicable.
VII. Exceltional Cases
14.      In those cases mentioned in para. 12 (b) where the non-compliance
with eligibility or performance criteria is, in the opinion of the Inspector
(or the Auditors in the case of the TTDFC), evidence of structural
deficiencies in the institution regarding its solvency, liquidity position or
management, the institution would be required to submit a time-bound action
plan containing some or all of the following measures:



-102 -                           ANNEX XIV
Page 5 of 11
(a)   A Rlan to remedy the specific non-comoliances with the
eligibility criteria.
(b)   Financial restructuring to provide, over the tern of the
action plan, for positive spreads for the institution and
remedy those non-compliances with the eligibility criteria.
Such a restructuring could, for example, include loan sales
(to limit single borrower exposure) or recapitalization (to
meet capital adequacy requirements).
(c)   Managerial restructuring to ensure adequate control procedures
for loan initiation, accounting and supervision in order to
ensure asset quality sufficient to meet tha criteria above.
(d)   If an elieible institution has Central Bank liquidity support,
a Rlan for the elimination of such liquidity suRDort during
the term of the action plan.
In these cases, the Bank and the Borrower (acting through the Inspector in the
case of licensed FIs, and the Auditors in the case of the TTDFC) would review
each institution on a case-by-case basis to agree upon the above action plans.
In the case of licensed FIs, progress in implementing these agreed-upon action
plans would be monitored by the Inspector and the Bank. In the case of the
TTDFC, progress with the action plan would be monitored by the Auditors and
the Bank.
15.      Institutions classified as conditionally aualified  under the terms
of paragraph 12 (b), but which have submitted action plans consistent wit' the
requirements of para. 14, would be eligible to intermediate a cumulative
amount from the Bank loan of up to 5% of the institi.tion's capital and
reserves or US$1.0 million equivalent, whichever is _ess. Such institutions
would become automatically eligible to intermedi&tce additional amounts beyond
this limit upon demonstrating that they have complied with their respective
action plans and have met a sufficient set of the performance and eligibility
criteria listed in Sections III, IV, and V so as to be clAssified as
unconditionally qualified.
Attachments



Samplo Formta of Asset Based Capital Adequacy Analysis
(Nam of bank)
Capital Adeqruacy Analysis as of
(mi II ions of )
Book Valuo of    Credit Risk Equiv.                                                    Risk
On-Balance        of Off-Balangq                                 Risk              Weightod
Sheet Items        Sheet Items-1            Total              Weight2V               Value
(A)                 (B)              (A)+(B)=(C)              (D)             (C)x(D)=(E)
1. Capital Requir.ment
(t) Cash                                                                                                                  0
(b) Cash Items in the process of                                                                               20%
collection
(c) Claims on central government, and                                                                     Minimum 20%                0
central banks or claim
collateralized by cash or central
government securities Ir guaranteed
by central government -/
(d) Claims on domestic public-sector                                                                      Minimum 20X
entitis, excluding central                                                                                                                    o
government, and loans guarantoed by
such entities
(e) Claim  on multilateral development                                                                    Minimum 20%
banks (e.g., IBRD, LAD8B, AsDB, CDB,
AfDB, EIB) and claims guaranteed by,
or collateralized by securities
issued by such banks
(t) Claims on well capitalized,                                                                           Minimum 20%
demonstrably healthy banks baezd in
countries with strong central banks.
[Banks in developing countries
normally would fall into
category (9) below]
OQN 
o X
o X
a



Book Value of    Credit Risk Equiv.                                                     Risk
On-Balance         of Off-Balanfg                                 Risk               Weighted
Sheet It..          Shoet Ite.."             Total              We;ght2/               Vrtlu
(g) Claims on all other banks                                                                                   lOOX
(h) Loans fully secured by mortgage on                                                                     Minimum  0%
residential property thot is or will
be occupied by the borrower or that
Is rented
(1) Claim on the private sector                                                                                 100%
(j) Claims on comercial companies owned                                                                         100X
by the public sector
(k) Prmle, plant and equipmnt and                                                                              100%
other fixed asset
(I) Real estate and other investmnts                                                                            lOOX
(including non-consolidated
investment participations in other
comyanies)
(a) Capital Instruments lued by other                                                                          lOOX
banks (unless deducted from capital)
(n) All other assets (except those                                                                              100%
excluded from available capltal')
(o) Total Risk weighted value (Total of
items (a) to (n) under column Risk
Weighted Vaolu)
:>     
OQ-
I-     00



Book Voluo of    Credit Risk Equiv.
On-Balanc,        of Off-Blangq                                 Risk
Shoet Items        Shoet ItemsL             Total             Weight2/             Amount
(p) Capital requirement
(1) Core Capital [(41 of (o) above]
(ii) Total Capital [OX of (o) above]
II. Available Capital8/
Tier 1 (Core Capital)
(a) Paid In share capital/comon stock
(b) Discloed reerve (after tax
retaned earnings)
(c) Gross Tier 1 (Gross Core Capital)
EII(a) * II(b)]
Doduct:
(d) Goodwill
(s) Investment in unconsolidated                                                                                                                5
banking/financial subsidiary
(f) Investmnt In capital of other                                                                                                               U
banks/financial institutions
(9) Tote I Deductions
EII(d) * II(*) * II(f)]
(h) Net Tior I (Net Core Capital)
(11(c) - II(g)]
'-3
1g  m1
0o H
Z'     F



Book Value of    Credit Risk Equiv.                                                     Risk
On-Blance         of Off-Balangq                                  Risk              Weighted
Sheet Ites         Shoot It as1              Total             Weight2/                Va lue
Tior 2 (Supplementary Capitol)
(1) Undisclosed reserves
(3) Asset revaluation reserves
(k) enmeral provisions/general loan loss
(I) Hybrid capital instrument.
(i) Subordinated term debt
(maximum of S0X of net core capital)
(n) Net Available Capital
tII(h) o II(i) to (0)]
III.
(a) Capital (Shortfall) or Surplus
(i) Core Capital (II(h)-I(p)(l)]
(i7) Total Capital (II(n)-I(p)(il)]
(b) Capital (Shortfall) or Surplus or X                                                                                                              0
avallable capital                                                                                                                                a%
(1)  Core Capital (III(a)(i) as x                                                                                                   x
Of !(p)(i))                                                                                                                 -
(1i) Total Capital  aIs(a)(ii) as X
I(p)(Mi)]
j/ See Annex C(i).
V/ In lnstances share government/central bank is in arrears any deficiency in provisions for loan losses applicable to these
assete should be deducted from capital for deterniniag compliance with capital adequacy ratio.
!/ As defined in the report of the Basle Committee on Banking Supervision. This .oport inter alia requires that: (a) Tier 1,
the core capital ti.o., items 11(h)] should be at least equal to 50 per cent of the net available capital base [item 1I (n)];
(b) subordinated term debt (item II(m) will be limited to S0X of Tior 1 and (c) asset revaluation ret-rves [item II(j)] which
take the form of latent gains on unrealized securities will be subject to a discount of 55 per cent.                                               >
, OQ
0 -



ANNEX XIV
- 107 -                        Page 10 of 11
ATTACHMENT 1
Sample Fomat of Calculation of Capital Adequacy Ratio
Credit Conversion Factors for Off Balance Sheet Items J/
Instruments                                           Credit conversion
Factors
1.   Direct substitutes, e.g. general
guarantees of indebtedness (including
standby letters of credit serving as
financial guarantees for loans and
securities for loans and securites)
and acceptances (including endorsements
with the character of acceptances)                                     1002
2.   Certain transction-related contingent items
(e.g. performance bonds, bid bonds, warranties
and standby letters of credit related to particular
transactions)                                                          502
3.  Short-term self-liquidating trade-related contingencies
(such as documentary credits collateralised by the
underlying shipments)                                                  202
4.   Sale and repurchase agreements and asset sales with
recourse, where the credit risk remains with the
bank                                                                  100Z
5.   Forward asset purchases, forward forward deposits
and partly-paid shares and securitites, which
represent commitments with certain drawdown                           100X
6.   Note issuance facilities and revolving under-
writing facilities                                                      502
7.   Other commitments (e.g. formal standby facilities
and credit lines) with an original maturity
over one year                                                          502
8.   Similar commitments with an original maturity of
up to one year, or which can be unconditionally
cancelled at any time                                                    02
1/   As defined in the report of the Basle Committee on Banking
Supervisory.



ANNEX XIV
- 108 -                        Page 11 of 11
ATTACHMENT 2
Sample Format for Calculation of Debt Service
and Interest Cover Ratios
(Name of the DFI)
Debt Service and Interest Cover Ratios
(millions of      )
19      19      19        19       19
Cash Flow Availability for Debt Service
1.   Net Profits (after tax)
2.   Add Back:
(a) Non-cash charges
(depreciation, provision
for losses)
(b) Accrued interest income
at the start of the yearl/       -
(c) Sub-total (a) + (b)
(d) Deduct: Accrued interest
income at the end of the year 1-
(e) Sub-total (c) - (d)
3.   Cash Loan Collections
(principal only)                     -
4.   Interest Expenses
5.   Total Cash Flow
[l+2(e)+3+4]                        -                          -
Debt Servicing
6.   Interest Expenses (same as 4)
7.   Repayment of Loans & Borrowings:
(a) Actual
(b) Plus: Repayments Resscheduled
during the year
(c) Sub-total (a + b)
8.   Total Debt Servicing (6 + 7(c)]
Ratio
9.   Debt Service Cover (5/8)
1/ This adjustment is made to estimate income actually collected.



- 109 -
ANNEX XV
Page 1 of 3
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Items for Mid-term Review
1.   At the time of the mid-term review of project progress, the following
items would be reviewed:
(a) Progress with implementing the Government's strategy for business
expansion and industrial restructuring, as articulated in the pre-negotiations
letter sent to the Bank.
(b) An assessment of the extent to which deposit and lending interest
rates are competitively determined, and the evolution of PFIs' interest rate
spreads.
(c) The utility of introducing alternative mechanisms to those employed
initially under the project to allocate productive credits channelled through
the Government.
(d) The adequacy of institutional arrangements and implementation of
the various components of the project.
(e) A discussion of the findings and recommendations of all studies
financed under the project and completed as at the review date, and agreement
on follow up actions.
(f) Progress with implementing all components of the project. Adequacy
of such progress will be judged in relation to the monitoring indicators
established below.
2.   Basic reference documents will include:
* CARIRI Strategic Plan 1990-94 (CARIRI Plan)
* TTBS Three Year Rolling Plan 1990-92 (TTBS Plan)
* Priority Needs in Trinidad & Tobago's Industrial Infrastructure, May
1991 (Project Document)



- 110 -
ANNEX XV
Page 2 of 3
Monitoring Indicators to Judge Progress at Mid-term Review
A. Credit Component
* Commitments:                       $2,000,000
* Disbursements:                      1,000,000
B. Export Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF)
* Number of grants approved:         At least 20
* Commitments:                       $400,000
* Disbursements:                     $200,000
C. Other Technical Assistance Components
(a) Town & Country Planning Division
*    At least 1 training course on EIA impact assessment delivered to
T&CPD staff.
*    Information bank of expertise in technical disciplines related to
EIA established.
*    Upgrading of T&CPD's planning database for southwest Tobago, Pt.
Lisas and Chaguaramas shall have started.
*    Program to develop national pollution control standards shall have
started.
(b) CARIRI
(i) Compliance with CARIRI Plan indicators and objectives l/:
*   Financial self-sufficiency -  Fee Income/ Operating Costs > 20Z
*   Operational Efficiency      -  Personnel costs/ Operating Costs c
62%
*   Greater market focus        -  (i) fee Income (constant terms)/ Fee
Income (constant terms) for previous
year > 1; (ii) evidence that business
plan for promoting CARIRI's
consulting services to private
industry has been prepared and is
being put into effect.
(ii) Compliance with schedule of project execution established in
Project Document.
J/ Based on audited financial statements for previous fiscal year (or latest).



- 111 -
ANNEX XV
Page 3 of 3
(c) TTBS
(i) Compliance with TTBS Plan indicators and objectives 2/:
*   Financial self-sufficiency -  Fee Income/ Operating Costs > 15Z
*   Industry Focus              -  (i) at least 10 short courses and
seminars on matters related to
standardization and /or quality
management delivered to supervisory
and technical staff from private
industry; (ii) at least 10 students
graduated from a certificate program
offered through TTBS in Quality
Technology; and (iii) at least 5 "ISO
9000" assessors trained.
*  National Quality System    -  (i) at least one major company in
each of five important industrial
sectors (e.g. food processing,
petrochemicals, consumer products,
construction materials, garments)
shall be registered under "ISO 9000"
scheme; and (ii) a plan to establish
a national system for improving
quality management in industry will
have been developed.
*  Image Enhancement           -  TTBS shall have taken necessary steps
towards gaining the recognition of
Trinidad and Tobago's quality
registration system at least in USA,
Canada, and one major European
trading partner.
(ii) Compliance with schedule of project execution established in
Project Document.
(d) MOPAM
*    Completion of 3 studies, (respectively) on steel, petrochemicals
and promotion of foreign investment.
(e) MOF
*    The advisor to the Supervisor of Insurance shall have been hired.
2/ Based on audited financial statements for previous fiscal year (or latest).



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AN2D INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STUDY                                                                   EXPECTED OUTPUT & ACTION                START AND COfPLEZION DATES
PLAS
1.    Strategy study for                 Strengthen the Government's              (A) Final report will evaluate                  Start:     08101192
development of Petrochemical             capacity to:  (i) establish              options for developing and                      Complete:  03131193
Industry.                                appropriate policies, institutions       diversifying TWT's petrochemical
and programs to attract private          industry, and make case for a
participation and to mariize             recommended alternative, with
national risk-adjusted returns           indication of necessary policies
from T&T's hydrocarbon feedstocks;       and institutional arrangements,
and (ii) make informed decisions         and action program to carry it
about development strategy and           out;  (B) Consultant will also
investment choices inter alia when    provide training for counterparts
reviewing investment proposals.          in methodologies of markot
analysis, economic and rinancial
analysis of feedstock cost and
use, and application of computer
software.
2.    Strategy study for                 Strengthen the Government's              (A) Final report will evaluate                  Start:      07101192
development of Steel Industry            capacity to:  (i) establish              options for developing and                      Complete:  01131J93
appropriate polices, institutions        diversifying T&T's steel industry
and programs to attract private          on the basis of market
participation and to maximize            opportunities, and make case for a
risk-adjusted economic returns           recommended alternative, together
from T&T's steel industry; and          with indication of necessary
(ii) make informed decisions about    policies and institutional
development strategy and                 arrangements, and action program
investment choices, inter alia           to carry it out; (B) Consultant
regarding divestment of ISCOIT           will also provide training for
(state-owned steel plant), and          counterparts in methodologies of
respond to investment proposals.        market analysis, monitoring of
industry trends, economic and
financial analysis of industry
operations and application of
computer software.
3.    Study for Foreign                                                           (A) Final report will: (i) review               Start:     08101J92
Investment Promotion                     The study will: (i) assess the           the adequacy, relative to TMT's                 Complete:  12/31192.
effectiveness of the recently            competitors, of T&T's legal and
introduced foreign investment            regulatory framework and promo-
regime; and (ii) develop program         tional efforts with respect to
for strategically promoting t0s          attracting foreign investment;
country as an attractive le_.:ation      (ii) identify industries in which
for internationally competitive          TAT may have high potential for                                            m
manufacturing and service                attracting foreign investment; and
industries.                              (iii) design a marketing strategy                                          
and marketing plan to attract                                                 P-4
increased flows of foreign invest-
ment to TAT; (B) Consultant will
11119/91                                                                          also present findings at a seminar
for public and private sectors.



- 113 -
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                    ANNEX XVII
AVE        BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT    Page 1 of 12
MINISTER OF PLANNING AND MOBILIZATION
Policy Statement Regarding Business Expansion & Industrial Restructuring
EBC WIVILAMS FINANCE BUILDING
ERSC WILLIAMS PLAZA
REY:PUM: 12/211/13                                         DEPEENCE SQUARE
PORT-OF-SPAIN
TRINIDAD
.Octo.be.r 2,4,. .1991
Mr. Shahid Husain
Vice P.^esident
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Internatio.al Bank of Reconstruction and Development
1818H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America.
Dear Mr. Vice President,
Strategy for Business Expansion
and Industrial Restructuring in Trinidad and Tobago
The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is seeking a loan from
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRC.
to assist in advancing the process of economic reform and
structural adjustment,  which has been resolutely  pursued by the
Government  since 1987.    This  loan will  be used  in supporting
business expansion and industrial restructuring, which we regard
as key elements in the overall strategy for achieving ecoiomic
transformation and sustainable- economic growth in Trinidad and
Tobago.
2.   Since the present GovernmeAt assumed office in 1986, it  has
drawn up and been implementing a comprehensive programme of
financial stabilization and medium-term structural adjustment
initiatives to facilitate the resumption of growth and foster the
development of a more competitive, efficient and resilient
economy. The programme has been wide-ranging in scope and among
its major features have been trade policy reform, tax reform and
improved fiscal management, exchange rate adjustments, revision
of the foreign investment regime, reduction of price controls,
the   liberalization  of   exchange  controls,    and  substantial
rationalization of state-owned enterprises, including closure and



- 114 -                   A        XVII
Page 2 of 12
divestment of enterprises. Implementation of the Programme has
been   facilitated  by   two  Stand-By   Arrangements  from   the
International  Monetary   Fund  (IMF),  a  rescheduling  of  debt
repayments   to  bilateral   and  commercial  creditors,   and  a
Structural Adjustment Loan from the IBRD with Export-Import  Bank
of Japan co-financing.
3.   Understandably, given  the challenges in the  form of severe
domestic and external imbalances which confronted it at the
outset,  considerable  attention  needed   to  be  given  by  the
Government to stabilizing the economy in the first Rhase in order
to establish sustainable internal and external balances, to
generate adequate foreign exchange resources, and promote a low-
inflation  environment conducive  to a  supply response.   Action
included elimination of an existing dual exchange rate regime  in
1987 and a devaluation of approximately 15 percent in August
1988.   Revisions have been made to the regime of personal income
tax which have resulted, inter alia, in a reduction of tax
exemptions and a lowering of marginal rates. A value-added tax
(VAT) was  introduced  in  1990.   In  order  to  restore  fiscal
balance, nominal wage rates in the public service have had to be
strictly  contained  (and  indeed temporarily  reduced  over  the
period 1988-90).   Firm control has been exercised over the level
of expenditure and the quantum of-transfers to public enterprises
has been cut-back significantly.
4.   In  its Medium-Term  Macro  Planning  Framework,   1989-1995,
plans have been articulated by the Government for restructuring
the economy and promoting the renewal of growth, with emphasis on
the  development of  non-oil  exports.    Implementation of  these
plans depends on both sound fiscal management and the maintenance
of a competitive environment, in which the role of the private
sector will be critical.



- 115 -                  ANNEX XVII
Page 3 of 12
3
S.   In  this  context,  several   important  reforms  have  been
introduced with respect to the incentive framework affecting the
non-agricultural real sectors. These include the areas of trade
reform, the foreign and domestic investmen'c regime, review of
petroleum legislation, and reforms affecting firm competition
among state-owned enterprises.
6.   The  Government  is committed  to  the  implementation of  a
phased  programme   of  trade  liberalization  to   increase  the
efficiency and competitiveness of domestic production, eliminate
the anti-export bias in the trade regime, and create favourable
conditions for the desired diversification and expansion of
s-ources  of  foreign   exchange  earnings.       Under  the   trade
liberalization process, approximately 38 percent of imports, at
1986 level, were removed from the Negative List. The coverage of
the Negative List has since been further reduced by replacing
quantitative restrictions   with equivalent tariffs  for some  40
percent of non-oil manufactured goods featured in domestic
production. In addition, studies are being undertaken regarding
agricultural protection, an appropriate regime for facilitating
access by exporters to imported -inputs at international prices,
as well as analysis of the impact of removal of specific items
from the negative list on domestic industries   These studies are
precursors to further adjustment in trade policy.
7.   It  should be noted that in  order to complement the changes
in   commercial  policy,   steps  are   being  taken   to  effect
improvements      in     customs      administration,       including
computerization, simplification of administrative procedures and
the  introduction  of  legislative  measures  to  deal  with  the
incidence of dumping and other unfair trading practices.



- 116 -                  ANNEX XVII
Page 4 of 12
.4
8.   Against this background, it  is expected that most remaining
quantitative  restr-ictions on non-oil manufacturing products will
be removed by year's end 1991. Beyond this, it is Government' s
intention to reduce  maximum import charges to the CARICOM CET by
end-1994 through a tariff reform program.
9.   A critical role is  envisaged for the private  sector within
the overall medium  term economic strategy.   With this in  mind,
action has been taken to enhance the business incentive framework
and encourage private sector development and restructuring.
These steps include:
i)   substantial reduction of  the scope of price  controls,
such that coverage now mainly applies to essential
items consumed primarily by the lower-income groups;
ii)   liberalization of exchange controls, highlighted by the
elimination of the foreign exchange allocation system
at the end of 1990;
iii)   revision  in  1988  of  the tax  regime  for  petroleum
companies, offering private investors new blocks for
oil   exploration,  and   adopting   a   programme   to
rationalize the publicly-'held petroleum sector;
iv)   repeal of  the Alien's Landholding Act,  which had been
perceived  to  be   a  major   impediment  to   foreign
investment and establishment of a much more liberalized
regime for foreign investment;
v)   establishment of a  "one-stop-shop" mechanism for  more
expeditious processing of investor applications;



- 117 -                   ANNEX XVII
Page 5 of 12
vi)   adoption   of  Free   Zone  legislation,   designed  to
encourage the  development of new export  industries by
providing access to a liberalized regime;
vii)   undertaking  of important port and airport improvements
in Trinidad and Tobago with a view to supporting the
expansion of tourism activity.
10.    The  reforms introduced  in  the  real  sector  have  been
complemented by initiatives taken in respect of the financial
sector to improve the process of  resource mobilization.  Prudent
monetary and credit policies have protected the balance of
payments and assisted in containing i.flation while at the same
time  ensuring  the   availability  of   credit  for   productive
activities in the privat? sector.
il.   Trinidad  and  Tobago is  fortunate in  having  avoided the
pitfalls of a repressed financial system and its financial
markets are relatively free of the distortions that are often
observed in  developing countries.   For example,  interest rates
are not administered and the practice of directed credit is
absent.    At the  same  time, the  need  is seen  to  expand and
strengthen the system in terms of increasing the range of
financial instruments and institutions as well as improving the
structure and operations of financial institutions.  To this end,
the Government plans to introduce shortly, a comprehensive
package of legislative reforms aimed at strengthening prudential
regulations,   the   supervision   of   financial   institutions,
accounting standards and updating the regulatory framework for
companies,  the  equity  and   bond  markets  and  the  insurance
industry.     It is  expected  that  banking  legislation,  a  new
Companies Act, amendments to the existing insurance legislation



- 118 -                   ANNEX XVII
Page 6 of 12
6
and securities legislation will all be enacted by September 30,
1992. It is confidently anticipated that these initiatives will
go a long way towards enhancing the functioning of the financial
system in a manner that would increase efficiency and investor
confidence, thereby promoting better mobilisation and allocation
of financial resources.
12.  The  economic reform programme has  begun to yield  positive
results. Exchange rate adjustments and the decline in real wages
due to the fall in oil prices in recent years have facilitated a
retutn to external competitiveness. The Government proposes to
continue its policy of flexible management of the exchange rate.
There has been a progressive improvement in the fiscal situation,
with the overall deficit of the Central Government being reduced
to 1.4 percent of GDP in 1990, compared with 8.4 percent in 1988.
( A surplus of $10 million dollars is projected for 1991.)
13.   By  and  large, the  balance of  payinents  has strengthened
appreciably, since 1987, as a result of the combination of
adjustment  measures outlined  above.   For example,  the current
account deficit fell from US$118 million in 1988 to US$67 million
in 1989 and, aided by the higher average oil prices resulting
from the Gulf Crisis, improved in 1990 to a surplus of US$430
million (roughly 8 percent of GDP). A current account deficit of
US$27 million is forecast for the- current year, underscoring the
improving secular trend.   Most encouraging  in this respect  has
been  the   growth  in  manufacturing  exports,   albeit  from  a
relatively small base.
14.  Domestic  food  crop  production   has  been  expanding  and
improving in efficiency, contributing to the maintenance of an
adequate supply of moderately priced basic food items. Indeed,



- 119 -                  ANNEX XVII
Page 7 of 12
7
despite the intensity of the adjjustment process, Trinidad and
Tobago has been able to avoid any spiralling of inflation. The
introduction of the 15% value-added tax (VAT) in January 1990,
caused consumer prices to rise by 11.1 percent in 1990.  However,
the rate of price increase in the second half of the year was
less than two percent and it is estimated that prices will rise
by just 5 percent in 1991.
15.  The economic  decline bottomed  out  in 1990  with real  GDP
growing by an estimated 0.7%. On the basis of the outturn in the
first half of 1991, a continuation of the growth momentum is
projected this year.
16. The implementation of the adjustment programme has not been
without  its  social costs.    In particular  the  persistence of
unemployment at socially unacceptable levels (20.4 percent)
continues to be a source of concern. In addressing the problems
of short-term welfare loss on the population imposed by the
adjustment programme, the Government has placed great emphasis on
improving the efficiency of its social expenditures, and on
establishing training schemes and other support programmes for
assisting the unemployed, particularly the young, to acquire the
skills and other requirements for self or wage employment.
17.   A number of studies have bee-n commissioned to serve, inter-
alia, as a basis for the further restructuring of existing social
programmes to ensure better targeting, and cost effectiveness of
delivery  systems   as  well  as  to   facilitate  desirable  new
programmes.   In the latter  respect it  is the intention  of the
Government   to  seek   to  increase   the  involvement   of  Non
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in the design of future support
programmes.



- 120 -                  ANNEX XVII
Page 8 of 12
18.  The   Government  fully   recognizes   the   importance   of
maintaining the momentum with respect to its economic reform
programme. As such it continues to address identifiable areas of
weaknesses.   For example,  action plans  are being finalized  in
respect of the Water and Sewerage Authority (WASP) and Trinidad
and Tobago Electricity Commission (T&TEC), the power company,
taking account of the findings and recommendations of studies
which have teen recently  completed by consultants.    Studies are
on the way with respect to the advancement of the trade reform
process  and   review  of  the  fiscal   and  regulatory  regimes
applicable  to  petroleum.        It  is   expected  that  a   major
rationalization of the state-owned energy enterprises will be
implemented shortly. Additionally, pre-investment studies on the
agticultural  sector  are being  carried out  with Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) financing. These studies cover such areas
as  technology,    incentives,  land-tenure   and  the   need  for
institutional strengthening.   Efforts  are  also being  made  to
effect major infrastructural improvements at Piarco International
Airport and to increase the availability and supply of water in
Tobago, thereby facilitating the expansion of tourism plant in
which investors are already expressing great interest.
19. The Government has recognised the importance of the PSIP in
overall  economic  management.   Since  1989,  efforts have  been
directed at effecting improvem-ents in the formulation and
management  of  the programme.   The  development of  the project
pipeline on a national basis has been facilitated by the
establisi,ment of a Global Pre-Investment Programme with financial
assistance from  the  IDB.    A three  year  PSIP  was  initially
introduced in  1989 and rolled  over each  fiscal year.   Another
three year PSIP is currently under preparation and is expected to
be approved by the end of 1991. Steps have also been taken to



- 121 -                  ANNEX XVII
Page 9 of 12
.9
improve the selection procedures for projects to be included in
the PSIP. New operating guidelines have been drafted to govern
the process and are expected to be introduced in fiscal 1992. At
the  same   time,  implementation   of   a  major   institutional
strengthening initiative for project cycle management has been
commenced. This thirty month project which is being funded by
the   IDB  covers   the  preparation,   appraisal,  implementing,
monitoring and post-evaluation of investments projects in the
pLublic   sector  and   will  include   the  establishment   of  a
computerized data base.   The upgrading of skills of professional
and technical staff responsible for project cycle management and
the improvement of systems and procedures will ensure that the
PSIP will be properly prioritized, well conceived and implemented
in a cost-effective manner.
20. The Government will continue to place emphasis in the Public
Sector  Investment  Programme  (PSIP) on  improving  the economic
infrastructure needed to underpin business development as well as
on addressing the need for investment in social infrastructure
such  as  health and  education.    In  this regard  one  of  the
Government's key objectives is to sustain a manageable core PSIP
over the medium term.
21. In keeping with its policy of facilitating the widest
possible public  participation  in  business  enterprise  and  in
furtherance of its divestment programme the Government will
discharge its arrears of emoluments to public sector employees
and workers of Caroni (1975) Limited through the establishment of
a "State  Unit Trust".   The establishment  of the Trust  will be
effected in two distinct phases:



- 122 -                  ANNEX XVII
Page 10 of 12
10I
i)   in  the  first  phase,   scheduled  for  completion  by
December 31, 1991, shares in selected state enterprises
will be transferred into a new investment holding
company (The National Investment Company); and
ii)   in the  second phase, the  National Investment  Company
will progressively divest its shareholdings, primarily
through stock exchange quotations. The second phase of
the Divestment Programme is projected to be completed
within a five year time frame.
22. Despite efforts to date to create conditions favourable to
investment and growth, the Government is aware that further
improvements are needed in both the policy environment and
institutional infrastructure to support private sector expansion.
The Government firmly believes that the role of the private
sector   is  critical   to  the   attainment  of   the  country's
developmental   objectives   whether  in   terms   of  increasing
employment opportunities, expansion of exports or achieving
greater economic  diversification.   It  is therefore  a  central
aspect  of   economic   policy  that   an  adequately   supported
environment be established and maintained to encourage investment
and increasing competitiveness and efficiency in the private
sector.
23.  The view of  the Government is that  the public and  private
sectors have complementary roles which are pivotal to the
attainment of sustainable growth. The Government is, therefore,
determined to take further steps to remove existing impediments
to private investment.   To this end, a request  has already been
made to the IDB to mount an investment sector operation. The
preparatory work by the IDB has just commenced and will focus on
the completion of a diagnostic study of the private sector to



- 123 -                   ANNEX XVII
Page 11 of 12
11
identify the key constraints tu private domestic and foreign
investment and  to recommend  concrete measutes to  address them.
It is expected that within this framework the conclusions of a
recent study, commissioned  by the private  sector, will be  dutly
considered.
24. An appreciable amount of adjustment has indeed been taking
place  in  private  enterprise  during the  period  of  prolonged
contraction in the economy. It is discernible as well that there
is a  growing appreciation  by private enterprises  that survival
and growth require modernisation of plant and equipment, improved
methods of  production operations, management  and marketing, and
an enhanced capacity to meet competition in the international
market  place.   The  Government is  anxious to  ensure  that the
ad.justments which  mlust be  mounrted  by private  enterprises  are
properly supported by the public sector not only in ter-ms  of the
removal of impediments but  also in relation to  the availabilitv
oF sUpport services.
25.    In  particular,  the  upgrading   of  the  facilities  and
capabilities  of  the   Export  Development  Corporation   (EDC),
Caribbean  Industrial Research  InstitUte (CARIRI),  The Trinidad
and Tobago Bureau-  of Standards (TTBS) and  the Town and  Country
Planning  Division (T&CPFD)  to respond to  the needs  of business
expansion is considered by the Goviernment to be a priority.
26. Additionally, the Government sees the need to examine
strategically,  opportunities  for viable  business  expansion in
areas which potentially  can build on  the natural endowment  and
installed  capacity  in  the  economy.       This  will  further the
development objectives  of growth and diversification.    Two suLch
areas selected for examination are petrochemicals and steel.



- 124 -                   ANNEX XVII
Page 12 of 12
P7.  To  the  extent that  the  desired  business expansion  will
require enterprises  to invest in modernization,  retrofitting of
plant, expansion of installed capacity etc, the need has been
identified  for  a  line of  credit  to  augment  the  access  of
businesses  to  the financial  resources  which  are required  to
finance these investments, particularly in the case of medium and
smaller scale enterprises.
:8.  The  Government remains  committed to  the reform  programme
articulated in its Medium Term Macro Planning Framework.  It will
continue to promote the evolution of a more diversified and
resilient economy in which the private sector will be  encouraged
to be competitive, efficient and entrepreneurial. It will also
strive to  promote the fullest and  widest possible participation
in  business activity  by  all sections  of the  population  as a
positive strategy for achieving development and equity.
Yours sincerely,
WINSTON DOOKERAN
Minister of Planning and Mobilization



cm DO>aNIC CN
CS    OREPUMIC                                61  O                                  60 00o                                 W30
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TRIN OAD & OsAGO -                                                                                      Cho=the                                     Main Roads
U<-      VENEZUEI,                                                                                               TOBAGO St                                     Prindcipal Ports
Seco.dory Ports
62'0 w                                                                                                                                                 t,F<n / aoXb 0'  Nntional Copital
,,. ,,Q Z ~   ~                                                                                                          0     Towns
a~,<>                                                                            Cc.         5                                                O Oil Refineries
CJ3    Oil Fields
c<sw  r                                                                                                                                                | Unassociated Gas Fields
a -  f- -                                                                                                                                            Gas Pipeilines
a.,'                                                ol                                                                                                  internaionols
o          10         20 M8ES
o      0i    20    io 3I0KTEMS
VENEZUELA                       -                  5 
- tO*30 '_    Tdwo~   )   >                                                                                                                                                       1'
E. Ma,,,tt
,4X  ,_TRIIDADf \6
~~~~~~~~~PcPv i _ Solldad
lolzo~~~                                                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t*m Bed             1-*
pii.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
I             d C2C t
OD        62600'                                 6130'                                  610                                     O3O                                    6000               ,



