Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20058
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING
PROJECT
(LOAN 3432-TR)
March 31, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for the Caribbean
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 30, 1999)
Currency Unit                 = TT Dollar
US$1.00                       = IT Dollar 6.299
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEIRL          Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Loan
CARICOM        Caribbean Integration Common Market
CARIRI         Caribbean Industrial Research Institute
CEIS           Computerized Environmental Information System
DFC            Development Finance Company
DFL            Development Finance Limited
EDC            Export Development Corporation (now defunct)
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB            External International Borrowers
EMA            Environmental Management Agency
ETAF           Export Technical Assistance Facility
FIAS           Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GNP            Gross Natural Product
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
ISO            International Standard Organization
ISONET         International Standard Organization Network
NEIS           National Environmental Information System
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PE             Public Enterprise
PFI            Private Financial Intermediaries
RSU            Restructuring Support Unit, Ministry of Planning
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SOE            Statement of Expenses
TAL            Technical Assistance Loan
T&CPD          Town and Country Planning Department, Ministry of Planning
THA            Tobago House of Assembly
TIDCO          Tourism and Industrial Development Corporation
TM             Task Manager
TT             Trinidad and Tobago
TTBS           Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of Standards
WTO            World Trade Organization
Vice President                                                     David de Ferranti
Director, Country Management Unit                                   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director, Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Unit            Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                                                        Sonia Plaza (Consultant)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3432-TR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................                            i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ............................................................                                   ii
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .................................................... ii
B. IMPLEMENTATION  EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ......................                            .................. iii
Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................................v
Bank and Borrower Performance ...........................................................               vi
Project Sustainability ............................................................                    vii
Operational Plan ...........................................................                           viii
C. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................................                       ix
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ....................................................1
A.  INTRODUCTION ...........................................................                                1
B.  BACKGROUND ............................................................I
C.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ............................................................2
D.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................................... 3
E. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT .............................................................5
F.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ......................................................... 11
G.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................                         11
H.  BANK  PERFORMANCE ...........................................................                                 12
I.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...........................................................                              14
J.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................................                            15
K.  FUTURE  OPERATIONS ............................................................                               15
L.  KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................                            15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................................................                           17
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ...........................................................            18
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ...........................................................                20
Table 3:  Project Timetable ...........................................................                 20
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................... 21
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................................... 21
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...........................................................    21
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ...........................................................       22
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................................................                     23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 8B: Project Financing ..................................................                                         23
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................                              24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                                 25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................... 27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Imputes ..................................................                             27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................                                  28
Appendix 1: Mission's Aide Memoire ........................................................                                        30
Appendix  2:  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                     ........................................ 34
Appendix  3: Firms Assisted under the Credit Line by PFIs .................................................
Appendix 4: Firms Assisted under the Matching Grant Program (ETAF) .......................... 48
MAP



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3432-TR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Business Expansion
and Industrial Restructuring in Trinidad and Tobago for which Loan 3432-TR in the
amount of US$27 million equivalent was approved on December 20, 1991, and made
effective on March 30, 1993. The Project was closed on June 30, 1999. Final
disbursements took place on November 30, 1999, and a balance of US$ 4,794,869.23 was
cancelled.
This ICR was prepared by Sonia Plaza (LCSFP, consultant) and Paul Meo
(consultant). It was reviewed by Jyoti Shukla (Senior Economist, LCSFP), Susan
Goldmark (Sector Manager, PPI/E), Max Pulgar-Vidal (Sector Leader, LCC4C), and
Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance Officer, LCSFP). Preparation of ICR began
during the Bank's final completion mission, November 29 to December 3, 1999. The
ICR is based on materials in the Bank's project files, interviews with Bank staff,
including two previous task managers (Chris Barham and Anil Kapur), as well as
interviews with and materials provided by, a wide variety of Trinidad and Tobago
governmental and parastatal staff and managers as well as private sector representatives.
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago also commented on the Bank's contribution to
this ICR and has provided its own views on project implementation and results, which are
reproduced in Annex 2.






ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3432 TR)
1.   The Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Project (BEIRL) was
identified and approved in 1991 to complement the Government's stabilization and
policy reform program supported by the IMF and the World Bank. The BEIRL was
designed to provide focused financing and institutional support to private enterprises so
as to re-energize growth and create a diversified and sustainable economic base.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.   The main objectives of the Project were to' (i) assist in financing productive
facilities and resources in the territory of the Borrower as will contribute to the economic
and social development of such territory; (ii) support business expansion in industrial and
service enterprises in Trinidad and Tobago (except primary producers of oil, gas and
agricultural or livestock products), in particular, by undertaking the adjustments required
by such enterprises to become export oriented and internationally competitive; (iii) assist
in strengthening TCPD's capabilities to review environmental impact assessments for
public and private sector development projects, as well as improving national
environmental pollution control standards; and (iv) strengthen the regulatory framework
of the Borrower's financial sector and insurance industry.
3.     To achieve these objectives, the Project included two main components:
(a)    A credit line of US$20 million to help private enterprises finance plant
and equipment, incremental working capital, and technical services related
to productive activities;
(b)    A technical assistance component (US$7.2 million) to finance: (i) the
establishment of an Export Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF) to assist
private businesses firms enter new markets through matching grants for
technical assistance (US$ 1.5 million); (ii) the creation of institutional
capacity and technology infrastructure in metrology, standards and quality
assurance (US$ 3.4 million); (iii) the development of improved
environmental pollution control standards (US$0.79 million); (iv) studies
1   As defined in the Loan Agreement. Intererstingly, the objectives as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report were
somewhat different. The primary objective was to promote the development and/or restructuring of private
manufacturing or service firms (excluding primary producers of oil, gas, agricultural or livestock products) so
that they could compete in export markets. Ancillary objectives included: (a) strengthening the supervision of
financial intermediaries and the safety and soundness of the financial system; (b) improving the technical
standards used to assess the environmental impact of public and private sector projects; and (c) strengthening the
capacity of the Town and Country Planning Division (T&CPD) to review Environmental Impact Assessments
(ElAs).



iii
on the role of private investment in the steel and petrochemical industries,
the adequacy of the foreign investment regime, and the development of a
new foreign investment promotion strategy (US$ 0.85 million); and (v)
strengthening the regulatory framework for the insurance Industry (US$
0.25 million).
4.    The first two Project objectives were justified in the context of economic
stagnation, high unemployment and weak performance of the private sector at the time of
Project identification. In an era of windfall oil revenues, the public sector had dominated
the economy, stifling private enterprises. Weaknesses in the financial sector and an
inadequate business environment and institutional support mechanisms required some
actions on part of the Government to help jump-start private sector exports and to
enhance the competitiveness of Trinidadian firms. To achieve these objectives, the
Project incorporated what were deemed to be appropriate components at the time of
appraisal - line of credit, technical assistance in accessing export markets and technical
support to obtain certification of quality standards. The Project also included an objective
of improving technical standards and monitoring capacity of environmental impacts, the
justification for whose inclusion is not clear as it was only tangentially relevant to the
other main objectives of the Project. These additional components also made the Project
cumbersome and later overlapped with on-going dialogue in the environmental sector.
The final objective of strengthening the soundness of the financial sector was justified,
though actual Project activities to achieve this objective were limited to technical
assistance to improve regulation of the insurance industry, which could have had only a
limited contribution to overall financial sector reform.
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    The Project was approved on December 20, 1991, but became effective fifteen
months later. Even after effectiveness, the implementation of the loan was delayed on
most components, with only the technology sub-component proceeding well. It was not
until 1995-96 that most of the sub-components and expenditures began. Towards the end
of the Project, implementation lagged again as the institutional capacity of the
Restructuring Support Unit (RSU), the coordinating unit for the Project, deteriorated due
to high staff turnover and many staff vacancies. Several issues also emerged related to
lack of adequate project accounts and internal control procedures. In the presence of
these outstanding issues on project accounts and reconciliation of the Special Account
withdrawals, and the failure on the part of the Borrower to submit an action plan to
complete the remaining Project activities, the Loan was closed on June 30, 1999 in spite
of a request by the Borrower to extend project implementation as no agreement was
reached on a workplan for the extended period. After final disbursements, an amount of
$4,794,869.23 was cancelled.
6.    Overall performance of this Project is rated Unsatisfactory because of the mixed
implementation record of the project components, and their marginal contributions to the
achievement of Project objectives. On the first two objectives of the Project - to finance
productive enterprises and to support business expansion in industrial and service



iv
enterprises - T&T did have some success as its private sector adjusted in some measure
to a more open economy.
7.    Non-traditional exports (excluding hydrocarbons and raw agricultural products)
rose from US$324 million in 1990 to US$423 million in 1998, though their overall share
in total exports increased only marginally from 17% to 19%. This performance of
nontraditional exports reflects the stimulus provided by the reforms of the trade and
exchange systems. More labor-intensive agricultural products, namely beverages and
food products, and manufactures other than chemicals and iron and steel, registered the
greatest improvement, growing at an average rate of over 22% during this period.
Notwithstanding, export diversification has been modest, as exports remain heavily
concentrated on a few products, with petroleum and petrochemical exports accounting for
over 70 percent of total exports.
8.    However, the contribution of Project activities to the increase of non-traditional
exports is not clear and is judged to be marginal. Specific project activities contributing
to this objective included the credit line, the matching grants scheme, and the technology
components.
9.    The credit line component disbursed $16.1 million (80.5% of the initial
allocation) to 51 enterprises, largely in the manufacturing and the services sectors.
Unfortunately, the Project did not develop any monitoring indicators to measure the
impact of the project on job creation, exports, or new business operations, and we are
unable to make a definitive evaluation of this component. However, interviews with six
beneficiary enterprises and three PFIs revealed that the contribution of the credit line
towards Project objectives was marginal at best as all enterprises reported that at the time
of their application to the credit line, financing from alternative sources was not
constrained, and this line of credit did not make an additional contribution to firm
restructuring beyond what firms would have invested anyway. Nor did the sub-loans
from the credit lines reach many new enterprises as the PFIs preferred to lend to existing
clients.
10.   Of the other two sub-components designed to meet the objective of private sector
diversification, the matching grants sub-component implemented by the Export
Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF) was implemented with partial success. This
component, which disbursed $1.1 million (TIDCO estimates), provided a 50:50 matching
grant and assisted 43 recipients to explore and access export markets. Though little
information is available on the impact of this assistance on the firms' operations, firms
assisted demonstrated the value of the services provided by matching payments of 50%.
The technology sub-component (US$ 3.4 million), which included the adoption of
international technical and quality standards to local norms by TTBS and certification by
CARIRI, in contrast, was one of the better implemented sub-components that met and
surpassed its targets. TTBS met its targets of training programs and certifying about one
third of the country's exporters with ISO-9000 certification. In terms of participation in
the development of international standards, TTBS was ranked a respectable 17th in the
world, and the highest of all Caribbean countries. TTBS also met its self-sufficiency



v
targets, with income covering 65% of operating costs in 1996. Project implementation
also proceeded well in the CARIRI sub-component, as CARIRI obtained international
laboratory accreditation and IS09000 certification, and provided laboratory testing
services to several private sector clients, increasing its customer base by 45%. Thus
Project activities had a positive impact in creating an institutional infrastructure for
Metrology, Standards Testing and Quality (MSTQ) which would foster the growth of
productivity.
11.   The third objective - to improve technical standards to assess environmental
impact of projects and to review environmental impact assessments - was not achieved,
as Project activities were only partially completed. Moreover, the environmental review
and monitoring functions of the Town &Country Planning Development (T&CPD)
supported by this Project were transferred to the Environmental Management Agency
(EMA), undermining the value of Project interventions.
12.   The final objective of developing a sound and efficient financial system was
achieved as the country avoided the severe financial problems caused by the 1994/95
"Tequila effect," or the more recent financial contagion that affected most of the
developing world. The IMF has indicated that bank soundness in Trinidad and Tobago
has become stronger in 1998. This positive outcome, however, was more due to the
result of many on-going interventions, rather than the specific contributions of this
Project. In fact, this sub-component did not meet its limited objectives of developing
capacity for effective on-site supervision of insurance institutions.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   Factors generally subject to government control. Implementation on the Project
suffered from lack of attention by key decision-makers at the Ministry of Planning and
Development, who could have improved Project effectiveness by ensuring adequate
staffing and financial resources to the Restructuring Support Unit. Continuity of staff at
the RSU also affected implementation, as the RSU had three different Project Directors
during implementation, each change generating serious delays in project implementation
as each new Director needed time to become familiar with this rather complex project.
The implementing unit's performance was also hindered by (i) weak administrative
processes; (ii) the lack of experience with Bank procurement at the initial stages of the
project; and (iii) the high turn-over of competent staff.
14.   Factors outside the control of the government: A key factor that affected the
performance of the credit line component was the resurgence of economic growth and
private sector response. Trinidad and Tobago economy has performed well in recent
years, with steady economic growth, low inflation and declining - though still high -
unemployment. Real GDP growth in 1994 was about 3.6 % and it is projected to be 4.5%
in 1999. This worked towards the positive achievement of the overall objective of
increased private sector activity, as the economy started growing and private investment
recovered, but made the credit line component of the Project irrelevant as overall access
to credit improved. The credit to the private sector as a percentage of GDP increased
from -1.7% in 1994 to 1.7% in 1998. Project implementation in the later period was also



vi
affected by change in task management within the Bank, a change which also coincided
in some part with a broader management change within the Bank as well as a change in
the portfolio management culture. With a much greater emphasis on realism in project
development effectiveness, coupled with quality assurance audits, the Bank's own
standards for judging project progress also evolved during this time, a change which may
have been perceived by the Borrower as inconsistency of Bank positions.
Bank and Borrower Performance
15.   The Bank shares responsibility in the unsatisfactory performance of this project.
On the positive side, Project identification of the need for positive interventions to
support private activity was in the right direction, though Project objectives should have
been more focused. The credit line component and the matching grants components were
appropriately market based with sub-loans on-lent at market rates and the matching
grants incorporating elements of cost recovery. The technology and certification
components were also well prepared and incorporated best practice knowledge at that
time. Nevertheless, the total project design was far too complex for effective management
either by the Borrower or the Bank's supervision team. The inclusion of the
environmental objectives in particular may have been unwise, both due to the complexity
they introduced as well as their overlap with the environmental sector dialogue. The
objective on the soundness of the financial sector was also included in the Project design
in a very limited fashion, and should probably not have been included as a specific
objective.
16.   Overall, the Bank's supervision of the Project was not satisfactory, and several
issues emerging during implementation were not adequately addressed. In the initial
years of the Project, supervision was adequate with a good relationship between the Bank
and the Government. Supervision was particularly responsive on the technology sub-
component, with the Bank team working closely with the Government and introducing
the business community and technology institutions to counterparts in Singapore, with
which they ultimately "twinned." However, the changing circumstance of the
Trinidadian economy and the continued relevance of the line of credit component was not
adequately addressed. During the mid-term review, when foreign exchange availability
was no longer considered a key constraint to private sector financing and other credit
lines were available to the private sector, the Bank should have cancelled a greater
proportion, if not the entire, credit line component. Another supervision that turned out
to be flawed was the decision by the Bank to cancel a part of the ETAF component as it
was considered to be inconsistent with WTO obligations. As it turned out, the Bank
continued to provide similar services in other countries, and even if the program was
inconsistent with WTO's prohibition of export subsidies, T&T had until 2002 to comply
with this. Further, it is notable that until mid-1997, no Bank manager visited the
Project, perhaps because the Project continued to be rated Satisfactory. A fresh look at
the Project may have helped the project team with resolving some of these emerging
issues
17.   Bank supervision should also have been more alert to the declining institutional
capacity of the RSU, as key staff began to leave. Late and missed project performance



vii
reports were increasingly tolerated; as were late and incomplete audits. Equally
important was the Bank's lack of attention to the increasing amounts of moneys
disbursed from the Special Account without adequate documentation. The RSU was
unable to coordinate this process adequately to ensure proper documentation for all
amounts advanced. The annual financial audits should have alerted the Bank to this
emerging problem, but did not because of several reasons, including the fact that no
internal control reports were included in the audits, and due to the delays in receiving the
audit reports, the Bank's review normally occurred more than a year after the close of the
audited year. The review within the Bank was also slow, and did not pick up on
emerging problems for some time, in large part due to limited capacity in the Bank's own
audit team. In response to the late and inadequate audit reports, the Bank's initial
response was relatively passive, sending only reminder letters. It should have engaged in
a more active dialogue with the Government much earlier in the implementation process.
18.   Towards the end of Project implementation, relations between the Borrower and
the Bank came under strain due to the confluence of several factors. The declining
capacity of the RSU and emerging project management problems within the country
coincided with a change in task managers and country management with the Bank, as
well as a change in the Bank's own portfolio supervision culture and greater focus on
transparency and impact evaluation. At this time, the Project implementation status was
downgraded to Unsatisfactory due to the problems with project management and the lack
of adequate accounting records. All these led to a difficult period of transition of task
managers around mid-1998 in which the Bank's response was perceived by the Borrower
to be slow and sometimes inconsistent by the Borrower. However, the Project continued
to be rated Satisfactory on the achievement of development objectives, though this ICR
has judged the overall impact to be Unsatisfactory.
19.   Borrower performnance is also rated Unsatisfactory. The RSU staff was over-
stretched and lacked the capacity to meet the demands of this multi-component Project.
There was frequent turnover of staff, and staff was reduced significantly in 1997. The
most important problem was the lack of pro-active project management which led to long
delays and missed opportunities in project execution. The RSU was also not successful
in maintaining adequate project accounts or adequate control to make sure that all
withdrawals were justified with appropriate documentation. The Project was complex
and inter-institutional and inadequate coordination on part of the RSU, and slow feedback
from several of the implementing agencies meant long delays and many difficulties in
reconciling project accounts. Financial audits were carried out by the Auditor General,
and were generally late, though they consistently flagged the weakness in overall project
financial management in all years after 1996. The lax internal controls led to significant
issues in relations with the Bank, as project documentation for a significant amounts of
money was not made easily available to supervision mission when problems with the
Special Account reconciliation were first identified. Though this issue was largely
resolved subsequently, the Government finally reimbursed the Bank for US$413,297.76
to account for withdrawals from the Special Account not supported by eligible
expenditures.



viii
20.   The record of the seven implementing agencies involved in Project execution was
mixed. But in almost all cases, work progress was slower than originally scheduled and
this was due, to an extent, to the unevenness over time of the Government's commitment
to some of the Project objectives. Furthermore, the high turn over of civil servants and
the current decision making process that requires trivial decisions being deferred for
Cabinet consideration, also caused some delays in implementation.
Project Sustainability
21.   Overall sustainability of Project outcomes is uncertain. The positive progress
made by the country on improved private sector performance and the soundness of the
financial system is likely to be sustained with sound economic policy management on
part of the Government. The development of a sound banking system has ensured the
availability of longer-term credit for private firms and banking supervision has improved
significantly, and both of these are likely to be sustained. However, the contribution of
this Project's activities to this outcome is evaluated to be marginal. The contribution of
the line of credit to the overall improvement in access to financing for firms was
marginal, and in the financial sector the country did not develop the institutional capacity
for on-site supervision of the insurance industry, which was to be the specific
contribution of this Project to the overall soundness of the financial system. On the other
specific contributions of this Project, project sustainability is likely to be strong for the
technology infrastructure sub-component. The Project has helped to develop strong
institutional capacity in this field and future demand for technology services is expected
to be strong both from Trinidad and Tobago as well as from other Caribbean countries.
TIDCO is eager to continue the matching grant program for exporters with financing
from other international institutions, and its future sustainability will depend on the
evaluation impact assessment currently under process. Potential financing for this
scheme may come from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Project objectives
were not achieved on the environmental components, and therefore the issue of
sustainability is moot. It is unlikely that regulatory capacity in the Chemistry, Food and
Drug (CFDD) division of the Ministry of Health will improve unless considerable
resources are allocated.
Operational Plan.
22.   Towards the end of the Project, dialogue with the Borrower was dominated by the
reconciliation of the Special Account, and over-shadowed a potentially constructive
dialogue on the substantive interventions of the Project. Nevertheless, on the different
activities supported by the Project, special lines of credit with Government guarantees are
no longer needed as the financial sector has been strengthened considerably. The
insurance industry regulation function is now being merged with the Banking
supervision, but still needs considerable strengthening. With respect to the matching
grant scheme, ETAF is now conducting an impact evaluation, which when completed
will guide the Government on the advisability of its continuation, using either its own
funds or other sources. The technology activities of TTBS and CARIRI continue to
flourish with a high self-financing ratio (65%) and remaining contributions from the



ix
Government. On the environmental side, the Bank has advised the Government that the
unfinished activities on this sub-component be rationalized with and transferred, as
appropriate, to the on-going Environmental Management Project.
C. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
*  Projects designed to support private sector activities are inherently difficult as the
direct relation between project inputs and outcomes is difficult to predict because of
the interplay of several economic forces. For this reason, such projects need to be all
the more careful to include monitoring indicators and impact evaluation to facilitate a
periodic review of whether the Project interventions continue to be relevant. This
was all the more important given the long implementation period of this Project.
*  Even though private sector development is a complex theme, Project design should be
kept as focused as possible. This is particularly so in Trinidad and Tobago because of
its complex procurement processes, a tradition of decision-making through consensus
Cabinet decisions, and cumbersome inter-ministerial coordination. Execution should
be by one agency or Ministry, with clear lines of communication designated between
Bank staff and implementing agencies.
*  Bank managers should undertake periodic on-site visits to Projects, especially those
with a long implementation period such as this one. While continuity of task
managers is very valued, the task manager should be aided periodically from such on-
site visits either by their manager or a peer, which would provide an added advantage
of objective input and fresh insights. This applies in particular to a mid-termn
evaluation mission. On-site visits by Bank managers should be supplemented by
personal, detailed reviews of project execution by the minister concerned. Major
delays, significant problems, and management deterioration should lead to swift and
significant actions by both sides.
* Special Accounts should be used only when there are internal control procedures in
place in the Project Management Unit. Special care should also be taken to ensure
that documented reconciliations are made between prior disbursements and requested
replenishments.
*  Audits should be reviewed rigorously and promptly in the Bank. Poor audits and/or
financial practices should lead to quick action by the Bank. Supervision missions
should monitor compliance with agreed internal control procedures, and should
include financial management specialists if this issue is identified to be particularly
important. Task teams should also ensure that a strong accounting team is available
continuously in all project management units.
*  The choice of a project manager is key in Trinidad and Tobago. The Bank and
Government should agree on a project manager before appraisal of a project, and
his/her replacement should be jointly decided. The government should ensure that
experienced and able staff are chosen for such sensitive positions, and that such staff
receive appropriate support.



1
BUSINESS EXPANSION AND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING
PROJECT
(Loan 3432 TR)
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   INTRODUCTION.
1.    The Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Project (BEIRL) was
prepared in 1990 in parallel with the Government's stabilization and policy reform
program supported by the IMF and the World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL).
This Project was designed to complement the on-going policy reforms of the public
sector, trade regime, and the investment framework with focused institutional and
financing support to spur private investment and restructuring of private enterprises and
to make them more efficient and competitive.
B. BACKGROUND
2.    As an oil dependent economy, Trinidad and Tobago's (T&T) economic fortunes
have mirrored the rise and fall of oil prices. During the 1970s, when the real price of
petroleum rose, Trinidad and Tobago found its income and foreign exchange reserves
growing rapidly. Well-endowed with off-shore oil and gas deposits, and with a
population of only one million, Trinidad and Tobago's real GDP growth took off and by
1982, per capita GNP reached US$6,450. In February 1984, the country graduated from
Bank lending due to its high GNP per capita and its favorable access to capital markets.
After initially saving much of the windfall from the increase in oil prices, Trinidad and
Tobago soon began a major public expansion program in heavy industry and
infrastructure. Many public agencies were expanded, new public enterprises (PEs)
founded, and the public sector grew increasingly large.
3.    The fall in the real petroleum price during the 1980's had a severe impact on the
economy, as the country's development strategy by that time had become inward-
oriented, with state-led growth financed by oil revenues. After 1982, real GDP fell for
seven years, fiscal and balance of payments situations deteriorated to critical levels,
unemployment doubled, and by 1989 per capita GNP was less than half of its 1982 level.
In 1987, a new Government took office and began major reforms to liberalize and
diversify the economy, with a view to making it more competitive and diversified, and
reducing its vulnerability to fluctuations in oil prices. The exchange rate was devalued
and unified, fiscal outlays restrained, some PEs were privatized, and major trade
liberalization reforms were initiated. The Bank renewed its lending to Trinidad and
Tobago in January 1990, when the Executive Directors approved a US$40.0 million SAL
and a US$4.0 million Technical Assistance Loan. Many of the initial reforms of the trade



2
regime and improved public sector resource mobilization and allocation through
improved PE performance and divestiture were supported by these two loans.
4.     At the same time, the Bank and the Government recognized that policy reforms
by themselves may not be enough to spur private investment in the short run, especially
as private enterprises in Trinidad and Tobago had been sheltered behind a protective
trade regime for some time. Thus this Project was designed to complement the structural
reforms being implemented by the Government, with business support programs to spur
more efficient, diversified and sustainable private sector production and export activities.
C.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
5.   The main objectives of the Project were to2 (i) assist in financing productive
facilities and resources in the territory of the Borrower as will contribute to the economic
and social development of such territory; (ii) support business expansion in industrial and
service enterprises in Trinidad and Tobago (except primary producers of oil, gas and
agricultural or livestock products), in particular, by undertaking the adjustments required
by such enterprises to become export oriented and internationally competitive; (iii) assist
in strengthening TCPD's capabilities to review environmental impact assessments for
public and private sector development projects, as well as improving national
environmental pollution control standards; and (iv) strengthen the regulatory framework
of the Borrower's financial sector and insurance industry.
6.     The Project included two main components: (a) a credit line component
amounting to about US$20 million to help private enterprises finance a wide range of
investments, including plant and equipment, incremental working capital, and technical
services related to development of productive activities within a liberalized incentive
regime; (b) a technical assistance component amounting to about US$7.2 million to
finance: (i) the establishment of an Export Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF) to assist
private manufacturing and service firms to enter into new markets; (ii) technology
infrastructure in the area of metrology, standards and quality assurance to support the
Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of Standards (TTBS) and the Caribbean Industrial Research
Institute (CARIRI); (iii) the development of improved environmental pollution control
standards to evaluate investment proposals and strengthen T&CPD's capacity to review
EIAs; (iv) three studies on the role of private investment of the steel and petrochemical
industries, the effectiveness of the foreign investment regime, and a new foreign
investment promotion strategy; and (v) assistance to the Ministry of Finance to strengthen
the regulatory framework for the insurance Industry.
2   As defined in the Loan Agreement. Intererstingly, the objectives as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report were
somewhat different. The primary objective was to promote the development and/or restructuring of private
manufacturing or service firms (excluding primary producers of oil, gas, agricultural or livestock products) so
that they could compete in export markets. Ancillary objectives included: (a) strengthening the supervision of
financial intermediaries and the safety and soundness of the financial system; (b) improving the technical
standards used to assess the environmental impact of public and private sector projects; and (c) strengthening the
capacity of the Town and Country Planning Division (T&CPD) to review Environmental Impact Assessments
(ElAs).



3
7.    The first two Project objectives were justified in the context of economic
stagnation, high unemployment and weak performance of the private sector in Trinidad
and Tobago at the time of Project identification. In an era of windfall oil revenues, the
public sector had dominated the economy, stifling private enterprises. Weaknesses in the
financial sector and an inadequate business environment and institutional support to
private exporters required some actions on part of the Government to help jump-start
private sector exports and to enhance the competitiveness of Trinidadian firms. To
achieve these objectives, the Project incorporated appropriate components to facilitate
Trinidadian firms improve their productivity, quality, and diversification of export
markets - line of credit, matching grants-to enterprises for technical assistance in
accessing export markets and strengthening of technical support services to adapt
international standards to local norms and to certify quality standards and norms.
8.    The Project also included an objective of improving the technical standards and
monitoring capacity for environmental impact, but this objective was only tangentially
relevant to the over-arching objective of the Project. The additional objective and
components made the Project unduly cumbersome and later overlapped with on-going
dialogue in the environmental sector. Indeed, some activities in this Project were
duplicated by a parallel project in the environment sector. Nor did Project design
incorporate adequate funds to achieve this objective - only US$ 0.79 million was
allocated to achieve this objective in the environmental sector. Finally, the Project also
included a secondary objective of strengthening the soundness of the financial sector,
which was rightly considered to be an important pre-requisite for a vibrant private sector.
However, actual project activities to achieve this objective were limited to technical
assistance to improve regulation of the insurance industry, which could have had only a
limited contribution to overall financial sector reform. However, the preparation of the
credit line afforded the Bank considerable dialogue with the country on the overall
financial sector policies.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    Overall performance of this Project is rated Unsatisfactory because of the mixed
implementation record of the project components, and their marginal contributions to the
achievement of Project objectives. On the first two objectives of the Project - to assist in
financing productive activities and to support business expansion - T&T did have some
success as its private sector adjusted in some measure to a more open economy.
10.   Non-traditional exports (excluding hydrocarbons and raw agricultural products)
rose from US$324 million in 1990 to US$423 million in 1998, though their overall share
in total exports increased only marginally from 17 percent to 19 percent. This
performance of nontraditional exports reflects the stimulus provided by the reforms of the
trade and exchange systems. More labor-intensive agricultural products, namely
beverages and food products, and manufactures other than chemicals and iron and steel,
registered the greatest improvement, growing at an average rate of over 22 percent during



4
this period. Notwithstanding, export diversification has been modest, as exports remain
heavily concentrated on a few products, with petroleum and petrochemical exports
accounting for over 70 percent of total exports.
11.   However, the contribution of this Project to the increase of non-traditional exports
is considered to be limited. Specific project activities contributing to this objective
included the credit line, the matching grants scheme, and the technology development
components. Though initially slow, the credit line finally disbursed $16.1 million (80%
of the initial allocation) to 51 enterprises, largely in the manufacturing and the services
sectors. The quality of the portfolio was considered good with extremely low default
rates. The Project itself did not develop any monitoring indicators or a baseline survey to-
measure the impact of the credit line on job creation, exports or new business operations,
and we are unable to make a definitive evaluation of its impact. However, anecdotal
information indicates that its overall impact was likely marginal. Interviews with six
beneficiary enterprises and three PFIs during the ICR mission revealed that at the time of
their application to the credit line, financing from alternative sources was not constrained,
and this line of credit did not make an additional contribution to firm restructuring beyond
what firms would have invested anyway. Nor did this credit line reach many new
businesses, as most PFIs preferred to lend to existing clients.
12.   Of the other two sub-components designed to achieve the private sector
diversification objective, the matching grants component implemented by the Export
Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF) was implemented with partial success. This
component ($1.1 million as reported by TIDCO) provided a 50:50 matching grant and
assisted 43 recipients to explore and access export markets. Again, in the absence of any
monitoring indictors or follow-up surveys, it is difficult to make a positive evaluation of
its overall impact. Anecdotally, firms valued the service and demonstrated this by
matching payments of 50% of the value of the technical assistance provided.
13.   The technology sub-component (US$3.4 million) included the establishment of
technical and quality standards by TTBS and their certification by CARIRI. This sub-
component was one of the better implemented sub-components and had a positive impact
in creating an institutional infrastructure for Metrology, Standards Testing and Quality
(MSTQ) which foster the growth of productivity. TTBS surpassed its performance
targets, certifying about one third of the country's exporters with ISO-9000 certification,
covering 65 percent of its operating costs with its income, and is ranked 17th in the world
in terms of its participation in the development of international standards. CARIRI also
implemented its activities well and obtained international laboratory accreditation and
IS09000 certification. It provided laboratory testing services to several private sector
clients, thereby increasing its customer base by 45 percent.
14.   The third objective - to improve technical standards to assess environmental
impact of projects and to review environmental impact assessments - was not achieved.
Project activities were only partially completed, and the institutional development of the
Town &Country Planning Development (T&CPD) was undermined by the duplication of
these functions by the newly created Environmental Management Agency (EMA).



5
15.   The final objective of developing a sound financial system was achieved as the
country avoided the severe financial problems caused by the 1994-95 "Tequila effect,"
and seems unaffected by the more recent financial contagion that spread from East Asia,
Russia and Brazil. The IMF has indicated that bank soundness in Trinidad and Tobago
became stronger in 1998 with a declining level of problem loans (to 6.25%) and adequate
provisioning. This positive outcome, however, was due to the result of many
interventions, including collaboration between the Bank and the Banking Superintendent
in drafting a new Banking Law, rather than the specific contributions of this Project,
which were limited to some training and the creation of an information system. In fact,
Trinidad was not able to meet the limited objective of the activities within this Project of-
developing effective capacity for on-site inspection of insurance institutions.
E. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
16.   Approved in December 1991, the Project was made effective in March 1993, after
a delay of 15 months. The Project was closed on the original Closing Date of June 30,
1999, and a sum of US$ 4,794,869.23 was cancelled after the final disbursement
application was processed. Tables 8 A and B present more detailed figures on Project
costs and financing.
Credit Line Component (Appraisal Estimate: US$ 20 million Actual Cost: US$ 16.1
million)
17.   This component was administered by the Central Bank as the apex institution
implementing the credit program through eligible Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs). The credit line was designed to finance investments in working capital, start-up
investments in product marketing and distribution, product research and development,
worker retraining, and technical services to prepare enterprise restructuring and
expansion programs. To be eligible, PFIs were required to remain certified on an annual
basis by the Inspector of Banks. Sub-loans from the line of credit were to be of a
minimum size of US$30,000 equivalent up to a maximum of US$1.5 million to a single
company. Funds were on-lent at market rates, with the interest rate charged by the
Central Bank to PFIs adjusted every six-months. The line of credit was expected to be
attractive to PFIs as it was designed to provide (a) long-term resources not supported by
their short-term deposit base; and (b) access to foreign currency. The PFIs were
responsible for assessing the sub-borrowers' creditworthiness and bore the credit risk,
incentivizing them to undertake a thorough credit analysis and good supervision of sub-
projects.
18.   The credit line disbursed US$16.1 million ( 80.5% of the initial amount
allocated), financing 51 loans largely in manufacturing and services (Appendix 3 lists the
sub-projects). Implementation on the line of credit was very slow until 1995, in part
because of poor promotion of the credit line by the Central Bank. After 1995, the
demand for funds strengthened and disbursement proceeded well. However, by this time



6
the financial system had strengthened, and the PFIs not only had ample resources on their
own, including access to foreign exchange as controls had been liberalized, but also had
access to other, similar lines of credit as well. Development Finance Limited (DFL), for
example, had access to funds from the European Investment Bank, the Commonwealth
Development Corporation, and the Caribbean Development Bank, as well as local bond
issues.
19.   Participating Financial Intermediaries. Almost all financial intermnediaries in
the country applied to participate as first-tier financial intermediaries under the project,
though only five actually utilized the credit line. However, the use of the credit line was
highly concentrated, with the DFL (a public sector bank) and the Republic Bank itilizing-
four fifths of it, with the participation of DFL alone accounting for 57 percent of the
disbursed credit allocation. One explanation of the high participation of DFL is that as a
development bank had in-house capability to perform credit analysis and evaluation of
specialized projects. Another explanation may be the relatively low participation of other
PFIs due to limited promotion of the line.
TABLE: Credit Allocation in TT Dollars
PFIs      Committed    Disbursed   Share %    No. Loans
Approved
Royal              9,420,000    9,044,100   8.66      1
Merchant
Royal Bank         9,916,434    9,287,110   9.12     2
Development       57,347,490   50,251,428    52.75   32
Finance
Limited
Republic Bank     30,462,383   26,841,770    28.02   21
Bank of            1,570,000    1,475,525   1.44      1
Commerce
Total TT         108,716,307   96,899,933    100.00  57
dollars
US$               17,311,514   15,429,926
Note: US$ = TT$ 6.28
Source: Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago and ICR mission survey responses from PFIs.
20.   Subloans. Of the sub-loans, manufacturing and services sectors accounted for
90% of total investment and the number of sub-loans, and the majority of the sub-projects
financed acquisition of new machinery and buildings. The line was not used to fund
research and development activities or technical services to prepare investment plans.
According to DFL data, the credit line funded mainly building construction (15 firms and
TT$ 29m) and other physical production inputs (16 firms and TT$ 22.4m). The quality
of the portfolio was good and loan default rates were virtually zero. Most of the sub-
loans were denominated in the local currency and only US$93, 600 was lent in foreign
exchange. Given the choice both PFIs and the sub-loan recipients preferred not to take
the currency risk. This may additionally have been caused by a misunderstanding
between the Central Bank and some of the PFIs that the credit line was not available in
US dollars, causing some of them to use other sources of financing for tradable goods and
services.



7
TABLE: Sectoral Distribution of Loans
No. Loans       %        TT$ (Millions)     _
DFL                        30         100.00%        57.300       100.00%
-Manufacturing              18        60.00%         27.000       47.12%
-Services                  10         33.33%         24.500       42.76%
-Others                     2          6.67%          5.500        9.60%
Republic Bank              17         100.00%        30.462       100.00%
-Manufacturing              10        58.82%         24.173       79.35%
-Services                   5         29.41%          4.092        13.43%
-Others                     2          11.76%         2.197        7.21%
Total DFL &Rep. Bank       47         100.00%        87.762       100.00%.
-Manufacturing             28          59.57%        51.173       58.31%
-Services                   15        31.91%         28.592       32.58%
-Others                     4          8.51%          7.697        8.77%
Source: Survey responses from DFL and Republic Bank
21.   Little information is available on the actual impact of the line of credit in terms of
jobs, revenues or the facilitation of new firms into export markets. The Central Bank
pursued a survey of beneficiaries but only a few firms responded. The PFIs and the apex
financial institution did not maintain any calculations of rates of return, nor did the
Project itself set up any monitoring mechanisms. However, based on the good
performance of the loans and selected interviews with borrowing firms, it seems very
likely that most, if not all, financed projects had good rates of return. Nevertheless, on-
site interviews with six firms visited as a part of the ICR mission and three PFIs indicate
that financing was not a problem at the time they applied for the credit line, and its
availability did not lead to greater efforts on firm restructuring than would have otherwise
been undertaken. Anecdotal information also indicates that the line of credit was not
very successful in reaching out to new firms, as most PFIs continued to on-lend to
existing clients, rather than taking risks with smaller and new, non-traditional exporters.
TechnicalAssistance Components (Appraisal Costs:US$7.2 million Actual Costs:
US$ 6.0 million )
22.   Export TechnicalAssistance Facility (ETAF) Sub-Component
The ETAF program was delayed in implementation as the Export Development
Corporation (EDC), which was to administer the program was abolished and the Tourism
and Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) took over the program in 1996. Once
it started, TIDCO administered the program well, disbursing US$1.069 million to 43
grant recipients for a range of activities such as packaging improvement, participation in
trade fairs, intellectual property protection and brand registration in foreign markets.
TIDCO demonstrated flexibility in implementation, and adapted the program according
to the firms' characteristics and demands. For example, when the initial marketing plans
of interested firms were received, TIDCO found that firms needed significant assistance
even in preparing the plans themselves in order to meet the eligibility criteria of the
assistance program. TIDCO then applied itself to assisting interested firms in the
preparation of comprehensive export plans, accepting the increased costs and delays this
implied.



8
At the mid-term review, it was agreed to reallocated funds from the credit line to the
ETAF program. However, the Bank cancelled the component in 1997 arguing that the
ETAF program was inconsistent with the WTO's obligations.
23.   The Staff Appraisal Report did not consider the preparation of a baseline survey
or the design of impact assessments evaluation, and a formal evaluation of the program
was not undertaken as part of the Project. Five beneficiary firms interviewed by the ICR
mission gave positive feedback on the program. Nevertheless, most firms were still
completing their multi-year programs and some had just begun. It seems that the scheme
was adequately designed to achieve its objective of helping Trinidadian firms to explore
export markets, but its actual impact could not be evaluated. TIDCO intends to carry ouL
a detailed evaluation in the coming year, with final results being available in 2001. This
analysis will be used to decide whether to continue the program, possibly with IDB
support or with its own resources. The sub-component did not achieve the goal of
establishing linkages between the Free Zones and the rest of the economy.
24.   Technology Sub-Component The implementation of this sub-component was
satisfactory. CARIRI and TTBS have met most of their goals well, with less delay in
implementation than the other components of the project. As a result of the activities
executed under this Project, both these institutions have become much more outward-
oriented and closely linked to business needs.
25.   Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of Standards (TTBS). The Project also supported
the Trinidad and Tobago Bureau of Standards (TTBS) in upgrading its laboratory
facilities and systems with the aim of obtaining international accreditation for specific
testing programs; developing and establishing a national system for registering
companies to ISO 9000; training industry personnel in quality management and quality
technology; upgrading its overall operations and improving its managerial and technical
capabilities to make it more responsive to the needs of the industry.
26.   This component's policy objectives of creating a minimum public institutional
infrastructure for Metrology Testing and Standards and Quality (MTSQ) related service
and raising awareness in the country of the importance of a national quality system were
achieved. The component's physical targets were also met. TTBS upgraded its
laboratory facilities and has certified about one third of the country's exporters with ISO-
9000 certification, and expects to achieve an ISO-9000 certification itself by the end of
2000. These targets, which were expressed in terms of financial self-sufficiency (income
to operating cost was set at 15% for the mid-term review; this ratio reached 50% by 1994
and currently represents about 65%), number of training programs implemented, and the
staff composition at TTBS, have all been surpassed. A caveat to the self-sufficiency
indicator is that TTBS receives part of its income for charging for certification of import
standards -- which importers view as a monopoly rent, if not a technical trade barrier.
Nevertheless, the institution achieved substantial improvements in getting recognition of
TTBS's ISO 9000 registration program. As a result, a Memorandum of Understanding
on joint certification with the Society General of Surveillance was signed in 1996. Since
then, joint registrations have been conducted. Furthermore, TTBS upgraded its library to



9
that of a standards information center. This center became a member of ISONET and is
the designated World Trade Organization enquiry point for Trinidad and Tobago for the
Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement Three TTBS laboratories (Chemical, Electrical
and Materials testing) were accredited by the United Kingdom Accreditation Services.
27.   TTBS and industry personnel now participate in ISO technical committee
meetings of importance to the country. In terms of participation in the development of
international standards work, in 1998, TTBS was ranked 17th in the world, third in the
Americas and first in the Caribbean. Other accomplishments attributable to the project
are: the expansion in the range of tests and the establishment of TTBS as a regional
Quality Training Course Provider. On the less positive side, TTBS still lacks a detailed
marketing strategy, one of the major outcomes for the component. And the Law adopting
International System of Units to regulate weights and measures has not been approved
yet in the Parliament.
28.   CARIRI. The Project supported CARIRI in its institutional strengthening efforts
to ensure it would provide a range of high quality consulting and testing services
responsive to industry needs. This activity was successful in that CARIRI saw a
threefold increase in its self-generated revenue, from TT$2.4 million in 1994 to TT$7.9
million in 1999. CARIRI also obtained international laboratory accreditation under the
United Kingdom Accreditation Service (MI0 Laboratory Quality System) and IS09000
certification in 1997. Since the attainment of the international laboratory accreditation,
CARIRI has increased the number of accredited tests it provides from 28 in 1997 to 53 in
1999, enabling it to increase its client base by 45% between 1995 and 1998. For
example, Bechtel International paid CARIRI TT$1.5 million for laboratory testing of
construction materials used to construct the Atlantic LNG plant, and the engineering of
soil monitoring at the plant was due in a large part to CARIRI's international
accreditation. The increased revenues and the greater tendency among local and foreign
firms to use quality related services bode well for the institutional sustainability of
CARIRI's improvement.
29.   Program to Develop Pollution Standards and Strengthen EL9 Review Capacity.
Both the implementation and outcome of this sub-component is rated unsatisfactory.
This sub-component was only partially completed by June 30, 1999. Implementation on
this sub-component was difficult as the first major consultant contract to undertake all the
activities on this sub-component was cancelled. The sub-component was then divided
into several activities bid separately, and implementation remained slow and protracted.
The Town & Country Planning Department held a series of training courses and
seminars, and sixty (60) senior staff of Government Ministries, Statutory Authorities,
State Enterprises including the environmental Management Authority (EMA) and the
Tobago House of Assembly (THA), today know how to review Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIA). However, the baseline data work, crucial to development of country-
specific standards, had only begun by project closing. The information system program
for environmental data has been developed, but the program has not been tested with data
collected from the field, and its relevance is now in question because of the development
of a similar data base by the Environment Management Agency (EMA). During the



10
1990s, the Government passed major environmental legislation, creating an
Environmental Management Agency (EMA), and responsibility for implementing the
pollution standards and monitoring system was passed from T&CPD to the EMA. The
EMA is supported by another World Bank loan, financing a similar environmental data
base and information system. Although, the computerized environmental information
system (CEIS) supported by the BEIRL project is compatible with the EMA's broader
National Environmental Information System, the two initiatives were not coordinated,
and are in many ways duplicative. In retrospect, with the creation of the EMA, the whole
environmental component probably should have turned over to EMA during the mid-term
review in 1995 (only two activities were transferred). The ICR mission recommended
that the unfinished BEIRL environmental tasks be combined with the ongoing activities
under the Environmental Management Project.
30.   Studies. Two out of the three originally planned studies were completed. The
Petrochemicals Sector Strategy was rightly dropped during the mid-term review as its
justification vanished with the divestment of petrochemical companies. The Steel Sector
Strategy was undertaken in 1994, and assisted in the information requirements for the
divestiture of the steel plant and laid out a strategy for further development of the steel
industry. The studies of the foreign investment regime was done by the Foreign
Investment Advisory Service of the IFC (FIAS) during 1993-1994, and some its
recommendations on land ownership limits and work permit requirement have been
implemented by the Government. The Project was expanded to also include a Foreign
Investment Strategy Study and the drafting of the Foreign Investment Act. The program
for foreign investment promotion by TIDCO laid out by the former will begin to be
implemented in 2000.
31.  Supportfor Reform of the Regulatory Framework for the Insurance Industry
Although the Insurance Division implemented some of its activities, it still does not have
effective capacity to regulate the insurance industry as it did not develop capacity for on-
site inspection of an insurance company. An inforrnation system was developed, but is
not considered to be Year 2000 compliant. Some training was successfully conducted
and the staff was increased, but a recent Government decision to consider amalgamating
the bank, insurance and other financial supervision capacity into one institution has
deferred training decisions. Thus, this Project sub-component is rated as unsatisfactory.
32.   Chemical and Food Division. This component was not part of the initial loan,
but was agreed to at the mid-term review. This $200,000 activity supported the
Chemical, Food, and Drugs Division of the Ministry of Health to set and enforce
standards applicable to producers and exporters and provided limited support in the form
of laboratory infrastructure and equipment and the provision of information systems and
training. Given the limited funds and time to implement the component, it was agreed
that the activities would only cover immediate upgrade needs. These limited
interventions were implemented, though the overall strengthening of the Division was in
no way comparable to that of CARIRI and TTBS.



11
F. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
33.   Factors generally subject to government control Implementation on the Project
suffered from lack of attention by key decision-makers at the Ministry of Planning and
Development, who could have improved Project effectiveness by ensuring adequate
staffing and financial resources to the Restructuring Support Unit. Continuity of staff at
the RSU also affected implementation, as the RSU had three different project directors
during the life of the project, and these changes generated serious delays in project
implerrentation since each new director needed time to become familiar with this rather
complex project. The implementing unit's performance was also hindered by (i) weak
administrative processes; (ii) the lack of-experience with Bank procurement at the initial
stages of the project; and (iii) the high turn-over of competent staff.
34.   Factors outside the control of the government: A key factor that affected the
performance of the credit line component was the resurgence of economic growth and
private sector response. Trinidad and Tobago economy has performed well in recent
years, with steady economic growth, low inflation and declining - though still high -
unemployment. Real GDP growth in 1994 was about 3.6 % and it is projected to be 4.5%
in 1999. This worked towards the positive achievement of the overall objective of
increased private sector activity, as the economy started growing and private investment
recovered, but made the credit line component of the Project irrelevant as overall access
to credit improved. The credit to the private sector as a percentage of GDP increased
from -1.7% in 1994 to 1.7% in 1998. Project implementation in the later period was also
affected by change in task management within the Bank, a change which also coincided
in some part with a broader management change within the Bank as well as a change in
the portfolio management culture. With a much greater emphasis on realism in project
development effectiveness, coupled with quality assurance audits, the Bank's own
standards for judging project progress also evolved during this time, a change which may
have been perceived by the Borrower as inconsistency of Bank positions.
35.   Project implementation in the later period was also affected by change in task
management within the Bank, a change which also coincided in some part with a broader
management change within the Bank as well as a change in the portfolio management
culture. With a much greater emphasis on realism in project development effectiveness,
transparency in project financial management, and quality assurance audits, the Bank's
own standards for judging project progress also evolved during this time, which may
have been perceived by the Borrower as inconsistency of Bank positions.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.   Overall sustainability of Project outcomes is uncertain. The positive progress made
by the country on improved private sector performance and the soundness of the financial
system are likely to be sustained with sound economic policy management on part of the
Government. The development of a sound banking system has ensured the availability of
longer-term credit for private firms and banking supervision has improved significantly,
both of which are likely to be sustained. However, the contribution of this Project's
activities is evaluated to be marginal to this outcome. The contribution of the line of credit



12
to the overall improvement in access to financing for firms was marginal, and in the
financial sector the country did not develop the institutional capacity for on-site supervision
of the insurance industry, which was to be the specific contribution of this Project to the
overall soundness of the financial system.
37.   On the other specific contributions of this Project, project sustainability is likely
to be strong for the technology infrastructure component. The project has helped to
develop strong institutional capacity in this field and future demand for technology
services in Trinidad and Tobago as well as from other Caribbean countries is expected to
be strong. TIDCO is eager to continue the matching grant program for exporters with
financing from other international institutions, and its future sustainability will depend on-
the evaluation impact assessment currently under process. Potential financing for this
scheme may come from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Project objectives
were not achieved on the environmental components, and therefore the issue of
sustainability is moot. It is unlikely that regulatory capacity in the Chemistry, Food and
Drug (CFDD) division of the Ministry of Health will improve unless considerable
resources are allocated to upgrade the CFDD's facilities.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
38.   The Bank shares responsibility in the unsatisfactory performance of the Project.
On the positive side, project identification and overall approach was in the right direction,
correctly recognizing that policy reform alone would not be sufficient to catalyze private
investment and increase the competitiveness of Trinidadian firms that had gotten used to
a protected trade regime. The preparation work for the credit line component and the
matching grants components incorporated the lessons learned from the financial sector
report completed prior to project preparation, and were appropriately market based with
the matching grants incorporating some elements of cost recovery. The credit component
also enabled the World Bank to engage in a two-year dialogue over the draft banking law,
particularly its supervisory aspects. The introduction of technology and certification
components was also appropriate to include in an export oriented Project, and the joint
development of performance indicators with CARIRI and TTBS was commendable.
39.   However, the eventual project design was too complex and wide-ranging for
effective management either at the level of the Borrower or supervision on the Bank's
part. The preparation team may perhaps have been overly responsive to the
Government's ideas, and overestimated the implementation capacity of different agencies
and the ability of the RSU to coordinate the different components effectively. The
wisdom of including the environmental components is debatable, both due to the
complexity they introduced and their overlap with the environmental sector dialogue.
The objective on the soundness of the financial sector was also included in the project
design in a very limited fashion, in that the overall intervention on this sector was limited,
and should probably not have been included as a specific objective. On the technology
component, project preparation did not adequately recognize TTBS' monopoly in
certifying standards for many imports, and may have perpetuated these monopoly rents,
which function as a trade barrier. It was also thus inappropriate to use financial self-



13
sustainability as a performance indicator because a significant proportion of this income
is derived from its monopoly rents. Finally, preparation was also deficient in not setting
up monitoring indicators or incorporating any triggers to give feedback on the
appropriateness and continued relevance of the Project activities for the achievement of
project objectives.
40.   The Bank's supervision of the Project was not satisfactory as several issues
emerged over implementation that were not adequately addressed. In the initial years of
the Project, supervision was adequate with a good relationship between the Bank and the
Government. Supervision was particularly responsive on the technology sub-component,
and the team assisted the in preparing draft of terms of reference and contracts, arid
introduced the business community and technology institutions'to counterparts in
Singapore, with which they ultimately "twinned." However, the continued relevance of
the line of credit component in the changing circumstances of the Trinidadian economy
was not adequately addressed. During the mid-term review, the virtually negligible
disbursements on the credit line should have prompted a more careful review of whether
financing was a key constraint to private enterprise. Given the resurgence of the financial
sector by that time and the availability of other credit lines, the Bank should have
cancelled a much greater proportion, if not the entire, line of credit. Another supervision
decision that turned out to be flawed was the declaration by the Bank, in 1997, that the
ETAF inconsistent with the nation's WTO obligations. As a result, the Bank cancelled
this component. In fact, the Bank has similar loans to a broad variety of Bank clients,
and even in the event that the ETAF program was inconsistent with the WTO's
prohibition of export subsidies, Trinidad and Tobago has until 2002 to comply with the
Agreement.
41.   Bank supervision should also have been more alert to the declining institutional
capacity of the once enviable RSU, as key staff began to leave. In particular, the absence
of adequate accounting capacity at the RSU was a major issue that did not get addressed,
and late and missed project performance reports were increasingly tolerated; as were late
and incomplete audits. The annual financial audits should have alerted the Bank to this
emerging problem, but they did not do so for several reasons including the fact that no
internal control reports were included in the audits, and that due to delays in receiving
and reviewing the reports, the Bank's review normally occurred more than a year after
the close of the audited year. Even though the financial audit reports were late, the
Bank's initial response was relatively passive, sending only reminder letters, and upon
receipt the Bank was slow to review the reports and the emerging problems in the Special
Account were not picked up soon enough due to limited capacity in the Bank's own audit
team. In retrospect, the Bank should have taken a much more pro-active approach with
engaged dialogue much earlier in project supervision.
42.   Equally important was the Bank's lack of attention to the increasing amounts of
moneys disbursed from the Special Account without adequate documentation. For many
months, there was a large amount (usually about US$1 million) of Unclaimed
Expenditures reported on Withdrawal Applications. In the future -- and in other projects
-- these amounts should be monitored more carefully, since a lingering "Debits not yet



14
claimed to IBRD" is an indicator that some problem of expenditure dGcumentation may
exist. In the case of the BEIRL, this came to pass because the RSU was unable to
coordinate this process adequately to ensure proper documentation for all amounts
advanced.
43.   Relations between the country and the Bank became strained towards the latter
part of the Project due to several factors. Though the original task manager had stayed
with the Project since inception (an unusual occurrence), a change of task managers in
the final stages of project management, as well as a more demanding project management
culture within the Bank with a stronger emphasis on development effectiveness and
transparent project management coincided with a declining RSU capacity for project
management. In this environment, many of the brewing problems with the Project came
to the fore suddenly and were perceived by the Government as inconsistent behavior on
part of the Bank. At that time, Project implementation status was downgraded to
Unsatisfactory, though it continued to be rated Satisfactory on development objectives, in
variance with this ICR. In retrospect, though the continuity of task managers is a
valuable commodity in Bank portfolio management, some of the later problems may have
been addressed earlier if the continuity factor had been balanced by some input from the
Bank with fresh eyes.
44.  In particular, it is notable that during its nine year implementation period, no
Bank manager visited the Project for an on-site visit until mid 1997. An earlier
intervention at the managerial level may have assisted the task manager with fresh insight
and may well have led to some mid-course corrections that could have avoided some of
the later problems. A higher level intervention by the Bank may also have spurred
greater action within the Government to address emerging problems with project staff
and management capacity at the RSU level.
1. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.
45.   Borrower performance is also rated Unsatisfactory. The RSU staff was over-
stretched and lacked the capacity to meet the demands of this multi-component Project.
There was frequent turnover of staff, and staff was reduced significantly in 1997, and
lack of pro-active project management led to long delays and missed opportunities in
project execution. Lack of knowledge of Bank procurement procedures as well as
cumbersome internal and external clearance processes resulted in major delays in
contracting, especially at the beginning of the Project. The RSU was also not successful
in maintaining adequate project accounts. The Project was complex and inter-
institutional and inadequate coordination on part of the RSU, and slow feedback from
several of the implementing agencies meant long delays and many difficulties in
reconciling project accounts. Financial audits were carried out by the Auditor General,
and were generally late but consistently flagged the weakness in overall project financial
management in all years since 1996. The lax internal controls led to significant issues in
relations with the Bank, as project documentation for a significant amounts of money was
not made easily available to supervision missions. Though this issue was largely
resolved subsequently, and US$413,297.76 reimbursed to the Bank as its withdrawal



15
from the Special Account could not be supported by eligible expenditures, it strained
relations between the Government and the Bank and distracted from other Project issues
toward the end of the project.
46.   The record of the seven implementing agencies involved in Project execution was
mixed. Where the implementing agent was a parastatal agency (TIDCO, CARIRI, TTBS,
Central Bank), implementation performance varied from extremely good to satisfactory.
Where the implementing agency was a part of general government (Insurance Division,
Chemical, Food and Drug Division, Town & Country Planning Division, RSU), the
performance varied from marginally satisfactory to extremely poor. In almost all cases,
however, work progress was slower thani originally scheduled and this was due, to an
extent, to the unevenness over time of the Government's commitment to some of the
Project objectives. Furthermore, the high turn over of civil servants and the current
decision making process that lead to trivial decisions being deferred for Cabinet
consideration, caused also some delays during the implementation of the project. The
Borrower was also unable to resolve inter-institutional problems that arose during
execution causing some delays during implementation.
J. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
47.   Based on project results, project outcome is Unsatisfactory.
K. FUTURE OPERATION
48.   Towards the end of the Project, dialogue with the Borrower was dominated by the
reconciliation of the Special Account, and over-shadowed a constructive dialogue on the
substantive interventions of the Project. Nevertheless, on the different activities
supported by the Project, special lines of credit with Government guarantees are no
longer needed as the financial sector has been strengthened. The insurance industry
regulation function is now being merged with the Banking supervision, and still needs
considerable strengthening. With respect to the matching grant scheme, ETAF is now
conducting an impact evaluation, which when completed will guide the Government on
the advisability of its continuation, using either its own fiuds or other sources. The
technology activities of TTBS and CARIRI continue to flourish with a high self-
financing ratio (65%) and remaining contributions from the Government. On the
environmental side, the Bank has advised the Government that the unfinished activities
on this sub-component be rationalized with and transferred, as appropriate, to the on-
going Environmental Management Project.
L.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED.
* Projects designed to support private sector activities are inherently difficult in that the
direct relation between project inputs and outcomes is difficult to predict due to the
interplay of several complex economic forces. For this reason, such projects need to
be all the more careful to include monitoring indicators and impact evaluation to
facilitate a periodic review of whether the Project interventions continue to be



16
relevant. This is all the more important given the long implementation period of the
Project.
* Even though private sector development is a complex theme, Project design should be
kept as focused as possible. This is particularly so in Trinidad and Tobago because of
its complex procurement processes, a tradition of decision-making through consensus
Cabinet decisions, and cumbersome inter-ministerial coordination. Execution should
be by one agency or Ministry, with clear lines of communication designated between
Bank staff and implementing agencies.
* Bank managers should undertake periodic on-site visits to Projects, especially those
with a long implementation period such as this one. While continuity of task
managers is very valued, the task manager should be aided periodically with on-site
visits either by their manager or a peer, providing the benefit of fresh insights. This
applies in particular to a mid-term evaluation mission. On-site visits by Bank
managers should be supplemented by personal, detailed reviews of project execution
by the minister concerned. Major delays, significant problems, and management
deterioration should lead to swift and significant actions by both sides.
3 Special Accounts should be used only when there are internal control procedures in
place in the Project Management Unit. Special care should also be taken to ensure
that documented reconciliations are made between prior disbursements and requested
replenishments.
* Bank staff should be particularly alert to existence of substantial amounts of
Unclaimed Expenditures reported on Withdrawal Applications, since a lingering
"Debits not yet claimed to IBRD" could an early indicator of expenditure
documentation. In the case of BEIRL this was apparently due to inadequate follow-
up by the RSU to obtain documentation for amounts advanced under the credit
component.
* Audits should be reviewed rigorously and promptly in the Bank. Poor audits and/or
financial practices should lead to quick action by the Bank. Supervision missions
should monitor compliance with agreed internal control procedures. This is
particularly important as most task managers leaders do not have a background in
financial management, and all supervision teams do not include a financial
management specialist.
* The choice of a project manager is key in Trinidad and Tobago. The Bank and
Government should agree on a project manager before appraisal of a project, and
his/her replacement should be jointly decided. The Government should ensure that
experienced and able staff are chosen for such sensitive positions, and that such staff
receive appropriate support. The mixed results from the BEIRL could have been far
better if an aggressive, agile project manager supported by appropriate staff had been
in place throughout. The Government should also ensure that a strong accounting
team is available continuously in all project management units.



17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Loan 3432 Trinidad and Tobago
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      El               a               El
Sector Policies                     El               E3                                   l
Financial Objectives (Credit        E               E                 E                 a
Institutional Development             l              X                0                 0
Physical Objectives                 El              E                El
Poverty Reduction                    a              E                 a        
Gender Issues                                         l              El                [m
Other Social Objectives              nl             E                 El
Environmental Objectives             n               1                X] 
Public Sector Management             nl               ]              [                  o
Private Sector Development          E               [                E                  El
Other: Financial Management         E               E                El 
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainbii                  Likely                  Unlikey                   Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)                      (1)                       (if)
Identification                      El                       El
Preparation Assistance              E                        El 
Appraisal                           E                        El
Supervision                           l                      E                          X



19
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)        ~(v')           (v.)
Preparation                                                 I]
Implementation                               El              l                g
Covenant Compliance                          Cl             L        
Operation (if applicable)                                     ] a             ]
Highly                               ~~~~~~~~Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
LI (L)         (L) (i (1



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose        Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1 .Loan 3152-TR -                            1/90             Closed
Structural Adjustment
Loan
Following operations    No following operation in private sector development.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned              Date Actual
Begin Preparation                 0 1/91                  01/15/91
Appraisal                         05/91                   05/15/91
Negotiations                      10/91                   10/28/91
Bank Approval                     12/91                   12/20/91
Signing                           07/92                   07/10/92
Effectiveness            __=              _               03/30/93
Project Completion                06/99                   06/30/99
Loan Account Closing                                      01/30/00



21
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Fiscal Year    Appraisal Estimate       Actual          Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimate
1992                             420                  0          0
1993                           2,180                  0          0
1994                           6,220               1,290         21
1995                          11,900              2,952          25
1996                          19,460              10,415         54
1997                          22,980              16,812         73
1998                          25,800              19,556         76
1999                          27,000             22,328          83
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators for project operation not included in SAR.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators for project operation not included in SAR.



22
Table 7: Studies Included to Project
Study                      Purpose                   Status      Impact of Study
Strategy Study for the   To strengthen the Government's     Dropped    N/A
Petrochemical          capacity to (i) establish appropriate
Industry               policies, institutions and programs to
attract private participation and to
maximize national risk-adjusted
returns from T&T's endowment of
hydrocarbon feedstocks; (ii) make
informed decisions about
development strategy and investment
choices inter alia when reviewing
investment proposals.
Strategy Study for the   Strengthen the Government's capacity   Completed   It assisted in the
Steel Industry         to (i) establish appropriate policies,           divestiture of the steel
institutions and programs to attract             plant and laid out
private participation and to maximize            strategy for further
risk-adjusted economic returns from              development of the
T&T's steel industry; and (ii) make              steel industry.
informed decisions about
development strategy and investment
choices, inter alia regarding
divestment of ISCOTT (state-owned
steel plant), and respond to
investment proposals.
Foreign Investment     The study will: (i) assess the      Completed   Some of the
Promotion Study        effectiveness of the recently                    recommendations of
introduced foreign investment regime;           this study has been
and (ii) develop program for                     implemented by the
strategically promoting the country as           Government (i.e.
an attractive location for                      land ownership limits
internationally competitive                      and work permit
manufacturing and service industries.            requirements).



23
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Item                Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Bank    Total
counter-  disburs
part    ements
(est.)
Private Sector Credit            20.0       20.0       40.0      4.0       16.1     20.1
Export TA Facility               0.1        2.8        3.0       1.07      1.07**    2.14
Other TA and Project              1.9       4.1        6.0       n.a.      5.03      5.03
Administration
Price Contingencies               0.2       0.3        0.5               _
Total Cost               22.2      27.2       49.5       n.a.     22.20    27.27*
Note: * Not including an estimate for the local contribution for these components, which was likely
small. The ICR text has already noted the inadequacies in project accounting system and the absence of
audited financial statements. Though all disbursed expenditures were verified to be valid and eligible,
project accounts did not give us adequate information on counterpart funds readily. In addition, appraisal
estimated for local counterpart funds were flawed in that the private sector credit component only required
a 15-25% beneficiary counterpart, i.e. $5 million instead of the $20 million estimated in the appraisal
reports. Similarly the ETAF facility was a 50:50 matching grant and would have mobilized an equivalent
local contribution, rather than the $0.1 million in appraisal estimates. With these correct numbers,
appraisal estimate for project costs should have been about $36 million. ** TIDCO numbers.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest
Item                Local    Foreign      Total     Local   Foreign   Total
Private Beneficiaries (Credit)   14.8        -         14.8                          4.0
Private Beneficiaries (ETAF)      0.1        1.4       1.5                           1.07
PFI                                -         -         5.2                           n.a.
Government                        0.9       0.1        1.0                           n.a.
IBRD                              1.2       25.7       27.0                          22.2
Total Cost              22.2       27.2       49.5                         27.27



24
Table 9: Financial and Economic Costs and Benefits
No formal financial or economic cost benefit analysis was undertaken for this project.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section      Type          Status         Original      Revised                 Description of Covenant
Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
3.01 (e)    05        Complied with     07/10/1992                 The Borrower to maintain the RSU throughout the project,
to be managed by a Director with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
3.01 (f)    05        Complied with delay                          Maintaining Project Coordinator
between the
appointments.
3.04 (c)    13        Complied with                                The Central Bank to publish at least monthly the
prevailing weighted average of time deposit interest rates
(including their range) set by commercial banks, including
those for the rates on 6-month time deposits (the DC rate
defined by the project).
3.07 (a)    09        Complied with      01/01/1994                By December 31 of each year, beginning in 1992, the
Central Bank will review with the Bank the adequacy of
the interest rate charged under the credit program.
3.08 (a)    09        Complied with                               By December 31 of each year, beginning in 1992, EDC
will review with Bank procedures and criteria adopted
under the EDC guidelines.
3.09      09          Complied with     06/30/1992                The Borrower shall maintain its trade policy reform
program supported by the Bank under the SAL agreement
dated January 25, 1990.
3.10 (a)    13        Partially complied   09/30/1992             By September 30, 1992, the Borrower shall submit to
with                                        Parliament Bills to amend: (i) the Standards Act; and (ii)
the Metrology Act.
3.10 (b)    06        Not complied with   12/31/1996              By June 30, 1995, the Borrower shall adopt and enforce
the environmental standards developed under the project.
3.11 (a)    09        Complied with                               Between 18 and 24 months following loan effectiveness,
the Borrower and the Bank shall carry out a mid-term
review on the progress and achievement of objectives of
the project.



Agreement    Section         Type             Status            Original       Revised                     Description of Covenant
Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date           Date
4.01        01            Not Complied                                        The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
seven sets of records and accounts for the project, viz: (i)
RSU for MOPAM (Part C.2) and TCPD (Part C.!); (iii)
MOF (Part D.3); (iv) TTBS (Part D.1); (vii) CARIRI (Part
D.2). Borrower to have these accounts and that for the
Special Account audited and furnished to the Bank by June
30 of each year. Separate opinion on SOEs also to be
included in audit reports.
5.01 (e)    09           Complied with                                       Interest rates on time deposits and loans to be freely
determined
Schedule    12           Complied with                                        PFIs to comply with agreed performance and eligibility
1, Section                                                                   criteria. Condition of the disbursement for first US$7.5
3                                                                             million from credit component is that a satisfactory Bill for
the reform of banking legislation has been tabled in         VQ
Parliament. Disbursement of the remaining US$12.5
million would be conditioned on the implementation of
such legislation.
Covenant Types:
I - Accounts/audits                   8 - Indigenous people                               C - complied
2 - Financial performance/revenue     9 - Monitoring review, reporting                    CD - complied with delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 - Implementation not covered by cat. 1-9         CP - complied partially
3 - Flow and utilization of project funds   11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC - not complied
4 - Counterpart funding                      other resource allocation
5 - Management aspects of the project    12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral
or executing agency                  policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 - Environmental covenant           13 - Other
7 - involuntary resettlement



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant variation with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
(OD or OP/BP)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle              Weeks            US$
Preparation to Appraisal                         79.1           172.6
Appraisal-Board                                  12.6           28.4
Negotiations through Board Approval               8.3          .20.5
Supervision                                      138.7          379.1
Completion                                       16.5           60.0
TOTAL                                           253.2           660.6



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project   Month/      Number    Days in       Specialized Staff Skills    Implementation      Development             Types of Problems
Cycle           Year         of         Field          Represented               Status            Objectives
Persons
Tlrough Appraisal  02/90       3           8
07/90        1          2           - trade & finance                                     _            - unclear government commitment
- recent
political developments
09/90        4          21          - trade & finance                                                  - weak preparation capacity within
- petro-chemical                                                   government
- export develpmt.                                                 - slow-decision making due to
attempted coup
10/90        4          17         - financial economist
- financial markets and
analysis
12/90        3          12         - trade & finance - export                                          - weak preparation capacity witin
develpmt.- financial markets                                       government
and analysis                    __     _
Appraisal through   01/91      4           14         - trade & finance - export          _
Board Approval                                        develpmt. privatization
02/91        1          4           - steel industry                _                                  - steel plant inefficient
03/91        1          2           - privatization
04/91        I          3           -
06/91        3           13         - trade & fmance
Supervision       03/92        2           10         - trade & finance          no report
- environmental specialist
07/92        2          4                                      1                  1
10/92        2          7                                      1                 l
02/93        1          7                                      no report
04/93        1          5           - steel industry           No report
04/93        2          3           - financial markets &                                              - worries of higher interest rates
analysis                                                           - reserve shortfall
- trade & finance
11/93                   4                                     No report
01/94        3          4                                      S                 S
03/94        2          8                                      No report
05/94        1          4           - steel                    No report



06/94        2          4          - trade & finance         No report
03/95        3          4          - trade & finance         No report                               - institutional realignments in T&T
- financial economist                                             since project's inception
07/95        1          6          - fnancial management     No report
08/95        1          3                                    No report
11/95       2          6          - industrial standardization    S            S                    - poor relations and extremely poor
consultant                                                       results on environmental
component
04/96        1                     - trade & finance         S                 S
09/96        1          4          - trade & finance         S                 S                     - replacing Foreign Investment Act
with Investment Promotion Act
- inadequate market survey work
03/97        2          3          - trade & finance         S                 S
- standardization
08/97        1                     - trade & finance         S                 S
03/98        3          10         - standardization and quality   U           S
- financial analyst
- trade & finance
02/99        1          5          - privatization           U                 S                     _
06/99        1                     - privatization           U                 S
Completion         1T1/9 Y                          -trade  &  FinancE U                         U                     - project has not achieved
development objectives



30
Appendix 1
ICR Mission Aide Memoire
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring
Project
Loan 3432-TT
Implementation Completion Mission
November 29-December 3, 1999
A mission composed of Sonia Plaza (Task Manager of BEIRL) and Paul Meo
(Consultant) visited Trinidad and Tobago during November 29-December 3, 1999 to
prepare an Implementation Completion Report on the World Bank/Government of
Trinidad and Tobago Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Project supported
by World Bank loan 3432-TR. The mission was received by a multitude of government,
parastatal, and Central Bank officials as well as a wide variety of businessmen and
representatives of business organizations, thanks to an ambitious agenda of visits
prepared by the Restructuring Strengthening Unit (RSU) of the Ministry of Finance and
Planning. We should first of all wish to express our appreciation to the many
Trinidadians--from both the private and public sectors--who spent a considerable time
with us to reflect on the progress of the BEIRL, its reasons for success or failure and to
draw lessons from experience. These discussions greatly aided the mission in
understanding the strengths and weakness of the project and its many components, from
both their original design and conception to final implementation.
During the mission the Bank team agreed with the Government that it would
attempt to prepare a draft ICR on return to Washington before the year-end, hopefully
before Christmas, and transmit it to the authorities for their comment. The authorities as
well undertook to prepare their draft contribution during the same time framework.
Given the intervening Christmas and New Year's holidays, both teams understood that
comments on the drafts could not be expected until mid-January, although the receipt of
both the government's comments on the Bank draft, as well as the Government's
contribution, shortly thereafter would permit the Bank to finalize and circulate the ICR
with only a short delay (ICRs are supposed to be approved and circulated to the Bank's
Board of Directors six months or less after the closing date of a loan).
The mission discussed with the RSU and the government the requirements to
complete the report. The first draft have to be exchanged by Mid December given that
the RSU will closed on December 30,1999. It was discussed that the reconciliation of the
Special Account deviated resources for preparing the ICR. Given the delays in the
reconciliation, it will clearly not be possible to finalize the ICR and send it to Print Shop
by that date. The ICR guidelines provide for an automatic one month extension of the



31
normal six month period for sending an ICR to the Board if the Government so requests
it. It was agreed with the Government, that they would submit such a request, which
would allow us an extension until January 31, 2000 to submit the ICR to the Board.
During the mission, the RSU will still in the process of compiling data from the
many executing agencies involved in the loan, so the mission--and the RSU--had not yet
received some key data by mission end or analyze some that was produced by the final
day of the mission. Moreover, the many helpful discussions have encouraged the mission
to rethink some of its tentative conclusions and test them with Bank staff and managers
involved in earlier stages of the loan. Finally, the great variability in performance of the
many subcomponents has led the mission to develop a relatively cautious approach in
overall evaluations. Nevertheless, some conclusions can be made by the mission now,
particularly on key components of the project, and could serve as a guide for the
Government as they prepare their own contribution to the ICR.
First, the general goals of the project--to promote the development of private
manufacturing and service firms, especially to enter and compete in export markets; to
support the development of a sound and efficient banking system; and improve the
technical standards used to assess the environmental impact of private and public
projects--have been mostly met. But the role the BEIRL played in meeting these goals-as
compared to the impact of more general government policies, the support of other
financial and nonfinancial institutions, and the entrepreneurial capacity of the nation's
able private sector--will remain difficult to judge. The draft ICR will attempt to make a
judgement in this area, but any such determination will likely be based on the effect of
the project's components and the ancillary Bank and Government support and actions
during implementation. Nevertheless, the end result has been achieved, and thus leaves a
far better environment to assess cause than if it had not been.
Second, some components of the project seem to have been implemented quite
well, if a bit slowly, and clearly have led to the success the mission found. CARIRI is
today a far better and stronger research institution, more closely linked to the private
sector and its needs, and much more self-reliant for its financing. TTBS has better
trained staff, and active in certifying Trinidadian firms for ISO-9000 status. CARIRI
itself is ISO-9000 certified, and TTBS expects to achieve that status next year. TIDCO
seems to have administered the matching grant program for exporters relatively well,
although the change from EDC to TIDCO as executing agency did indeed lead to a
significant delay in implementing the program. Some components seem to have been
executed less well; the environment component in particular was only partially completed
by loan closure; the financial management of the project deteriorated over time and
finally led to significant problems in accounting/auditing; and the insurance study was
completed but its institution-building effect seems modest. The contribution of the large
credit component to the development of the nation's industrial and service diversification
seems modest indeed, ironically partly because of the soundness and efficiency of the
nation's banking system itself.



32
Thirdly, the mission repeated earlier requests to the government that the audit
reports for 1998 and 1999 to be completed in a timely manner, at least by December 30,
1999. Since the RSU's accountant ended his contract onNovember 30, 1999, this will
require a special effort from the Government.
The reconciliation of the Special Account was not reviewed at this time. A
previous mission conducted an internal control review of the Special Account of BEIR
one week ago.
While, as noted above, the mission will be finalizing its conclusions only after
receiving and digesting further information requested, there do appear to be some lessons-
learned so far that can be shared as both the mission and the government prepare their
draft reports:
Lessons:
1.   In retrospect, the design of the project was probably too complex. Industrial
studies, insurance supervision strengthening, matching grants for small exporters, a large
credit line, major institutional strengthening of both a standards bureau and a research
institute and later a Chemical, Food and Drug Administration, and the initiation of
significant environmental work would have taxed any Government, and Trinidad and
Tobago's was hard pressed to execute such a project in a timely manner. Trinidad and
Tobago's collegial, cabinet-level decision making process, extremely weak administrative
capacity (and performance expectations) in some government offices, and detailed,
lengthy procurement procedures do not ease the implementation of complex projects.
With 20-20 hindsight, it seems more likely that--given the marginal contribution of the
industrial studies, credit line, and insurance components; as well as the delays in the
environmental component--a more focussed technical assistance loan directed to
CARIRI, TTBS, the matching grant program, and only environmental training might
have been more effective.
2.    Project implementation was variable, but the central management of the project
(as noted) showed a secular deterioration over time. This was partly owed to a natural
evolution (which both the Bank and Government might have foreseen), and partly to poor
management decisions by both the authorities and the Bank:
a) Like Chile, Mexico, and many other transforming countries, Trinidad and
Tobago's major economic reforms led to a drastic reduction in the need for--and
political influence of--a Planning Ministry; throughout the hemisphere, these
ministries have been merged with Finance Ministries, but only after their staff and
influence has declined. This seems to have occurred in Trinidad and Tobago,
thus reducing the capacity of the Ministry to encourage actions by other agencies
as well as retain the best staff.
b) That said, the authorities could still have ensured that the RSU had more able,
experienced management and a stronger support role. Far from being the sole



33
contact for the Bank, with a staff able to trouble-shoot and assist agencies as well
as push for decision-making, the RSU has for some time been simply a
transmission belt for agency documents to be delivered to the Bank, and its
internal capacity to even monitor and account for project items became limited.
c) The Bank, as well, could have drawn the attention of the Minister (or Cabinet)
of the need for a stronger RSU in a timely manner, but it did not. Moreover,
lapses in the appointment of task managers seemed to have had a significant and
adverse effect on the project during the crucial year 1998. Moreover, some
problems might have been addressed in a more timely and collegial manner if
Bank managers--as opposed to task managers--had reviewed progress on site with-
the Cabinet more frequently.
These lessons noted, there are many positive lessons we have learned. For
example, when support is both timely and based on strong expertise, it can lead to
extremely good results indeed. The Inspector of Banks and his staff most
effectively used Bank support in revising the banking legislation during 1990-91.
The support to CARIRI and TTBS was both timely and used most effectively.
After a significant delay, TIDCO implemented the matching grant program quite
efficiently; it may expand it with IDB support in the future. And the continuation
of sound and modern economic reforms and policies has led to a major
improvement in the depth and diversity of economic activity in the country.
Sonia Plaza
Task Manager for the BEIRL ICR
On behalf of the World Bank
Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago
December 3, 1999



34
Appendix 2
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR:
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE:
1.0   PROJECT  CONTEXT:
1.1   The Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Loan ( BEIRL), signed
in 1992 and effected in 1993, with a completion date of June 30, 1999, was
intended to provide a framework of support for businesses in the productive sector
seeking to respond positively to the new competitive environment resulting from
economic liberalization and structural adjustment.
2.0   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION:
2.1   Project Objectives:
2.1.1 The BEIRL program contained two (2) major components viz.:
(i)    a line of credit of US$20.0 million (original amount stated in the
1992 Loan Agreement) to assist the local private sector in
undertaking restructuring, expansion and modernization activities
to improve efficiency and competitiveness; and
(ii)   a technology component of US$7.0 million to assist in improving
the quality of goods produced locally, for the enhancement of
environmental impact assessment capability, support of export
growth, the undertaking of strategic industrial studies, further
improvement of the investment climate and increasing the
effectiveness of investment promotion.
2.1.2  In 1995, in agreement with the Bank, project funds were re-allocated to include a
number of institutional strengthening projects and the credit component was
reduced from US$20 million to US$15 million. In 1997, new projects also
emerged and funds were reallocated accordingly. At this point, the credit
component was increased to just over US$18 million.
2.1.3. The objectives of the BEIRL were to:
(1)  Assist in financing such productive facilities and resources in the
territory of the Borrower (Trinidad and Tobago) as will contribute to
the economic and social development of such territory;



35
(2)  Support business expansion in industrial and service enterprises in Trinidad
and Tobago (except primary producers of oil, gas and agricultural or
livestock products), in particular, by undertaking the adjustments required
by such enterprises to become export oriented and internationally
competitive;
(3)  Assist in strengthening the capabilities of the Town and Country Planning
Division (TCPD) to review environmental impact assessments for public
and private sector development projects, as well as improve national
environmental pollution control standards; and
(4)  Strengthen the regulatory framework of the Borrower's financial sector and
insurance industry.
3.0   THE ROLE OF THE RESTRUCTURING SUPPORT UNIT (RSU)
3.1   The main functions of the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU) were to carry out
project management and monitoring functions to ensure the timely and effective
implementation of the BEIRL. More specifically, the RSU was assigned
responsibilities for:
co-ordinating and monitoring the Special Account as well as the
utilization of funds advanced to the State organizations (CARIRI,
TIDCO, TTBS); and
*     timely and cost-effective procurement of consultants and equipment,
as well as provision of technical assistance to all line-ministries and
State institutions;
3.2   The position of Director was filled in February 1998 and a new Senior Project
Administrator was recruited in April 1998 to manage the BEIRL. This proved to
be a critical juncture, as the infusion of new personnel into the RSU virtually
corresponded with the departure of the task manager who was there from the
inception of the loan. Cognizant of the fact that the project activities had
encountered some slippage and that the 1997 accounts was past due, the
"reconstituted" Unit had to do more with less.
3.3   Given that finalization requires reviewing the entire project from the initial stages
and accounting for it in its entirety, the Unit with its limited resources,
approached its task with that sense of purpose and rectitude in order to satisfy the
Bank's policies/procedures and to bring the program back on track in its technical
aspect as well as exercise prudential criteria in its accounting dimensions.



36
4.0.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS:
4.1   By 1995, modifications to the Agreement were necessary in order to enable the
Borrower to achieve its objectives. A reallocation of US$ 5.0 Million from the
Credit Component was achieved and additional but relevant project activities
added. These were the Chemistry, Food and Drugs Division (CFDD) Laboratory
Upgrade, the Tourism and Industrial Development Company (TIDCO)
Institutional Strengthening, and the Insurance Regulatory Reform.
4.2   Project implementation improved in 1995, and this was confirmed during the
Bank's mission of March 1997. Additional reallocations were made during 1997-
as several areas [CARIRI, Private Sector Component, TIDCO (ETAF, the
Foreign Investment Strategy Study, drafting of the Foreign Investment Act) and
TTBS] required additional resources. Funds were also allocated to three (3) new
projects which included the development of: a telecommunications policy; a
national total quality culture; and a financial sector reform program which was to
be implemented by the Central Bank.
4.3   The year 1998 proved to be a difficult year for project implementation. By May
1998, the task manager was no longer available to provide technical assistance to
the BEIRL and there was a delay by the Bank in appointing a replacement. Vital
support required by the GORTT from the Bank by way of no-objections, feedback
regarding project progress and overall technical assistance took longer than
normal during this period.
4.4   Administrative hiccups on the part of the GORTT also contributed to a less than
satisfactory project performance during 1998. The Accounting Assistant, the last
of the original four member team which comprised the RSU's accounting unit,
resigned at short notice. As a result, project activities under the BEIRL suffered
delays until a new Accountant and Accounting Technician were recruited.
Consequently, while project management and monitoring functions continued, the
accounting lagged behind.
4.5   The delay in recruitment of the new accounting team contributed to the late
submission of the 1997 Audit Report to the Bank. The resultant effect was that
the 1998 and 1999 Audit Reports have also not been timely.
4.6  In light of these delays, the GORTT formerly requested from the Bank, by letter
dated May 01, 1998, a six-month extension of the closing date for the BEIRL
from 30 June, 1999 to 31 December, 1999. The GORTT was surprised to leam
from the new task manager during a Bank Mission in March 1999, and with no
written advice to this effect, that the Bank had deemed the project
"Unsatisfactory" and that no extension would be granted. The Line
Ministries/Agencies, despite taking measures to complete the remaining activities
had to reluctantly abort project implementation when it was learnt that no funds
would be made available for project completion. As a result, project



37
implementation, during the last two (2) years of the BEIRL project was extremely
difficult due to lack of available funding.
5.0   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CONSTRAINTS:
5.1   The implementation of the project activities under the BEIRL were constrained in
a number of ways and by all the actors - from lack of capacity to administrative
inefficiencies and by both parties- the World Bank and GORTT.
5.2   The main constraints were related to:
5.2.1  Gestation/Start Up:
There were administrative delays in the initial stages. The procurement and
installation of some equipment, especially those to be customized, required
additional time for installation and testing. Procurement of some consultants
required lengthy negotiation in areas where the agency was not familiar, and, in
one project necessitated some redesigning because the services of the consultant
chosen had to be terminated for specific non-performance.
5.2.2  Export Technical Assistance Facility (ETAF):
The ETAF component served as an important instrument to facilitate the export
marketing efforts of local enterprises. The rate of implementation of this program
and the support it provided to local industry were so effective in stimulating
export performance, that Government requested an increased allocation of loan
resources for it in the fourth quarter of 1997. However, by letter dated November
17, 1997, not only did the Bank decide to discontinue funding this component, but
it also advised the GORTT to "...cease providing such matching grants." This
decision was based on the Bank's perspective that due to WTO Regulations which
had come into existence since the Project was approved, the reallocation of funds
towards matching grants for export development would violate those rules. It is
of note that local authorities did not share this view and that the Bank continued
to approve similar facilities for other countries, including Brazil, after this time.
The GORTT was therefore denied the opportunity to utilize and expand one of the
most effective elements of the BEIRL program.
5.2.3 Multisectoral Credit Program:
The agreement for this component was signed in 1992 however, implementation
commenced in 1994. This occurred as a result of the lack of competitiveness of
the interest rates offered; and the complexity of enlisting Participating Financial
Institutions (PFIs) and the loan application process. Subsequently, applications
from the PFIs increased as these institutions became familiar with the operations
and benefits available to their clients. Only 4% of the sum allocated to this
component remained unutilized and the consensus of the Central Bank and the



38
PFIs is that these remaining funds could have been accessed if the extension
sought by the GORTT was approved by the Bank.
5.2.4  Turnover at the Restructuring Support Unit (RSU):
The rate of turnover of experienced personnel at the RSU was high during the
latter half of the project and critically affected the operational capacity of the
RSU. Vacancies existed at various times in the offices of Director, Chief
Accountant, Accounting Unit and Senior Project Administrators, resulting in loss
of expertise and lack of continuity. Project management funds provided by the
loan were not utilized for staff training or institutional strengthening at the RSU.
5.2.5  Technical Assistance from the Bank:
Technical assistance from the Bank was also curtailed in May, 1998 after which
the slow and often non-receipt of essential feedback from the Bank created
bottlenecks to project implementation.
5.2.6  Change of Task Manager:
The Bank appointed a new task manager in late 1998 who ushered in a phase in
the Bank's relationship with the RSU/GORTT that appeared to be less supportive
of the country's efforts rather than helpful. The former Task Manager led a
Supervision Mission over the period March 31 to April 10, 1998 and produced an
Aide Memoire dated April 21, 1998 followed by a letter addressed to the
Honorable Minister of Planning and Development dated May 1, 1998. The new
task manager seemingly followed a course of action that was not consistent with
the contents of the Aide Memoire and letter of the forner task manager.
Consequently, GORTT was acting in conformity with one approach while the
new Task Manager was operating from a different perspective.
There was also a hiatus after April 1998 as the channels of communication with
the Bank broke down, with the Bank taking unusually long periods of time to
respond to correspondence from GORTT generally relating to "non-objections"
and loan applications requisite to advancing the program. In addition,
information on the termination of the task manager in 1999 and appointment of a
new one was not provided. As a result, the working relationship between the
GORTT and the Bank became strained. The result was that the project lost a
year.
5.2.7  Lack of an Accountant:
Perhaps the single most critical constraint was the lack of Accounting resources at
the RSU over long periods of time. When the Chief Accountant demitted office
in December 1998, the RSU was left without an Accounting Unit. As a result, the



39
payment process was severely affected as there were no personnel to process
invoices for both consulting services and payment for equipment delivered.
5.2.8  Audit Reports:
The late submission of the 1997 Annual Audit Report to the Bank due to the
accounting problems experienced by the RSU, also affected project
implementation. The Bank did not accept the 1997 Audit Report and in late 1998
requested clarifications and modifications to it. The Report had to be revised and
resubmitted. The 1998 and 1999 financial statements also experienced delays in
preparation due to the lack of accounting personnel. An attempt at corrective
action in the form of a short term contract of a Certified Accountant for the period
August to November 1999 did not achieve the desired results of accelerating the
preparation of the statements for submission to the Bank.
5.2.9  Reconciliation of the Special Account:
The Bank's decision to cease disbursement of funds on the loan pending the
completion of a comprehensive reconciliation of the Special Account was
considered unreasonable by the GORTT, especially since the Central Bank
presented continuous reconciliations with each request for replenishment of the
Special Account. It should be noted that no concern was ever expressed by the
Bank about the integrity of these exercises.
5.2.10 Extension of the Loan:
Because of the reconciliation exercise in mid-1999 there was for the first time
since May 1998, greater dialogue and communication between the RSU/GORTT
and the Bank. The discussions also focused on whether the request by the
Minister of Planning and Development, dated May 01, 1999, for a six-month
project extension would be granted or whether the project would close on the
designated completion date of June 30, 1999. The Bank decided to close the
project, a decision, which it noted subsequently, was taken as early as May 1998
despite the aforementioned Aide Memoire and letter from the former task
manager of even date which advocated an extension and advised the Minister to
request it.
This action on the part of the Bank speaks to the perception of negative attitudes
and lack of good faith which pervaded the project from May 1998 - a full thirteen
(13) months before the closing date of the agreement. It marked the derailment of
the project.
6.0  INITIATIVES FOR PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY:
6.1   As mentioned, the completion date for the BEIRL was June 30, 1999. The
expectations of line ministries/agencies for implementation of remaining project



40
activities did not materialize as the closure of the project was considered
premature. However, a number of projects benefited from the procurement of
consultants, who made recommendations for project sustainability and continuity.
Some of these recommendations have been executed while others are in the
process of being implemented.
6.2   A number of other agencies benefited from the BEIRL. Specifically, the
procurement and installation of computer equipment (hardware and software)
enabled various Institutions to improve, expand and restructure their operations to
become stronger, more focused and effective.
6.3   Environmental Component:
6.3.1  The Town and Country Planning Division (TCPD) environmental component has
been beneficial and demonstrates sustainability. Training through three (3)
intensive courses for sixty (60) senior staff of Government Ministries, Statutory
Authorities, State Enterprises including the Environmental Management
Authority (EMA) and the Tobago House of Assembly (THA), in 'best practice'
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and review was satisfactorily
undertaken. The participants in the advanced courses are well equipped to
undertake integrated EIA reviews of development proposals.
6.3.2  In addition, a data collection system for environmental data relevant to the needs
of the private sector and state agencies for EIAs has been developed, with staff
from key environmental agencies trained to continue and expand the pilot project
into other critical geographic areas of physical development activity. Data
collection which extended beyond June 30, 1999 to capture rainy season data for
the country was completed in December 1999, and data testing completed by
January 20, 2000.
6.3.3  A computerized environmental information system (CEIS) specific to EIAs,
(designed in liaison with the EMA) with compatibility with the EMA's broader
National Environmental Information System (NEIS), has been developed, tested
with dummy data and personnel have been trained on the computers of the local
counterpart consultants - the University of the West Indies - in the use and
application of the system. The broader more comprehensive NEIS which the
EMA will operate, linked with the specialized information systems of agencies
with environmental functions is consistent with the overriding role which the
EMA is statutorily mandated to execute in national environmental management.
6.3.4  The TCPD CEIS networked system will be completed with GORTT resources.
The server has already been acquired and the purchase and installation of the
ancillary units for which funds have been released, is well in progress to enable
greater efficiency in accessing, disseminating, analyzing and managing EIA data.



41
7.0   BANK PERFORMANCE:
7.1   For the most part (1993 to mid 1998), Bank Performance during the
implementation of the BEIRL was satisfactory and during its many supervision
missions, Bank officials provided adequate and timely technical guidance.
7.2   This relationship between the GORTT and the Bank became a bit strained in the
latter part of 1998, when requests for "no objections" were late in coming, and
urgent requests for feedback to facilitate early and effective project
implementation were not granted in a timely manner. At times the GORTT felt
that Bank officials provided mixed and unclear signals.
7.3.1  By late 1998, the BEIRL was more than eighty percent (80%) implemented and
the project was poised to ensure that all outstanding activities were completed. In
the latter part of 1998 and in the first quarter of 1999, Bank supervision tended to
focus mainly on the financial aspects of the project: disbursements, reconciliation
of the Special Account, withdrawal applications and audited annual statements of
accounts. At this time, no financial resources were being provided by the Bank,
in response to requests from organizations through GORTT, for additional human
resources, refurbishment of old premises and purchase of additional equipment in
order to achieve their new strategic goals.
8.0   BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE:
8.1   The GORTT is aware of the constraints experienced in the implementation of
such a complex project and remained steadfast in its commitment to the
successful implementation of the BEIRL. However, it is recognized that the
downsizing of the RSU at the end of 1998 had negatively affected the BEIRL's
implementation. The slow pace of recruiting accounting professionals to address
and resolve critical financial issues contributed to delays in project
implementation.
8.2   Notwithstanding these delays, by the end of 1998, project objectives were largely
achieved (85%), and line ministries/agencies were requested to prepare realistic
work plans for project completion. The mandate was given to implement the
remaining project activities in a timely manner, sticking to set time frames.
Regrettably, no one was aware that the Bank had already taken a decision to
freeze all remaining project funds and at the same time embark on a reconciliation
exercise to recover all outstanding funds with the GORTT and stop the release of
any new funds for project completion.
8.3  In 1999, mixed signals given by the Bank to the GORTT, including the likelihood
of a project extension of six (6) months to facilitate special projects such as the
Environmental Component and Central Bank Credit Line led to a communication
barrier between both parties. This action by the Bank precipitated an



42
unprecedented ministerial visit to the Bank's senior members to clarify and
convey the GORTT's dissatisfaction with Bank officials.
8.4   The Borrower held the view that the Bank officials at the supervisory mission and
task manager levels seemed inflexible and insensitive to the needs of the
Borrower. Line ministries and agencies which had the impression that time was
available for final implementation of project activities were entirely disenchanted
to learn of the Bank's position.
9.0   KEY FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED:
9.1   The original objectives of the project were met and the beneficiaries of the project
funds were able to improve and strengthen their capabilities in order to expand
and restructure their operations as well as increase their potential to become more
export-oriented. Although project implementation had been hindered and affected
negatively within in the last one and a half (1 1/2) years, the project has had a
positive impact on the economy.
9.2   The design of the BEIRL was complex and ambitious. However, if assessed from
its original intent, namely, "Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring",
one can conclude that the project was successful. It is also critical to highlight
that the design of the project was not the real problem. It is without doubt that, up
to the period of the change in task manager, the project was manageable and
eighty percent (80%) complete. There are some agencies which utilized all the
project funding, and because of their success, had a need for additional resources
as the project benefited a number of businesses. Some other agencies improved
and expanded their client base as the need for their services increased.
9.3   The economic climate in which the BEIRL project was developed was one in
which the GORTT saw the need to encourage, and in some cases create, a
climate of investment for small and medium-sized businesses.
9.4   The ETAF, implemented by the Tourism and Industrial Development Company
(TIDCO) also sought to assist private sector enterprises through the provision of
consulting services aimed at increasing the capacity of such enterprises to export
goods and services. The offering of fifty percent (50%) grant funds to assist in
this venture proved to be an incentive for participation.
9.5   The three (3) main regulatory bodies (TTBS, CARIRI, CFDD) received funding
to upgrade and expand their testing facilities and laboratories to enable them to
better and more efficiently serve their clients. One major achievement in this area
was that both TTBS and CARIRI can now grant ISO 9000 certification to their
clients. This certification has also enabled CARIRI and TTBS to make inroads
regionally as their services are now being demanded by other Caribbean islands.



43
9.6.1 Because of the dynamics of both the domestic and international economic
environment, key developments would have impacted on the project. The strong
performance of the economy and GORTT's overall economic management
program has made it difficult to precisely gauge the magnitude of success of the
project.
9.6.2  Under the BEIRL, businesses expanded, testing services and testing facilities
(laboratories) were upgraded and improved, key investment legislation were
enacted, institutions were strengthened and expanded and their data bases
computerized, thus improving efficiency and effectiveness. The project activities
which remained to be implemented are minimal and would be funded by the
GORTT.
A summary of the key lessons learned are described hereunder:-
(1)  Projects which require implementation periods as long as six (6) years
would be prone to difficulties. In the case of the BEIRL, these difficulties
have been exacerbated by changes in: (a) the economic environment and
(b) personnel in both the GORTT and the Bank.
(2)  Complex projects such as the BEIRL require a technically and financially
strong project management unit from the inception to the conclusion of
project activities.
(3)  The infrastructure and ownership structure of some agencies (semi-private)
which showed a less bureaucratic style of administration and more private
sector initiative in solving problems demonstrated better utilization of project
funding. The implementation of project activities was more timely and
efficient for their agencies than for those with a more bureaucratic structure.
This affected preparation and certifying of invoices for payment,
procurement of consultants and equipment as well as recruitment of staff.
Bureaucracy apart, the efficiency and effectiveness of some agencies could
have been derived from the nature of their funding. They operated from
accountable advances as against others who had to procure the service and
then on the basis of invoices, be reimbursed.
(4)  Constant and free communication between the GORTT and the Bank during
all stages of project implementation is imperative. Decisions taken but not
communicated to all parties affected the project, causing unnecessary delays.
(5)  The change in task managers should be carefully considered by the Bank
with formal notification given to the Borrower in the event of such change.
It takes some time for a country to get accustomed to the style of a task
manager and vice versa, making it imperative to have a period of transition.



44
Differing styles and modus operandi can result in communication problems,
which did occur in the case of the BEIRL.
(6)  The strength and success of a project's implementation may depend to a
large measure on the strength of its accounting personnel. If an institution
defines success of projects only on the basis of disbursements/drawdowns,
as appeared to be the case with the BEIRL, then a diminished and ineffective
accounting unit places a project in double jeopardy.
10.0 PROJECT COST FINANCING AND ACCOUNTING:
10.1  The Bank's policy on recovery of project funds six (6) months prior-to closure,
severely hampered project implementation. The GORTT was of the view that the
remaining funds of the BEIRL could be utilized prior to June 30, 1999
(designated completion date) and thus line ministries/agencies were advised to
proceed with the implementation of remaining activities. When it was noted that
the Bank was recovering project funds and not replenishing the Special Account,
GORTT realized the remaining project activities would not be funded by BEIRL
funds.
10.2  A large part of the last fifteen (15) months prior to the scheduled date of project
completion (June 30, 1999) was spent on accounting and financial matters.
During the last six (6) months of the project, the GORTT had to meet the Bank on
several occasions to clarify and explain funding/budgetary matters especially the
reconciliation of the Special Account and auditing of the expenditures of the
entire BEIRL loan.



45
Appendix 3
FIRMS ASSISTED UNDER THE CREDIT LINE BY PFIs
Ite        Applicant               PFI           Sub-  WB Date   Amount
m                                               Loan      of      Approved
No.                                               No.  Approval    (US
Dollars)
1   Allied Caterers Ltd    Royal Merchant Bank    A-01  15/3/94   1,500,0Q0
(formerly Airline
Caterers Ltd)
2    Scrip J Printers Ltd  Republic Bank Ltd     B-01   14/10/94  374,00
3   Century Eslon Ltd      Development Finance    A-02  23/3/95   500,000
Ltd
4   CASFAB Ltd             Republic Bank Ltd     B-02  23/12/94  163,500
5   L.J. Williams Ltd      Republic Bank Ltd     A-03  28/6/95    1,500,000
6   Neal & Massey          Royal Bank            B-03  23/12/94  231,800
Enterprises
7   K.C. Confectionery     Royal Bank            A-04  29/8/95   1,347,250
Limited
8   Tye Manufacturing Co.   Development Finance    B-04  23/3/95   136,750
Ltd                   Ltd
9   Vanguard Hotel Ltd     Development Finance    A-05  19/9/95   1,275,000
Ltd
10  Toucan Inn             Development Finance    B-05  23/3/95   85,000
Ltd
11  Manta Resorts Ltd      Development Finance    B-06  23/3/95   460,000
Ltd
12  Mecalfab Ltd           Republic Bank Ltd     B-07  23/3/95   30,600
13  Indico Ltd             Development Finance    B-08  9/6/95    (56,700)
Ltd                  cance  9/10/96
lied
14  Trinidad Salt Co Ltd   Republic Bank Ltd     B-09  9/6/95    116,240
1 17/7/96   11,544
15  K.C. Confectionery Ltd  Republic Bank Ltd    B-10  9/6/95    (727,770)
cance  23/6/95
lled
16  Patrick Young Sing &   Republic Bank Ltd     B-l1  9/6/95    (85,000)
Co Ltd                                      cance  7/10/96
lled
17  Wilson's Millworks Ltd  Development Finance    B-12   19/6/95   54,000
Ltd
18  Scrip-J Printers Ltd   Republic Bank Ltd     B-13   14/7/95   257,380
19  Hotel Coconut Inn Ltd    Development Fin.Ltd.   B-14  28/8/95   42,500



46
Appendix 3
20  United Engineering     Development Finance B-15      28/8/95   289,000
Services Ltd          Ltd
21   Varma Iron Steel Co Ltd Development Finance B-16    28/8/95   297,500
Ltd
22  Label House Ltd        Development Finance B-17      28/8/95   85,000
Ltd
23   KGH Holdings Ltd      Development Finance B-18      19/9/95  (170,000)
Ltd                cancelled  18/1/96
24   ZMMA Holdings Ltd     Development Finance B-19      19/9/95   566,667
Ltd
25   Printmaster W.I. Ltd  Republic Bank Ltd    B-20     15/12/95  137,020
26   Damus Ltd             Development Finance B-21      15/12/95  354,450
Ltd
27  Picoplat Enterprises Ltd  Republic Bank Ltd    B-22  15/12/95  146,500
28   Trinidad Tissues Ltd  Republic Bank Ltd    B-23     15/12/95  230,775
29   Patrick Young Sing &  Development Finance B-24      1/2/96    468,750
Co. Ltd                Ltd
30   Trinidad Oilfield     Development Finance B-25      16/2/96   189,075
Supplies Ltd          Ltd
31   Caribbean Steel Mills    Republic Bank Ltd    B-26  27/2/96   467,901
Ltd
32  Advance Foam Ltd       Republic Bank Ltd    B-27     27/2/96   60,220
33   Hyline Label Co Ltd   Bank of Commerce   B-28       13/5/96   250,000
34   Malabar Farms Ltd      Republic Bank Ltd    B-29    cancelle
d
35  Hotel Coconut Inn Ltd    Development Finance B-30    17/7/96   125,000
Ltd
36  Neal & Massy Holdings  Development Finance B-31      14/11/96  1,187,000
Ltd                    Ltd
37  The Threadworks Ltd    Development Finance B-32      14/11/96 31,250
Ltd
38   Superb Printers Ltd   Development Finance B-33      14/11/96  31,250
Ltd                                        _
39  Coconut Growers Asc.   Republic Bank Ltd    B-34     21/11/96  251,370
Ltd
40  Aleg Development Ltd   Development Finance B-35      9/12/96   900,000
Ltd
41   Triple A Marketing Ltd   Development Finance B-36   9/12/96   250,00
Ltd
42  Navarro & Fahey        Republic Bank Ltd    B-37     27/1/97   71,250
Agencies Ltd
43  Albrosco Ltd           Republic Bank Ltd    B-38     10/3/97   188,426
44  Advance Foam Ltd       Republic Bank Ltd                       (73,433)
cancelled  14/11/97



47
Appendix 3
45   Splendid Foods Ltd    Development Finance B-39     12/02/98  71,429
Ltd
46  Kasha Feeds LTD        Development Finance B-40     12/02/98 59,524
Ltd
47  General Packaging Ltd   Development Finance B-41    12/02/98 214,286
____                ~~~~~Ltd_ _ _ _
48  Dyna Plas Ltd          Development Finance B-42     12/02/98 35,714
___   ________________   _  .Ltd
49  Golf View Apartments   Development Finance B-43     12/02/98  71,429-
Ltd
50  N.M. Ghany Ltd         Development Finance B-44     12/02/98 71,429
Ltd
51   Cuffie River Nature   Development Finance B-45     12/02/98  148,810
Retreat               Ltd
52  Central Concrete       Development Finance B-46     12/02/98  148,810
Products              Ltd
53  Trinidad Systems Ltd    Development Finance B-47    12/02/98  327,381
Ltd
54  Trinidad Tissues Ltd   Development Finance B-48     12/02/98  654,762
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ L td
55  Trinidad Salt Ltd      Republic Bank Ltd    B-50    21/04/98  84,000
56  Ace Printery Fed-Traders Republic Bank Ltd    B-49  23/3/98   178,572
Ltd
SUBTOTAL                                                   16,730,114
Ite       Applicant           PFI        Sub-Loan   WB Date of    Amount
m                                         No.       Approval     Approved
No.                                                                 (US
Dollars)
B/F                                                         16,730,114
57   H. Williams         Republic Bank   B-53      6/7/98          675,000
Bookstore Ltd       Ltd
TOTAL                                                      17;405,239



PRIVATE ASSISTED FIRMS UNDER THE MATCHING GRANT PROGRAM (ETAF)
I           TYE Manufacturing         October 8",1996      Advertising, Pakg Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,        60,000.00                40,769.31                19,230.69
Limited                                        Overseas Field Market Research, Exposure
13         PLabel House Limited       March 14  1997       Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,     60,000.00                 55,463.19               4,536.81
Overseas Field Market Research, Exposure
4           Caribbean Coffee House   Nov. 6', 1996         Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,     60,000.00                26,477.02               33,522.98
Limited                                        Overseas Field Market Researh anxpoysure
4                                                         Aogw!=. _r
5           Amin's Manufacturing      May 13' 1997         Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,     60,000.00                 2,432.32                51,567.68
Limited                                        Overseas Field Market Researcha Exposur
_ I | j = l~~~~~~~n~,   ,_              ,   '                                      j                                                                      0
7           Island Casuals Limited    July 14-,1997        Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,      60,000.00                10 D618.75              49,381.25
Overscas Field Market Research, Exposure,                                                  ,          
9           Sunburn Clothing          July 22', 1997       Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,      35,318.50                9,891.75                25,426.75
Limited                                       Overseas Field Market Research, Exposure
10          Vinita Limited            July 29', 1997       Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,     26,400.00                 9,501.11                16,898.89
Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by Company
Executives, Trade Fair Participation
Trinpad Limited          August 25', 1997     Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by Company             60,000.00                58,795.93               1,204.07
Execuie Adsrtsn
13          Peake Industries Limited   Nov. 4"', 197       Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Trade Fair           60,00U.00                54,818.55                5,181.45
Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by,,
Company Executives, Quality Assurance & Product
Inspection Services - ISO 9000 Series Certification
14Agos Manufacturing          -Nov. 4', 1997         Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Trade Fair           43,810.00                36,628.87                7,181.13
limited                                       Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by,,
Company Executives
1 5         Trinidad and Tobago      No-v.12, 1x997        Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Trade Fair           29,750.00                 23,747.89               6,002.11
Instrumcnts Limited                           Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by                                                                          t
Company Executivese
.   __                                                                      _         N~~~~~~~~~~~~



16          Radical Designs         Dec. 5'1, 1997       Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Trade Fair         43,850.00                42,632.68              1,217.32
Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by
Company Executives
17          Advance Foam Limited    Dec. 22"", 1997      Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Trade Fair         60,000.00                7,900.57               52,099.43
Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by
Company Executives
18          Verena Batiks Limited   Dec. 22"", 1997      Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Overseas Travel,   13,000.00                6,039.78               6,960.22
Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by Company
Executives, Trade Fair Participation
19          Trinity Paints Limited  Dec. 22"", 1997      Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Trade Fair         26,000.00                5,159.55               20,840.45
Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by
Company Executives, ISO Certification
20          Arn k i ted              De. 22  1997        A :veisig A        A      atd Taimog, Trade Ftr                                        36P(                     00.00
.PgttIcipalon, OveaseaX rield M4aet Researh and.Trave by
21          Alstoms l)sstidlg        De,13.197           Ov la MarkeWeaSlI Ryewsesh                                     7500                    730                      0OA)0
Enieipds  Limited
(ABEL)                 .______________________________ ._._._..._._._._                                                                            ._._
22          Meiling Limited          Jauryl5', 1998       Advertising, Training, Trade Fair Participation, Overseas     34,530.00               18,270.19              16,259.81
Field Market Research and Travel by Company Executives
23          Trinidad Aggregate       April 3"', 1998     Product / Market Research and Feasibility Studies              30,000.00               20,734.74               9,265.26
Products                                                                                                                                                                      4s
24.         Chase Foods Limited      April 7"', 1998     Trade Fair Participation, Overseas Field Market Research, and  15,000.00                220.96                14,779.04            0
Travel by Company Executives
25.         Heather Jones Designs    March 23', 1998      Trade Fair Participation, Overseas Field Market Research, and  27,500.00              27,500.00                00.00
Limited                                      Travel by Company Executives
26.         Glory Entertainment      Feb. 6", 1998        Product Development and Overseas Field Research and           19,524.00               12,989.45               6,534.55
Television                                   Travel by Company Executives
27.  <;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti; )_m__X,                                                       _1 - - - ----- 00-g
27.         Rituals:Limited          Feb. 25"', 1998      Adv"#*svg Paegage Adaptatos  Trin, T-rade ~Fai                0OQ,06,000 
P.rtidp4.on, Ov s Pd  :Market es          ain Travel by
_______                                  Company E~~~~~~~xcctVwes
28.         Alkebu- Lan              March 2-d 1998       Trade Fair Participation, Overseas Field Research, and Travel  25,625.00              19,901.60               5,723.40
by Company Executives
29.         Harricrete Limited       February 19", 1998    Product / Market Research and Feasibility Studies, Overseas  25,397.00               13,873.49              11,523.51
Market Research and Travel by Company Executives
30.        3Bilmor Limited           April 7  1998        Training, Productivity Consultants and Technicians            17,000.00               13,413.66              3,586.34
31.         NowCitb;i                                                             Res TeiariandcOvasFleldR   and Travel'by  .  41,275W0         4.75.0
32.         AiRat Pokts                      I            .=et $*                                               _       5000,00
Trinidad  ymd                                           . .' 'raj'i.  '  . .'  .
33.         Keemi's Garments         April23, 1998        Trade Fair Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and  8,000.00                4,192.53                3,807.47
Travel by Company Executives
34.           ke Ti utiw-           7Apil3". 1is                            ;           T           es0                       0 
edd                       :    '                      ie        R r  a ',""'      . ' .'.'.,'



35.         Genuine Trinbago         April 22X, 1998      Package Adaptation, Trade Fair Participation, Overseas Field  4,454.50                  00.00                4,454.50
Products                                     Market Research and Travel by Company Executives F           4
36.         Regency (iarments        April 23'P, 1998      Overseas Field Market Research and Tavel by Company          9,500.00                       2
Executives
37.         The Chocolate House      April 23ta, 1998     Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by Company          1,000.00                 840.23                 159.77
Limited                                      Executives
40.         Sacha Cosmetics Luz t   May 20b , 1998       Advertising, Package Adaptation, Training, Trade Fair        4  00U.00                3 591.19                1 408.81
Participation, Overseas Field Market Research and Travel by,,
Company E xecutives
A general conversion rate of TT$6.299 to US$ 1.00 has been utilized in most of the calculations.
The total funds expended on reimbursements to grant recipients amount to US$1,069,605.01.
Funds utilized from the promotional budget of US$50,000.00 to date amount to US$9,607.20. The unutilized balance is US$40,392.80.
Promotional expenses are disaggregated as follows:
Promotional expenses to 30/06/1999:    TT$60,515.76 (US$9,607.20)                                                                                                                  o



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 30845
61'30'                                                              61-00'                                                             60030'
Chk-latt.ill.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                                                                          Tobago                       Spyd.
BUSINESS EXTENSION AND                                                                                                                                      Ro.bnaaa<J
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                                                                Plynoath
thbega
0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                            Aiporao,h
f     NATIONAL CAPITAL
MAIN ROADS
+    AIRPORTS                                            ti       i ,.  .3.
PORTS
RIVERS                                                      SeE
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- II00'                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 10001
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES JINSET)
Clrcpar Pt.
Mra                 h.1 clnndreu                                                    gr.dhad
VENEZUELA                                                               r
VEGEZELGrer    i               ST. GEORGE
Chacch-hr  'rdI SE                                \  \                                  'ST  ANDREW!
sIerrA                          ,        fES TCcu ae            EAST]            )  I        ) MlrySlb
I  lc,nasirr Jnah5rita  gorinacw eUg><_> 
Pnrrcn    6L'\. _           egre  Grand.
Trinidad cp7c
Chg--raa0         d-nndvilb  (        .'                  UpprManaanilla                0         5         10       ISMILES
-5,05'0                                                                                                                                                  C       R  \    ,$   1a    & [| 0  5    1 0    I S    20    25 KILOMETERS
,        0Fraeporr            ' \z, f)  ,                         ''
Califorar= SFIanagit Town / 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~; t ThlIe hounder,,, colors, denarn,aatioasca andry other irfornrcticar
eAan a thi/ .op do ..t ir.ply, car thre pert oP Th. Wcld Bank G-op,
aay j.dqra,, a- tha Ieasau oP er1-oritay, cr-y ..d-o... nen
PoinzzIsas t   T:rtuggv    - ;  '   5   i                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or ecrepterrce a sacIrboundaries.
Claxion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Bay.d  h  r
GctaaPt.
;,, _pBusycryner <, tt St ~~~~~~~~~~JasePh                                                                     60-30'
Pci  Vcu                               I CTOal ilaR ,'N  A          V    /          tCla                                                    NT     S
San Pnread       ,. ,r              Tcblal            Ria Clara           i   Pierrenill,                                                   OMN
)r    ishiaz<                e VIC' O-R   MAYARO                          ab,4 r.                                     BRADOa
P.i.i Farlin                                                                          j  ~~1         
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. T,B.-o                                                                       P.re  PAN9. .  A
Ful.,t-D                San F-:iquE                                                                                                                        C O L O M S I A    \                       7
olumbus            Chonnel                                                                                               IIAIIIrC nti
-10- 0'                                                     61 930'                                                              61-,00'    10,00'                                             
a' aAPR" 20C
CedrcaPt.  ST.  PATRIC~~~~~~~~;Pc~~~a    boaas~~~rr,                           -   Galsera Pr.    PM100A.                   VENEZUELA~~~~~~~~~~~



