Page  1
December 26, 1995
His Excellency Trevor Sudama
Minister of Planning and Development
Eric Williams Plaza
Port of Spain
Trinidad and Tobago
Re.:
Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Project
(Loan No. 3432 TR) - 2nd. Amendment
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) between the Republic of Trinidad 
and Tobago (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) dated July 10, 1992, as amended in April 28, 1994. We are pleased to inform you of our 
agreement to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 of the Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a) ‘CARICOM’ means the Caribbean Common Market created by the  General 
Treaty for the Caribbean Community signed at Chaguaramas, Trinidad and 
Tobago, on July 4, 1970 by 
Antigua, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, 
Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. 
Kitts-Nevis-Anguille, St. Lucia, St. 
Vincent and 
Trinidad and Tobago;
(b) ‘CARIRI’ means Caribbean Industrial Research Institute established by the 
Caribbean 
Industrial Research Institute Act, Chap. 85:52, as amended to the date of  
this Agreement;
(c) ‘CARIRI Contractual Arrangement’ means the Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CARIRI pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement;
Page  2
(d) ‘CARIRI Strategic Plan’ means the 1990-1994 plan for institutional 
development, approved by CARIRI's Board of Management on March 20, 1990;
(e) ‘Central Bank’ means the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago established by 
the Central Bank Act, Chap. 79:02, as amended to the  date of this 
Agreement;
(f) ‘CET’ means Common External Tariff, the system of tariff structure 
developed by agreement among member states of CARICOM;
(g) ‘CFDD’ means the Borrower’s Chemistry, Food and Drug Division;
(h) ‘Charter’ means the law, charter or other legal instrument or document  
establishing  or governing the operations of Financial Intermediary (as such term is 
hereinafter defined;
(i)  ‘ ETAF Guidelines’ means the operating guidelines formarly known in the 
original version of this Agreement as the EDC Guidelines and referred to in 
paragraph 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement;
(j) ‘Facility Loan’ means a loan or loans made by the Central Bank, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, to a Financial Intermediary (as such term is hereinafter defined) 
pursuant 
to Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(k) ‘Financial Intermediary’ means: (i) any commercial bank or other financial 
institution licensed 
to operate under the laws of Trinidad and Tobago, which, having been 
certified or re-certified by the 
Borrower's Inspector of Banks as meeting 
performance and eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Bank, is 
authorized to participate in 
the carrying out 
of Part A of the Project; or (ii) any other financial 
institution 
acceptable to the Bank for purposes of participating in the carrying out of Part A of  the 
Project;
(l) ‘Free-Limit Subloan’ means any Subloan referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement;
(m) ‘Investment Enterprise’ means a private enterprise to which a Financial 
Intermediary 
proposes to make or has made a Subloan;
(n) ‘Investment Project’ means a specific development project to be carried out by 
an 
Investment Enterprise in any sector of the Borrower's economy  (except 
primary production of oil, gas, 
agriculture commodities or livestock) utilizing the 
proceeds of a Subloan and consisting of acquisition of 
inputs, fixed assets and 
provision of ` permanent working capital;
Page  3
(o) ‘MOF’ means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(p) ‘MOPAD’ means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Development;
(q) ‘Participating Agreement’ means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the 
Central Bank on behalf of the Borrower and a Financial Intermediary 
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) (i) of 
this Agreement;
(r) ‘PN Paper’ means the paper dated May 1991, entitled Priority Needs in 
Trinidad and 
Tobago's Industrial Infrastructure, which comprises main activities for the 
improvement of standards, 
testing services and quality control in the Borrower's 
industrial sector, as such paper may be 
amended from time to time;
(s) ‘RSU’ means the Restructuring Support Unit established within MOPAD;
(t) ‘Special Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(u) ‘Statement of Policy’ means the Central Bank's statement of lending policy for 
purposes of 
Part A of the Project, transmitted to the Bank on November 19, 1991, as 
may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(v) ‘Subloan’ means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for the 
financing of an Investment Project;
(w) ‘TIDCO’ means Tourism and Industrial Development Company, a company 
established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Act No. 4 of 1995;
(x) ‘TIDCO Contractual Arrangement’ means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 
(d) of this Agreement;
(y) ‘TCPD’ means Town and Country Planning Division, a division on MOPAD;
(z) ‘TT$’ means Trinidad and Tobago dollars, the currency of the  Borrower;
(aa) ‘TT$ Rate’ means the weighted average of the nominal interest rates on six 
month time TT$ 
deposits in the Borrower’s territory;
(bb) ‘TTBS’ means the Borrower's Bureau of Standards, a statutory body 
established by the 
Standards Act, Chap. 82:03, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(cc) ‘TTBS Contractual Arrangement’ means the agreement to be entered into 
between the 
Borrower and TTBS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Page  4
Agreement;
(dd) ‘TTBS Plan’ means the 1990-1992 rolling plan for institutional development, 
approved by 
TTBS Standards Council on June 20, 1990; and
(ee) ‘US$DRT Rate’ means the weighted average of the nominal interest rates on 
six month 
time Dollar deposits in the Borrower’s territory.”
2. 
Wherever they appear in the Agreement, the terms “dollars,” “EDC,” “CD Rate” and “free 
limit” are replaced  with the terms “Dollars,” “TIDCO” “TT$ Rate” and “Free Limit,” 
respectively. Exception is made in respect to Section 3.06 and 3.08 of the Agreement, where the 
term “EDC Guidelines” is substituted by the term “ETAF Guidelines.”
3.
Section 3.01 of the Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement shall: (i) carry out Part A of the Project 
through the Central Bank; (ii) cause TIDCO to carry out or cause to be carried out Parts B, C.2 
(b) and D.5 of the Project; (iii) carry out Parts C.1. C.2 (a) and (c), D.4, D.6 (b) and D.7 of the 
Project through MOPAD; (iv) carry out Parts D.3 and D.6 (a) of the Project through MOF; (v) 
cause TTBS to carry out Part D.1 of the Project; and (vi) cause CARIRI  to carry out Part D.2 
of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
environmental, administrative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with TTBS providing for:
(i)
the transfer, on a grant basis, of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part 
D.1 of the Project to TTBS for purposes of carrying out such Part; and
(ii)
the obligation of TTBS to carry out Part D.1 of the Project in accordance 
with the objectives set forth in the TTBS Plan and PN Paper and with the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with CARIRI providing for:
(i)
the transfer, on a grant basis, of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part 
D.2 of the Project to CARIRI for purposes of carrying out such Part; and
(ii)
the obligation of CARIRI to carry out Part D.2 of the Project in 
Page  5
accordance with the objectives set forth in the CARIRI Strategic Plan and 
PN Paper and with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
(d) 
For the purposes of Section 3.01 (a) (ii) above, the Borrower shall enter into an 
agreement with TIDCO, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for: 
(i)
the provision to TIDCO of the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required to enable TIDCO to carry out Parts B, C.2 (b) and D.5 
of the Project, including the transfer, on a grant basis, of the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated for such Parts of the Project; 
 (ii) 
the obligation of TIDCO to carry out Parts B, C.2 (b) and D.5 of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate technical, environmental, administrative and financial 
practices, and, with respect to Part B of the Project, also in accordance 
with operating guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) 
the obligation of TIDCO to maintain, at all times during the execution of 
the Project, sufficient staff, with qualifications and experience acceptable 
to the Bank, to be responsible for promoting TIDCO’s assistance to export 
enterprises pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the TTBS Contractual Arrangement, 
the CARIRI Contractual Arrangement and the TIDCO Contractual Arrangement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, 
amend, 
abrogate or waive the TTBS Contractual Arrangement, the CARIRI Contractual Arrangement, or 
the TIDCO Contractual Arrangement or any  provision thereof.
(f)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall: (i) maintain throughout the Project the RSU to be managed by a project director 
who shall have experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, such RSU to have 
functions and responsibilities, in respect of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, including 
responsibility for: (A) communicating with the Bank on all aspects of the Project; (B) 
coordinating and monitoring the activities of TIDCO, TTBS and CARIRI in respect of the 
Project and certifying the eligibility of their expenditures under the Project; (C)preparing 
semi-annual reports on the progress of the Project; (D) providing advice and facilitating 
administrative arrangements for timely procurement of goods and hiring of consultants required 
for the Project; (E) obtaining from the Central Bank semi-annual 
reports in respect of the 
execution of Part A of the Project; and (F) retaining consultants and procuring goods to carry out 
training and advisory activities, and studies for CFDD, MOF, TCPD and MOPAD; and (ii) 
provide to such RSU the funds, resources and facilities as needed for the implementation of the 
Project.
(g)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Page  6
Borrower shall maintain throughout the execution of the Project a Project coordinator at CFDD, 
MOF and TCPD, and shall cause the Central Bank, TBS, CARIRI and TIDCO to designate their 
respective Project coordinators to be responsible for coordinating the activities to be carried out 
by each such entity; such coor-dinators to have experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to 
the Bank.”
4.
Section 3.04 of the Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
“Section 3.04. (a) (i) The Borrower through the Central Bank shall enter into an  
agreement, the terms and conditions of which shall have been approved by the Bank, with each 
Financial Intermediary whereby the Borrower, through the Central Bank, shall lend such amount 
or amounts of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A of the Project as the Financial 
Intermediary shall require to make Subloans; (ii) the Participating Agreement shall provide, inter 
alia, for: (A) an interest rate to be charged to the Financial Intermediary which shall be: (1) for 
Facility Loans denominated in Dollars a rate equivalent to the US$DRT Rate or such  other rate 
that the Borrower and the Bank my agree upon; and (2) for Facility Loans denominated in TT$ 
a
rate equivalent to the TT$ Rate adjusted 
upwards by a premium to reflect the avoided cost 
of reserve requirements, or such other rate as may be agreed upon between the Borrower  and the 
Bank as a result of the review 
referred to in Section 3.11 (a) of this Agreement; (B) repayment 
of principal by the Financial Intermediary in no more than 15 years including therein up to 5 
years of grace;  (C) the Financial Intermediary’s obligation to follow and apply, in respect 
Subloans, the procedures and the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(D) the financial intermediary’s obligation to maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to identify, in respect of Subloans, the purposes for which 
Subloans were made, 
the amounts loaned, lending terms applied and debt-service performance of the  Investment 
Enterprises, and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of the Financial Intermediary; and (E) the authorization by 
the Financial Intermediary for the Central Bank or the Borrower's Inspector of Banks to share 
with the Bank information relevant to the certification or re-
certification of the Financial 
Intermediary.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to exercise its rights under each 
Participating Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Participating Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to publish, at least monthly, in its 
publicly available statistical summaries: (i) the prevailing weighted averages of the interest rates 
on TT$ time deposits for various terms (including their respective ranges) set by commercial 
banks in the Borrower’s territory, including the TT$ Rate; and (ii) the prevailing weighted 
averages of the interest rates on Dollar time deposits for various terms (including their respective 
ranges) set by commercial banks in the Borrower’s territory, including, the US$DRT Rate.”
5.
In Section 3.10 (a) of the Agreement the date “September 30, 1992” is substituted by “June 
Page  7
30, 1996.”
6. 
In Section 3.10 (b) of the Agreement the date “June 30, 1995” is substituted by “December 
31, 1996.”
7. 
Section 5.01 (a), (b) and (c) and (e) of the Agreement are amended in their entirety to read 
as follows:
“(a)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that TTBS, 
CARIRI, TIDCO will be able to perform their respective obligations under their respective 
contractual Arrangements.
(b)
TTBS, CARIRI or TIDCO shall not have performed their respective obligations 
under the TTBS Contractual Arrangement, the CARIRI Contractual Arrangement or the IDCO 
Contractual Arrangement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction in the Borrower's territory 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TTBS, CARIRI, 
TIDCO or a Financial Intermediary or for the suspension of the operations of any of them.
(e)
The nominal interest rates on time deposits, as published by the Central Bank 
pursuant to Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement, and the lending rates charged by 
commercial 
banks and other financial institutions shall have ceased, in the opinion of the Bank, to be freely 
determined by the commercial banks or the other financial institutions, as the case may be.
8.
Schedule 1 is amended in its entirety as set forth in the Annex to this letter of amendment.
9.
In Part B of the Project the expression “outside of the CARICOM” is deleted.
10.
In Part C.1 (a) (iv) of the Project the expression “in South-West Tobago, Pt. Lisas and 
Chaguaramas” is deleted.
11. 
Part C.2 of the Project is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
“2.
Studies:
(a)
to clarify options for the development and diversification of the steel industry;
(b)
to improve the effectiveness of the Borrower's investment regime and define and 
implement a foreign investment promotion strategy; and
(c) 
to assist in the: (i) restructuring of public enterprises; and (ii) management of the 
Page  8
Borrower’s trade and financial regimes.”
12.
In Part D.2 of the Project the expression “services in the areas of chemicals and 
non-metallic minerals” is substituted by “its services to industry.”
13.
In Part D.2 of the Project new paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 are added as follows:
          “4.
Strengthening RSU’s Project administration capacity.
5.
Strengthening TIDCO’s institutional capacity.
6. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower’s agencies 
involved in: (a) financial management; and (b) the  management 
of trade.
7.
Upgrading and expansion of the testing capacity of the Borrower’s 
Chemistry, Food and Drug Division by improving its 
laboratories.”
14. 
Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 to the Agreement are amended in their 
entirety to read as follows:
“1. Goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of Subloans under Part A of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with commercial practices in the Borrower’s territory.
2. Goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract for Parts C and 
D
of
the Project, may be procured, under contracts awarded through limited international bidding 
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from  qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and 
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 
thereof).
3. Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000 for Parts C and D of the Project, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited  
from suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.”.
15. 
Section II of Schedule 4 to the Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
16.
In paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 6 to the Agreement, the reference to paragraph 3 (a) is 
substituted by reference to paragraph 4 (a).”
Page  9
17. 
Paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 6 to the Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
“(b) the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a Free-Limit Subloan and 
such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which 
the Bank shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 4 (b) of this 
Schedule in respect of such Free-Limit Subloan.”
18.
A new Paragraph 3 is added to Schedule 6 of the Agreement to read as follows:
“3. 
For the purposes of this Agreement, a Free-Limit Subloan shall be a Subloan for 
an 
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which 
shall not exceed the sum of $1,500,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts 
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amount being 
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank; provided however 
that is 
the first two Sub-loans presented by each Financial Intermediary following its initial certification 
or re-certification, as the case may be, shall be subject to the procedures of 
paragraph 2 
(a) above.”
19.
Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Schedule 6 of the Agreement are renumbered as paragraphs 4 and 
5.
20. 
In the new paragraph 4 (a) (ii) of Schedule 6 of the Agreement  the expression “, 
including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan” is deleted.
21. 
In the new paragraph 4 (b) (ii) of Schedule 6 of the Agreement  the expression “, 
including the schedule of amortization thereof” is deleted.
22.
In paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 7 of the Agreement  the sentence “ Such expenditures, 
however, shall qualify as Eligible Expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize 
such withdrawals” is deleted.
For your reference a non-official consolidated version of the Agreement incorporating all 
the changes referred to above is enclosed.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating both 
originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  This amendment 
shall enter into effect on the date of receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by 
you.
Sincerely Yours
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  10
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Jonathan Parker
Acting Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
By:
Brian Kuei Tung
Authorized Representative
Date: March 27, 1996
ANNEX 
“SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expendi-tures for items so to be financed in 
each Category:
Category
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent)
% of
Expenditures
to be Financed
(1)
Subloans
15,000,000
85% of the amounts 
disbursed under a 
Subloan made within 
the first 36 months 
after the compliance 
with the condition 
referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) (v) 
of this Schedule; 
and 75% of the 
amounts disbursed 
under a Subloan made 
thereafter
Page  11
(2)
Goods for:
(a) Parts C.1, 
D.1 to D.4 and 
D.6 of the 
Project 
(including 
installation 
thereof)
1,638,500
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures(ex-factor
y cost) and 70% of 
local expenditures for 
imported goods 
procured locally
(b) Part D.7 of 
the Project 
(including 
installation 
thereof)
198,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures(ex-factor
y cost) and 70% of 
local expenditures for 
imported goods 
procured locally
Page  12
Category
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent)
% of
Expenditures
to be Financed
(c) Part D.5 
of the Project 
(including 
installation 
thereof)
25,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures(ex-fact
ory cost) and 70% of 
local expenditures 
for imported goods 
procured locally
(3)Consultants'
services under:
(a) Part B of 
the Project 
(other than 
promotional 
expenses)
1,450,000
50%
(b) Part B of 
the Project 
(promotional 
expenses)
50,000
100%
(c) Parts C.1, 
C.2 (a) and 
(c), D.1 to 
D.4, D.6 and 
D.7 of the 
Project
3,571,000
100%
(d) Parts C.2 
(b) and D.5 of 
the Project
255,000
100%
(4) Training under:
(a) Parts D.3, 
D.4, D.6 and 
D.7 of the 
Project
126,000
100%
(b) Part D.5 of 
the Project
75,000
100%
(5) Unallocated
4,611,500
TOTAL
27,000,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
Page  13
currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than 
that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
and
(c)  the term "training" includes, inter alia: (i) all the 
necessary activities 
and acquisitions of equipment and instructional 
materials for the training to 
be provided under the Project; (ii) 
production of training materials; (iii) rental 
of training 
facilities; (iv) transportation expenses of trainees to the place 
where 
training is provided and subsistence expenses for such 
trainees; (v) 
scholarships and fellowships for training courses to 
be provided in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad; and (vi) study 
tours in the Borrower's territory 
or abroad.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments for 
expendi-tures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) a Subloan 
unless: (i) at least two Participating Agreements have been entered 
into by the parties thereto; (ii) the Subloan has been made in 
accordance with the Statement of Policy, and the procedures and the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; (iii) the Bank has been furnished with the Participating 
Agreement relating thereto; (iv) the Financial Intermediary making the 
Sub-loan is complying with the agreed performance and eligibility 
criteria; and (v) progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been made by 
the Borrower in formulating proposals for the reform of its financial 
system by strengthening its regulatory framework, provided, however, 
that, after an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,500,000 has been 
committed with respect to Subloans, no further approvals or 
authorizations in respect of Subloans, as provided in paragraph 4 (a) 
and (b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, may be granted by the Bank, 
unless further progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been made by 
Page  14
the Borrower in the implementation of such reform of its financial 
system; (c) Categories 2 (c), 3 (a), (b) and (d) and 4 (b) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the TIDCO 
Contractual Arrangement has been entered into under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the ETAF Guidelines have been 
amended in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (d) Category 2 (b) 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Bank 
has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has 
adopted a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of Part 
D.7 of the Project.
4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under 
contracts for goods, works and consultants' services costing less than 
the equivalent of: (i) $1,500,000 in the case of goods and works 
(other than the first contract awarded under Part C. 1 of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and submitted by each Financial 
Intermediary, and for the first two contracts awarded under Part C.3 
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (ii) $100,000 in the 
case of consulting firms' services; and (iii) $50,000 in the case of 
individual consultants' services; and (b) made under Category (4) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.”
