Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16626
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION St JPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3834 AL)
May 30. 1997
C ountry Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Unit of Currency = Algerian Dinar (DA)
1992         1993         1994          1995       JAN 1996
DA per UJS$. period average       21.84         23.34        35.06         47.66        53.00
DA per US$, end of period        22.78         24.12        42.89         52.17         53.77
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric Svstemr
Abbreviations
AFS               Allocation Forfaitaire de Solidarite (Lump-sum Solidarity Allowance)
APSI              Agence pour la Promotion et le Soutien des Investissements (National Investment    Agency)
AIG               Activites d'lnteret General (Public Works-based Jobs Program)
13A               Banque d'Algerie (Central Bank)
BAD               Banque Alg&ienne de Developpement (Algerian Development Bank)
CNEP              Caisse d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (Household Savings Institution)
C'NT              Conseil National de la Transition (Interim Legislature)
EFSAL             Entreprise and Financial Sector Adjustment loan
FPE               Entreprise Publique Economiique (Autonomous Public Enterprise)
EPIC              Etablissement Public a caract&re Industriel et Commercial (Autonomous Public  Utility)
FPL               Enterprise Publique Locale (Local Public Emlierprise)
EPS               Entreprise Publique Socialiste (Non-autonomous Public Enterprise)
ERL               Economic Rehabilitation Loan
ERSI.             Economic Reform Support l oan
l.U               European Union
FA                Fonds d'Assainissement (Restructuring Fund)
IAIG              Indeninite pour Activite d'lnteret General (Public Works Allowance)
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICSR              Indemniite aux Categories Sociales sans Revenus (Direct Transfer Payment to
Households without Income)
LSMS              Living Standards Measurement Survey
MRIP              Ministere de la Restructuration Industrielle et de la Participation (Ministry of
Industrial Restructuring and Participation)
OAIC              Office Algerien Interprofessionel dcs Cer&alcs (National Cereals Board)
P'E               Public Enterprise
PEC-1988          Progranmnie en Cours 1988 (Program of Plublic Enterprise Investments as of 1988)
P'ER              Public Expenditure Review
PSA               Private Sector Assessment
SGG               Secretairc General du Gouvernerment (Secretary General of the Government)
SME               Small and Medium-scale Enterprise
Vice President:                                  Keinal Dervis
Director:                                        Daniel Ritchie
Division Chief:                                  Christian Delvoie
Staff Member:                                    Habib Fetini. Country Economist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3834 AL)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ................................................                                      1
B. Achievement of Objectives .................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................4
D. Project Sustainability .................................................5
E.  Bank Performance .................................................5
F.  Borrower Performance .................................................6
G. Assessment of Outcome .................................................6
H. Future Operation .................................................7
I.   Key Lessons Learned .................................................8
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment ................................................                         10
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans ................................................                            12
Table 3:   Project Timetable ................................................                             13
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................... 14
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................................... 15
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................  26
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ................................................                   27
Table 8A: Project Costs .................................................                                  28
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................                              28
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................                   28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................                      29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................... 31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................                   32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................                       33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3834 AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Rehabilitation Support
Loan in Algeria, for whicih Loan 3834-AL in the amount of US$150 million was approved on January 26,
1995 and made effective on March 28, 1995.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1996, compared with the original date of December 31,
1996. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by July 18, 1995.
This ICR was prepared by Habib Fetini, Sr. Country Economist of the Country Operations
Division, Maghreb and Iran Department, Project Manager. Steven R. Tabor. consultant, contributed to
the preparation of this report. It was reviewed by Christian Delvoie, Chief, Country Operations Division
(MN ICO), Rene Costa, Project Advisor (MN IDR), and James Parks, Sr. Economist (EC4CH) who was
the original task manager of the operation. The draft ICR was communicated to the Government for
comments .
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's mission in October 1996. It is based on
material in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing views,
and , providing requested data, preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution. The preparation
of the SAL operation, which followed directly this project, was also the occasion for thorough
discussions of the ERL project and constituted the basis for the evaluation of the completion of this
project.






ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
Loan 3834 AL
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
Evaluation Summary
i.    Introduction. The legacy of socialist central planning and the 1986 decline in international
petroleum prices set Algeria on a course of sharp and severe economic decline. During 1987-1991, the
authorities began the process of transformation. The Bank assisted this process through two adjustment
operations. During 1992-93, popular discontent brought policy reform to a halt and much of the progress
achieved in earlier years was reversed. By the start of 1994, Algeria could no longer meet its external
debt obligations, external creditworthiness was impaired, inflation accelerated and, as imports were
restricted to free resources for debt repayments, output rapidly contracted. An IMF Standby operation
was concluded and the authorities indicated their willingness to implement a far-reaching stabilization
and structural reforms program.
ii.    Project Objectives. The objectives of this project were (i) to help the authorities define and
implement policy reforms to accelerate the transition to a market economy; and (ii) to contribute to, and
help mobilize, the external financing necessary to restore growth and enable bolder reforms. In close
collaboration with the IMF, support was provided for a range of macroeconomic initiatives aimed at
stabilizing the economy. Structural measures, aimed at restoring sustained growth, were supported in the
areas of trade liberalization, private sector development, privatization, restructuring of the public
enterprise sector, public expenditure reform, financial sector reform and the strengthening of the social
protection system.
iii.    The project's overall objectives were appropriate in light of Algeria's urgent need to address
mounting external payment imbalances and to restore policy reform momentum. Continued efforts to
rehabilitate loss-making state enterprises as a prelude to privatization was inconsistent with Bank
experience in transition economies. However, it should be recognized that undertaking an accelerated
privatization process under the exceptionally violent security and political turmoil in 1994 was a near
impossible alternative at that time. The sequencing of trade market liberalization prior to more
meaningful steps towards privatization and internal market deregulation to generate a sufficient supply
response appears also inconsistent with the aims of restoring sustainable macro-economic stabilization
and growth.
iv.    Implementation Experience and Results. This project has a satisfactory outcome, because the
macroeconomic reforms supported by the loan have been largely and successfully implemented, the
momentum of structural reforms have been restored, and the international community has provided
Algeria with the financial support needed to restore its external payments position and to undertake more
ambitious reforms. Unanticipated improvements in Algeria's external economic environment have
helped the country rebuild external reserves and offset the income loss typically associated with the
adoption of tight fiscal and monetary policies.
v.     Project macroeconomic and structural reforms were implemented significantly. In areas such as
trade liberalization and subsidy removal, the Government exceeded commitments made under the



- ii -
project. Government deregulated de novo entry in the banking sector, the insurance market and through
the passage of a modified investment law, significantly enhanced opportunities for private sector
participation. But "non-hydrocarbon" private investment has yet to materialize because of the difficult
civil security situation, financial market distress and the still dominant role that public enterprises play.
vi.    Privatization efforts were launched in this project, but implementation experience was mixed. A
privatization law was passed, but quickly has proved to be rigid and deficient. Five hotels were put up
for sale, but bids were received only on one. Government learned from these failures, and subsequent
steps have been taken to widen the privatization scope and improve significantly the privatization
legislation under a follow-up structural adjustment operation.
vii.   Although prudential regulations in the banking sector were tightened, the extent of the distress in
the state banks exceeded expectations. Over 40% of the banks' loan portfolios was bought back by the
Treasury over the 1994-96 period. Only one of the state banks was able to meet capital adequacy
requirements, and was granted full accreditation by the central bank under the new law on Money and
credit. Still, the State Banks began to lend at positive real interest rates and a more comprehensive plan
for bank rehabilitation was adopted.
viii.   The Government's demonstrated a high degree of commitment to the design and implementation
of this project, despite the hazards posed by a very difficult domestic security situation. The Government
organized tripartite meetings with the Unions and the enterprise managers in order to create widespread
ownership and understanding of project reforms. Throughout the project, the Government provided its
cooperation to the Bank. Gaps in economic statistics, institutional weaknesses and the difficult security
situation hampered Government's attempts to assess the impact of program reforms.
ix.    Special studies were conducted of public expenditures, of the private sector, of options for
liberalizing banking, of living standards and of poverty alleviation options. These studies made an
important contribution to Government's attempts to define and deepen the reform effort. A great number
of the recommendations made in the studies were adopted and reflected either in the 1996 and 1997
Budgets under the follow-up structural adjustment loan.
x.     Bank staff provided a full complement of skills and expertise in the identification and appraisal
of the project. Conditions prior to Board appraisal were well-defined and implemented in a timely
manner. Despite the fact that the supervision had to be conducted partially outside of Algeria, because of
the security situation, the Bank maintained a near-continuos policy dialogue, was able to conduct a
number of important economic studies and helped the authorities define reforms that later were
supported by a structural adjustment operation.
xi.    Despite the fact that the macroeconomic reforms have been implemented, and a good start in the
implementation of structural reforms has taken place, the sustainability of the project will remain
uncertain in the medium term. Algeria's economy will remain highly dependent on the hydrocarbon
sector in the medium term, debt relief efforts have passed-forward rather than reduced the sovereign debt
burden, and the unemployment situation still didn't improve.  Algeria's enterprise sector is still
dominated by PEs that are both unable and unlikely to react positively to a more stable and competitive
economic environment.
xii.   Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned. Despite a difficult
security situation, the Algerian Government was able to mount a major effort to stabilize the economy
and improve the environment for sustained growth. Macroeconomic balance was restored, owing largely



- ii -
to a strong government commitment to policy reforms and also to the fortuitous effects of unexpectedly
strong global petroleum  prices and good successful rainfalls.  Through this project, Government
succeeded in removing almost all remaining non-tariff barriers to external trade, eliminated price
subsidies, restrained growth in numbers and wages in the civil service, tightened the budget constraint on
the large public enterprises, deregulated access and established improved prudential regulations in the
banking sector and developed the main building blocks of a targeted social protection system. This
project marked the beginning of Government's acceptance and efforts to privatize public enterprises, and
while privatizations activities supported under this project had only limited results, it did trigger fine
tuning of the legislative and administrative framework for further reform. The main reasons for this
project's success are the commitment by the new Government to restoring the reform momentum, a well-
staffed Bank project preparation effort, and. in light of the security situation, the ready adoption by both
the Bank and Government of creative and sometimes difficult mechanisms for project supervision and
provision of external expertise.
xiii.   Reform initiatives that were based on the findings of studies commissioned during the project,
such as the private sector assessment and the public expenditure review, were rapidly adopted by
Government. Special studies have helped to define and broaden the scope of reforms, particularly in the
area of public expenditure reform, financial sector liberalization, privatization and development of the
social protection system.
xiv.   The key lessons from this project are: (i) that a single-tranche, rapid disbursing adjustment
operation is a good vehicle for restoring policy reform momentum after a hiatus period because it allows
the authorities to demonstrate their intention to make progress without committing either the borrower or
the bank to what would have been an incomplete reform agenda; (ii) that the adverse security situation
significantly complicates, but does not preclude a successful adjustment operation, although reform
measures that rely heavily on external technical inputs probably should not be included; and (iii)
macroeconomic reforms and measures aimed at liberalizing trade and the external sector have proven far
easier to achieve than have measures to privatize and deregulate the domestic economy, but without
significant progress in privatization and deregulation, the positive effects of external reforms will be
muted.






Part I
Project Implementation Assessment






A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
I.    The macroeconomic imbalances that triggered the need for adjustment assistance under this
project arise first and foremost from inherent faults in Algeria's socialist economic model. The failure to
adjust promptly to the decline in petroleum prices in 1986 and the reversal of economic reform efforts
during the 1992-1993 period triggered severe external payment imbalances. But these imbalances came
after a decade of economic decline. During the decade prior to 1995, per capita income fell by close to
20 percent and unemployment rose to exceed 25 percent. Failure to foster sustained growth and
development contributed to civil instability and political unrest.
2.    In 1987, the authorities first embarked on a process of introducing market-based reforms, by
granting autonomy to most public enterprises (PEs), lifting domestic price controls, liberalizing foreign
investment, abolishing Sate import monopolies and establishing a two-tier banking system. The Bank
supported this process through policy dialogue and two adjustment operations. But in 1992 and 1993,
mounting civil unrest, falling oil prices and increased external debt service requirements triggered a
reversal of many key policy reforms. Trade and payment restrictions were tightened, the fiscal deficit
soared to 9 percent of GDP and credit was directed by Government to priority imports. Imports were
severely compressed to provide for debt service, inflation soared and the exchange rate appreciated by
nearly 50 percent, the latter contributing to a resumption of parallel market activity. By late-1993, the
authorities were unable to meet external debt obligations, inflation was approaching 30 percent, import-
access bottlenecks were disrupting manufacturing supply and gross official reserves provided less than
two months of import cover.
3.     By 1994, the urgency of the macroeconomic situation prompted the authorities to accelerate the
pace of reform. The authorities and the IMF entered into a one-year stand-by arrangement on May 27,
1994 for a total of SDR 731.52 million (US$1 billion). The stand-by program, formulated in close
consultation with the Bank, involved a substantial devaluation and reform of the exchange rate regime,
trade liberalization, domestic price liberalization. fiscal deficit reduction, monetary restraint and trade
liberalization. Resumption of the policy reform process led to the release of the US$175 million second
tranche of the Bank's EFSAL in July 1994. This then triggered the release of an additional US$150
million from the Export-Import Bank of Japan. Following approval of the stand-by arrangement, the
European Union released ECU 150 million in balance of payments support and the Government reached
agreement with the Paris Club to reschedule its public debt, resulting in a reduction in 1994/1995 debt
service obligations by close to US$3.5 billion. This, in turn, triggered, resumption of talks with the
London Club commercial bank creditors to reschedule US$2 billion in debt service obligations due in
1994 and 1995.
4.     The Economic Restructuring Loan was based on the macroeconomic measures outlined in IMF
stand-by arrangement, structural reforms initiated in the two prior adjustment operations and on reforms
identified through intensive policy dialogue and economic sector work, summarized in Report No.
12048-AL: The Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria: Country Economic Memorandum: The
Transition to a Market Economy. The project's objectives were to (i) help the authorities define and
implement policy reforms to accelerate the transition to a market economy; and (ii) contribute to, and
help mobilize, the international community's efforts to provide the external financing required to restore
growth and enable bolder economic reform. The operation was designed to renew the Bank's efforts to
support stabilization and structural adjustment through policy and institutional reform in the areas of
private sector development, privatization, restructuring of the Public Enterprise (PE) sector, public
expenditure reform, financial sector reform, and the strengthening of the social protection system.



- 2 -
5.     The program  design reflected more the authorities urgent need to restore macroeconomic
stability through conventional means than to undertake far-reaching structural reform --which were
supported subsequently by a SAL operation and a Fund EFF program-- although important items, such as
privatization and civil service wage restraint, were put on the reform agenda for the first time. The
relatively small share of Algeria's overall external financing burden assumed by the Bank was a
reflection of the Bank's catalytic role in mobilizing other sources of external assistance and also of the
need to ensure that there was, in fact, country commitment to the economic transition process. Continued
emphasis in the project on financial restructuring of distressed public enterprises and state banks, as a
prelude to privatization, appears to be inappropriate in light of Bank experience with transition. Such
experience suggests that such efforts yield little efficiency improvement and only tend to socialize PE
losses. The sequencing of trade and financial market liberalization prior to more meaningful efforts to
privatize and deregulate the domestic economy appears to be inconsistent with the desired improvements
in resource allocation and supply response .
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.     Overall, and judged by the objectives defined during its preparation, the project's outcome is
satisfactory. The project substantially achieved its macroeconomic, sector, financial and public sector
management policy objectives and partially achieved its institutional and financial development
objectives. The project made a substantial contribution to restoring reform momentum and credibility,
and in so doing, renewed the Bank's effort to assist Algeria in its efforts to stabilize and reform the
economy.
7.     Macroeconomic framework. Macroeconomic measures were fully implemented. The exchange
rate was managed flexibly and external competitiveness maintained, import restrictions were eased, the
tax base broadened, the public wage bill substantially reduced, the fiscal deficit reduced, bank interest
rates were deregulated, tight credit ceilings were adhered to by the banks and the public enterprises, and
government subsidies for energy and food products were sharply pruned back. Growth rebounded to 4.4
percent in 1995 and 3.8 percent in 1996, inflation decelerated to 22 percent in 1995 and 10 percent by
March 1997, and official reserves increased from 2 to more than 5 months of import cover. In addition to
prudent macroeconomic policies and exceptional financing support, excellent weather conditions and an
upturn in petroleum prices made a significant contribution to the improvement in the 1995 and 1996
economic performance.
8.    Incentive Framework and Private Sector Development.  Significant progress was made in
improving the investment code, decontrolling imports, scaling back transport subsidies and liberalizing
prices of essential foodstuffs. A private sector assessment helped identify binding constraints to
investment, which were then incorporated in follow-up adjustment efforts. A near-doubling of the prices
of food grain and milk product prices after project-supported price decontrol is evidence of the extent to
which past policies distorted these markets.
9.     Reform of the Public Enterprises. A privatization law was passed and a pilot privatization
program was launched. Neither worked well initially, but this experience did help chart a course for
future policy correction undertaken under the SAL operation that followed this loan. The majority of the
large, financially distressed PEs were restructured and transformed into autonomous enterprises. Their
' See John Nellis, "Reform of Public Enterprises" and Vinod Thomas, "Trade Policy Reform" in V. Thomas, A.
Chhibber, M. Dailami, and J. De Melo, editors (1991), Restructuring Economies in Distress, Oxford University
Press.



financial restructuring was done in accordance with terms agreed upon with the Bank. A number of
small, local PEs were wound-up, creating a mechanism for the exit of unviable PEs. The commercial
banking sector was opened to private participation, and a private bank and a private mutual fund society
were then licensed to operate. The major contribution of these reforms was to tighten the budgetary
constraint on the large public enterprises and to introduce privatization into the Algerian policy domain.
10.    Reform of Public Expenditures. Public expenditure support to the PEs under the Rehabilitation
Fund (FA) was wound-down and an agreement was reached to phase out the closing of this last-avenue
of budget support by end-1996, which was done on time. Government bank guarantees for PEs were
limited to the own-capital of the enterprises. A public expenditure review, implemented jointly with
Government, identified a number of measures for rationalizing public investment, reorienting the public
sector's role and improving the efficiency of service delivery.  Several of these measures were
incorporated directly in the 1996 and 1997 Budgets. Public expenditures fell from 25 percent of GDP in
1993 to 22 percent of GDP in 1995, although by restricting budget support to the PEs and rationalizing
spending, the efficiency and effectiveness of public outlays has improved.
11.    Reform of the Financial Sector. 1993 audits were completed for 3 of the 5 state banks, new
capital-adequacy requirements were applied to these banks, new prudential regulations and procedures
were adopted by the central bank (BA) including the introduction of management contracts aimed at
preserving the bank's capital. Government's monopoly in the insurance industry was eliminated. The
Bank audits revealed that the extent of portfolio distress was far greater than earlier perceived, prompting
the initiation of a multi-year refinancing and restructuring plan for the commercial banks. Efforts to
open the capital of the state banks, to subject these banks to regular audits, and to enhance the
supervision capabilities of the central bank were unsuccessful due to the lack of outside investor interest
and the constraints posed by the difficult security situation on obtaining the necessary external technical
expertise. This components main contribution was to raise Algeria's banking regulation standards to
common international norms especially in the areas of loan classification and provisioning and bank
capital adequacy. In terms of actual improvement in the payments system or in the commercial banking
environment, little real progress was registered. The pace at which the financial sector can be reformed is
hampered by the lack of private investor interest, the limited pool of experienced bank managers, access
to technical information and the poor financial outlook of most of the banking system's state-owned
corporate borrowers.
12.    Strengthening the Social Protection System Through this project, the three main elements of the
Government's social safety net, a transitory public works program, a social transfer system to the
disabled and handicapped, and an unemployment insurance system were piloted, generalized and
improved. The public works program provided employment to about 420,000 job-seekers in 1995 at
16,000 work sites.  The social transfer system  provided modest income augmentation to 43,000
household heads and 40,000 persons were covered under the unemployment insurance scheme. The
degree to which social protection reaches the growing numbers of Algerian poor is unknown. The results
of the ongoing LSMS and the Poverty Assessment Study should provide valuable lessons for the design
of more effective social protection mechanisms.
13.    Financial Transfers and Reform Momentum. This project substantially achieved its objective of
mobilizing financial resources to meet Algeria's pressing balance of payments requirements. In so
doing, the Government was able to advance the reform process and restore the momentum needed to
carry forward economic transition. On the basis of the conclusion of the Bank and IMF agreements,
Algeria was able to obtain second-tranche release of an EU Structural Adjustment Loan, was able to
secure a Japan Ex-Im bank loan for balance of payments purposes, and, most importantly, was able to



successfully reschedule its public debt, first with the Paris Club creditors in 1994 and 1995 and then with
the London Club of commercial banks in 1996. For 1995, Algeria received US$ 1.1 billion in multilateral
balance of payments support and US$4.9 billion in debt rescheduling, enabling the country to increase
imports by close to US$1 billion and run a current account deficit of US$2.24 billion. The restoration of
policy reform momentum helped inspire the Government's sweeping victory in the late-1995 Presidential
elections and underpinned the conclusion of a multi-year EFF agreement with the IMF and a Structural
Adjustment Loan with the Bank.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14.    Factors beyond government control.  Restoring macroeconomic balance was substantially
assisted by unforeseen improvements in Algeria's external economic environment. Good weather, for
two years in a row, led to double-digit growth in agricultural output and contributed to an easing of
inflationary and import pressures. Crude oil export prices reached US$20.9 per bbl in 1996, 20 percent
higher than was initially forecast. Higher oil prices led to a 20 percent increase in export values and a 3
percent of GDP increase in revenues from the oil sector. At the same time, the strengthening of the US
dollar, vis-a-vis the Yen and the Euro-currencies, helped improve the trade balance, reduced Algeria's
debt service costs and eased pressure on the budget.
15.    But while the external environment was favorable to reform, the domestic security environment
was not. Civil violence was severe in 1995. The Algerian Press estimates that around 2,000 rebels are
engaged in anti-Government operations in mid-1996, many of whom belong to the violent underground
cells of the Groupe Islamique Arme (GIA).  Bombings, assassinations and other acts of extremism
marred the 1995 and 1996 political scene. It is estimated that approximately 50,000 persons were killed
2
in acts of political violence during 1992-1996 . As a result of the deteriorating civil security situation, a
number of technical assistance activities had to be deferred or redesigned, and Government's ability to
monitor the effects of policy reform at the enterprise and household level were limited. The difficult
security situation became the most important deterrent to inward investment in the non hydrocarbons
sector--which was less effected because of its safe location-- and by extension, to mobilizing the private
financial resources necessary to privatize and restructure the enterprise and the banking sectors.
16.    Factors generally subject to government control. The authorities adopted a cautious "small-
steps-approach" to furthering the reforms, on the background of the prevailing severe civil strife and a
very high unemployment rate of around 25 percent in 1995. This has obviously contributed to the
elongation of the transition process. Meanwhile, they have actively, and quite successfully, sought the
understanding and back up of the general population through an intensive media campaign of
explanation of the main reform measures, led by the top reformers in the Government. They, rallied the
union to the reform program, and minimized its opposition to the process, even though at the price of
delaying the hard decision of layoffs of workers and paying accumulated wage arrears partially through
specific taxes on civil servant salary through a national solidarity tax scheme. It is not very obvious
though, that at the stage of the project conception and first year of implementation, under the special
conditions of the civil strife, without a solid and wide ranging social safety net, and without the political
base that has been only later on established through the presidential elections, an all privatization
approach could have been politically feasible.
2 Reported by London Economist Intelligence Unit, Country Report, 1997.



- 5 -
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The sustainability of project initiated reforms will remain uncertain over the medium run.
Reform momentum has been restored and Government's external payments position is far healthier in
1996/97 than in 1994. The good progress registered in 1995 triggered the IMF EFF agreement for the
period April 1995 to March 1998 and the Bank's structural adjustment loan of April 1996 (Loan 6855-
Al). Good rainfalls in 1995 and 1996, favorable oil price developments, and a strengthening of the dollar
vis-a-vis European currencies have provided a boost to growth and improved the Government's external
payments position. Forceful macroeconomic measures have continued with a budget surplus of 2.7
percent recorded for 1996, inflation falling to 10 percent in May 1997, foreign exchange reserves at 4
months of import cover in 1996 and continued progress towards maintaining realistic wage and exchange
rate levels. However, the depth and breadth of structural adjustment is not yet commensurate with
sustained reform, and as a result, stabilization remains fragile. Debt rescheduling efforts, while reducing
the immediate payment burden, contribute to a debt overhang that may impede future investment.
Privatization efforts are still limited, the state banks remain distressed and the manufacturing sector
continues to contract accumulating a decline of 50 percent since 1991 (-8.7 percent in 1996). Supported
by the SAL that has followed the ERL, Government has brought to the point of sale, liquidation or
concession 550 small and medium public local and communal enterprises. Half of this number has been
covered by the first tranche of the SAL. The effective privatization of this first lot has reached about 50
percent. 300 additional medium size local public enterprises are being identified to be liquidated and
about 250 large public enterprises are being identified by the Government to be privatized. Government
has thoroughly revised its privatization law easing restrictions on labor shading, permitting phased
payments, and opening the way to a wide range of privatization methods including mass privatization.
Still, privatization demand is weak, and the authorities have yet been unable to agree on a mass
privatization effort. Little durable progress has been registered in reducing the economy's dependence on
hydrocarbon revenues or in stimulating a resumption of productive employment. Poverty has intensified.
Presidential elections in November 1995 reaffirmed popular support for the Government's reform effort.
It is expected that up coming legislative elections will give the authorities more legitimacy and enable
them to undertake bolder steps in the path of reform.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
18.    Preparation. The Bank was highly involved during preparation. The skill mix of mission
members was appropriate, including macroeconomic, private sector, financial sector, social safety net,
privatization, competition and investment promotion specialists. The project built on the ongoing
EFSAL, the World Bank "Capital Market Study", completed in 1993, and a recently completed Country
Economic Memorandum. Many of the reforms proposed in the Country Economic Memorandum were
reflected in the design of the project. While preparing this operation, Bank staff maintained active
consultation with the IMF, the EU and the Government of Japan to ensure that the international
community would provide combined and coordinated financial support for the Government's reform
effort.
19.    Appraisal.  The Bank reviewed the project sufficiently. Timely implementation of the prior
conditions specified for Board submission is proof that the measures identified were realistic and that
the Bank correctly assessed Government's commitment to rapid implementation of macroeconomic and
structural reforms. The Bank over-estimated Government's ability to rationalize the state-banks and to
mount an ambitious privatization process, but information gleaned from special studies built into the
project helped provide guidance for further improvements in both areas.



- 6 -
20.    Supervision, The deteriorating security environment forced the Bank staff to rely on a variety of
remote mechanisms for supervising the project. This, plus the fact that Algerian economic statistics have
a number of gaps (e.g. on private sector activities, recent employment surveys, poverty statistics),
complicated the task of supervising an adjustment operation. Task management responsibilities were
changed during the implementation of the project, and while some learning was required, this handover
was managed smoothly. Because travel to Algeria was restricted, Bank staff were unable to directly
assess the full impact of reforms in Algeria. But despite these difficult constraints, Bank supervision was
effective in quickly resolving the relatively small number of implementation problems that arose,
providing advice and feedback on special studies and technical assistance activities, and in mounting a
number of special studies (e.g. Private Sector Assessment, Public Expenditure Review, Poverty
Assessment) that provided a foundation for future reform efforts in the framework of the SAL that
followed the ERL project.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
21.    Preparation. The borrower was deeply involved in all aspects of project preparation. The
Government cooperated actively with the Bank to articulate a reform effort that addressed major policy
and institutional impediments to economic rehabilitation to the Bank's satisfaction. The Government
organized a tripartite meeting with the Unions and the enterprise managers in order to create widespread
ownership and understanding of project reforms. During preparation, the Government identified gaps in
information and understanding and established a program of special studies and technical assistance to
address these needs.
22.   Implementation. The borrowers performance during implementation was commendable in light
of the difficult domestic security situation. Macroeconomic and most of the structural reform measures
were implemented in a timely fashion. The highest levels of Government leadership were committed to
making this project a success. However, the borrower's ability to manage the policy reform
implementation effort was weakened by the long-standing lack of: (i) timely and accurate data on
private sector activity and standards of living; (ii) the chronic lack of a unified Government budget
document; (iii) an inability to obtain international audits of major PEs and commercial banks; and (iv)
insufficient technical exposure to privatization, financial sector restructuring and social safety net reform
efforts in other transition settings. The Government responded to requests tor information from the Bank,
except some delays in the case of its survey of living conditions, which delayed the formulation of
poverty reduction to improve the effectiveness of the social safety net measures.
23.    Covenant compliance. The Government was not in violation of any specific covenants defined
in the loan agreement. The goods and services financed by the Bank were procured according to
procurement procedures and eligibility criteria consistent with that defined in the loan document.
Records of eligible imports were provided to the Bank and a financial monitoring system for the project
was established. Regular economic reports were furnished to the Bank in accordance with the indicators
defined in the President's Report.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
24.    The project has a satisfactory outcome, because it has achieved its major objectives and, despite
problems encountered, is expected to achieve satisfactory development results.  Tight fiscal and
monetary policies have been maintained, the balance of payments has improved, trade liberalization and
price decontrol have become well-engrained, opportunities to broaden entry in banking and insurance
have been exploited, recourse to the budget by the PEs has been sharply reduced, and the basic



- 7-
framework for a social safety net that targets income protection to the poor has been put in place. But on
the other hand, the expected supply response from improvements in public policy has not been fully
realized. Growth in the hydrocarbon and agriculture sectors continues apace, but development in the
other sectors remain insufficient, in particular in the manufacturing sector --dominated by public
enterprises-- which continued contracting. While immediate pressures on the current account have eased,
Algeria debt service requirements will resume and then steadily rise by the end of the decade.
25.    Development Results. Efforts to restore sustained growth and employment generation hinge very
much on the transformation of a public-enterprise dominated economy to one with a solid core of private
sector entrepreneurs. This project pilot-tested a number of privatization efforts wlhich did not work as
expected.  Government has, however, learned important lessons from  this, and has subsequently
improved the enabling legislation, liquidated more non-viable small public enterprises and has combined
the major PEs into 11 holding companies. Still, the degree to which a meaningful privatization process,
with a defined implementation time table, will actually take place is unknowin. Neither a decade of
falling incomes or Algeria's difficult security environment provides an environment conducive to the
sale of large Government companies. Other means of ownership transformation will be required. It is
important to underscore that, without meaninigful progress in privatization, the durability of both
Algeria's macroeconomic performance and its structural reforms aimed at rationalizing the budget,
strengthening the financial sector and expanding the scope for private sector activity are in question.
26.    Poverty Reduction.  Elimination of price subsidies for fuel, transport and basic foodstuffs
caused a near-doubling of the prices of a number of essential items. Real wages fell, unemployment
increased and employment growth is still lagging the increase in new entrants to the labor force. Social
safety net measures, while providing some income support, did not offset the loss in incomes or
employment opportunities available to the poor. Preliminary results from the Poverty Assessment Study
suggest that poverty intensified during this period, although good crop harvests helped abate the most
serious consequences of declining real incomes. That poverty has intensified suggests that popular
support for further structural reform may be difficult to maintain, unless improvements are made in the
social protection system, privatization is accelerated and reforms ained at augmenting employment and
incomes of the very poor are placed high on the policy reform agenda.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
27.    Measures initiated under this project have been furthier advanced through a Structural
Adjustment Loan (6855-AL) of April 4, 1996. That loan is aimed at contributing to macroeconomic
stabilization and reform of public expenditures, further public enterprise reform and private sector
development including small-scale privatization efforts, and support for the social protection system. In
recognition of the depth and severity of the unemployment and poverty problem, the Bank is initiating a
study of Algeria's labor market with the objective of identifying ways and means of stimulating
productive employment creation. More comprehensive reform of the financial sector will require a better
understanding of the portfolio and management problems of Algeria's state banks, and this will require
further attempts to enhance technical skills and introduce professional auditing, accounting and
supervision capacity. More importantly, statutory constraints on bank privatization need to be removed.
Meanwhile, efforts will be needed to improve the payments system, whose obsolescence severely
constrains the expansion of bank services and reduces the attractiveness of the banking sector for private
investors.
28.    The macroeconomic progress registered in 1995 and 1996 hinges very much on a number of
what are likely to be transitory factors, most notably higher petroleum prices and good weather. Debt



- 8-
rescheduling has only delayed the point at which the Government will have to resume large-scale
external debt service payments and during the process of PE and bank restructuring, the Government's
domestic debt burden increased significantly. In the long-term. without a substantial improvement in
growth and creditworthiness, Algeria's public debt burden may not be sustained. Careful monitoring of
the domestic and external debt situation is therefore warranted.
I.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.    Prior to this operation, the Government's economic management strategy was premised on the
notion that the existing economic system could be gradually reformed, albeit by providing some scope
for market competition. A fundamental transformation of the economic system was deemed unnecessary.
This loan succeeded in changing that perspective. The use of a single-tranche, rapid disbursing operation
was an appropriate instrument with which to restore policy reform momentum and to introduce hitherto
sancrosact items, such as privatization, the opening-up of the banking sector, civil service wage restraint
and targeted provision of income transfers to the poor onto the Government's reform agenda. The use of
a single-tranche operation helped affirm the need to accelerate the reform of the economic system
without committing either the Bank or the authorities to a multi-year implementation program at a time
when only a relatively conservative and incomplete notion of what Algeria's transition process might
involve was predominate.
30.    Implementation slippage can be traced primarily to the adverse security situation, a factor largely
beyond the authorities immediate control. Off-shore monitoring and supervision was possible but this
arrangement limited the scope for contact between the Bank and parties outside Government. Technical
assistance activities for which international expertise was required, such as the auditing of the
commercial banks, was hampered by the difficult security situation. The resulting lack of necessary
technical information impeded key reforms. In addition, travel restrictions placed on the Algerian
authorities impeded their exposure to transition experience in other countries. The key lessons learned
from this are: (i) significant progress towards structural policy reform is possible even in an economy
marked by civil insecurity; (ii) civil insecurity will undoubtedly disturb skill-intensive policy dialogue,
technical assistance and awareness-broadening efforts; (iii) off-site supervision and policy dialogue is at
best a partial substitute for in-country policy dialogue; and (iv) in instances in which security problems
deter travel, structural policy reforms should not be tightly linked to technical information that cannot
reasonably and readily be provided.
31.   In the Algeria case, progress in liberalizing external trade and exchange rate arrangements has
proceeded far faster than has progress in privatization. In manufacturing, for example, producers did face
more external competition, but as public enterprises, are unable to restructure to effectively meet this
competition. These rigidities are a result of financial market weaknesses, barriers to entry and exit,
restrictions on shedding labor, weak balance sheets, limited managerial freedom of the PEs, and a slow-
gestating privatization effort. Hence, while external market liberalization has eased immediate import
constraints, it has also contributed to a hollowing-out of Algeria's industrial sector. It is well known that
the effects of exchange rate and trade liberalization reform are muted when external competition is
introduced into an environment replete with internal market rigidities. Bank-supported adjustment
operations in transition economies should be mindful of the need to sequence trade-liberalization
measures after measures aimed at establishing a viable private sector and enhancing domestic market
competition.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3834 AL)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 10-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                        E3               0                0                  0
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                 E3                n                o 
Institutional Development             J                                j3                 E0
Physical Objectives                   a                                 a
Poverty Reduction                    El                0                0E
Gender Issues                        I                  I              ElI
Other Social Objectives              [I                E3               0Z0
Environmental Objectives             E                                  El                El
Public Sector Management              D                                 El
Private Sector Development                                             E0
Other (restoring momentum)           E3                                 El



- 11 -
(Continued)
B. Proiect Sustainability               Lilcel                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactovy           Satisfacto                  Deficient
Identification                         i0                                                 E]
Preparation Assistance                                          0                          C
Appraisal                             C                         0                          a
Supervision                          [                          0                          a
D.  Borrower Performance                        satisfactory    Satisfactor       Deficient
Preparation                                    n               0                o
Implementation                                  o                               El
Covenant Compliance
Highly                                                H
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfa=13i   Satisfractoy    Unsatisfactv       unsatisfactoly
C               0 I;Z             O



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title       Purpose                  Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. 3117-Al Economic     To restore growth by     August 31, 1989         Closed on December 31,
Reform Support Loan     introducing a more                                1991 (cancellation of
market-oriented                                  US$1.2 million)
US$300 million          economic system;
2. 3176-Al Technical    To build institutional   March 6, 1990            Closed on June 3, 1996
Assistance Project      capacity for policy                               instead of December 31,
reform and management                            1993 (cancellation of
US$25 million           of a market economy;                              US$4.9 million)
3. 3210-14-Al Industrial   Trial restructuring and  May 5, 1990           Closed on June 30, 1995.
Restructuring           corporations of four                              US$69.3 million was
Demonstration Project    industrial public                                disbursed.
enterprises
US$99.5 million
4. 3352-Al Enterprise and  To restore macro-balance  June 21, 1991        Closed on June 30, 1995
Financial Sector        through tight fiscal and                          US$350 million was fully
Adjustment Loan         monetary policy while                             disbursed.
introducing competitive
US$350 million          structural policies and
strengthening the social
safety net
Following operations
1. 4005-AL Structural   To deepen the            April 25. 1996          Loan was declared
Adjustment              transformation to a                               effective on March 28,
market economy through                           1995.
US$300 million          correct macroeconomic
policies, public
expenditure reform,
privatization of SMEs,
banking reform and
strengthening the social
safety net.



- 13-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           |   Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     June 15, 1994        June 15. 1994
Preparation                                    July 22, 1994        July 22, 1994
Appraisal                                      September 23, 1994   September 23, 1994
Negotiations                                   November 4, 1994    November 4, 1994
Board Presentation                             January 12, 1995     January 12, 1995
Signing                                        January 26, 1995     January 26, 1995
Effectiveness                                  January 20, 1995     March 28, 1995
Loan Closing                                   December 31, 1996   December 31, 1996



- 14-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 1996
Appraisal Estimate                                150
Actual                                            150
Actual as % of Estimate                           100
Date of Final Disbursement                        6/95
Note: IBRD fiscal year ends on June 30.



- 15-
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken before    Measures to be taken during
Component        Measures taken before July       presentation of the ERL to       the 12 months following                         Implementation Status
1994                         the Board              presentation of the ERL to the
Board
Macroeconomic
framework                                                                                                          - A managed float of the dinar was introduced and has been
Foreimn  - substantial exchange rate     - Implementation of fixing      - preparation by the BA of the    maintained since October 1, 1994. The exchange rate is determined
exchange  adjustment, including a devaluation  sessions between the Central Bank  introduction, during the second  in conjunction with the five commercial banks through fixing
of 40. 1 No in April 1994.      (BA) and the banks to determine    semester of 1995, of an interbank  sessions at the Bank of Algeria. An interbank market in foreign
the exchange rate of the dinar  foreign exchange market.         exchange was established since the end of 1994 and continues to
according to a mechanisms agreed                                 operate. After the sharp devaluation of the exchange rate in 1994,
with the IMF.                                                    the dinar experienced some real appreciation in 1995 and 1996. The
IMF estimates that the REER, based on unit labor costs in
manufacturing, has fallen by about 30 percent since January 1993,
relative to Algeria's trading partners.
Trade  - dissolution of the interministerial   - elimination in July 1994 of a  - elimination of all import
Jiberalization  committee overseeing imports, and   dozen products from the list of  suspensions except for a list of  -An inter-Ministerial decree of 26 December 1994 abrogating all
replament of import licenses    import suspensions.             products prohibited for religious,  import quantitative restrictions was adopted and applied.
(cahiers des charges) by                                        moral, health or security reasons.  -The negative list of imports was abolished in January 1995.
professional criteria for sensitive
and basic commodities; reduction
in the number of suspended imports
from 107 to 85.
- elimination of a broad range of    - elimination of barley, coffee and  - elimination of sugar (before  --Barley, coffee and infant fonmula were eliminated from the list of
products from the list of       infant fomiula from the list of  December 31, 1994) and           commodities subject to professional criteria;
comniodities subject to         commodities subject to          pharmaceuticals (before June 30,  -Sugar and medication were eliminated from the list of professional
professional criteria, including  professional criteria         1995) from the list of commodities    criteria on 26 December 1994;
construction materials and                                      subject to professional criteria)
agricultural inputs.
- review of the professional criteria   -The professional criteria system was reviewed and then eliminated
system. Evaluation of the results  on 29 March 1995;
and adoption of jointly agreed
recommendations for adapting the    --Total imports increased from US$9.15 billion in 1994 to US$10.10
system as necessary.             billion in 1995 after import liberalization;



- 16-
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken before      Measures to be taken during
Component         Measures taken before July       presentation of the ERL to         the 12 months following                          Implementation Status
1994                          the Board              presentation of the ERL to the
Board
- implementation of a series of                                   - reduction of the Treasury deficit    --The Treasury deficit fell from 8.7 percent of GDP in 1993 to 4.4
measures to limit budgetary                                       from 9.4% of GDP in 1993 to 5.0%   percent of GDP in 1994, and then to 1.6 percent of GDP in 1995. A
expenditures in conformity with the                               in 1994; acceleration of deficit   budget surplus of 2.7 percent of GDP was recorded in 1996.
stand-by agreement.                                               reduction in 1995.
Monetary policy   - replacement of the 20% ceiling  - introduction of mandatory    - achievement, by the end of 1994,   -In October 1994, minimum reserve requirements of 3 percent on
and Interest rate  on lending rates with a ceiling of 5   reserve requirement for banks  of positive real interest rates on bank   bank deposits were introduced, remunerated at II percent per annum;
percentage points on bank margins;  remunerated at 11.5%. The     deposits with respect to the       - By December 1994, deposit rates in the commercial banks ranged
increase in reference interest rates    perspective increases in the  annualized inflation rate anticipated    between 17 and 20 percent, exceeding forecast rate of inflation and
of about 4 percentage points.    reserve rate will permit the     within the framework of the stand-    positive in real terms;
absorption of all potential sources   by agreement.                -The ceilings on bank lending and deposit rates, which were removed
of additional liquidity outside of                                 in May 1994, were not reimposed. This facilitated achievement of
the monetary system.                                               positive, real deposit rates.
- establishment of credit ceilings  - establishment of credit ceilings    - establishment of credit ceilings  -credit ceilings were established for the 23 EPS in conformity with
(by bank) for the 23 non-        (by bank) for the 23 EPS for the    (by quarter and by bank) for the EPS   the stand-by agreement;
autonomous public enterprises    last quarter of 1994 in conformity   for 1995, which have been agreed
(EPS) for the second and third   with the stand-by agreement.     beforehand with the Bank.
quarters of 1994 in conformity with
the stand-by agreement
- establishment of an objective for                               - respect of the objective for M2  -Growth in the broad money supply was reduced from 21.5 to 15.4
broad money (M2) of a maximum                                     growth for 1994, which has been    percent per annum during 1993-94. Money supply growth was
increase of 15% in 1994.                                          adjusted to 17%; establishment of an  further reduced from 15.4 to 10.5 percent during 1994-95.
objective of less than 14% for 1995.   -end-of-period inflation peaked at 38.6 percent in 1994 and then fell
to 21.9 percent in 1995 and to 15.1 percent in 1996.
- liberalization of the interbank                                 - review of progress in developing    -A decree of the Bank of Algeria on the money market was adopted
money market rates.                                               the money market, notably with    in April 1994, defining the disposition of credit adjudication, and the
respect to the implementation of an   rules and regulations goveming secondary market activity in treasury
adjudication system for central bank   bills and open market operations.
credit.                           -Govemment bonds were issued in October 1994 carrying a 16.5
percent interest rate;
Wage policy   - establishment of a ceiling in the                               - respect of the ceiling on salary  -Wage setting in 1994 respected the ceiling set under the IMF
increase in salaries for civil                                    increases.                         Standby on the central govemment wage bill. and the limitation of
servants and EPS employees during                                                                    minimum wage increase to 12.5 percent.
the period of the stand-by                                                                           -During 1994-96, tight govemment pay policies have contributed to a
agreement.                                                                                           reduction in the real wages by 30 percent; A zero net civil service
recruitment policy was adopted in 1995. and the share of the wage
bill in the budget fell from II percent of GDP in 1994 to 8 percent of
GDP in 1996.



- 17 -
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken before    Measures to be taken during
Component        Measures taken before July       presentation of the ERL to        the 12 months following                          Implementation Status
1994                         the Board              presentation of the ERL to the
Board
Subsidy policy   - increase (on average) between  - further increase in September  - continuation of the policy of  -The weighted average price of subsidized energy and food products
March and June 1994 in the prices    1994 in the prices of subsidized  reducing price subsidies in parallel    was increased by 98 percent during 1994/95, halving the budgetary
of subsidized food staples of 56%,   food staples and in controlled  with improvements in the efficiency   burden of the subsidies.
and in controlled energy prices of    energy prices in conformity with    of the social safety net.  -Price of electricity and gas were revised quarterly in line with
40%.                             the stand-by agreement.                                           inflation trends in 1995 and 1996.
-Subsidies were narrowed to Semolina and Milk products in 1995
through a series of four decrees promulgated by the Ministry of
Commerce in 1995;
-Price ceilings and profit margins for Semolina, milk, powdered milk
and fluid milk were increased in March 1995.
-Budgetary allocations for all subsidies declined from 5.3 percent of
GDP in 1993 to 2 7 percent of GDP in 1995.
Incentive         - enactment of a revised         - adoption by the Council of    - Promulgation of the law on      -The Law on Competition was promulgated and implementing
framework and    Commercial Code applying the      Ministers of the draft law on   competition.                      regulations issued in January 1995.
private sector   same regulations to public and    competition.
development       private enterprises.
- elaboration of the implementing  -The implementing regulations were completed in consultation with
regulations for the law on        the Bank and issued in 1995. The text was provided to the Bank for
competition in consultation with the   review except for the parts relating to violations and price
Bank, and publication of these texts   notification
- enactment of an Investment     - publication of a decree       - review of the functioning of the  -The Agency for Investment Promotion (APSI) was created and the
Code.                            establishing the national       Investment Code in collaboration  Director General nominated in March 1995.
investment agency (APSI).       with the Bank.                    -The Investment Code was reviewed in collaboration with the Bank
in 1994 and 1995.
- commitment by the authorities                                   - Interest rate subsidies were excluded from the revised Investment
to postpone, until further                                        Code.
consultation with the Bank, the
implementation of the interest rate
subsidies foreseen in the
Investment Code.
- publication of the other                                        -Investment code implementing regulations were reviewed with the
implementing regulations for the                                  Bank and published in 1995.
Investment Code after
consultation with the Bank.



- 18-
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken before    Measures to be taken during
Component        Measures taken before July      presentation of the ERI, to      the 12 months following                        Implementation Status
1994                        the Board              presentation of the ERL to the
Board
- freeing of the prices of some 80%   - dissemination of a circular to  - execution of a study to reform the   -A Study on the System of Renewing Subsidies for transport of
of the CPI basket.             the enterprises concerned stating    system of explicit subsidies of  products to the Grand South was made in May 1995, with the aim of
that obligatory pan-territorial  transportation costs to the south in    establishing actual transport costs and using the Wilaya's of Adran,
pricing only applies to products    collaboration with the Bank.  Tindouf, Illizi and Tamanrasset as sample points.
subject to fixed prices.                                       -Produce transport subsidies were then reduced.
- transfer of barley, coffee,  - transfer of corn, pulses and rice  -price of barley, coffee, matches and infant formula were shifted to
matches, and infant formula from    from the fixed margin category to    the free price category in 1994;
the fixed margin category to the    the free price category before March   - Corn, pulses and rice prices were decontrolled in 1994;
free price category.           31, 1995.                        - Price of sugar and cooking oil was also shifted to frec price
category, going beyond the price liberalization targets extended
under the program;
-Food subsidies were entirely eliminated by the end of 1996;
- elimination of administrative  - adoption of the Council of  - implementation of the          -The Finance Law on the Import of Used Equipment was
restrictions on private investment    Ministers ofa disposition in the    liberalization of the import of used    promulgated and published in 1995;
and on private investors' access to   1995 Finance law liberalizing the   equipment, including the  -An explanatory circular explaining the Law has been prepared;
bank credit; creation of a SME  import of used industrial and  dissemination of an explanatory
ministry.                       professional equipmnent.       circular to interested parties.
- presentation to the Bank of a  -A Technical Assistance Program was Prepared by the Ministry of
technical assistance progran for the   Small and Medium Scale Enterprises and was provided to the Bank
private sector.                 in May 1995.
- completion, in the framework of   - agreement on the terms of  - completion of the PSA and    -The Terms of Reference of a Privatc Sector Assessment were agreed
the EFSAL, of a study of small-    refcrence for a private sector  initiation of agreed         upon with the Government and this study was executed by the Bank.
and medium-scale industry in    assessment (PSA) to be carried out  recommendations.            -Recommendations identified in this study, such as the need to
Algeria.                        by the Bank.                                                    improve the urban real estate market, to reduce the payroll tax rate,
and to eliminate public monopolies that compete with private
initiative were initiated under the follow-up Structural Adjustment
Loan;
Reform of        - launching of a restructuring  - adoption by the Council of    - implementation of the          -A pilot privatization program was launched which involved the
public           program for public enterprises, and   Govemment of the privatization  privatization program in priority  passage of enabling legislation, the liquidation of 88 local public
enterprises      passage to autonomy of almost 400   policy prepared in consultation  sectors.                    enterprises and pilot auctions of five Govemment hotels.
public enterprises (EPEs).      with the Bank.
- opening of the capital of EPEs up   - presentation to the SGG and  - publication of the decree cited in   -A multisectoral privatization program, based on articles 24 and 25 of
to 49%/o, and authorization to sell    adoption of the implementing  column three.              the Finance Law, published on 7 November 1994, allowed the sale,
EPE assets to the public sector  decree for article 24 of the 1994                              liquidation and opening-up of capital participation.
complementary Finance Law
conceming the sale of APE assets.



Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken before     Measures to be taken during the 12
Component         Measures taken before July       presentation of the ERL to     months following presentation of the                Implementation Status
1994                         the Board                       ERL to the Board
- preparation of a draft law on  - promulgation of the law on privatization.  - A Privatization Law was approved by Parliament in July
privatization in consultation with   Publication of the implementing texts after  1995 after tripartite consultations between Govemment,
the Bank.                     consultation with the Bank, and          Unions and Private Sector held on 9 April 1995. The
implementation of these texts.          Bank highlighted a number of deficiencies in this law,
such as requirement that the activity must be retained for
five years, buyers must pay cash, and that all workers had
to be retained.
-A Revised Privatization Law was enacted in 1996 which
would increase flexibility in privatization procedures and
allow for equity participation by employees, auctions and
mass privatization.
- launch of a pilot privatization    - pursuit of the pilot privatization program  - A pilot project was launched to privatize five hotels.
program for EPEs.             for EPEs with the support of the Bank.   Bids were only received on one hotel (in Oran). This was
sold (in 1996) and the other four hotels assigned to future
privatization efforts.
- preparation of a technical  - implementation of the technical assistance   -The Ministry of Industrial Restructuring and
assistance program for the    program cited in column three.           Participation provided the Bank with a Technical
Ministry of Industrial                                                 Assistance proposal for advice in the area of privatization.
Restructuring and Participation                                        The Bank was requested to provide in-depth advice on
(MRIP).                                                                privatization and fielded a high-level policy workshop on
this topic in Algeria in 1996.
- establishment of a legal framework    - publication of a decree                                        -The decree establishing the modalities for the liquidation
for the dissolution and liquidation of    establishing the modalities for the                             and dissolution of non-autonomous PE's and EPICs was
non-autonomous public enterprises  dissolution and liquidation of                                         published in the Govemment Journal, Number 80, 7
and EPICs in the 1994 Finance law.    non-autonomous public                                              November 1994.
enterprises and EPICs                                                  -The large PEs and EPICs were reorganized into 11 semi-
autonomous holding companies in 1995/96 to facilitate
their eventual rationalization and privatization.
- dissolution of a group of 88  - implementation of the liquidation of the  -88 local public enterprises were to be liquidated, and
local PEs (EPL) in accordance  EPLs concemed.                          procedures were initiated to liquidate these firms in 1995
with regulatory procedures.                                            and 1996.
-During 1994-1996, more than 240 public enterprises
were liquidated and 30 local small-scale private
enterprises were sold or given in concession as of October
1996.
- preparation of medium-term      - completion of the preparation                                         -A medium-term restructuring plan was prepared for the
restructuring plans for 23 EPS.   of medium-term restructuring                                            23 largest, loss-making EPS in 1995.
plans for at least 6 EPS.                                              -Restructuring Fund finance of DA 36.9 billion in 1995
and DA 24.4 billion in 1996 was provided to cover the
losses of 22 EPS.



- 20 -
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken        Measures to be taken during the 12
Component         Measures taken before July         before presentation of the    months following presentation of the                  Implementation Status
1994                      ERL to the Board                    ERL to the Board
- adoption by the authorities of   - continued implementation of restructuring   -On December 28, 1994. five of the loss-making EPS
a framework for the           for the 23 EPS in accordance with the    (SNVI, SIDER, CELPAP, ENEPAC, ENMTP) were passed
implementation of the         adopted framework.                       into the autonomy stage and signed performance contracts
restructuring of the 23 EPS                                            with Govemment, Rehabilitation financing was provided
during 1995 in collaboration                                           only to SIDER.
with the Bank.                                                         - By June 1995, an additional eight EPS were transformed
into the autonomy stage, including ENF, ENTC, ENMGP &
PMA.
- By December 1995, all but one of the 23 EPS had been
passed into the autonomy stage and signed performance
contracts.
- establishment of a ceiling on salary    - agreement to fix a ceiling on  - respect of the ceiling on the increase of  -A policy was agreed upon in 1995 whereby the salary
increases in the EPS during the period   the increase in salaries in the  salaries in the EPS in 1995.     ceiling for non-autonomous PEs would be linked the
of the stand-by Agreement.         EPS during 1995 collaboration                                           salaries prevailing in the private sector. This ceiling was
with the Bank.                                                         respected through 1995.
- definition of terms of      - implementation of the study cited in   -terms of reference for the study on opening-up the capital
reference for a study of the  column 3. and initiation of the agreed   of private banks was agreed-upon at the ERL review in May
opening of the capital of the  recommendations                          1995. Study was unable to be executed satisfactorily due to
existing banks.                                                        the lack of an institutional and financial audit of the banks,
according to accepted intemational norms.
- significant progress towards the       -New investment code of April 1994 allows foreign
privatization of the existing banks      participation in domestic banks.
-One commercial bank was opened-up to participation by
private investors.
Reform of         - withdrawal by the Treasury from the   - commitment of the authorities                                    -The authorities honored their commitment not to
public           financing of new investments in     to not participate in the                                               participate in rehabilitation investment for the EPS except
expenditures      public enterprises as of 1989.     financing of the rehabilitation                                         in accordance with the agreement adopted.
investments for the EPS except                                         -Rehabilitation financing was provided to SIDER, ENF,
in accordance with the adopted                                         ENTC, ENMGP & PMA in 1995 in accordance with agreed
framework.                                                             procedures



Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken        Measures to be taken during the 12
Component    Measures taken before July 1994   before presentation of the    months following presentation of the                        Implementation Status
ERL to the Board                   ERL to the Board
- establishment of a ceiling of 5 billion   - notification to EPEs that the   - execution of a review of the PEC-1988 for  -The EPEs were notified that Treasury would stop financing
DA (in net terms) on Treasury       Treasury will stop financing  the public utilities (EPICs) in collaboration    their investments as of March 1995.
financing of the 1988 public enterprise  their investments under the  with the Bank, and initiation of agreed  -A review of the EPICs was deemed unnecessary on the
investment program (PEC-1 988) in   PEC-1 988 as of end-March    recommendations.                         grounds that their restructuring had to be completed before
1994.                               1995.                                                                 decisions on investment financing arrangements was made.
This decision was made in consultation with and agreed upon
by the Bank.
- establishment of a Restructuring  - agreement of the nature of                                          -An agreement was reached that the FA (Restructuring Fund)
Fund (FA) in 1991 to finance the    future expenditures of the FA                                         would be managed in general agreement with the principles
financial restructuring of the public  in accordance with Appendix                                        outlined in Appendix B to the ERL
enterprises and banks               B.                                                                    -The Govemment has agreed to wind-up the FA by
December 31, 1996 in terms of committments and in March
30, 1997 in terms of disbursement. Both have taken place on
time.
-Close to 20 percent of GDP was allocated to financially
rehabilitate public enterprises during 1991-1996.
--A Govemment letter was issued in 1995 to each
Participation Fund limited the level of guarantees to the
Fund's own resources;
- completion of the public expenditure  -A public expenditure review was conducted in 1995 and
review (PER) and initiation of agreed    1996. The results of the review provided input into the 1996
recommendations.                         and 1997 budget, inspired structural reforms in health,
education, transport and civil service management, and
contributed to follow-up efforts aimed at improving public
sector management. Significant savings were realized
through the review by identifying options for rationalizing
current expenditures and public investment, particularly by
eliminating uneconomic investments. Needed improvements
in public debt management and the management of revenues
arising from the hydrocarbon sector were also identified.
Reform of the    - financial and institutional audits of    - completion of audit reports    - completion of audits of end-1993 and end-  - 1993 Audits for four of the five state banks were completed
financial sector   the 5 public banks on the basis of their   of the end-1993 balance sheets  1994 bank balance sheets and their  (the audit of BADR was not).
accounts at the end of 1991.        for at least 3 banks.        communication to the Bank.               -The balance sheets for 1993 and 1994 have been provided to
the Bank
-No further audits of the State Banks were done in 1994,
1995 or 1996 because the security situation hindered access
to intemational auditors.
- enactment of the law on money and    - establishment of eligibility  - approval of licensees for existing banks  - Eligibility criteria for the banks were established, starting
credit, and establishment of        criteria for approval of licenses  which meet criteria                with a minimum capital/risk weighted assets ratio of 4
capitalization thresholds for banks and   for existing banks.                                             percent that is to rise to BIS minimums of 8 percent by 1999.
financial institutions.                                                                                   -Only one of the Banks (BNA) met the criteria. but all
existing banks were licensed.



- 22 -
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken       Measures to be taken during the 12
Component    Measures taken before July 1994   before presentation of the   months following presentation of the                         Implementation Status
ERL to the Board                  ERL to the Board
- adoption of an approach    - publication of the regulatory text for the    -The Agricultural Mutual Credit Fund (Caisse Nationale de
aimed at authorizing the     establishment of credit unions.         Mutualiid Agricole)regulation of 1995 allows this entity to
establishment of credit unions.                                      undertake credit-union like activities and subjects it to
prudential supervision by the Finance Ministry. This
regulation is seen as establishing a precedent upon which
other credit unions could be established.
- agreement on the terms of  - completion of the study cited in column  -The terms of reference for a study to encourage the creation
reference for a study to    three, and initiation of implementation of    of private banks was agreed upon between the Govemment
identify measures to encourage   agreed upon recommendations.        and the Bank during the May 1995 review of ERL progress.
the creation of private banking                                      This study examined the legal and regulatory framework,
institutions.                                                        bank clientele, the payment system and promotional
measures.
-A new private bank was chartered in September 1995 (the
Union Bank), along with the Agricultural Mutual Credit Fund,
which was owned by private agriculture cooperatives.
- approval by BA of institutional   - implementation of the                                              -An institutional development plan was prepared in 1995 to
development plans for existing banks,   institutional development                                        recapitalize the distressed state banks.
and the initiation of a recapitalization    plans of existing banks with a                               -In 1996, the Govemment issued DA 24.9 billion worth of 20
program for the banks               view to opening their capital to                                      year bonds to recapitalize four of the public banks. An
private investors.                                                   agreement was reached to issue DA 18 billion of bonds to
recapitalize the Development Bank (BADR) in 1997 and the
Housing Fund (CNEP) in 1997. Govemment has also agreed
to swap 187 non-performing bank loans for 12 year Treasury
bills in 1997.
- agreement on a model       - signature and implementation of the   -management contracts were signed with the five public banks
management contract between   management contracts.                  in 1994 and included provisions to respect capital adequacy
the Ministry of Finance and                                          requirements;
the managers of the banks,                                           -implementation of the management contracts has been
holding the latter responsible                                       adhered to, most notably through the elimination of directed
notably for respecting the                                           credit programs. Enforcement of the capital adequacy
capital adequacy requirements.                                       requirement was deferred until after the financial restructuring
of the Banks and more up-to-date audits of Bank performance
were made available.
-Some evidence of greater commercial bank autonomy is
provided by the conversion of PE overdrafts into medium-
term loans in 1996.



- L.J -
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken       Measures to be taken during
Component        Measures taken before July       before presentation of the      the 12 months following                           Implementation Status
1994                    ERL to the Board           presentation of the ERL to
the Board
- enactment of prudential        -publication of an instruction    - implementation of the measures   -New prudential regulations were started in early 1995 that i) limit
regulations prepared in          expanding the prudential     required to allow existing banks to   overdrafts to 15 days tumover; (ii) not to register overdue interest
collaboration with the Bank      regulations, including the    meet the minimum capital ratio  payment as revenue; and (iii) to establish provisions for off-balance sheet
establishment of the minimum   cited in column 3, including  claims. Capital adequacy requirements were defined and will rise to 9
capital adequacy ratio for   expenditures to be included in the    percent of risk-weighted assets by 1999.
existing banks at the end of  1995 State budget (after       -Implementation of the measures required to allow the banks to meet
June 1995, after consultation    consultation with the Bank).  these capital-adequacy requirements was delayed until an agreement on
with the Bank.                                                recapitalization of the Banks was reached in late 1995.
- establishment of the bank      - elaboration and adoption by   - implementation of the plan to  - A plan for strengthening the supervision of the banking system was
inspection department within the  the BA of a plan to strengthen   strengthen the supervision of the  agreed to by BA and the World Bank. Implementation has been behind
BA, and creation of a banking    the supervision of the banking   banking system.              schedule due to difficulties (created by the security situation) to obtain
commission.                      system after consultation with                                the necessary expertise and to conduct on-site supervision.
the Bank.
- replacement of the ceiling on  - publication of an instruction   - review in collaboration with the   -A ceiling of 5 percent on bank spreads was issued as part of the
lending rates with a ceiling of 5  for the application of the  Bank of the ceiling on bank     deregulation of ceilings on bank lending in 1994. Average Bank spreads
percentage points on bank margins    ceiling on bank margins, after   margins and establishment of a  have remained below five percent during 1995 and 1996. Bank margin
consultation with the Bank.  timetable for its elimination.   requirement was eliminated in late 1995.
- adoption by the Council of     - presentation of the draft   - enactment of the insurance    - The Law in Insurance was revised in 1995, in consultation with the
Govemment of a draft law         insurance market law to the   market law and publication of   Bank. The new law abolishes the Govemment insurance monopoly and
liberalizing the insurance market  CNT.                        implementing regulations after  permits the establishment of private insurance companies.
consultation with the Bank.



- 24 -
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken       Measures to be taken during
Component         Measures taken before July    before presentation of the       the 12 months following                           Implementation Status
1994                    ERL to the Board          presentation of the ERL to
the Board
Strengthening of   - establishment of a system of  - launch of the reform of the                                 -A pilot test of the public works (the AIG) was established on I
the social        direct transfers to compensate   social safety net, including the                              September 1994. This was then generalized to the nation as a whole on I
protection system   lower income households for the    introduction of a program of                              October 1994, in accordance with the agreements reached with the IMF.
reduction in consumer price     public works, (activitw                                       The new scheme involved half-day public work for the unemployed. One
subsidies.                      d'inrertgenera1, AIG) as                                      deficiency was that the effective daily wage paid under AIG was above
agreed with the IMF                                           the minimum wage. A self-targeted unemployment scheme (the PAIG)
paying very low wages was adopted in 1995 and 1996. Participation rose
to 580,000 in 1995 and is expected to fall to 200-300,000 in 1996.
-A cash transfers system, the AFS, was initiated in July 1994 for those
unable to work (mainly the handicapped and the elderly who were
ineligible for public pensions). Participation has stabilized at about
500,000 persons in this program by 1996.
- During 1995/96. the Public Works program provided jobs to 420,000
participants at 16,000 work sites, the social transfer system covered
430,000 heads of households and about 40,000 people have been eligible
for benefits under the unemployment insurance scheme.
-In 1995. the monthly wage for AIG employees was set at 2100 DA and
that provided under the AFS at 600. These were raised to 2800 and 900
DA per month respectively in October 1996.
- agreement on terms of      - implementation of the review of   -Agreement was reached on the terms of reference for a review of the new
reference for a review of the    the safety net and implementation    social safety net. A limited review (confined to 4 Wilaya's) of the
new social safety net        of the agreed recommendations,    implementation of the new program was conducted. This identified the
with the support of the Bank,   need to further improve the self-targeting mechanisms within the AIG.
-Monthly family allowances were set at DA 450 in 1995 and raised to DA
600 in 1996. The annual education allowance was set at DA 400 and
raised to DA 800 in 1996.
- establishment of a protection  - commitment of the          - review (in collaboration with the  -A review of the protection system of workers laid-off for economic
system for workers laid-off for  authorities to postpone, until    Bank) of the protection system for   reasons was conducted jointly with the bank, and implementation of
economic reasons, incorporating  revision, the implementation  workers laid-off for economic  articles 25 and 26 of legislation decree No. 94-09 was postponed until
unemployment and early          or articles 25 and 26 of      reasons and adoption of agreed  after this review.
retirement schemes.             legislation decree No 94-09.    recommendations.              -Further reviews of the youth employment scheme, with an aim of
improving targeting and effectiveness are scheduled for 1996/97.
- publication of the other                                   -Implementing regulations for the unemployment insurance scheme have
implementing regulations for                                  been published, widely discussed and disseminated.
the protection system for
workers laid off for economic
reasons, after consultation with
the Bank.



Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Measures to be taken        Measures to be taken during
Component    Measures taken before July 1994           before presentation of         the 12 months following                            Implementation Status
the ERL to the Board       preseptation of the ERL to the
Board
- completion of preparatory work for    - launching of the LSMS   - completion of the LSMS study     -the LSMS study was conducted during the first half of 1995. Part of
the living standards measurements    study                        and communication of its results to   the results of this study were communicated to the Bank in 1996.
survey (LSMS).                                                    the Bank.                          -Difficulties were encountered in securing free and unfettered access to
the LSMS survey results due to confidentiality restrictions imposed by
Govemment.
- agreement on the terms of        -An agreement was reached on the terms of reference for a poverty
reference for a poverty assessment    assessment study to be carried out by the Bank. That study is being
to be carried out by the Bank.     implemented in 1996/97 by the Bank.



- 26 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators          Estimated 1996                  Actual 1996
in President's Report
Macroeconomic Framework
1. GDP Growth                           4.0%                           3.8%
2. Inter-bank Interest Rate                                           21.0%  (July 96)
3. Consumer Price Index                 10.1%                         10.2%  (March 97)
Private Sector Development
and Incentives
4. Value-added by private                                             43.8%  (1994)
industry (% total VA)
5. # new private firms/projects                                        2,075
6. Average customs tariff
(import-weighted)                                                   12.3%
Reform of Public Enterprises
7. # PEs partially or totally        5 (under ERL)                      365
privatized or liquidated
Public Expenditure Reform
8. Treasury balance (% GDP)             -1.0%                          2.7%
9. Rehabilitation Fund Cost              1.0%                          1.0%
(% GDP)                                                                               l
Financial Sector Reform
10. Overdrafts of large                   30                           29.6 (Sept. 96)
borrowers (in days of sales)
I 1. Average equity capital ratio         4%                           4%  (April 96)
of banks
Strengthening the Social
Protection System
12. Early retirement -                                     As of Oct. 30, 1996:
# beneficiaries                                          17,890 admitted
13. Unemployment insurance -                               43,297 admitted, o/w 22,959
# beneficiaries                                          actually paid
14. AFS - # beneficiaries                                  Cumulative end-96:
410,000 household heads
(total 840,000 people covered)
15. PAIG - # beneficiaries                                 Cumulative end-96:
190,000



-27 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study               at Appraisal/Redefined          Status               Impact of Study
| 1. Review of the          Determnine need for professional    Completed    The Government's review indicated that
Professional Criteria     criteria                                     this system hidered efficient operation l
System                                                                  of external trade. The professional
criteria system was thereafter eliminated.
2. Study to Reform System   Assess transport costs for     Completed    Based on the Government's findings,
of Explicit Subsidies of  agricultural products in 4 distant           transportation subsidies were cut back.
Transport Costs to the    Wilaya's of the Grand South.
South
| 3. Private Sector Assessment  Identify legal, regulatory and  Completed  Helped identify regulatory constraints
3l Private Sector Assessment  Ianti-competitive practices that           and impediments to private sector
hinder private sector                        development arising from the dominant
hindeveloprivatsector                        role of the Government in manufacturing
development,                                 and other sectors; a number of these
reforms have been agreed-upon within
the framework of the ongoing SAL.
4. Study for the Opening-up   Determine the necessary      Completed    This study identified the need to
of the Capital of the     measures for opening banks'                   restructure bank portforios and i
l  existing banks         capital.                                      recapitalize the banks prior to opeDing-
existing banks            capital.                                      up of bank capital.                  l
5. Review of the PEC-1988    Review the PEC-1988.          PEC was        Major changes were made in the
for the public utilities                                 reviewed       composition and priorities accorded to
(EPICs)                                                                 public investment.
-A decision was made to defer the review
of the EPICs until after the restructuring
of the State Banks has taken place.
6. Public Expenditure       Assess efficiency of public    Completed    Public expenditure reforms arising from
Review                    expenditures.                                the review were included in the 1996 and
1997 budgets. PER reform initiatives
were carried forward into the SAL.
7. Study to Encourage       Examine the regulatory,        Completed   FBdcngs from the studyp managed by thed
Creation of Private       payments implications, legal                  BA, contributed to the policies which led
banking institutions      and promotional aspects of                    to the establishment of 2 private
opening-up the banking sector.               financial institutions (a bank and a
cooperative) in 1995 and 1996.
8. Review of the New Social  A limited review in 4 Wilaya's    Completed    The study pointed to the need to make
Safety Net                was undertaken.                              the PAIG more self-targeting by offering
wages below the minimum wage.
9. LSMS Study               Assess the standard of living and   Launched/    Valuable data on living standards and
poverty conditions.            Partial       poverty conditions was obtained by this
Results       study. The impact of the study's
Available     findings are perhaps less than expected
because of the degree to which
confidentiality has been imposed.
10. Poverty Assessment      Determine the degree of poverty   Launched   This study is expected to provide
in Algeria.                                  recommendations for improving the
poverty-reduction impact of public
expenditures and the targeting of social
safety net support.



- 28 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign    Total
Item                 Costs    Costs                Costs      Costs
Balance of Payments                   150       150                 150       150
Support
TOTAL                                 150       150                 150       150
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign    Total
Source                Costs    Costs                Costs      Costs
IBRD/IDA                              150       150                 150       150
Govemment of Algeria                    0         0                   0         0
TOTAL                                 150       150                 150       150
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
-Not Applicable-



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement             Section     Coven    Original    Revised        Status          Description of Covenant            Comments
ant   fulfillmen   fulfillment
type     t date       date
L3834 AL            Section99               1/07/97                Not yet due  the Borrower shall prepare and          No comment.
C                                                       furnish to the Bank a report on the
execution of the program... the
perforrnance by the Borrower and
the Bank of their respective
obligations and the
accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
L3834 AL            Section 3.01     9      periodic    periodic     complied    The Borroxker and the Bank shall       No comment.
(a) Project                                       with     from time to time, exchange * iews
Execution                                                   on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program
L3834 AL            Section 3.01     9      periodic    periodic     complied    the Borrower shall furnish to the      No comment
(b)                                           with       Bank a report on the progress
Project                                                   achieved in carrying out the
Execution                                                   Program
L3834 AL            Section 3.01     9      June 30.    May 7.       complied    The Borrower and the Bank shall        No comment
(c)                  1995        1995         uvith      carry out a review for the purpose-
of evaluating the progress achieved
by the Borrower in carrying out the
Program
L3834 AL            Section 3.02     3     December   December    complied    Procurement of the goods shall be         No comment
Procurement             31, 1996    31, 1996       with      governed by provisions of
Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
L3834 AL            Section 3.03     3     December   December    complied    Selection of the consultants shall   Contracts were less than
Procurement             31,1996    31, 1996        with     take place in accordance with      UJS$100.000 in each case
principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. with
exceptions as noted in Section 3.04
b
L3834 AL            Section 3.04     1     December   December    complied    The Borrower shall maintain or            No comment
(a) Financial           31. 1996    31, 1996       with      cause to be maintained records and
Covenants                                                   accounts to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices to
reflect the expenditures financed
out of the Loan



- 30 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement              Section       Coven    Original      Revised       Status           Description of Covenant              Comments
ant   fulfillment  fulfillment
______   ~type       date         date
L3834 AL             Section 3.04      1      December   December                     The Borrower shall have the
(b)                 31, 1996     31, 1996                   records and accounts including
Audit                                                        those in the Special Account
audited for each FY audited, by
independent auditors
L3834 AL             Section 3.04      1      December   December                     The Borrower shall fumnish not
(b)                 31, 1996     31, 1996                   later than 6 months after the end of
Audit                                                        each FY, such audit report to the
Bank.
L3834 AL             Section 3.04      I     December   December                      The Borrower shall maintain
(c)                 31, 1996     31, 1996                   records and accounts reflecting all
Statement of                                                    expenditures or withdrawals made
Expenditures                                                     on the basis of statements of
expenditure
L3834 AL             Section 3.04      1      December   December                     The Borrower shall retain until at        Not yet due
(c)                 31, 1997     31, 1997                   least I year after each audit report
Statement of                                                    all records evidencing such
Expenditures                                                    expenditures
L3834 AL             Section 3.04      1      December   December                     The Borrower shall enable the             Not yet due
(c) Statement            31, 1997     31, 1997                   Bank's representatives to examine
of                                                          such records
Expenditures
L3834 AL             Section 3.04      1      December   December                     The Borrower shall ensure that
(c) Statement            31, 1996     31, 1996                   such records and accounts are
of                                                          included as a separate opinion, in
Expenditures                                                    the annual audit report
Covenant Class:                     1 Accounts/audit
3 Flow and utilization of project funds
9 Monitoring, review and reporting



- 31 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Statements in the Operational Manual (OD or
OP/BP) was observed under the project.
Statement number and Title        Description and comment on lack of compliance
Not Applicable



- 32 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                          Planned           Revised          Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks  US$    Weeks  US$    Weeks  US$
thous.          thous.           thous.
Preparation to Appraisal                72.0   161.6     34.0   106.0    33.9   140.7
Appraisal-Board                          0.0    0.0      39.2   154.2    43.7   150.8
Negotiations through Board Approval      0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Supervision                              0.0    0.0       4.3    13.8      7.7    43.0
Completion                               8.0   24.6       8.0    14.8      8.0    14.8
TOTAL                                  80.0  186.2      85.5   288.8    93.3   349.3
Source: World Bank Management Information System



- 33 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number               Specialized    Implemen-   Develop-
Stage of      Month/      of      Days in    Staff Skills     tation       ment      Types of
Project Cycle     Year    Persons    Field     Represented      Status     Objectives   Problems
Through Appraisal    7/94       3        12      Economist           S            S
8/94       I        26      - macro
9/94       5        50      - social sectors
10/94      3        27      - financial
11/94      1         8      PSD specialist
4/95       3        22      Legal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision          5/95       3        11      Economist           S            S
Completion         10/96        1         2      economist           S            S
Sources: World Bank Management Information System, Form 590s









IMAGING
Report No.:         1BB26
Type:      ICR



