Al  34' t/ - 
Documen Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONMX
Rept No P-6448-AL
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIE
PRESIDIENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND OEVELOPMENT
TO THE
ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIIVALENT TO
US$150 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIRA
DECEMBER 15, 1994
M T rs,Cen  7r
>=t   JfDX 1'' : 
I" T
lhis dockmt bss a resticted d oributn ad may be sed by reciyits only In the perforance of
thedr official dties Its contens my not otherwn  be diclosei widout Word Bank autorization.



C-CY EQUVL
Unit of currency = Algerian Dinar (DA)
1992    I229     1924
US$1.00      21.84    23.34    40.96 (end-October)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEGHGS AND WEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AFS                 Allocation Forfaitaire de Solidarite (Lump-sum Solidarity Allowance)
APSI                Agence pour la Promotion et le Soutien des Investissements (National
Investment Agency)
AIG                 Activitds d'int6ret Gdn6ral (Public Works-based Jobs Program)
BA                  Banque d'AlgErie (Central Bank)
BAD                 Banque Alg6rienne de D6veloppement (Algerian Development Bank)
CNEP                Caisse d'epargne et de Prdvoyance (Household Savings Institution)
CNT                 Conseil National de la Transition (Interim Legislatre)
EFSAL               Entreprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EPE                 Entreprise Publique Economique (Autonomous Public Enterprise)
EPIC         :      Etablissement Public a caractere Industriel et Commercial (Autonomous Public
utility)
EPL          :      Enterprise Publique Locale (Local Public Enterprise)
EPS          :      Entreprise Publique Socialiste (Non-autonomous Public Enterprise)
ERL                 Economic Rehabilitation Loan
ERSL                Economic Reform Support Loan
EU                  European Union
FA                  Fonds d'assainissement (Restructuring Fund)
IMG                 Indemnit6 pour Activit6 d'intreOt G6neral (Public Works Allowance)
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICSR                Indemnite aux Cat6gories Sociales sans Revenus (Direct Transfer Payment
to Households without Income)
LSMS                Living Standards Measurement Survey
MRIP                Minis*e de la Restructuration Industrielle et de la Participation (Ministry of
Industrial Restructuring and Participation)
OAIC                Office Alg6rien Interprofessionel des Coreaes (National Cereals Board)
PE                  Public Enterprise
PEC-1988            Programme en Cours 1988 (Program of Public Enterprise Investments as of 1988)
PER                 Public Expenditure Review
PSA                 Private Sector Assessment
SGG                 Secretaire G6n&ral du Gouvemement (Secretary General of the Giovernment)
SOE                 Statements of Expenditure
SME                 Small and Medium-scale Enterprise



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR RIEPUBIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...................................... i
PART I: THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMC REFORM PROGRAM .                       ...............  1
A.    Introduction ............................................  I
B.    Background ............................................  1
C.    Economic Refoim Strategy ..................................  2
D.    The Stabfladon Program ..........           .........................  3
E.    Extrnal Debt Rescheduling .........         .........................  6
F.    Structural Reform Program  .........        .........................  6
G.    Medium-term Policy Framework and Outlook ......................  13
PART I: THE ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN  .....                    ...........  14
A. Origin and Objectives .14
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .15
C. Project Description .15
D.    Implementation Arrangements                                                15
E. Agrements Reached .16
F.    Environment Assessment ......................   18
G.  Risks ......................                                                 18
H.    Recommendation  ......................    19
ANNEXES
ANNEX I:    Letter of Economic Policy and Policy Matrix
ANNEX II:   Social Indicators: 1993
ANNEX m:  Selected Macroeconomic indicators: 1984-94
ANNEX IV:  Key Processing Events
ANNEX V:   Status of Bank Group Operations
MAYL: IBRD No. 26393
I Thisdocmet has a restrcted distnluton and may be usd by  ipies only in the opfk w    thf  
iiT duties. Its contet may not othewise be disclosed without Wold Bank autho_zo.    I



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMARY
Bwrower:                        Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:                         US$150 million equivalent
Term.                           Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Lan Objectives:                 The proposed Economic Rehabiliaion Support Loan (ERL) is
an essential component of the Bank's assistance strategy for
Algeria. This stategy aims to support the deepening of the
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program,
establish the conditions for a strong supply response, and help
meet the basic social needs of the population. The ERL would
provide urgent support for the reform effort by continuing the
progress achieved under the two previous adjustment loans, and
by laying the groundwork for the preparation of future
adjustment operations.
Lean Description:               The Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan would support a
broad progtim of policy reforms to accelerate Algeria's
transition to a market economy. The key components of the
program include macroeconomic stabilization, trade and price
liberalization, private sector development, privatization,
restructuring of the public enterprise sector, public expenditure
reform, financial sector reform and strengthening of the social
protwcion system. The specific measures to be supported by the
ERL are outlined in the Government's LeUr of Econonic
Poli, submitted to the Bank by the Minister of Finance on
December 4, 1994, and atached as Annex I. The atachments
to the policy letter include a matrix detailing actions taken prior
to Board presentation of the ERL and those planned during the
subsequent twelve months.
Bendfts:                        The Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan provides an
iMportant opportMity to help set the foundation for the
emergence of a market economy in Algeria. The ERL also
enables the Bank to contribute to, and help catalyze, the
international community's efforts to mobilize the substantial
exten  financing crucial to restoring growth and accelerating
economic reForm in Algeria.



Risb:                           Implementation of the economic reform program is complicated
by the difficult political and security situation related to the
economic and social crisis in Algeria. The authorities have made
extensive effo'ts to engage in a dialogue with a broad range of
political groups, and presidential elections have been announced
before the end of 1995. Given the present uncertainties, a
rehabilitation loan with substantial up-front actions provides the
Bank with flexibility in its support of Algeria's economic reform
efforts.
Disbu_rsents:                   The Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan would disburse in a
single tranche of US$150 million within 24 months after Board
approval in January 1995. The Closing Date for the loan would
be December 31, 1996.
Paral Finncing:                 Parallel finmcing may be provided by the European Union.
Finaning Plan:                         FY95         (US$ million equivalent)
IBRD   150         (foreign exchange cost)
Poverty Category:               Poverty focused; supports strengthening of the social protection
system.
Map:                            IBRD No. 26393



REPORT AND RECOMMENATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF T1lE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC REHABI!TATlON SUPPORT LOAN
TO THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
1.          I submit for your approval the following report and renommendation on a proposed
Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan (ERL) to the Governmen of the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria for the equivalent of US$150 million in support of a program of macroeconomic stabilization
and structural reform. The Loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity
of 17 years, including five years of grace. Parallel financing may be forthcoming from the European
Union (EU). The status of the Algerian economy and the economic reform program are detailed in the
recent Country Economic Memorandum, dated May 25, 199A (Report No. 12048-AL).
PART L: T_H  GONERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REORM
A.    Iodudion
2.          In the first quarter of 1994, weak world oil prices, the drying up of extal financing,
growing macroeconomic imbalances, mounting inflationary pressures, a deepening social crisis, and a
build-up of external debt arrears convinced the authorities to accelerate economic policy reforms. They
have requested the financial assistance of the Bretton Woods institutions and other creditors in support
of these reforms. The content of the authorities' macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform
program, including actions recently taken and those envisaged over the coming year, is summarized in
the attached Letter of Economic Policy and Policy Matrix (Annex 1).
B.    Backgrmd
3.           Prior to 1994, Algeria experienced three distinct phases of ecnonuo   policy. From
independence to the mid-1980s, the country followed a socialist model. It utilized its abundant
hydrocarbon resources to finance an extensive, largely publicly owned industrial base. Much social
progress was achieved and an impressive infrastructure was put in place. Although population growth
remained high, life expectancy increased, illiteracy was reduced, and school enrollment reached almost
100 percent. However, the combination of bureaucratic, centralized control and over-dependence on
hydrocarbon exports fostered severe economic distortions and inefficiencies, and prevented the
development of non-oil export . Bank support during this period was limited and sporadic.
4.           The second, adjustment phase began aRter the precipitous decline of oil prices in 1986,
which caused a 50 percent drop in Algeria's terms of trade. The initial response was to treat the shock
as temporary and to borrow to maintin consumption levels. This approach quickly lost favor, however,
as the country's external debt rose sharply from about US$17 billion in 1985 to over US$24 billion in
1987. The breakup of the State farms into private cooperatives holding long-term usufruct rights in 1987
signalled the beginning of a broad program of economic reform. In subsequent years, macroeconomic
imbalances were substantially reduced and a range of structural reforms was implemented. Most public
enterprises (PEs) were granted autonomy and many domestic price controls were remnved. Legal



2
restrictions on the access of private firms to domestic credit and foreign exchange were lifted, State
import monopolies were abolished, and the foreign investment regime was liberalized. Collective
bargaining was decentralized, and the right to strike fully recognized. Monetary policy and banking
supervision were formally devolved to the central bank, and new prudential regulations and accounting
standards were introduced. The Bank actively supported the reform program, with lending to Algeria
averaging about US$350 million annually during FY87-91. TIis support included two adjustment
operations: the US$300 million Economic Reform Support Loan (ERSL), approved in August 1989, and
the US$350 million Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustmen. Loan (EFSAL), approved in June 1991.
5.           The third phase, covering 1992-93, witnessed a significant slow-down of the reform effort
and some back-tracking. Mounting civil unrest, faling oil prices and burgeoning external debt service
payments, coupled with the authorities' reluctance to reschedule external debt obligations, placed severe
strains on the economy. Trade and payments restrictions were tightened in 1992. A broad list of imports
was prohibited, and an inter-ministerial ad hoc committee was established to allocate foreign exchange
and external credit to priority imports. As a result, imports were compressed to US$10.0 billion in 1993,
compared with US$11.5 billion in 1990, a decline of one-third in real terms. The exchange rate
experienced a real appreciation of 50 per ent over the period, stimulating parallel market activity.
Financial discipline was also relaxed, with an increase in implicit and explicit subsidies and large
increases in government salaries. Output stagnated and per capita income declined. Structural measures
relating to PE restructuring and financial sector reform were delayed.
6.           Years of economic staion and a population growth rate of over 2.5 percent have taken
their toll on Algerian society. Per capita income has fallen by roughly 20 percent since 1985, and
unemployment is close to 25 percent. It exceeds 30 percent for the 16-25 age group, and is even higher
for educated youth in urban areas. Rapid urban migration, encouraged by past agricultural and industrial
policies, has resulted in a severe housing shortage and growing environmental problems. The overall
housing shortfall is estimated at two million units and the occupancy ratio of 8.5 persons/unit is one of
the highest among middle income countries. Declining living standards and rising unemployment have
contributed to political turmoil.
C.    Economic Reform Strate
7.           The core development issue facing Algeria's policymakers is how to foster a resumption
of sustainable growth while coping with the immediate problems of high unemployment, the housing
crisis, and shortages of basic necessities. The authorities have developed a three-pronged economic
reform strategy to meet this challenge: (i) implement a stabilization program to - zrrect macroeconomic
imbalances and distortions with the support of the IMF; (ii) approach key creditors for a rescheduling of
the country's official bilateral externa debt (Paris Club), as well as a restructring of its commercial debt
(London Club), in order to finance an increase in the severely compressed level of imports; and (iii)
accelerate the transition to a market economy by reinvigorating the structural reform program with the
support of the Bank to create the conditions for a rapid supply response as macroeconomic conditions
improve. The authorities are fully aware that ensuring the credibility of the reform program is as
important in the eyes of the populace as a return to growth and measures to address the immediate social
crisis. For the first time, the reform program includes concrete privatization actions. The authorities
also recognize that the re-establishment of political stability is a key factor in the success of the economic
reform program. To this end, they have made extensive efforts to engage in a dialogue with a broad
range of political groups.



3
D.    The Stabilization Program
8.            On May 27, 1994, the IMF Board approved a one-year stand-by arrangement and a
request for a purchase under the compensatory and contingency financing facility, for a total of SDR
731.52 million (about US$1 billion). The program period is from April t. 1994 to March 31, 1995.
The key elements of the stand-by program are: adjustment of the exchange rate and reform of the
exchange regime, trade liberalization, domestic price liberalization, deficit reduction, monetary restraint
and higher interest rates. The progrm also provides fbr an explicit increase in budgetary allocations for
the social safety net to alleviate the impact of stabilization on the most vulnerable groups of the
population. The expectation is that, if the stand-by program is implemented satisfactorily, it will be
followed by an Extened Fund Facility (EFF).
9.            The
first  stand-by                          TABLE 1: STMUILIZRTIOOUTLOOK, 194-95
program    review                           billtins. untess othermise indicated)
was  successfully                                  Actual   Projected  IMF Program 1/ Projected
completed   on                                     1993       1994.    --994i95--   ------19
November 2, 1994.
The       review       GDP Graoth Rate             -1.1X       0.6X        1.6X         3.8%
The    review       Treasury Revenue/GDP        27.2X     30.6X        33.1X        33.2X
establshed that all    Treasury Expenditure/GDP    36.6X      35.41       35.9X        35.4X
strucal measures       Treasury Balance/GDP        -9.4X      -4.9X       -2.8%        -2.21
under the progrm        Growth of Net Domestic Credit 21.11    7.51        9.71         0.81 2/
o/w Credit to Economy 3/   -50.31    53.61        85.31       20.61
are  being  imple-    H2 Growth                    21.51      17.11       14.71        13.51
mented on sched-    N2/GDP                         54.0%      49.61       44.7X        43.51
ule.   The qnti-    Inflation Rate 4/              21.01      28.91       28.1X        19.7%
taive performance      Imports (GNFS)              10.0       10.9         11.9        12.3
-r *e -X! *end-Ju*e  Exports (GCFS)              10.8        9.8        10.3         11.Z
cr:taia formdu-June     o/w Hydrocarbons            9.8        8.8         9.2          9.8
and   d-Sepember       Net Factor income           -1.9       -1.7        -1.9         -2.0
o/w Interest Payments 5/   1.7        1.4          1.9         2.1
have  been  met.    Met Transfers                   1.6        1.4         1.3          1.5
Theanithoritieshave    Current Account Balance      0.4       -1.5        -2.1         -1.7
Capital Account Balance    -0.1        1.4          2.7         2.0
also implementd a      Chne in Net Reserves         0.3       -0.1         0.6          0.3
series  of  supple-    Gross Reserves               1.5        2.1         2.3          2.7
mental  fiscal          in months of iqports GNFS   1.5        2.0         2.3          2.3
measures to bring      Total External Debt 6/      25.8       28.5        29.6         30.7
Total External Debt/X)S 7/  218.7X   261.11       285.01 8/    237.61
the budget deficit    Debt Service/xGS 9/          67.41 10/  75.51       82.11        56.5X
back  toward  the      Debt ServicelxGs 5/         67.41      42.01       32.81        35.3%
target for  March    jJ  I V  %us hm bew feIm to XSd pes %*w.
1995, which  has    l1 dMbao_v_m*u*aUude.
it himi boo of .1 -  I isSebi 'I'U
been adjusted from     gj cm. w j.    w  u *mp*
3.3 percent of GDP     3 Adf   1 0 d g
to 2.8 percent on          xes    _    _
the basis of higher-   3w Xs a_i We"
than-expected   oil     08pe*uIe            I b SB lm   ug&inw ad s ltio Gewm u.t_
prices. lEe evolu-
prices The volu-Source: IMP, IUB estimiates.
tion of key macro-
economic indiCators
under the program as projected by the Bank is summarized in Table 1. Preliminay data indicate that the
economy will expand by about 0.6 percent in 1994, an improvement over the 1.1 percent contraction in



4
1993. The limited growth response in 1994 is the result of a drought-olagued harvest, tighter demand
policies, and some apparent inertia in the reaction of banks and PEs to the increased availability of
foreign exchange and the liberalization of trade. GrGwth is projected to accelerate in 1995, as import
capacity continues to expand (para. 15).
10.           Exchange Rate Policy. The authorities' objective is to establish a regime in which the
exchange rate is determined by market forces. In April 1994, the ad hoc inter-ministerial committee
charged with overseeing the allocation of foreign exchange was dissolved, and the Dinar was devalued
by some 40 percent. After subsequent adjustments, the nominal exchange rate reached 40.9 DAIUS$ by
the end of September, compared with about 24 DA/US$ at the beginning of the year. As a furither step,
exchange fixing sessions were introduced in October 1994, with a view to managing the exchange rate
in response to tie demand for foreign exchange from the commercial banks. After a brief surge in May,
the parallel market exchange premium has dropped to less than 100 percent, according to the IMF,
compared to over 400 percent in mid-1992. The authorities plan to move to a market-determined
exchange rate through the introduction of an interbank foreign exchange market durng the second half
of 1995, in the context of the envisaged EFF.
11.           Trade Liberalization. Wide-ranging measures to liberalize imports were adopted in April
1994, and the general principle that enterprises are free to import for their own use or resale was
reaffirmed. The list of socially sensitive "strategic" products was sharply reduced (essentially to basic
food staples, medical equipment and pharmaceuticals), and the requirement that importers obtain ex ante
approval to import these products was replaced with a set of professional criteria that they must respect.'
At the same time, many administrative trade restrictions were eliminated. The improving b.lance of
payments situation (para. 15) and the growing number of private importers have prompted the authorities
to further accelerate trade liberalization. Import suspensions were lifted for twelve products (mostly
textiles) in July 1994, and three products (coffee, barley and infant formula) were dropped from the list
of products subject to professional criteria in September. By the end of 1994, the trade regime will be
essentially free of quantitative restrictions. The remaining import suspensions will be lifted and sugar
will be dropped from the list of products subject to professional criteria. Pharmaceuticals will be dropped
from the list by mid-1995. The authorities are considering the option of increasing tariffs in the 1995
Finance Law for some of the products for which quantitative restrictions are being removed.2
12.           Domestic Price Liberalization. Very significant measures have been adopted during the
past nine months to liberalize the price system and increase administered prices. Most prices subject to
ceilings on markup margins have been freed, including the prices of fertilizer and other agricultural
inputs. The share of free prices in the consumer price index (CPI) now exceeds 80 percent, compared
with only about 10 percent in 1989. Further reductions i price controls are planned in 1995, including
the elimination of ceilings on markup margins for corn, pulses and rice. In parallel, the range of goods
subject to consumer price subsidies has been reduced to three essential food staples (bread, semolina and
.1/    Imports ae reqred to cr* their cpacwty to mpot prduct subject to Xt profesonal crtia sysem. The criteria
include acess to an sppnoprie distributin netvwork and sufficient financial bacin. While cc anwe approval is not
rcessary, failur to respect the criteria can lead to sanctions. The authoriif hwve agreed to review the professional
criteria sytem durg the coung year with the Bank, and tae measu, if needed, to anwr thit it does not act as a
barier to enty for poatent inpotes.
v/     A mjor taiff reform in January 1992 reduced the iaximm tff from 120 pereet to 60 percent, and equalized t rates
of the para-fiscal compensai tax on imports and domestic products. As a result of the reform, the averap, inpott-
weigted trff wvedp fe firm an esimatd 34 paeont in 1991 to 20 parent in 1992.



milk) and certain energy products. Increases in administered prices have exceeded IMF program targets.
Since the end of 1993, the prices of the three subsidized food staples have been increased by an average
of 106 percent. Similarly, domestic energy prices have been raised by an average of 59 percent. As a
result of these price increases and the adjustment of the exchange rate, the total subsidy (explicit and
implicit) on food staples and energy products on an annual basis has fallen to about 3.5 percent of GDP,
compared with almost 9 percent in 1993. Further subsidy reductions are planned over the remainder of
the stand-by period. To institutionalize free price setting, the authorities have prepared, in consultation
with the Bank, a law on competition which is currently being examined by the interim legislature (Consell
National de Transition, CNT).
13.          Fiscal Policies. The key objective of the fiscal adjustment under the program is to restore
domestic financial balance and reallocate resources from the Government to the productive sector. To
achieve this objective, the program targets a reduction in the fiscal deficit from 9.4 percent of GDP in
1993 to 2.8 percent during the program year (1994/95, see Table 1). Revenue enhancemerts include.
(i) new excises on cars and a number of other goods, (ii) the elimination of some VAT exemptions, (iii)
an increase in the corporate tax rate on retained dividends, and (iv) the positive impact of the exchange
rate adjustment on hydrocarbon taxes and customs duties. Expenditure reductions include a slow-down
in public investment expenditures and a cap of 12.5 percent on the increase in civil service salaries over
the program period. lhowever, the fiscal adjustment has been complicated by the emergence in recent
months of expenditure pressures, notably higher-than-expected security expenditures. To offset these
pressures, the authorities have implemented a set of supplemental measures in consultation with the IMF.
These include: (a) a delay in wage increases for civil servants and a freeze on new hiring,
(b) supplemental increases in administrative prices (para. 12), and (c) a reduction in the compensation
of enterprises for foreign exchange losses resulting from the large devaluation in April 1994. The
authorities are targeting a firther reduction in the budget deficit over the remainder of 1995, resulting
in a projected deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP by the end of the year. The Public Expenditure Review
(PER), being carried out with the Bank, will be an important instrumei. for guiding future deficit
reduction measures.
14.          Monetry and Interest Rate Policies. The stabilization program relies heavily on tighter
monetarv policy and a move to positive real interest rates. Broad money is programmed to increase by
17 percent in 1994 and by less than 14 percent in 1995, compared with nearly 22 percent in 1993.
Tighter money is to be made possible through a sharp reduction in credit to the Government as a result
of the fiscal adjustment. While certain quantitative controls remain in effect, including quarterly ceilings
on bank credit to the core group of non-autonomous PEs covered under the EFSAL, the program foresees
a greater role for interest rates in the allocation of credit. The 20 percent ceiling on lending rates was
replaced in April with a ceiling on average bank margins of five percentage points, and key reference
rates were increased by 3-5 percentage points. The tighter demand policies under the program have
restrained inflationary pressures. After a large jump in the price level following the devaluation and
increases in administered prices in April, monthly inflation moderated to some two percent on average
in the third quarter. If this trend is sustained, the IMF estimates that average inflajion over the program
year would be about 28 percent, down sharply from the 37 percent initially programmed.
15.          Balance of Payments and External Financing Plan. The external payments situation is
improving. After a slow start, imports are expanding, and are expected to reach nearly US$12 billion
(GNFS) during the program year, an increase of more than 20 percent in real terms over 1993.
Nevertheless, higher-than-expected oil pric. "ave lowered the projected current account deficit and
capital inflows have been strong, leading tu a substantial build up of reserves. The Paris Club



6
rescheduling agreement (para. 16) provided highly favorable ter, which are expected to be reflected
in the debt restructuring agrFeement under discussion with the London Club. Multlatr financing has
proceeded as expected, including the IMF staid-by, the release of ECU 1S0 million in balance of
payments lending by the EU, and the release of the US$175 million second tranche of the EFSAL in July
1994, which triggered the release of an additional US$150million from the 5xport-Import Bank of Japan.
The improving external payments picture has resulted in a fastr-tan-expected increase in reserves. Non-
gold reserves are now projected to reach US$2.3 billion (slightly more than two months of imports) by
the end of the program year in March 1995, US$800 million more than initially programmed. The higher
level of reserves will facilitate the introduction of the interbank foreign exchange market in 1995.
Er    External Debt Rescheduling
16.         In early 1994, the drop in world oil prices and difficulties in mobilizing external financing
prompted the authorities to reconsider the option of formal debt rescheduling. lTe total stock of
Algeria's external debt (about US$26 billion at the end of 1993, or roughly 50 percent of GDP and
slightly more than twice the level of exports) is high, but not excessive relative to many other middle-
income countries. However, prior to the Paris Club rescheduling, the average maturity of the debt had
steadily decreased to a level of about three years. For many years, the authorities consistently rejected
formal debt rescheduling, relying instead on increased multilateral lending, refinancing arrang :ents, and
controls on external borrowing and imports. The rationale was that the problem was only short-term,
and the country would get over its debt "hump" in a couple of years. Unfortuntely, continued heavy
dependence on expensive short-term credits effectively pushed a growing hump into the future. Although
two important refinancing agreements were reached in 1991, these provided only partial, temporary relief.
At the end of 1993, debt service (excluding refinanced principal payments) had reached almost 70 percent
of exports. Following approval of the stand-by arngement, the Government reached agreement with
the Paris Club for a rescheduling based on favorable terms: 15 years matwit, including 4 years of grace
and a graduated repayment schedule; a cut-off date of September 1993; and rescheduling of interest
payments on official debt through October 1994. This rescheduling should save Algeria approximately
US$3.5 billion in debt servicing costs in 1994, and US$500 million in 1995 (or about US$2.4 billion if
the rescheduling is extended through the end of 1995). It is estimated that the London Club agreement
under discussion with the commercial banks will reduce debt service by an additional US$80 million in
1994, and by US$1.1 billion in 1995, if the agreement extends through the end of the year.
P.    The Stucural Reform Program
17.         The authorities' objective in accelerating the structural reform program is to transform
Algeria into a full-fledged market economy as soon as possible in order to establish the conditions for
sustainable growth and avoid dissipating the short-term gains from debt rescheduling. In order to
transform the economy, the reforms must eliminate structural rigidities, correct distorted incentives,
promote private ownership, and stinulate domestic and external competition. At the microeconomic
level, the top priorities are to encourage the private sector to become the principal source of growth and
employment generation in the emerging market economy (particularly in the sectors from which the State
must withdraw) and to reform the PE sector. In parallel, nascent structural reforms in the financial and
labor markets must be deepened to promote factor redeployment and a more efficient allocation of new
resources in response to changes in relative prices. Finally, the social protection system must be
strengthened. Given the social conditions prevailing in Algeria, this is particularly vital to the success
of adjustment.



Private Sector Development
18.          The proposed ERL would support private sector development through a three-pronged
approach aimed at encouraging private sector investment, stimulating competition, and promoting the
development of the labor-intensive small- and medium-scale enterprise (SME) sector. The private sector
assessment (PSA), which will be carried out in 1995, will focus on developing a longer-term strategy for
expanding the role of private enterprise in all aspects of the economy. Terms of reference for the PSA
have been agteed with the authorities.
19.          Encouraging Private Setor Investment.  The proposed ERL would support the
implementation of the new Investment Code. The Code, promulgated in 1993, clarifies the investment
regime-including the repatriation of profits and capital-and authorizes the establishment of free trade
zones. The Code also creates a national investment agency to: (i) act as a "one-stop window" to help
private investors (foreign and domestic) cut through bureaucratic red tape, and (i) administer tax breaks
and other investment incentives. This agency was established formally in September 1994, and the initial
response from the private sector has been encouraging. The agency has already been presented with over
100 investment projects, totalling more than US$1 billion. The authorities have agreed to devolve the
function of investment promotion to a separate agency run by the private sector, and they plan to request
technical assistance from FIAS for this effort. The new Investment Code is the latest in a series of legal
measures that the authorities have enacted to promote private sector invesunent. The revised Commercial
Code, promulgated in 1993 under the EFSAL-supported program, formalizes the level playing field
between the public and private sectors. It establishes bankruptcy procedures for autonomous public
enterprises (Etreprise Publique Economique, EPE) and authorizes the creation of private joint-stock
companies. In conjunction with the new Investment and Commercial Codes, the Government approved
a law removing the State's monopoly on the insurance market in June 1994. This law is presently being
examined by the CNT.
20.          Stimulating Competition. The new competition law, drafted in consultation with the
Bank, will be an important milestone in the effort to stimulate competition in the highly concentrated
Algerian economy. Under the present circumstances where competition from imports and foreign
investment is likely to remain constrained in the near term, the dominance of PEs in many subsectors
presents major challenges. An analysis of firm concentration indicates that the largest four enterprises
account for 100 percent (or close to 100 percent) of production in the majority of subsectors. A large
number of subsectors are characteized by a single PE producer. The problem of excessive concentration
is magnified by the de facto lack of competitive business practices. The competition law will ban
uncompetitive business practices, provide a basis for establishing market-oriented regulatory instruments,
and help ensure that privatization does not transform public monopolies into private ones. The
competition law has been approved by the Government and it is currently under consideration by the
CNT. As a complementary measure, the authorities have notified concerned distributors that they are
no longer legally obliged to average transport costs, except for the limited list of products subject to fixed
prices. The obligation of averaging transport costs to achieve pan-territorial pricing ( rgquawdon des
prix) constituted an important barrier to entry by local private distributors in the past.
21.          Small- and Medium-scale Enterprise Development. The authorities have removed a major
botdeneck to the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises through the inclusion in the 1995
Finance law of a provision liberalizing imports of used industrial and professional equipment.
Macroeconomic stabilization, incentive reforms, and tight budget constraints on PEs to avoid crowding
out are the most important reforms for promoting SMEs in the manufacturing and service sectors, where



8
labor absorption prospec  are the most favorable during the transition period. However, stabilization
measures must be accompanied by complementary, well focused measures to remove specific constraints
on SME development. Liberalizing the import of used equipment is an important step for private
entrepreneurs faced with limited resources. The authorities have established a Ministry charged with
developing additional measures to promote SMEs.3 This Ministry has asked for Bank support in
designing and implementing its work program.
Public Erprise Reform
22.          The proposed ERL would support PE reform through: (i) the establishment of the legal
and institutional framework for privatization, (ii) the launching of a pilot privatization program to
generate concrete results quickly, and (iii) the implementation of a market-oriented framework for PE
restructuring. The low level of productivity of the PE sector, which accounts for roughly 60 percent of
non-government GDP, is at the heart of the economic crisis in Algeria. Under the EFSAL-supported
program, substantial progress was made in providing PEs with operational autonomy (under the aegis of
eight Participation Funds which act as fiduciary agents for the State) and in restructurming their non-
performing debts under the financial restructuring program (assainssementfinancier). However, physical
restructuring has lagged behind, and operating losses have continued. The authorities acknowledge the
need for further measures, including privatization, to eliminate operaing losses and increase the
productivity of the PE sector. The program which the ERL would support aims to improve PE
performance through a combination of privatization, tighter budget constraints, higher capacity utilization
through the increased availability of imports, physical restructuring (notably the shedding of excess
labor), and further debt restructuring where appropriate.
23.          Edtr1g=n. In November 1994, the Government adopted awide-reaching policy, which
opens all sectors either to outright privatization or to private sector management under concession
agreements. Priority sectors for privatization include tourism, retail services, housing construction, road
transport, port and airport services, ex-monopoly importers, and insurance companies. For a restricted
list of public services (i.e., production and distribution of energy and water; airport, port and road
infrastructure; and air and rail transport), the program will be limited to granting concessions to private
sector operators. A Ministry of Industrial Restructuring and Participation (MRIP) has been created -o
lead the privatization effort. In preparation for privatization, legal provisions were introduced in June
1994 for opening the capital of autonomous PEs to private investors up to 49 percent and for the sale of
PE assets to the private sector. Bank staff are presently assisting the authorities with the preparation of
a privatization law, which is expected to be promulgated in early 1995. The law will establish a
comprehensive, consistent legal and instituional framework for privatization. It envisages the creation
of a National Privatization Council charged with implementing the privatization program, approved
amwally by the Government, and provides the Council with wide-ranging authority to carry out its
mission. The authorities have requested support from the Bank for the design and implementation of a
broad privatization program in the priority sectors in 1995. To a significant extent, the pace of
privatization will be driven by the absorptive capacity of the private sector and its willingness to invest
under the prevailing circumstances in Algeria,
SMEs are defined in Alpeia so enterprise wit up to 20 eVployee. This &efinitn inorporats the vt naori of
privaw finm in the couty.



9
24.          As part of their straegy, the authorities have launched a pilot privatization program with
technical assistance from the Bank. lbe objective is to gere  some successful operations quicldy in
order to establish the feasibility of privatization, even before the new law is passed, and to send a clear
signal of intent to the population and to other concemned parties, such as the bureaucracy and Algeria's
external partners. To this end, the scale of the pilot program has been kept modest in order to stramline
its implementation. Under the program, some 88 local PEs (out of a total of roughly 1,200) have been
dissolved and their assets placed in liquidation. In addition, calls for bids for five nationsl hotels, which
have yet to begin operations, were published in late November 1994. These five hotels represent roughly
six percent of the total capacity of the public hotel sector in Algeria. The authorities are presently
selecting a diverse group of at least 12 additional national hotels to be sold in a second phase under the
pilot program. The lessons learned from the pilot program will be an important input into the broader
privatization effort in 1995.
25.          PE Restructuring. In the context of the proposed ERL, the authorities have established
a market-oriented framework for implementing the restuctuing plans for the 23 non-autonomous PEs
(EPS) which were the subject of diagnostic stdies under the EFSAL. These firms include most of
Algeria's largest PEs, e.g., the national steel company and the national fertilizer producer. Together,
they account for roughly one-third of industrial production, which in tum accounts for about 10 percent
of GDP. The restrucuring framework, summarized in Annex I, is designed to ensure the viability of the
restructuring plans, to tighten the budget constraints on the firms, and to create incentives for their
managers to assume responsibility for restrucuring and become actively involved in the search for private
partners. Under the framework, a distnction is made between the restuctring of past debts (to be
financed by the Treasury) and rehabilitation investments (to be financed, as a rule, by the enterprise
through a combination of self-financing, commercial bank credit, asset sales, and private investment).
The framework calls for all 23 EPS to pass to autonomy or be closed (and their assets sold) by the end
of 1995, starting with a first group of six enterprises-including the steel company-before the end of
1994. In order for an EPS to pass to autonomy, its managers must obtain a non-objection of their
restructuring plan from the authorities, following revision if necessary, and sign a performance contract
with the State. This contract commits management to implementing the restructuring plan and to
mobilizing financing for the rehabilitation investments proposed in the plan. Upon signature of the
contract, the enterprise will undergo financial restructuring and pass to autonomy. Responsibility for
overseeing the performance contract will be incumbent on the shareholder assembly of the enterprise.
As an autonomous EPE, the enterprise will be authorized to open its capital to private investors and to
sell off assets to the private sector. During 1995, the authorities will contnue to impose ceilings on bank
credit and wages for the EPS which have not yet passed to autonomy or been closed.
Public Expenditure Reform
26.          The proposed ERL would support two important public expenditure reforms geared to
tightening the budget constraints on PEs and banks: (i) consolidating the withdrawal of the State from the
financing of PE investments, and (ii) phasing out the financial restructuring program introduced in the
context of the EFSAL. In Algeria, public expenditure reform is the linchpin of the adjustment program.
In the past, the Treasury used bountiful hydrocarbon revenues to finance State interventions throughout
the economy. The withdrawal of the State from financing productive activity, which was initiated in the
context of the ERSL and extended under the EFSAL, would be consolidated under the ERL, in particular
to impose strict budget constraints on PEs and banks. Hard budget constraints are critical to
macroeconomic stability and the operation of the new market-oriented legal framework (e.g., PE
bankruptcy procedures under the revised Commercial Code). Phasing out the financial restructuring



10
program will contribute to the fiscal adjustment and strengthen the credibility of hard budget constrints.
In addition, the ERL would support mplem on of the recommendations of tbe PER, which will aim
to improve the efficiency of public spending and help ensure that fiscal adjustment does not come at the
expense of basic social objectives. The PER covers both current and capital expenditures. Building on
the results of the Public Investment Review carried out in 1990 in die conte  of the ERSL, the PER wfll
help strengthen the fiscal adjustment efforts initiated under the IMF stand-by. It will analyze notably the
decision-making procedures for public spending in order to improve efficiency, and it will identify a core
public investment program.
27.          Treasury Fi ancina of PE Inve s. Under the reform progrm, the responsibility for
financing investments of autonomous EPEs has shifted from the Teasy  to the enterprises and the
commercial banks, which are also autonomous. However, as an interin measure, the Treasury has
continued to finance investment projects for the EPEs which were approved prior to the end of 1988
(PEC-1988). The authorities realize the importance of subjectng all PE investments to a market test,
notably by potential private sector partners authorized to participate in the capital of autonomous PEs.
To this end, the Treasury has infomed EPEs that it will stop financing investments under the PEC-1988
by the end of the stand-by period (March 1995). The authorities have also set ceilings on potential State
support for the rehabilitation investmens of the non-autonomous EPS and confned it to a few exceptional
cases (para. 25). In order to ensure transparency, this support will take the form of equity injections or
credits from the budget. Treasury guarantees for bank credits to the EPS will be t d  once the
latter pass to autonomy. In adition, the Participation Funds have the authority to guarantee bank credit
to EPEs. As part of the effort to tighten budget constrin on PEs, the general assemblies of each of
the eight Participation Funds will pass a resolution before the end of March 1995 capping the level of
guarantees issued to banks at the level of the Fund's own resources (fnds propres).
28.          Einanial ReucturinProam. Agreement has been reached on a framework for futre
expenditures under the finacial restucurig program and on a calendar for phasing out the Restrumcng
Fund in the context of the proposed ERL. The financial restucuring program has reduced the debt
burden on PEs and public utilities, thereby cuttig their losses, and strngthned the balance sheet of
the banks. However, the future expenditures of the Retuctring Fund (Fonds d'asaiissemet, FA)
must be strictly determined according to transparent criteria, and a calendar for phasing out the FA
established, in order to support fiscal adjustment and strengt  the credibility of hard budget constraints.
Otherwise, PEs and banks could anticipate that financial losses not presenty covered. by the PA will be
covered in the fxture. This anticipation of a future bail-out would have an exftemely detrimental efct
on PE performance. Under the agreed frmework, summarized in Amnex I, expenditures by the PA will
stop by the end of 1996, with the possible exception of one-me capital allocations to PEs and public
utilities which have not yet passed to autonomy by that date.4 An exhaustive list of non-autonomous PEs
and public utilities which are eligible for such allocations will be established by the end of 1994.
Financial Sector Reform
29.          The financial sector reforms which the ERL would support focus on: (i) strengthening
the legal and regulatory framework, (ii) pursuing the restructuring of the existing banks under market
V     An autono_mo pubhi uWt   i defnd i legad tem as an EPIC ( bAinwmPc a Cwuc*re hdird et
Ca.,rciaZ . In pinciple, EPICs ezoy fill fiacial autonmy fitom the Stte. However, tey am eigible for
_oonVehon frm the TDsJy for my lkwes reulting frm ontined Ste contol over tariffs.



11
conditions and subjecting them to tighter budget constraints, and (iii) identifying measures to atract new
private financial institutions. An efficient financial sector is the foundation of a market economy. The
importance of the financial sector in Algeria is accentuated by the need to transform large hydrocarbon
rents into productive investments. While the legal and regulatory framework has been etensively
reformed, implementation of the new framework is just begining. The financial sector is presendy
dominated by five public banks which are severely undercapitalized for the most part and have little
experience in financial intermediation. The legacy of lax budget constraints and sectoral specialization
has left the banks with major portfolio problems which have only been partially resolved by the financial
restructuring program. Competition is marginal. There are now two private banks, but the scale of their
operations remains modest. Although several foreign banks have established representative offices, they
have not played a significant role to date. The macroeconomic and financial sector reforms that the
proposed ERL would support will address the weaknesses of the financial sector and pave the way for
the establishment of a stock exchange and the development of longer-term financial markets, which are
needed to sustain an expansion of private investment.
30.          Strentening the Legal and Regulatory Framework. While much of the legal and
regulatory framework of a modem financial sector has been established in the context of the ERSL and
EFSAL programs, the framework must be completed and made fully operational. The prudential
regulations were revised in November 1994, notably to provide a more accurate picture of bank solvency.
In parallel, clear rules for the application of the five percent ceiling on bank margins have been
established. These rules provide room for banks to cover costs and to lend for higher risk, but potentially
higher return, projects. In order to make the new legal and regulatory framework more operational, a
plan to reinforce bank supervision, prepared in consultation with the Bank, was adopted by the BA in
November 1994. The plan incorporates training programs for bankers, accountas and inspectors.
31.          Restrutuinng the Eisting Banks. The authorities have expressed a clear intent to
privatize at least some of the existing banks, and agreement has been reached on terms of reference for
a feasibility study in 1995 of the opening of the capital of existing banks to private investors, including
the option of full privatization. However, as highlighted by the institutional and financial audits carried
out by international auditors in 1992, the structural weaknesses of the banks are such that their successfiu
privatization is likely to require extensive preparation. The authorities have developed a market-oriented
framework for implementing the restructuing plans developed for the five public banks in the context
of the EFSAL. A key component of this framework is the signing of performance contracts between the
managers of the banks and the State. These contracts are expected to be signed by early 1995. The State
will proceed with a final recapitalization of the banks (on the basis of audits of the 1993 accounts
currently underway) through the FA in order to establish a capital adequacy ratio of at least 4 percent for
each hbwk by mid-1995. From that point on, the contracts will hold bank managers directly and solely
responsible for respecting the capital adequacy ratios set by the BA, which are to increase to 8 percent
for the five banks in question by the end of 1999. The banks, in turn, are being provided with increased
autonomy with respect to operational decisions, notably the allocation of credit. The expectation is that
the new framework, if implemented and supervised properly, will tighten the budget constraint on the
banks and increase the incentives for bank managers to mobilize resources, improve the allocation of
credit and search for potential private partners.
32.          Attracting New Private Financial Institutions. The authorities are actively promoting the
establishment of new private banking institutions to increase competition in the sector and provide private
investors with broader access to credit. Terms of reference have been agreed for a study in 1995 to
identify measures to encourage the creation of private banking institutions. This study will examine, inter



12
alia: (i) the impact of existing capital requrements for banks and financial institutions' (approxmately
US$12 million and US$4 million, respectively); (ii) potential administrative constraints on establishing
new banking institutions; (iii) fiscal incentives and disincentives; Civ) the role of intst rates, the ceiling
on bank margins and remaining quantitative controls on credit; (v) the payments system; and (vi) bank
concentration ratios and other factors related to competition in the financial sector. 'Me authorities are
also working with the Bank to devise regulations authorizing the establishment of credit unions, which
represent a means of mobilizing household savings, broadening access to domestic credit, and increasing
competition in the financial sector in the relatively short term.
Strengthening the Social Protection System
33.          The authorities have recently launched two major initiatives to strengthen the social
protection system: (i) the establishment of a scheme to protect workers laid off because of entrprise
restrucuring, and (ii) a reform of the social safety net. These initiatives are part of a larger effort to
better use the limited resources available, and to move from a dependence on secure public sector
employment and distortionary price subsidies to a reliance on private sector job growth and more
economically neutral income trasfers. A stronger, better targeted social protection system will facilitate
structural adjustment by reducing incentive distortions, facilitating enterprise restructuring, and enhancing
the efficiency of the labor market. Under the proposed ERL, implemention of the worker protection
scheme and the social safety net reform would be closely monitored and corrective measures would be
taken as required.
34.          Unemploye   sance and Early Retirement. A national scheme to protect redundant
workers, financed entry through employer and employee contributions, was adopted in May 1994, after
intensive consultations with the labor unions. The scheme incorporates unemployment insurance and
early retirement programs for workers employed on permanent contracts. The new scheme, which
contains several innovative features, will facilitate PE restucuring. However, an initial review has
indicated that the benefits provided may prove to be too generous and the costs to entprises too high
for the scheme to be fully effective. The authorities have agreed to conduct a review of the new scheme
during the coming year in collaboration with the Bank in order to monitor its effectiveness and identify
corrective measures if needed.
35.          Reform of the Social Safety Net  In October 1994, the authorities introduced an
ambitious reform of the transitional social safety net implemented in 1992 to compensate for reductions
in food subsidies. The objective of this reform, designed in collaboration with the IMF, is to target
scarce budgetary resources more effectively to truly vulnerable groups. The reform limits social
assistance benefits to those families with no other source of income and unable to work (i.e., handicapped
individuals, widows and the elderly). In parallel, a new pay-for-work scheme has been inroduced to
provide financial support for individuals able to work through participation in activities of community
interest (adivit6s d'i7rt  g6Mrai, AIG). Participants in the AIG scheme will be paid only for days
worked at a monthly rate slightly more than half the minimum wage of DA 4,000. Discussions of the
new scheme with the Bank have pointed to concerns about the capacity of the administration to operate
such a program on a national scale. In particular, it is critical that the scheme be fully self-targeted in
order to channel the benefits to the truly needy, while miniming administrative costs. Moreover, the
5/    UndeAlgerin law, fincial instituti  have businempowers snuiltotlwso of bans, but th camotept montay
dexst.



13
private sector should play a central role in implementing the activities of community interest envisaged
under the scheme. The authorities have acknowledged the Bankes concerns. They have agreed to carry
out during the coming months an evaluation of the social safety net reform in collaboration with the Bank,
and to take measures, if necessary, to improve the ability of the system to reach the most vulnerable
groups at a sustainable cost. This evaluation will serve as a basis for the preparation of a proposed social
safety net project. The terms of reference for the evaluation have been agreed upon.
G.    Meiumtem Policy Framework and Outlook
36.           Accompanied by stabilization, the acceleration of structural reforms should provide a
sound basis for a medium-term policy framework geared to supporfting adjustment and setting the
economy on a permanent high-growth path. Of particular importance is a sustained reduction in the debt
service ratio in order to underpin a permanent boost in import capacity. While the level of growth that
higher import capacity can generate over the medium term will depend on the costs of adjustment, notably
PE restructuring, the objective is to create jobs at a rate at least equal to the 4 percent growth rate of the
labor force. This would stabilize unemployment and help ease social tensions. Restored growth would
also support faster structural adjustment, which, in turn, would accelerate the transition to markets and
generate a more rapid improvement in economic efficiency. The resulting increase in market forces and
productivity would help sustain growth, and provide for a more flexible response to adverse external
shocks. As the reforms take hold, sustained growth and greater efficiency would support further
increases in per capita consumption.
37.           The  Bank  has
developed medium-term projections             TALE 2: StNW  NEDU1-TEN OTLOUK
for Algeria which are consistent      IS bittiom  ntess otbehise indicated)
with  the  deepening  of  the                                           Projected
stabilization and structural reform                            -996   1997   1998 1999-03
program. The projecions, which                                                      Cavg)
have been reviewed with the IMF,    GOP Growth Rate            4.0Q   4.0X    4.5   5.0Q
are summarized in Table 2. They    Treasury Balance/QDP       -1.0Q   0.0X    1.0   2.0X
target continued expansion of the    Inflation Rate I/        10.1%   8.32    7.8%   4.42
economy and a deceleration of    Imports                      13.1   13.9    14.0  14.9
inflation. Annual GDP growth is    Exports                    11.7   12.8    13.7  15.5
Madon.Annua GDP  rcowt is    o/t Hydrocarbons        10.1   10.8    11.4  12.3
targeted to average about 4 percent    Current Account Balance  -1.9   -1.8    -0.8   0.3
through  1998, in part through    Gross Reserves 2/            2.6    2.7     2.8   3.0
increases in the capacity utilization    Totel Externat Debt 3/  33.1   35.1    35.7  34.3
Total Exterral Debt/XGS 4/  243.3X  237.2X  225.1X 192.8X
rate which is currently under 60    Debt Service/XGS 5/       39.42   31.52   44.0X  41.1X
percent. Inflation is targeted to fall  ___- P- -  -N
below 10 percent per year. While t    can" b i of i1VM# of Ms
the authorities are targeting a faster    II _A *A t d AN SW ON  P uuuc
deceleration of inflation under the    s Afh  I
envisaged EFF, this will not be
easy to achieve given the fragile    Source: US estimates.
state of the PE sector, the
underdeveloped financial sector, and the growing stock of public debt. As the economy adjusts over the
medium term, a fiuther increase in the growth rate can be expected. Achieving the growth targets will
depend on tre  critical factrs: (J) the pace of stabilization and strucural reform; (ii) the costs of
adjustment, especially PE restrcturing, which are difficult to quantify, and (Mii) the ability and



14
willingness of private investors to respond to the reforms. Higher-than-expected adjustment costs have
proven to be a major obstacle in other transition economies. The fact that the private sector has always
been present in Algeria, along with the ccuntry's relatively modern capital stock, substantial agricultural
potential, and readily exploitable energy resources argues for lower adjustment costs than in other former
socialist economies. Moreover, the projected expansion in hydrocarbon exports (para. 38) and continued
capital inflows will help alleviate the costs of adjustment and facilitate the transition process.
Nevertheless, it is possible that actual medium-term performance could fall short of the targets, despite
the acceleration of reform and higher import capacity, particularly if private investors hesitate, or lack
sufficient resources, to respond to the reforms. This risk highlights the need for continuous efforts to
sustain popular support for the reform program, to bolster the confidence of private investors, and to
ensure their access to foreign exchange, domestc credit and other resources.
38.           The medium-term growth projections are underpinned by continued increases in import
capacity. Import levels (GNFS) are expected to increase steadily through 1997, reaching nearly US$14
billion, and then stabilize thereafter. This projection reflects the anticipated slow-down in hydrocarbon
investments as the on-going program to expand gas exports comes to a close. Hydrocarbon investments
support a projected increase in gas exports-consisting of LNG, piped gas, and liquifled petroleum gas
(LPG)-from US$3 billion in 1994 to about US$5.4 billion by 1998.6 Oil export volumes are projected
to remain at current levels over the medium term. Sustained oil production is underpinned by foreign
direct investment such as the signing last summer of Algeria's first, large-scale production sharing
agreement: a US$1.3 billion, 25 year deal with the Atdantic Richfield Company (ARCO). Assuming a
steady recovery of oil prices, total hydrocarbon exports are projected to reach US$11.4 billion by 1998.
Non-hydrocarbon exports and private transfers are also projected to increase in response to the
stabilization and reform program. Taken together, these developments underlie the projected
improvement in the current account from the present deficit to a modest surplus after 1998. To support
higher growth and accelerated reform, the macroeconomic policy framework must include a comprehen-
sive strategy for mintuining the external debt service burden at a sustainable level. Further multilateral
debt rescheduling in the context of a future EFF would reduce MLT principal repayments to a projected
average of US$3.2 billion p.a. over 1996-98. Under these assumptions, the debt service ratio would
decline to 31 percent by 1997, followed by an increase in 1998 as repayments of rescheduled debt begin,
and then average about 40 percent thereafter.
PART II: TM ECONOMC REHABILITATION SUPPORT LOAN
A.    Orgins and Objectives
39.          The proposed ERL has been prepared in response to the Government's request for support
from the international financial community for its economic reform program. The Bank assisted the
authorities in developing the matrix of policy reforms attached to.the Letter of Economic Policy presented
in Annex I. This effort relied heavily on the achievements of the ERSL and EFSAL programs, and the
understandings built up through many years of intensive dialogue, including detailed discussions of the
ot     On-going gas development projects include: Oi the doublin of the capacity of the TRANSMED I pipeline to Italy from
12 billion cubic maers (BCM) per year to 24 bom, (u) the constuction of a TRANSMED n pipeline with an inia
capacity of about 8 bcm per year from Algeria twgh Marocco to Spain, and (ti) the revanping of LNG liquefaction
facilities to incrse capacity fmn some 23 born to 32 born per year.



13
draft Country Economic Memorandum in December 1993. The policy matrix presents a comprehensive
program of reform measures critical for the transition to a market economy including, for the first dme,
concrete actions to privatize Algeria's extensive public enterprise sector. The program also includes
realistic targets antd indicators to monitor progress over the coming year. If implemented vigorously, this
program will provide a sound basis for future Bank assistance for structwal adjustment in Algeria. The
macroeconomic framework for the reform program has been established in close cooperation with the
IMF, which is providing support under the stand-by arrangement approved in May 1994.
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
40.          Two principal reasons justify the proposed ERL: (i) it will help the authorities define and
implement policy reforms to accelerate the transition to a market econony; and (ii) it will contribute to,
and help catalyze, the international community's efforts to mobilize the substantial external financing
package needed to underpin restored growth and bolder eco4omic reform. The proposed ERL represents
a renewal of the Bank's efforts to support the macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program,
particularly the reforms of the productive sector needed to set the economy on a path of sustained growth.
Key reform measures include private setor development, privatization, restructuring of the PE sector,
public expenditure reform, financial sector reform, and the strengthening of the social protection system.
In concert with macroeconomic stabilization, these policy reforms will help establish the foundation for
the emergence of the private sector as the engine of growth over the medium term. Given Algeria's high
debt service and dependence on imported inputs, restoring growth requires a loosening of the extemr
resource constraint. The international community has launched a concerted effort to reduce the debt
service burden and provide additional resources in order to increase imports from the critically low level
in 1993. The multilateral institutions are foreseen as playing a major financing role, and the program
supported by the 1ME stand-by includes this source of financing. Other creditors are paying close
atention to the extent of Bank support. The EU has expressed interest in providing parallel financing
of the stuctura reform program supported by the proposed ERL through an ECU 200 million balance
of payments loan, which would also be linked to continued implementation of the IMFf-S7pported
stabilization program.
C.    Project Descron
41.          The proposed Loan would finance imports in an amount of US$150 million equivalent.
The Loan would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost (CMF of goods imported from Bank
member countries and Taiwan. Goods imported after September 15, 1994, would be eligible for
retroactive financing under the Loan up to a maximum of US$30 million, equivalent to 20 percent of the
Loan amount, in view of the considerable progress already achieved in implementing the reform program.
The Loan's closing date would be December 31, 1996.
D.    Imple     ion Arrangeme
42.          The Borrower would be the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The National Planning Council is the lead Proje
Implementaion Ainy for the management of the Loan. An inter-midisterial working group is in charge
of coordinatng the monitoring of the program. A formal program review will be held in 1995 (para 47).
43.          Prmient. The proposed loan would be used to finance the CEF cost of eligible
imports of eligible goods and services by the public and private sectors. Procurement would be carried



16
out in accordace with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts for the procurement of eligible
imports e_stated to cost the equivalet of US$5 million or more each shall be awarded through
Inerional Compedtiwve Bidding. Ineligible items would include those financed from bilateral or other
multilaeral sources, expenditures in the currenwy of the Borrower or for items supplied from the
Borrower's terrory, items intended for militay or para-militry use, and luxury items. Commodities
would be procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Eligible expenditures for petroleum
products and foodstuffs would be limited to US$30 million each. Contracts for the procurement of
eligible imports estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$5 million woud be awarded on the basis
of established commcial practice and/or the Borrower's public sector procurement procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank. As in all quick-disbursing operations, there mill be o prior review of
contract awards; verification of supporting documen will be on a selecive posl-review basis comprising:
evidence of bid invitation, record of bid opening, bid evaluation report, and the sigted contract/purchase
order or official customs declaration(s).
44.                     . The Algerian Development Bank (BAD), which operas as an annex of
the Treasury, would be responsible for administering the Loan, including the prepsration and submission
of all withdrawal requests. Ihe BAD would also be responsible for managing a special account in US
dollars at the Central Bank under the Loa in the amount of US$12 million. For contracts valued below
US$5 milion equivalent, disburements would be made on the basis of staements of expenditures (SOB),
prepared on the basis of information conained in customs certificates or other appropriate documents
showing that eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from the Bank had been
importd ito Algeria durng the period under consideration. Supporting documentation for SOEs would
be reinedby the BAD for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in
which the last disbursement was made. Tbis documentation would be made available to the auditors
(para. 45) and to Bank staff upon request Withdrawal applications would be consolidated and submitted
in amounts of not less than US$1 million eqvalen. Contrac valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent would not be eligible for flnacing under the Loan. Retoactive financing of up tO US$30
million equivalent would be provided for eligible items imported after September 15, 1994.
45.          Audting. The BAD would be responsible for maintaining all Loan accounts and the
records of all transactions under the Loan in accordance with accepted accounting practices. All accounts
would be audited following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. These reports would include a separate opinion on the use of SOEs and the special account.
Certified copies of the audit would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year.
X Bm,t Reacbed
46.          Actions prior to Board Presentation. The official submission to the Bank of the
Government's Letter of Economic Policy was a condition of Board presention. The full set of prior
actions for Board presentation is detailed in the policy matrix attached to the Letter of Economic Policy.
KS prior aczions include:
Incemive Frameworlk and Private  revelopment
*     Publication of the implementing regulations for the Investment Code, including a decree
establishing the National Investment Agency.



17
*     Adoption by the Council of Ministers of the draft law on competition.
*     Dism ation of circulars to conernd etprises stating that paneritorial pricing is
not required, except for a restricted list of products subject to fixed prices.
*     Inclusion in the 1995 Finance law of a provision liberaizing the import of used industrial
and professional equipment.
Reform of the Public Eterprise Sector
*     Adoption by the Council of Government of a privatzation policy opening all sectors
either to outright privatzation or to private sector management.
*     Adoption by the Council of Goverment of implementing regulations for the sale of
assets by autonomous PEs to the private sector.
*     Preparation of a draft privatization law in consultation with the Bank.
*     Launching of the pilot privatization program, including the dissolution of 88 local PEs
and the publication of the call for bids for five national hotels identified during appraisal.
*     Adoption by the authorities of the framwork for implememing the restrug  of the
23 non-autonomous public enterprises (see Annex 1).
*     Establishment of the ceiling on bank credit to the 23 EPS for the last quarter of 1994,
and agreement to impose wage and credit ceilings in 1995 on the EPS which have not yet
passed to autonomy or been closed.
Public Exniu  Rorm
*     Notification by the Treasury to autonomous EPEs that it will terminate, at the end of
March 1995, feancing of investment projects approved prior to the end of 1988.
*     Establishment by the authorities of ceilings on potential State support for the
rehabiliation investm    of the EPS and commitment to limit such support to exeptional
cases in accordance with the adopted fraimwork.
*     Agreement on the strucure of future Restructring Fd expenditures and on a calendar
for phasing it out (see Annex 1).
Financial Sector Reform
*     Publication by the BA of a directive expanding and strengthening the prudential
regulations.
*     Establishment by the BA of a plan to strengthen banking system supervision.
*     Agreement on the model for the performance contracts between bank management and
the State holding the former responsible for respectng capital adequacy requiements.



18
*     Adoption by the BA of regulations for the application of the ceiling on bank margins.
StrengUening of the Social Poteton Ssm
*     Publication of the implementing regulations for tde unemployment insurance/early
retirement system for workers laid off for econowic reasons.
*     Agreemnt on terms of reference for the evaluation of the reform of the social safety net
enacted in October 1994.
47.          ProEram Review.  The policy matrix includes a broad range of measures to be
implemented during the 12 months following Board presentation. While these measures are not
conditions for the ERL, satisfactory progress in their impl ion will be a trigger for the preparation
of new adjustment lending in 1995, in concert with a successor IMF program. The ERL-supported
program will be the subject of a formal review on June 30, 1995, or any other mutually agreed date.
In addition to evaluating the implementation of the measures included in the policy matrix, the Bank will
monitor a series of quantitative indicators, developed in collaboration with the authorities, with a view
to assessing the impact of the economic reform program. The choice of indicators, which are attached
to the Letter of Economic Policy, was influenced by data requirements, and the need for broad, but
economical, coverage of the program.
F.                  Assessment
48.          The project is consistent with the Bank's environmental policies and will follow accepted
Bank procedures in this area. In conformity with the policy for rehabilitation operations, no
environmental rating has been assigned. The question of enviromental liability for past pollution will
become a major issue as the privatization process proceeds. During the consultations on the draft
privatization law, the Bank underlined the importance of establishing, on the basis of independent
environmental audits, a clear division of responsibility between the State and prospective new investors
for remedying past pollution problems.
G.    Risks
49.          The proposed ERL would support a complex program of macroeconomic stabilization and
structral reform for a country suffering from a severe social crisis, and struggling to overcome the
legacy of nearly three decades of centralized planning and over-dependence on hydrocarbon exports. It
is an operation subject to a significant degree of risk. Four categories of risk can be identified: social
and political upheaval, external shocks, higher-than-expected adjustment costs and a slow private sector
response, and the capacity of the Algerian administration to carry out the program.
so.          Implementation of the reform program is subject to political risks arising from the
economic and social crisis in Algeria and the difficult security situation. The authorities have made
extensive efforts to maintain a dialogue with a broad range of political groups, and presidential elections
have been announced before the end of 1995. Even so, the situation is quite uncertain, and there is no
guarantee that the politically motivated violence will diminish soon or that the composition of the
government will not change. However, the medium-term program supported by the proposed ERL will
need to be implemented by any government. As a result of the long duration of the economic crisis,
there is a much greater acceptance by the population of the need for stabilization and structural reform.



19
This is evidenced by the muted opposition to the stabilization program, and the implicit support for the
program (despite a significant expected decline in real wages) by the trade unions. The unions are now
keenly interested in an economic stregy that ensures more sustainable growth and employment, despite
the short-term social costs.
51.          With regard to extal shocks, the two main factors for Algeria are fluctuations in world
oil prices and in the value of the US dollar. At curmrt export and import volumes, a US$1 dip in the
average price for Algerian crude oil entails a loss of roughly US$500 million in annual export earnings,
and a one percent depreciation of the US dollar raes import costs by an estimated US$80 million. A
depreciation of the dollar also increases the cost of servicing external debt which is denominated largely
in non-dollar currencies. While the oil price risk can be addressed through contingency financing
mechanisms, the economy remains vulnerable. This vulnerability highlights the urgent need to
accompany stabilization with a deepening of structural reform in order to diversify the country's export
base and improve the economy's aWility to respond to adverse external shocks.
52.          Higher-than-expected adjustment costs have proven to be a major obstacle in other
transition economies, and a slow response from the prvate sector has bedeviled many adjustment
programs. It is difficult to estimate precisely the extent of the adjustment costs that will be generated by
Algeria's economic reform program. As noted earlier (para. 37), there are several factors, including the
long-standing private sector, as well as the county's relatively modern capital stock and readily
exploitable energy resources, which indicate that adjustment costs wiUl likely be lower than in other
former socialist economies. Hesitation by private sector investors to take advantage of opportunities
created by the reform program, or a lack of sufficient resources to do so, is another potental risk. This
underscores the need to ensure the credibility of the program in the eyes of private investors and to
provide them with sufficient access to resources under market conditions, notably by eliminating the
public sector defict, establisWng a foreig exchange market, and encouraging the creation of private
financial institutions. Continued support will also be needed from the interational community to help
alleviate the costs of adjustment and to help ensure that sufficient resources are available to sustain the
momenum of the transition to a market economy.
53.          Implementing the economic reform program's many interdependent components will tax
the already strained public administration in Algeria. Many of the areas covered by the program, such
as privatization, represent relatively unfamiliar terrtory, and mid-course corrections will be inevitable.
The inter-ministerial working group responsible for monitoring the program will help provide the
necessary coordination. However, the Bank will need to maintain an intensive dialogue with the
authorities and provide a significant amount of technical assistance.
H.    Recommendaion
54.          1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
December 15, 1994
Washigton, D.C.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR IatUIC OF ALGEaA
ECONOMIC  BIIAT     SUPPORT LOAN
POIRRQEICONM WRX
December 4, 1994.
Ministry of Finance
The Ministr
To the President of the World Bank
Mr. Presidnt,
Plase find aahed a Lver of EFonomic Policy which decibes the objecdves uad
istments of the Boonomic Rdorm Progm of the Goex men of Alea This progm trso th
macroeconomic stabization and structuri al,t     of our ooo.
In order tD oUSUre 66 pIOerI ... IF.    i-I   of hs prr, to GoeNMt 
mobilizing the finan   and tecbhical  oas e of all of the nnatid    ptns of Algia
In the firaework of dk-, support of its onoomic refom  progra, th  Governen
reWests from the World Bank a rehabilation loan in the amount of US$150 mailion equivln
Please accept, Mr. Presiden the etpression of my nWore consideration.
Ahmed BDbm
Minser of Fiac



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 31
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUSLIC OF ALGERIA
LETTER OF ECONOMIC POLICY
1.    INTRODUCrION
2.    STRUCTURAL REFORMS
3.    EXTERNAL SUPPORT FOR THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
1.    INTROD{CTION
1.1   The Current Situation
Althougb facing a difficult situation, the Algerian authorities are pursuing a comprehensive
oconomic reform program, which includes macroeconomic stabilization; incentives for private sector
development and the establishment of an enabling framework; reform of public enterprises, public
eeniture and the fiancial system  and strengthening of the socil protection system. This last
component is vital to the success of the program iu the current situation.
Algeria is going through a twofold transition in the political and economic arenas, which adds
to the social cost of adjustment. If economic adjustme= -eates too heavy a burden, this could jeopardize
these two transition processes. An optmum course must therefore be taen which accounts for both the
need to move quickly, so as to ensure that the reforms are irreversible and to mimize their social costs,
and the importance of avoiding a reatment so brutal tha it risks being counterproductive in the current
economic conteXt. Too sharp a deterioration in living standards and the quality of education, health and
the Governmet's social support services in general, might lead to widespread rejection of the reforms.
1.2    Mediuu-Team Outlook
1.2.1  Deveopment Objecves
Since there are many development objectives, they must be assigned priorities. The most
important aim is to achieve a growth rate that will mabe it possible gradually to absorb unemployment
or, if that is not feasible, to keep it at a tolerable level. The average annual rate of growth in GDP for
the 1994-98 period should at least be equal to the rate of growth in the working population.
Growth is necessay for creaing jobs, but is not sufficient by itself. In addition to adjustments
in the relatve prices of capital and labor, which are important, it is essential to provide incentives to
promote the kind of productive investment that will create jobs on a significant scale. The standard of
livmg has steadily eroded during the past five years. This loss must be gradually restored, notably by
practicing a wage policy that will help increase the productivity and purchasing power of the low-inoome
segments of the population, in conjunction with policies to contol inflation.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 31
Algeria has been in the throes of an acute housing crisis for several years. Housing is a major
concern of the people. The construction sector should be given top priority to halt the deterioration in
the housing occupancy rate, especially for low-income households. For these households, emphasis will
be placed on low-cost housing, and a rational policy for both purchasing and renting housing will be
implemented. In a broader context, increasing the supply of housing and resolving the housing crisis
requires that the structural reforms undertaken in this sector be pursued.
In the fields of education, health, and basic infrastructure, which are the responsibility of the
State, the quantitative advances already nmade will be consolidated and enhanced from a quality standpoint.
A fundamental economic objective is stabilization, reflected in a coherent set of relative prices
(exchange rate, wages, and interest rates) and a rate of inflation which does not jeopardize the objective
of improving purchasing power. The stabilization of the macroeconomic framework will be closely
associated with the deepening of the adjustment process, which entails public enterprise restructuring,
progressive pnvatization, development of the prvate sector, trade liberalization, and application of the
rules needed to ensure the free play of competition. In addWion, appropriate steps will be taken to
revitalize the agriculture, construction and public works sectors, as well as the small and medium-scale
enterprise sector.
A more effective allocation of resources as a result of macroeconomic stabilization will give a
boost to the housing industry and revitalize the construction sector. Agricultural policy will be geared
to improving the trade balance in food products. Agricultural investment should expand, with intensive
State participation in the infastructure required to increase the arable land area. The devekopment of
small and medium-scale enterprises will be encouraged by a favorable macroeconomic framework, and
especially by easier access to foreign trade. In addition, these businesses will now have access to
activities that were reserved for public sector enterprises until recenty. Economic growth should generate
moderate increases in consumption, in line with the increase in GDP. Essently, the objective is to
reverse the trend in recent years of a decline in average per capita consumption. At the same time, the
savings needed to fmance housing construction and other private investment will be encouraged.
1.2.2. The Eonomic Role of the State
The shift from a centrally managed economy to a market economy calis for a redefinition of the
role of the State in the economic domain. This new role will require the State to take responsibility for
four essential functions:
*     The function of regulatng the economy: The State must define and implement a
macroeconomic policy that will provide for the transition to a market economy at the
lowest social cost. It must ensure that the country's productive potential is preserved and
expanded in an environment of fair competition;
*     The function of leadership: The State must adopt inentives to ensure that production is
oriented toward increasing national wealth and the county's prospenty, in accordance
with the general principles of the macroeconomic policy framework;



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 31
*     'he function of managing public property as owner and shareholder, pursuant to the laws
of a market economy: However, the State should progressively withdraw from the
productive and service sectors so that it can better fhifill its functions in other areas;
*     Finally, the State as protector will play the role of arbitrator among the various segments
of society by ensring that the fruits of development are fairly distributed and in
particular that the share of wages in value added is equitable. It wIll also protect and
preserve public property, and will ensure that the quality of the environment is
maintained and where necessary Improved.
1.2.3. The Sodal Role of the State
If the Staots role in the economy is to be redefined, its role in the social sector must be clarified
as well. Besides die areas traditionally under its jurisdiction, the State will have to assume responsibility
for addressing the negative effects of restucturing the economy and introduce mechansms to protect the
most vulnerable groups in society. It must make sure that poverty does not generate social problems
arising from the people's inability to provide for their most basic needs.
In the field of education, the State must make sure that all school-age children have access to
primary education. For secondary school and higher levels, consideration will be given to each
individual's abilities, the needs of the economy for skilled workers, and the financial resources of the
State.
In the health sector, besides its responsibility in the field of public heath, the Stae must provide
access to health care for those segments of the population that cannot afford medical care and medicines.
Ihe State will promulgate and enforce labor legsladon. The State has a responsibility with
respect to mintning the exsting level of employment and fighting unemploymentL It will, however,
avoid taking any steps that would increase the ngidity of the labor market and impair its functioning.
1.2.4. S lrctural Reforns
The purpose of the stuctr reforms is to put in place te mechanisms of a market economy
typified by the free play of comption and by prices which reflect the relative scarcity of resources and
their most efficient use. These reforms cover the prices of goods and services, with the exception of a
very limited umber of products to which, in the State's view, all citizens must be ensured access until
the system of income transfer, which targets the poorest households, is fully efective. Similarly, interest
rates and the exchange rate should reflect a situation of market equilibrium. As for wages, a floor will
be maintaned to ensure a minimum income for workers, while taking into account the need to promote
the creation of new jobs.
The scope of private sector activities will be expanded to promote competition by multiplying the
number of economic agents, and eliminating monopolies and excess profits.
The public sector will be confined to a limited number of activities for which it is impossible to
apply market rules and to a small group of enterprises, which offer a public service or a similar service
in the public interest and are regarded as vit to the economy. Public services not provided by the State



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 31
through its own resources and administration shall be performed, indifferently and without discrimination,
by public enterprises or private companies.
The State will complete its disenga t from competitive market activities and will strengthen
its role as the public authority that ensures order, security for persons and property, education, the
construction and maintenance of basic infrastructure, public health, and protection for the poorest, most
vulnerable segments of the population.
13.  Program of Action
The program pursues and intensifies the reform process iniiated in 1988. A major goal is for
the prices of goods and services, the exchange rate, and interest rates to attain their equilibrium values
over time. As regards the exchange rate, mechanisms which take into account the supply of and demand
for foreign exchange must be applied to determine the currency's equilibrium value, thereby ensuring
balance of payments equilibrium. In addition, maining a stable exchange rate means that inflation
must be reduced and subsequently contained. During the program period, the transiton from a fixed
exchange rate regime to a variable rate system determed by the foreign exchange market will be made.
Interest rates must also reflect the scarcity of capital and the true value of money. The monetary
authiorities will eliminate the causes of rigidity in the capital market so that positive real interest rates can
be achieved, which is the only way to mobilize the savings needed to finance the investments of the
business sector. The State will, however, ensure that the agriculture and housing construction sectors
benefit from the investments they need via appropriate mechanisms.
The liberalization of foreign trade, which is already very advanced, will be pursued by lifting
import suspensions on all products, except for those goods which are banned for moral, health, religious,
or security reasons.
Budgetry and fiscal policy will be designed to improve tax collection by enlarging the tax base
and improving the efficiency of the adminisration concerned, and by rationalizing government spending.
The combination of measures planned in the area of public finance should make it possible to reduce and
subsequendy to eliminate the overall Treasury deficit.
With respect to wages, a realistic policy will be followed in line with the objective of rationalizing
government spending. This will require restraint in civil service wages, a policy that will be extended
to cover non-autonomous institutions and enteis   whose wage policies can be imluenced by the public
authorides. However, for these categories of economic agents, the State will ensure that wages for
workers at the low end of the wage scale are raised, based on the principle of an equitable distibution
of the cost of adjustment among all the households in the country, but taking into account the need for
enhanced productivity. Autonomous public enterprises will implement a wage policy which is consistent
with their economic performance and budget constraints.
A reduction in the overal Treasury deficit wRi also require a cut in spending on price subsidies
for staple goods. These expeit     will be progressively reduced by adjusting prices and by bringing
them closer to economic costs. The sfety net mechanism will be finetned and oriented towards
providing direct support to the poorest households.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 31
The financial rehabilitation of non-autonomous public enterprises constitutes an additional burden
on goveroment finances. The authorities intend to clarify the sttus of these entprises once and for all
and to ensure that the impact of their financial losses on the Treasury is reduced. The measures to be
applied will lower the budgetary cost of the public enterprise Rehabilitation Fund, by reducing this
spending and eliminating it over the longer run. These measures will help reduce the State's role in the
competitive economic sector.
Pricing policy will be designed to increase the number of free prices and to bring the prices of
subsidized products closer to their economic value, thereby reducing the amount of budget subsidies. In
the area of public service tariffs, progressive adjustments will make it possible to move closer to, and
finally to cover, economic costs. This will restore the financial position of the enterprises affected and
eliminate the implicit subsidies which they have been receiving up to now.
The deregulation of prices must be accompanied, however, by the establishment of a legal
framework to promote the dewelopment of competition. A law will be promulgated to this effect.
The State's withdrawal from the competitive market place will lead to the emergence of a private
sector better equipped to take over all or part of these activities during the transitional phase. The State
has put in place an instiutional framework to encourage the development of the private sector.
Investment will be promoted by simplifying administrative procedures and improving access to land for
project sites. Ivestors will benefit from the new macroeconomic framework being established during
the transition to a market economy.
2.    STUCTURAL REFORMS
The structural refirms of the program will consolidate and strengthen the measures already
adopted in connection with the transiton to a market economy. The steps to be taken, most of which are
contained in the policy matrix attached to this letter, relate to following areas:
e macroeconomic framework;
* incentives and development of the private sector;
*  reform of public enterprises;
* reform of public ependiture;
*  reform of the financial sysm;
*  suengthning of the social protection system.
For each of the areas listed above, certain steps have already been completed or initated in an
efWbrt to step up the pace of reforms; other, no less important measures, which require more time to
implement becuse of their nature, will be launched and/or completed in the course of 1995.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 31
2.1   The Macroeconomic Framework:
2.1.1. Exchange Rate System
The substantial adjustment of the exchange rate as an anchor for the stabilization process was
followed by the establishment of fixing sessions in October 1994, in order to set the exchange rate of the
dinar. This increased flexibility in determining the exchange rate is one step towards putting in place an
interbank foreign exchange market in the context of the envisaged Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The
Bank of Algeria will make the necessary preparations to establish this interbank market by the second half
of 1995.
2.1.2. ibe a     of Foreign Trade
During the period of the program, foreign trade policy will promote the effective participation
of Algerian enterprises in international trade. Administrative procedures required for foreign trade
transactions will be eliminated, and the system for encouraging the development of non-hydrocarbon
exports will be strengthened. Work will proceed on developing information systems and significant
databases for imports, exports, and other data on external markets, including prices and quality. Efforts
will be made to improve the efficiency of the organizations and agencies involved in foreign trade data
gathering and research. The procedures for overseeing foreign trade flows will be adjusted to bring them
into line with international rules, and wide-ranging efforts will be made to promote competition.
2.1.3. Mobilization of Extenal Resources
The hydrocarbons sector will continue to play an important role in mobilizing external resources.
Exports of hydrocarbons will generate some US$30 billion to US$45 billion during 1995-98, depending
on the price of crude oil during that period. However, large investments will be required to improve the
exploitation of oil reserves and to increase gas export capacity. It should be noted that a major effort has
been made to promote private investment in this sector.
Also helping to bring about balance of payments equilibrium will be non-hydrocarbon exports,
facilitated by improvements in the efficiency of public enterprises, the development of the national and
foreign private sector, and dynamic exchange rate management that makes good use of the country's
comparative advantages.
Direct foreign investment will be encouraged, so as to help bring the balance of payments into
equilibrium without worsening the country's external indebtedness. Privatization is one way to encourage
this investment.
In addition to external resources generated by exports of hydrocarbons, other exports and direct
foreign investment, management of the external debt will aim to provide the additional external resources
needed for balance of payments equilibrium. The rescheduling of the extenal debt eligible for treatment
by the Paris Club and the initiation of negotiations with concerned foreign banks to reschedule the private
debt constitute the basic framework for debt management in the context of economic reform.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 31
2.1.4. Budget Policy
In the framework of the stabilization program, budget policy will help reduce inflationary
pressures, notably by promoting a moderate wage policy. In a broader sense, it is necessary to reduce
the absorption of resources by the State so as to make more resources available to the productive sector.
To accomplish this, the Stae will also have to free up budgetary resources to contribute to the completion
of the financial restructuring program for the banks and enterprises.
2.1.5. Monetary Policy and Interest Rates
Measures to liberalize bank interest rates and to raise the rates of the household savings institution
(CNEP) and Treasury bonds are consistent with the recent substantial increase in the rediscount and
overdraft rates of the Bank of Algeria. The introduction of a flexible intervention rate on the money
market has initiated a move by the Bank of Algeria to indirect regulation, notably based on a
liberalization of interbank money market rates. These liberalization measures will be accompanied by
the mainna  in 1995 of bank craedit ceilings on non-autonomous public enterprises (EPS). A key step
in the move to indirect monetary policy instuments was the inroduction in October 1994 of obligatory
bank reserves, which bear interest of 11.5 percent. The Bank of Algeria will set up an auction system
for central bank credits during the last quarter of 1994. The growth of the money supply will be
restricted to less than 17 prcent in 1994 and 14 percent in 1995.
2.1.6. Wage Policy
The authorities will apply a moderate wage policy to the civil service and to the public insfttutions
under the jurisdiction of the ministies. At the same time, however, they will make sure that the
purchasing power of low-income households is protected. In the economic sector, economic agents,
whether public or private, will practice an appropriate wage policy in line with their performance, labor
productivity gains and budget constraints. For reasons of equity and social justice, all employers will
be required to pay a minimum wage.
2.1.7. Employnt Pfromotion
The authorities are aware of the fact that macroeconomic stabilization, and especially control over
inflation, could lead to increased unemployment. To ward off this undesirable side-effect of adjustment,
steps will be taken to encourage the maintenance of existing joD levels and the creation of new jobs for
young people coming onto the labor market, without hampering the fluid operation of that market.
As for salaried employment, productive investment will be promoted and every effort will be
made in the execution of public works projects to utilize labor-intensive techniques.
Self-employment will be encouraged, especially among young people who want to set up their
own businesses, by providing job promotion funds to make up for the shortage of capital among young
businessmen.



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 31
2.1.8. Pricing and Rat-Sett  Policy
Efforts will be pursued to deregulate prices and in general to strengthen the role of market forces
in setting prices. The program to reduce explicit and implicit subsidies on certain products will resut
in a periodic readjustment of prices on the domestic market. The same will be true for rates charged for
certain public services, so that they will adequately cover economic costs.
2.2.  Development of Incentives and Competition
2.2.1 Objectives
The authorities are planning to intensify efforts to liberalize trade and industry so that a spirit of
initiative can develop. They will create the conditions for enterprises and businesses to adapt freely to
market situations and values. All obstacles and procedures that might hamper the free play of market
forces will be eliminated. Improvements will be made to the incentive framework for promoting
businesses and their economic and financial profitability. Professionalism and progress in trade and
industry will be encouraged. Mechanisms to monitor commercial practices will be developed so as to
eliminate the abuse of monopolies and/or dominant positions. Measures to facilitate competition will be
implemented and maintained to promote productivity increases and cost-efficient production, governed
by the basic rule of 'market sanction."
2.2.2. Promotion of Competition
A law on competition is an essential instrument to establish healthy competition among economic
agents in a market economy. A draft law will be submitted to the National Transition Council. This law
will be promuigated, and the implementing regulations drafted and published, during the next few
months. A "competition council" in charge of enforcing the laws and regulations on competition and
furtiering the competitive process will be set up under this law.
Competition in the market will be consolidated by pursuing efforts to liberalize the prices of
certain products on the basis of the status of the market and competition. Rules governing pan-territorial
pricing have been abolished for products for which prices are either freely determined or subject to
regulated margins; pan-territorial pricing is now part of enterprises' interna policies, when necessary at
all. A study will be conducted to determine how best to handle the high costs of transportation for
supplying the wilayas in the southern part of the country with essential goods. Finally, the requirement
to declare producer prices will be eliminated when the law on competiton comes into effect.
2.2.3. Org ation of Foreign Trade
The authorities are continuing to implement the plan to lift suspensions on imports of certaw
products, as specified in the stabilization program, so that all such suspensions will be abolished, with
the exception of imports of articles banned for security, health, religious, or moral reasons. It was out
of a concern to ensure a secure supply on the market of a very limited number of widely consumed
products that the authorities were led to issue regulations defining so-called "criteria of professionalism"
for importers of these products. The effectiveness of these regulations will be reviewed in 1995. The
intention is to abolish them, once there are enough operators on the market to guarantee competition and
a steady supply of these products. All other administrative procedures applicable to foreign trade will
be eliminated.



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 31
23.  Development of the Private Sector
2.3.1. Objectives
Development of an entrepreneurial private sector is critical for the proper functioning of a market
economy. Because private small and medium-scale enterprises in Algeria were narginalized for a long
time, the measures adopted to ensure equal treatment with the public sector, especially as regards lifting
administrative restrictions and allocating resources, must be fully implemented and the reforms which
liberalized the legislative code governing productive investtnent must be intensified.
23.2. Promotfon of Investment
The new Investment Code enshrines the freedom to invest. It provides for the creation of an
investment support agency to serve as a "one-stop' window in response to a public administration which
at present remains charactrized by certain cumbersome procedures and red tape. The implementing
regulations stipulated in the Investment Code, notably the executive decree defining the responsibilities,
organization and functioning of the investment support agency, have been published. The authorities
have, however, decided to postpone for a year the implementation of interest rate subsidies on investment
loans, until the operation of the Investment Code has been reviewed in consultation with the World Bank.
2.3.3. Promotion of Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises
The economic reforms initiated to effect the shift to a market economy call for the rapid
implementation of the necessary instruments and measures to stimulate private investment. Economic
recovery will depend, among other things, on promoting small and medium-scale private businesses. To
achieve this, and to reduce the cost of the initial investments by businessmen, legislation will make it
possible to purchase low-ost used equipment for investments that lead to the rapid creation of permanent
jobs. Recourse to imports of equipment bought on the secondhand market will also make it possible for
entrepreneurs to benefit from the relocation of foreign investments to other countries. The legislation will
be revised accordingly.
Technical assisamce is another part of the policy framework to promote small and medium-scale
enterprises. A program to develop entrepreneurs, combining training activiaes, services, and assistance
to enterprises, devised after consulting with the Algerian associative movement for small and medium-
scale enterprises, will be presented to the World Bank with a view to involving the latter in its execution.
A thorough knowledge of the private sector is essential to the adoption of measures required to
expand its contributions to the recovery effort. The authorities have agreed to the terms of reference for
an evaluation of the private sector (PSA). The authorities will contribute to this study which will be
conducted by the World Bank. The study will be completed, and itr recommendations will begin to be
implemented, during 1995.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 31
2.4    Reform of Public Entepris
2.4.1 Objectives
To reduce their burden on the governmet budget, public enterprises must increase their
efficiency by improving their management in a contex of macroeconomic stability. They must also
increase the proportion of their output for export by increasing labor productivity and improving quality.
Implementation of a coherent privatizaton policy will help to reduce and eventuly eliminate the costs
currenty borne by the State as a result of the inefficiency of certain public enterprises.
2.4P2                       interp
From now on, public enteprise are to be managed on the basis of the rules of a market
economy. They must establish rational business strategies and adjust their output to domestic and foreign
demand. Managers will be evaluated on the basis of management contracts which establish objective
criteria. This will induce them to adopt meaures for rigorous management in order to eliminate the
deficits of these enterprises. In this way, public enterprise managers will be made fully responsible as
the State plays a more neutral role in the day-to-day nnming of these enterprises.
The organization of the ownership and management of the State's commerci capital will be re-
exained with a view to revising the 1988 laws on the autonomy of enterprises. The revision of these
laws will determine the fuotre of the Participation Funds.
The non-autonomous public enterprs  will be restuctr  in accordance with the framework
adopted by the authorities. This policy will hinge on the contractua commitment of the enterprise
managers to implement resntctring plans for these enterprises and to mobilize the financing of the
rehabilitation investments contained in the plans. After examining the resructing plan, the authorities
will issue their notice of non-objection or they will decide on the future of the enterprise concerned. In
the case of non-objection, the authorities will proceed to financially restucr (assainissmemfinaer)
the enterprise in question and will see that It is provided with sufficient capital to enable it to pursue its
restructuring under positive conditions. Once the enterprise is financially restructured, it will become
autonomous in accordan  with the procedures currenly in effect. By way of exception, certain of these
enterprises may receive State asistanc in the form of a direct contribution toward the financing of part
of their rehabilitation investments (see Appendix A of the policy matrx).
Among the measures desed to alleviate the burden on the State budget of covering the losses
of non-autonomous enterprises, 88 non-viable local public enterprises were recenly closed. Depending
on their financial situation, the remaining local public enterprises will either be financially rehabilitated
and made autonomous, or immediately made autonomous, or liquidated, if they should prove to be non-
viable.
2.4.3  P 1vatzato
The ultimate aim of privatization is to establish a new colfiguration of the economic landscape
characterize by the predomiance of private iniatives in the competitive sectors of the economy.
Privatization will have to be gradual and based on a predetined policy for the State's withdrawal from
commercial sectors over the medium tem. Preparations for, and implementation of, privatization must
be arefully developed and excuted.



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 31
At the present time, the legal framework for privatization is defined by Articles 24 and 25 of the
supplementary Finance law for 1994. These articles and their implementing texts set out the methods for
selling off the assets of economic public enterprises and for private participation in their capital stock.
This legal framework will be enlarged by a law on privatzation which will define the modalities of
privatization, the agencies in charge of this operation, and all other general conditions required for the
process to be carried out correctly.
The World Bank has been asked to provide assistance to the agencies responsible for privatization
to ensure that the process takes place under the best possible technical conditions.
2.5    Reform of Public Ependiture
2.5.1 Objectives
The reform of public editre aims to ensure greater control over government spending so
as to contain and then absorb the Treasury's overall deficit. This will require improved rationalization
of expenditure commitments, which will in tum facilitate the control of projections and their realization.
2.5.2 rThiand  the lnvestments of Public Eterprises
Since 1988, the Treasury has widxlrawn from the financing of the investments of autonomous
public enterprises. Th investment program of auonomous public enterprises, committed before the end
of 1988, is financed solely by repayments on medium- and long-term borrowing contracted with the
Treasury. This source of financing for autonomous public entprises will be abolished as of March
1995.
2.53  Future of the Rehabilatbo Fund
Appropriations for the public enterprise Rehabilitation Fund are being charged to the national
budget to permit the financial rehabilitation of enterprises, notably as they are converted to autonomous
enterprises. The scope of this fund will be reduced progressively with the objective of phasing it out over
time, in conjunction with the policy for resructuing public enterprises and in accordance with Appendix
B of the policy matrix.
2.5A  The Efiiency of Pbblic Expenditure
World Bankc staff are involved in a review of the efficiency of public expenditures, whose
recommendations, to be issued in 1995, will be reflected in appropriate measures to achieve the
formulated objectives.
2.6    Reform of the Muancial Sector
2.6.1 Objectives
The objective is to speed up the tasformation of the financial sector, particularly by making
significant progress toward privatzing existing banks. In order to provide a better and lasting foundation
for the operaing effictiveness of banks, financial establihme   and other financial institutions, sound



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 31
financial intermediation on a broad scale is a prerequisite for effective resource allocation in the context
of strong and lasting economic growth.
2.6.2 Steps to be Taken
The institutional action plans for banks are designed to strengthen them and improve their
operational efficiency, with a view to opening access to their equity capital. The progress achieved in
implementing these action plans is one of the criteria governing the eligibility of eisting banks for
official banking licenses under the Money and Credit law.
The purpose of the on-going audit of the 1993 fnamcial statements of the banks is to identify
more precisely the steps to be taken to improve their capital stucture, including their recapitalization in
mid-1995. The strengthening of the banks' capital structure, in conjunction with the respect of capital
adequacy requirements, is another criterion governing the eligibility of existing banks for banking
licenses. The evolution of the minimum capital adequacy ratio over time is defined in the new directive
amending and supplementing the prudential regulations.
Improvements in the application of the prudential regulations will be supported by the
reinforcement of the capacity to supervise banks and financial establishments.
Within this framework, mangement contracts will be introduced which will make bank managers
responsible, notably for observing the minimum capital adequacy ratio in a context of hard budget
constraints.
The need to improve the operational efficiency of the financial sector underscores the necessity
of promoting the creation of new banks and fmancial institutions. A new financial establishment was
authorized by the Money and Credit Council in September 1994. The study on incentives to encourage
the creation of banks and financial establishments will focus on identifying conditions conducive to
strengthning the financial sector in an environment of competition and increased effciency. This is the
context for the objective of introducing, in 1995, a legal framework for the establishment of mutual credit
institutions. The ultimate objective of the financial liberalization process is to achieve completely
deregulated lending rates in the longer run. As part of this process, a draft law libealizing the insurance
market is under consideration by the National Transition Cound.
2.7   St           the Sodal Protection System
2.7.1 Objectives
To help mitigate the impact of the adjustment measures to be adopted as part of the package of
economic reforms, new tpes of social protection have been instituted. These involve unemployment
insurance and early retirement plans for employees subject to lay-off for economic reasons. A social
safety net system has also been put into place to ensure the social protection, integration and inclusion
of the undrprivileged segments of the population.



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 31
2.7.2  Improvement of the Protection System for Workers Laid Off for Economic
Reasons
The new system of benefits for workers laid off for economic reasons has made it possible to
move from a system of a one-time severance payment, the amount of which depended on years of service,
to a true income replacement system, financed jointly by all the parties involved (State, workers and
employers). This system, based on a funding mechanism including worker contributions, creates greater
solidarity through the sharing of unemployment risk, and significandy reduces the burden on employers.
The purpose of the new system is not to support non-viable enterprises or to be part of the effort
to rehabilitate enterprises. These are new measures, in no way comparable to the operations carried out
by the public enterprise Rehabilitation Fund. The law creating the Unemployment Insurance Fund has
been promulgated. It gives the fund administrative and financial autonomy under a tripartite management
unit, comprising workers, employers, and the State.
In conjunction with the World Bank, a review of the operation of the system of benefits for
workers laid off for economic reasons is planned, which could result in recommendations and proposals
for its improvement.
2.7.3  Reform of the Soia Safety Net
The former social safety net system, introduced in 1992, has been replaced by a new scheme in
effect since October 1994. The new scheme is based on fresh thinking and a new approach designed to
provide the poorest segments of the population with social protection. Its objectives include:
-     a policy of consistent and transparent aid within a comprehensive framework of
solidarity;
*     a campaign against all forms of marginalizaton and social exclusion of the disadvantaged
segments of the population using appropriately adapted programs to foster integration and
improvements in living standards; and
*     accessibility of basic public services to the underprivileged segments of society living
in pockets of poverty.
The benefits provided by the new system are:
*     a lump-sum solidarity allowance (AFS); and
*     payment for public service activities (AIMG).
The AFS is paid to heads of families and to single persons who live alone, who have no income
and are 60 years of age and over, and to those who are physically disabled and unable to work. The
LAIG is paid to the member(s) of fumilies without income; or to single persons who live alone, have no
income, and are of active age who request participation in the AIG. The payment is made on a prorated
basis detmined by the mmber of full days of public service performed, up to a maximum monthly
limit. These public service activities are performed in a spirit of solidarity and do not constitute a work
rioship.



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 31
AFS and IAG recipients are considered social security beneficiaries and therefore qualify for
maternity/health insurance, and workman's compensation in the case of AIG participants.
The new system is thus based on:
*     "self-targeting," which is the basic method for persons eligible for the IAIG;
*     targeting based ptimarily on the lists established for the former social safety net systemn
(ICSR) in the case of AFS recipients (the elderly and disabled persons);
*     supervision and management by the local authorities who have acquired a great deal of
experience in organizing programs of community interest and public service activities,
particularly in the form of community development and local technical assistance
programs, which have been in existence for over 20 years and have made it possible to
carry out many important projects.
The AIG programs have three basic focal points:
--    maintenanc and rehabilitation of infrastructure and public property in rural and urban
aeas as well as habiat rehabilitation, with special focus on those used by disadvantaged
populations;
-     social welfare, health, educational and cultural activities;
-     preparation, encourgement and incentives for self-employment through retrainig
programs, vocational training geared to self-employment and microbusinesses. This will
be done in liaison with job promotion, public service work and neighborhood projects.
Other activties are planned to encourage and promote the creation or expansion of
mirobusinesses, particularly targeting unemployed youth and workers who have lost their jobs. These
activities will also include traing and retraining programs, and will involve the associative movement
(NUOs) in sdectfing and implementing AIG programs.
2.7.4. Evaluaton and mpro t of the Social Safety Net
The authorities will ensure that the new social safety net system achieves the best possible results
while respeting budgetay constraints. With this in mind, the following evaluation system will be set
in place:
*     A monitring and control system, involving all the govermnent agencies concerned and
the associative movement, with the goal of providing technical assistance to the
communes and local collectivities.
*     Periodic evaluation at the community, daira, wilaya, and national levels.
Ihe planned system is not a fixed, but an evolving one. It is extremely flexible and lends itself
to precise, periodic evaluations with a view to improvement. The World Bank has agreed to provide



ANNEX I
Page 16 of 31
financial and consulting assistance for a study to evaluate the operating conditions of the new social safety
net system with the goal of improving its performance and efficiency.
To provide better information on the situation of the poorer segments of the population, a study
on living standards has been initiated. It will be completed during the next twelve months and will be
used as a basis for a study on poverty. The terms of reference of the poverty study will also be
determined during the next year.
2*8   Iodicator System
As an aid to monitoring the economic reform program, the authorities have drawn up a list of
quanitative indicators. The authorities will provide the World Bank with all the information necessary
for calculating the indicators in question prior to supervision missions relating to the Economic
Rehabilitation Support loan and winl joindy examine the evolution of these indicators during such
missions. The indicators are shown in an annex to this letter.
3.  ETERNlAL SUPPORT FOR THE ECONOMIC PROGRAM
3.1    Muliate  Support (Oter than from the World Bank)
This economic program has already received the support of the Inrnational Monetary Fund in
the form of a one-year standby arrangement (May 1994 to April 1995). Ihe IB standby arrangement
has made it possible to relase the second tranche of a balance of payments support loan from the
European Union.
The program has been favorably evaluated by the European Union. It has the support of the Arab
Moneay Fund. It is ewpected that other multilateral istions, including the Aftican Development
Bak, will support it.
Te Paris Club agreed to reschedule Algeria's public debt following the approval of the IMP
staby urangmt. Under this framework, certain bilatera agreements have aready been signed with
the authorities of the counties in question. Negodations with private banks have been initiated in order
to define the modalities for treating the private deb.
3.2   Biateral Suort
Algeria's partns support the progam  As a sign of this support, certai partners concluded or
are planning to conclude bilateral agreements to put in place concessional credit lines to finance imports.
3.3   The World Bank's Support
The World Bank has been suppordng Algeria's econct.ic reform program for many years. The
Algera authorities are hopefl that this support will be mainained and deepened. Implemenion of
the program descibed in this letter has already made it possible to release the second tranche of the



ANNEX I
Page 17 of 31
World Bank's EFSAL and the associated cofinancing by the Export-Import Bank of Japsm. The Algerian
authorities hope that the World Bank will renew Its support of the economic reform program via:
*     financial assistance in the form a quick-disbursing Economic RehabDitation Support loan,
in a single tranche (ERL);
*     a technical assistce program focussing particularly on:
*     obtaining more information on certain sectrs, including a study to be conducted
on the private sector;
*     a study on public expenditure, with the aim of achieving better control and
management of these expenditures;
*     improving implementation of the social safety net;
*     implementing privatzation.
X     the following loans:
*     a structr adjustment loan;
O     a loan to support the reform of the construction and housing sectors;
3     an agricultural support loan;
-     a loan for the social safety net;
e     a health sector support loan;
*     a toxic waste treatment loan.
The World Bank's support in all these areas is pivotal during this period of economic refbrm in
Algeria.



ANNEX I
Page 18 of 31
ANNEX
IZFER OF ECONOMIC POUCY
INDICATORS
Macroeconomic framework
* GDP growth (annual indicator)
* money market iterest rate (monthly indicator)
* consumer price index (monthly indicator).
Private Sector Development and Incentives
* estimate of value added by the private industrial sector (amnnal indicator)
* number of new private companies set up anmnally: sources - Miny of Commerce and
Ministry of SME (anmnu indicator)
* average customs tariff weighted by imports, in as much detail as possible (amnnal indicator).
Reform of Public Enterprises
e list of PEs partially or totally privatized or liquidated, dif ng between national and
local PEs and including their turnover (annual indicator).
Public Expenditure Reform
* Treasury deficit as percentage of GDP (quarterly indicator)
- cost of Rehabilitation Fund as perentage of GDP (quarterly indicator).
Financial Sector Reform
* overdrafts as percentage of bank credit to the economy (quarterly indicator)
* equity capital ratio by bank (annual indicator).
Strengthening the Social Protection System
* Number of beneficianes of early retirement or unemployment insurance (amual indicator)
* Number of beneficiaries of the social safety net (annual indicator).7
2/    Separaot indcat  for the APS and AIG progams.



ANNEXI
Page 19 of 31
L       ti ik iiI       1.,i 
11)ia          lt,i., 1't''
lit1.



Component                    Measures taken before             Meures to be taken before            Meaures to be takn dring
July 1994                 presenttion of the ERL to the           the 12 months folwing
Board                   prmnton of the ERL to the
Board
Monetary oLi  and       - replacement of the 20% ceing on    - int;ducton of mndatory reseve      - acevement, by the end of 1994, of
loered                  lending rates with a geiling of 5 per-    requre_me  for bas re_mnerated at    positive rel intres rate on bank
enSge point on bank margins; in-     11.5%. tepesectiv inrease in         deposits with repec to die annaled
crease in reference ires rAtes of   dhe rerve rae wil pemit die          infaion rte anticipated wihn  do
about 4 perentgo points.             absorption of ll potl sowrces of    fianewoik of 1he stand-by ageeme
addiona liquidity outside of 1he mon-
etay Wystem-
- stabdnnet of credit cilings (by    - establishno of redt ceilings (by   - establishment of credit engs (by
bank) for dIe 23 non-autonous pub-   bank) for die 23 BPS for the las quar-   quater and by bank) for die EPS for
lic entprise (EPS) for die second and  ter of 1994 in conformity with ie  1995, which bave been agreed before-
diird quarters of 1994 in oonformity  sand-by agreemen                    hand with ie, Bank.
with die stand-by agreement.
-establihment of an objecdve for broad                                    - tpeot of the objecdve for M2
money (M2) of a   ximum increase of                                       growth for 1994, which has been
15% in 1994.                                                             adjusted to 17%; establishment of an
oblective of less tban 14% for 1995.
- lbealizaon of tie internk money                                         - review of progess in developing die
market rates.                                                             money market, notably wilh  pect to
die iuplemenon of an adjudication
system for central bank credit
- establishment of a ceiling on the                                       - respect of the ceiling on salay in
increase in salaries for civil servants                                   creases.
and EPS employees d&.'ing the period
of die stad-by agreeent.
Subsidvoiv              - increase (on avrge) between March   -   her increase in September 1994 in   - connuaon of ie policy of reduc-
and June 1994 in the prices of subsi^    die prces of subsidized food saples  ing pice subsides in paallel with           (Q
dized food staples of 56%, and in    and in controed energy prices in    improvements in the efficiency of hie
controLled energy prioes of 40%.     conformity wih the stand-by agree-   social safety net 
meat.
n                                                               Sk E~~~~~~~~~~~~~bA



ANNEX I
Page 21 of 31
m.~~~~ t                     ig. 1
it   t3 i{|t l. ~ ~~~~1 t}'gl3
~ .        i
I    t[ cifl   if    ,   i1
ji~'                      1111 1Iu
LUg  0 ~~~~~~~~.iiJ   1'  '*i~~~~~~~~~~~~~   III~~~



ANNEX I
Page 22 of 31
;Ii
I       11



Component                    Measures taken before             Measures to be taken before         Measures to be taken during
July 1994               presentation of the ERL to the Board  the 12 months folowing presentation
l______________________                                                       of the ERL  to the Board
Refonn of nublic egaetises      - launching of a restructuring program  - adoption by the Council of Govern-    - implementation of the privadzaton
for public entrrises, and passage to  ment of the privatization policy pro-  program in priority sectors.
autonomy of almost 400 public enter-    pare" in consutation with the Bank.
prises (EPEs).
- opening of the capital of EPEs up to    - presentation to the SGG and adoption   - publication of the decree cited in
49%, and authorizaion to sell EPE   of the implementng decree for article    column three.
assets to the public sector.        24 of the 1994 complementary Fmance
Law conwerning the sde of EPE assets.
- prepaation of a draft law on privat-    - promlation of the law on privaiza-
ization in consuladon with the Bank.    tion. Publiton of the implementing
texts after consultation with the Bank,
and implementation of these texts.
- launch of a pilot privadizaon pro-  - pursuit of the pilot privafization pro-
grm  for EPEs.                      gram for EPEs with the support of the
Bank.
- preparation of a technical assistance    - implementation of the technical
program for the Minstry of Indutria    assistance program cited in column
Restructuring and Parficipation     three.
(MRW).
- establishment of a legal framework  - publicaon of a decree establishing
for the dissolution and liqudation of  the modales for the dissolton and
non-autonomous publi enterprises and   Equidation of non-autonomous publio
EPICs in the 1994 Finance law.      enterprises and EPICs.
- dissolution of a group of 88 local PEs   - implementation of the liquidation of
(EPL) in accordnce with regulatory  the EPLs concerned.
procoodus.
I  .  1  .  .  _  . _ . __ _ .... _ _ A . . ___._ . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t'
rs 



ANNEX I
Page 24 of 31
'ia8|i aii,Ii : ill
a l X 1 a a   ii L 0 
s                        ...~~~~~~~~~~~4.
tit tS {X}~
ii   Iao    ,. 



ANNEX I
Page 2S of 31
*f                1         0         
Ij S8    Iiit                  S % %  f
1t liiil 1Xi,i.  il
l'       4    J. <8 i
}    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_I.:,                , 



ANNEX I
Page 26 of 31
.         ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
7a   0                               0 0
In~ I
iL        qeli            18'i'i|lil,
ti 33di  l't                  I 



ANNEX I
Page 27 of 31
IsI
{  .4         ,
'v  t  1       0
Ii jjjf H H t
.-II



ANNEX I
Page 28 of 31
.11                   U  t            I
i!~'" 1N 111 
iL~~~~~~~~i



ANNEX I
Page 29 of 31
Appendi A
Framework for  pthe ettr
of the 23 Non-autonomous PEs
The 23 EPS are the subject of medium-term restructuring plans, established on the basis of audits
camed out by consulting firms and with the collaboration of the internal departments of the
enterprise.
As these plans are finalized, the authorities examine them, revise thm if necessary, and either
issue a non-objection or decide on the fuure of the enterprise.
The non-objection by the authorities of the restuctuing plans results in three simultaneous
consequences:
(a) The authorities inform the managers of the enterprises of the trmination of coverage by the
State of any financial losses that the enterprises may incur from the date of their passage to
autonomy, as well as the termination of all guarantees.
(b) The authorities ivite the managers of the enterprises to sign a time-bound contact which
obliges them to:
(bl)  implement actions aimed at achieving the objectives and performances contained
in the resdtucuring plans; the supervision of the implementation of the
restuctuing plan is incumbent on the General Assembly of each of the
enterprises concemed.
(2)  propose for approval, within a period of 12 to 18 months following the signature
of the contract, firm and definitive finacg plans for the rehabilitation
investments proposed in the restructg plans. The financing plans can be
comprised only of self-financing, bank credit, and receipts from the sale of assets
and/or the opening up of the capital of the enterprise, as appropriate.
(c) in counterpart of the commitments by the managers, the authorities commit to:
(cl)  proceed with the financial restructuring required to clean up past debts
(assainissemew  nncier) with the objective of passing the enterprise to
autonomy.



ANNEX I
Page 30 of 31
The fimcial restruchtuing measures will consist of:
*     tratment of the  tprise's indebtedness, and
*     an allocation of capital (caW , fonds propres, et fonds de rouement)
through: (a) the transformation of the enterprise's debts and (b) a cash
transfer, depending on the situation of each enterprise.
These measures will be determined for each of the six enterprses in the first
group before November 30, 1994.
A global ceiling on cash transfers will be established for the nine enterprises of
the second group before December 15, 1994.
The financial restructuring measures for the third group of eight enterprises will
be evaluated following the elaboration of their restructuring plans.
(c2)   On the basis of the available restructuring plans, the authorities will evaluate the
amount of the rehabilitation investments and establish:
*     before November 30, 1994, for the first group of six enteprises, the
ceiling on the amounts of potential direct support from the Stawe, and
3     before December 15, 1994, for the second group of nine enterprises, the
global ceiling on the amount of pote     direct support from the State.
This ceiling will not exceed 113 of the total amount of rehabilitation
investments.
The intervention, under exceptional circumstances, of the State will be limited
to a list of enterprises which will be detmined before November 30, 1994, for
the first group of six enterprises; before March 31, 1995, for the second group
of nine entepries; and before September 30, 1995 for the third group of eight
enterprises.
N.B. Unless the State decides otherwise on the future of these enterprises, the projected calendar for
the passage to autonomy of the 23 EPS is as follows:
*     The first group of six enterprises before December 31, 1994.
*     The second group of nine enterprises before June 30, 1995.
*     The third group of eight enterprises before December 31, 1995.



ANNEX I
Page 31 of 31
Appendix B
Future of the R   Ivd (F
13xpendiw  Adeor                         .          
1. Diffzrenda of conmmeal bak charges on    - Transer fiom Ihe PA at the end of 1996; afber that date, these
eteal botrowmngj oonacted for the account of           are to be teated acorig to the same procedrs as
the Sbtte befoee April .                    the pub9c debt
2. R_ea    of resucuring bonds (hn de       - Transr fim th FA as of Oceober 1, 1996; after that date, ihese
radh).                                      obligtons are to be trated acoordn to the same proedus as
the putbic debt. Advane repaymnats to the bans by the Treauy
will be hled after April 1, 1997. The amoun of ts advance
repaymeo wM not exceed 2/3 of the to  amnoun allocated to
repay the publc debt
3. Fiaci restrucing alloca   (assas-        - Esabish, at the end of 1994, the definive list of enterrises
isseme   &tckr) at the moment of transfor-  which ca potentially benefit from these allocaos at the momen
mnrion of an eneprise's lega saut           of theransfrmato of the legad sla_tt  Al allocadions to the 23
BPS wiAin the frmwork of their anaisemenmader mus be
accompaied by a medium-term resrucuig plan inudg a firm
finS  g plan (if eede  for rehabilitaifon invesmn.
4. Service payments (to the bansl) for PE over-   - Close (n accounting terms) at the end of 1994.
draft frozen by the State.
S. Reombdizadon of the bakL                 - Cloe after the rec_pita    of mid-1995.
6. Recaiaiion of Pes.                       - Close, in terms of commitments, at the end of 1994; contiue
payments until the releant disposilions of dhe 1995 Fnae law are
amended.
7. Poreign exchage losses of PEs and EPICs  - Close befe   e ted o- 1995, ater havin made advanc pa-
on eligible debt contracted before the end of  mens (if neede  to cover losses an eigible mauities which fall
1989.                                       due a    that date. Utlaion, if possbe, of part of the suppl-
menty budgtazy allocaon for foreimp exchange losses pro-
grammed under the standby to finane these advance payments.
8. Coverage for fon exchnge los  by         - Give priority to: (i) EPICs, () enteise subject to price ceil-
enteprse  public and private) on 1994 mauri-  inp (OAIC, etc.), and (ii) if possible, the advance payments noted
ties,                                      im (7) above. The remaning entelprises are to be treatod equally
throu  a mechanism to be deter_ned.
9. Opeatng subdies.                         - Close at the end of 1994, whhout any firther payments.



A_mU
DD(WAlCAND POPULAR RWUDUC OW AICUKA
maw slaw                    r
|   ~ ~ ~ s.  _ $   .                  ..
I.dc er                 a.      A.wI    411dm  _
POVERT
rHadootmt                      %-.                                           -
I*ima   -                      %                          a        a                   r
Olwpsvait                        USW            20       #10     3.90      3,945    3,430    S.
SHORT TERM !cDH3 iCAm
Udisua                         bISSa.           _         -        _        _.       ,         a
Few                            b                          a         - 3               -        -
Ud=~~~~~~~~~~~
SOCIAL mURATOR
PIi@pmi.d*kinh30i'iUS          %eforGD                             133 
U                                               a                           IS -*  3  7    _   _
ingaumwby        dmwsnwds          1354      180       44       so       0        33
umlorsmwuw               6~~            a                 11ml     79       a3       40
usmin             %qpgw  ~~~a                 a       72        3?       3 
DIT   ~ ~ ~~~~~~a                             a       73    a            74 
ToUI                            ya              20       5                  64       4?       4
TiaIhhil yute                                  L74       I4       I.0       55      Los      Lit
PpuIlatimo grewlh raft           Jfuat uouIatj rift                P*aymui
4+                             250                              1u0
S                              20                                la$
4                                                                 93
2                                _0
1                               so                                30
0                       ~~~~~~~00
inije    WOOM7"d -                       at4       an -                    at.017    -
A- &                                                                    _



Annex U
Page 2 of 2
SOCIAL RINDC&Al)Ru  2
-e                  et          ete   (AW    AMI                 raw         avow
AREWRSOWRC:"
_qdmm(mnulm1) _,2                                                      16013      2 0        244,123     773.103    63.037
AquhIhm(u.-o,                             ratio       W    9             LO?        0m          0?7         0.71       0.63
t Apd        rato                                            37.6        .0          S                                  72.9
Pq"geXtate               _SX                  s ~~~~~~~~~~~~25  3.1   17         32          1.7         1.1
6.4        3.5         52          4.5        3.1         2.0
1of"c(1s4)                                fmiuua            296         3.4*5      6.06       66.939     302,448      3141
AUU.                                  %of     t               57          39           - _
hukas~y                                     '                  17         24           _           -          -           -
Faa                                         *                              7          10          15         32          30
ama                                                          102          - 
Rural                                                        102          _           ..         ..           -
NATWRLURESOURCE
Am                                     dm% a h              2,312       2,32       2382      11,015      23.990      3.944
Dwsky                                 p.r.J    buh            5.0         7.0        10.0       21A0        31.0        16.0
4,ic=bfarde           135         13.4        16.3        29.3       4L8         439
t=11=a        1r,lbod                    SIMS11%              0.0         1.3         0.0        0.1         0.0         Q1
Ag:.cmd land riw kdgWm                     %                  0.5                      9        239         12A6         3
Pamtauwoodland                         tm          km32                   41          47         391       S.396       7.705
Dakostion(not)                           -9A                  3.2         0.0         0.0          -                      -
DIOME
Sh ftop20SAf _mduft                %       j o_                               _a              _           _           _
Shefb       40%9'bhausb                    5                   _          _           _           _
Shfwattbo_m2f_afhous__a                                                                                                  _
F4d                                     %cfamDP                 _          _         19*           _           _          _
Sb                                                                        .          6.1                      - _
U fividm e-5 - 5.8_
eCem.  tsh                                  uf  m             323       1,669       5,183     37.762      44.418      3596
Foodaldantural_                                                 -         5 4         11       2.238       4.047        366
1979581=100           t2!         130         112         119        101         108
Fer_n 6.0                     I"          380        136.0       94.2       120.0
SbamcfagicuticinODIP          %         SAJdDP               14.9         99         10.7       13.0           -    8     9
Ramming                                     fDP                 _.f.                  5.7          -                      -
Amera bousedim                      I .w                        6          7           _. _7                   -          -
Fis_b eanP _                                                   6._ 
I                  ~~~%ofWDl               -         2.2         4 
Fud Ed pow                              %dP                     -          -          1.1
kgf 1dadepiv.          226         448       1.6         1,137      1,249       1,70i
Uan,                                 % d _jsal&             118                       _           _           _           _
Rus                                        a                74.0           _                                  -
Trw _pat  Sd coaicatka                  %aDP                    _           _         3.1          _
*           ..        5.9~~~~~~S  2.2 
ROVESTMENT IN }UMAN CAPUAL
AMumtolaal&m                             %ofpop.                                     9             - 90.0
PopuIatlcOpNl2bWicIan                     p_...             8.590-          _       2,331       1,668          _
Popu!atioapernuua                                          11,770           _        330           -
Pcpulatioupacaspaalbed                                          . _                  400         635         509
Acs sto                                     t %pe               -                    X73.0      1_ .
U-bou  ~     ~        ~         3..                                      90.        96.4           -
Rw                                                             _           _        65.0        66.3          -
OdymatoauW(uw                           %;_                     _           _         26          S8           -
Ormenroaxdwfak
Se---l-y                            %cfadaookppop               7         20          60          60          36          -
F_nnIe                                     *                   5          14         53          51           _
Pupil4eacInmzatinpri.uy              psqilhP.rt.adur           43          41         28          26          25           -
PupFl4mdrnratImama.duy                      *                  23          27          17         21           -
luplhmadshggade4                        %lod.aI                 _.         93         as          90           _           _
R"eatartatajvhimaj                    %tttstalatol              _          U13         7          11           _           _
Zluacy                              %.epap(ap IS+)             1           -          43         45 
N.muap.roircuhdan          ~~~~% .httm  (asr 15+)                                        3
Ne   thlpAP.           14         18          21          36
Samae Warli Rbasd DD-             qiWsmat Apall 1993



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPU5LIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC RE ATION SUPPORT LAN
SELECTED MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
TABLE It KET NAC10ECMOIC I*ICATS
............. .................. __,...........................................
Algeri Ky Economic indicatom    198   1985  1986  17  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
_ ......... . ........................... ........................................................,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_,,__ 
GOP Groiwth Rate                  5.AX  5.6"  -0.25  -0.7X -1.9X  4.9X -1.35  -1.2   1.65  -1.1X  0.6"
W Y Growth Rate                   4.3X  6.0X -16.12  0.1KX -6.    4.85   0.85  1.1K  -s.n   1.1X -2.6Z
NP/Per Capita growth Rat          1.94  2.45  -3.5S  -2.3X -5.85   .2X -3.8X -S.0O  -0.4"  -2.9X -2.15
CawnsuIptienPer Cap. Growth Rate   2.01  2.1X -2.4"  -6.0O  -9.85   4.28  -4.95  -6.1X  2.9X -5.35  -1.5X
NLT DOD lnet. IW (U1S)          14124 16380 19482 23080 24417 25250 17061 26955 26017 250s57 2780
Shert Tem Debt (USS)              79    746  1000  1315  1621  1860   I11  1239   793   793   693
Total Debt Cinct. ST A flU)     14918 1712t  20482 24395 26038 27090 27852 28194 26810  851E0 28499
SLT OW (Cla. INF)X03  1/        103.35 118.5X 230.8X 229.98200.71 240.6x 197.85 206.35 201.3X 212.05 254.75
Shot Term DOO/25                  S.85  5.42  11.8X 13.12 18.6X 17.55  5.8X  9.5X  6.12  6.75  6.3X
Total DSD/GS                    109.1X 123.9X 242.7X 243.0X 2ss.3x 258.1X 203.6K 21S.5 207.4X 218.7a  261.15
NLT Debt ServiceCfnrL. tlP)      4973  4870  S109  5372  6244  676  8625  9068  9103  9110  4579
NLT Debt Service (tnct. IWF)/X=S  36.45 35.2X  60.5X 53.5X 71.X  65.55  63.05 69.4x 70.4X  7.1x  42.0
let ILT Debt Serviceals 2/       36.4X  35.2X  60.   53.5X 71.8x  65.5X 63.05 66.35 56.5  67.4x 42.05
Gross Investment lP 3/           35.12 33.2X  33.5s  30.0X 27.28  29.05  28.15 31.85 30.sx 29.2x 31.05
perss Dast1c Savlr4/GDP          37.42 36.4X 29.42 31.95 27.0  29.3x 26.65 37.4X 32.   28.3X 26.55
Nationat tavfuos/ P              39.45 40.6X 33.6K  36.9s 32.15 37.4X 31.32 37.71 32.4X 29.sx 26.12
Centrat Gwo't I1estuentl0P       16.71  15.82  13.71 11.9X 12.8X 10.28   8.5x  6.2X  6.95  8.7S   7.95
Central Gov't S ansrIGDP         118.8  19.3X  10.28   9.4   5.55  9s.a  11.85  10.6X  7.2X   1.9X  6.0X
No1Gov't InvstmentWP             1S.4"  18.05 1.   18.15 15.15  185  19.8  25.7X 23.95  20.5X 23.15
Nat-Gov't Savlnp/DP              21.1Z 21.3X  23.45 27.5X 26.55 27.8K  19.5X 27.1X 25.2X  28.0X 20.0
ICOR (SVeverap)                     8      6     7    10    19    19   194    MA    58    40    MA
Treasury Renvuee/w               38.25 37.95 31.9s  3O.45 27.6  28.9s  29.9s  32.3X 30.35 2V.8  30.6X
Treasuy Expenditures/0P          46.35 4.2X  42.2X 37.6  39.9X  30.12 26.1X 30.05 32.0X 36.6  35.4X
Deflcit(-)/GDP                   -8.15  -8.35 -10.35  -7.2X -12.45  -1.2X  3.8X   2.28  -1.7X -9.4X -4.9X
XfS Growth Rte                    5.71  2.6S  -0.35  6.0X   0.42  8.05  3.4X  -0.95  3.9X  -1.85  -0.55
xoun/Ws                          25.71 23.55 13.15 14.71 14.4  18.65 2.35 29.1  25.45 21.9 X25.1
NWS Growth Rte                    8.1   8.95 -21.1X -2.28   5.05  15.6X -13.2X -16.3X   3.1X -83    6.15
NGNFSGDP                         23.4 X20.4   T.1X 12.8X 14.55  18.3X 25.8   23.65 23.9X 22.8  27.6
Current Acovait (BP MO)           -90   713  -3435    39 -190  -1029   1352  2223  1020   361 -1482
Current Act/DWP                  -0.28   1.25  -5.45  0.1X -3.2X  -1.9X   2.35   4.9X   2.1X   0.75-3.65
Alterian Crude Price (WI bl)   29.54 28.92 14.77 18.48 16.14  18.45 24.32  20.4  20.06 17.52 16.03
TamsofTrudk(1980100)              102    99    47    54    48    49    53    61    48    52             6
2/0DP                              74X   77M   77x   82X   845   74X   64X   49X   49X   545   54X
Inftation                         8.2  10.45 12.4X  7.4"   5.9X  9.35  16.6X 22.85 31.5 21.05 28.9X
Sourc: Vorld Bak                 / Includi  wrkers rmittwte.
2/ Net of reprofflUn.
3/ Curent price ratfos.



Annex M
Pag 2 of 6
TAME II1 MUICE OF PAUEITS
(in  illton  of currant USN)
........ ....................._..........._....  ........................
1984   195   1986  1          8  19     1990  1991  1992  193   1994
A.Exporte of Goods & IFS          13201  13375   M5   9290 8t47 114?                 519 12056  10758  975
illerdwise (fob)                 12m   129    7470  87W7  7811  959  12880 18  19  1O163  9073
ow  HVdroawb_                  1479  12724  7279  631  7352  9096  123   11975  10874  97    8774
a/ am-xy*oceban                  298   259    191   206   40    475   532   412   50    I9    299
2.NonFater servies                 425   390   490   553   536   57          515   432   617   5S    80
B.140t of Soo& a an               1264  124S  111I3  94  W 67 1136  11481 9I           8 1036 10038 1O900
I.Nrchdid   (fob)                 977   9439  8O20  7399   592   32           59   M4   8541  8161  89OM
o@1 Capitat Seeds               2m    2999  29   1879  1905  2283  3034   1863  1905  1735  2018
Omu Cnsser Good                 3230  3676  305   3261         6   4360  3546   30    3427  3510  3297
Wm Intermediato Goods           3569  2964  285T  2259  2452  25   3079  2788  3209  2916  3670
2.NanrFactor Servi                2875   2809  2443  2008  2174  1974   1822   1881   19s   18n   1915
WV Unofficial Services           149   202   243   239   298   307   338   322   347   345   315
C.Rescurca bat                      555   925  -3204  -117  -1419  -1189   1914  319    1720   720 -1147
D.1st Factor Insne                -1471 -1570  -209  -1332 -2010  -1893  -2090  -2258  -2158 -1945  -1735
I.Facter Receipts                  180    91   171   314    70   111          72    72    112   141    118
2.Factor Pa)unts                  1657  1761  2200  1645  2080  20    2162  2330  2270  2086  1853
s/u NLT Intwst GEMS) V          13S   1397  1547  15S  1681  1740   178   1789  1831   1706   1537
o/w ILT Interest after rcied. 1375   1397  1547  1565  1681  1740   1784   1789  1831   1706  1369
ilet Current Trafer                 82   1358   1798  1487  1527  2053   1525  1290  1458  1586  1400
1.Current Recepts                  990  1509  1942  1589  1603  2091   158?  1334  1579  1743   155
@1w Mcge & Saltar                291    263   310   434   332   306   313   274   829   993   111S
Wsu Urofffeiat Tranfers (nwt)   679   1030  1074  1014  1152  1221   1234   1060   750   750   450
2.Current Paents                   158   1S5    144   102    76    38         59    44    121   1ST   165
F.Current Account Batancs           -90   713  -3435    39 -1903  -1029   1352  2223   1020   361  -1482
S.Lonv Tenm Capital tnflow          448   396   89?   626  1168   387  -478  -1018   -87  -678   1435
1.Direct Investmiet                 -14   -87    -64   -109   -48   -25    -39    -34         3     -2   100
2.Officil Cap4tst Grants              0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
3.u.t $LT Loans                     515   423   950   551   1570   45S    113  -588   215  -479  1423
.NILT Disbursement (DON)          4113  3896  4512  4357  6133  569  6892  6632  751  6555   4426
b.ILT Amertfzatfon (DS) 1/        3598  3475  3562  3806  456   5113  6779  7220  7036  7034  6701
c.JLT Amortization after aesed-L 3598  347n  3542  3806  4563  3113  6779   mo   7036  7034  3003
4.0ther LT Inftow                   -53    60      11   184  -354   -43  -552  -396  -305   -19?   -90
(not net. DRS discrepancy)
N.Totat Other Items (not)          -750   254  1379  -617   -61          0   -9$9   -678  -866   618   -18
1.1et Short TeM Capital              4    -48    254   315   339   342  -1049  -905  -88           31  -100
2.Capital Flow VIE                -213   192   -78  -1071  -118  -304   38          22?    -8    a7    82
3.Errors   osission  (not)         -2    110  1203   139  -282   -31  -208            0      0      0      0
I.anwe in Sat Reserve              -39    1363  -1159    48   796   -42    -8S    527    67   301   -67
wa tlm)
................



A-rm
Pae 3 of 6
tU  II s LBALACE OF PA"U
(fn mittim of current USO
............................................... .......................A......................................................... _ 
1984  1985  19    198?  198   196   1990  19 19       19    1993  199
Forefgn Exeh_ ltlserves:
.................... 0...................................  ,
aidW Fine TrW ez (end)             5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6              5.1   5.6   5.6   5.6   S.6
2.601d price WLndm                 30    3       391   48    41    351        4   362   343  M3    384
3.1nt'1 Reserve  gold             170  185  2181  27    2289  2a    1971  2021  1916  2007  2143
4.Total Reserves xl.Gold           U     2819  1460  1640   900   847   7    146  1457  14u5  218
S.T,tal Reseve incl.old           3184   644  3841  4341  3t89  25  26    357  337   342  4
6.ro1se Reservasfntfs of fip) 2/  1.2   2.4   1.5   1.8   0.9   0.8   0.6   1.5   1.4   I.5    2.0
Ecane Rates (D )
..................................
1.Rel Eff.Exch.Rat                 13    144   133   117    9f    83    7S    47    48    53    41
(bosel9lO)
L.E.Off.Exch.Rate                  5.0   5.0   4.7   4.8   5.9   7.6   9.0  18.5  21.8  23.3  36.0
(IF, AIDAMS)
Sharesof GP
,.._...............................
Resource Bance                     1.OX   1.6X  -S.1X  -2   -2.4X  -2.28  3.28   7.08  3.L   1.4X  -2.83
Totat NLT intest Pay bt. 2.48  2.4   2.5X   2.43  2.91  3.28  3.Ox  3.9X  3.    3.43  3.31
Current Accomt Bale               -0.23   1.21 -5.4X   O.X  -3.28  -1.9X   2.33  4.96   2.1X   07X  -.3.
LT Capital Infl.                   0.8X  0.7X   1.4"   1.08   2.0   0.7'X  *LU   -2.2  -0.2X  -1.4X   3.5X
Net Credift Fre INF                0.O8  0.03I  O.O   0.03  O.0    1.1   O.0   0.73  -03X  -0.7X   1.48
Chang fn Net Ream  (-atos)         -392  130  .l59      48  -796   642   -8S   527    67   301   -67
Valustin Cha,u  (-tloss)            0      0      0      0      0     0      0.    0       0      0     0
Cha  In Net foregn Asts (CB) -392  130  -1159    48  -796    42   -8S   527    67   301   -67
Chm  in Ora"Retow   (CB)        -416  1355  -1159   -20  -740   -53  -122   761   -29    I8   648
et CredIt fr   INF                0      0      0      0      0   604      0   308  -166  -329   63
Chnl n Othr Lab. (CS)            -24    .8      0   -68    56   -15   -37   -74    70    46            2
Nos
DP at Current U                  5     57997 63065 64479 58788 S4940 59902 45715 47866 49762 41139
Total 0DM ST (US$)                794   746  1000  1315  1421  1840    91   1239           3   79    693
Source: Uorld Dank               1/  lftout resdull ng.
2V  lport Inclui fator sewlee.



Annme
Pagp 4 of 6
1*31. Ilt EKTPML CAPITAL FLUt AM DEST
(in mition of eurrent UIS
.. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .,............. . .. . .. . . . .,. . . .. ,,4.,                                       
1984   19M    1986   1987   1988   1969   1990   199    1992    199
................................
P*lic & PiMcly  a.NLT             4113   s6   U4         457   6133   5569   4892   442    7M1  6555
1. Officiat Creditors             819    560    68    441        772   1138   152   1919    146    134
a.  ulttilatert                215    184    314    264    473    459    613    955    5S2    454
ohmulo                      70    148    138    12         170    204    300    347    268    176
O/u IDA                      0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
b. el atotera                  604    376    324    178    299    679   1238    964    913    909
2. Private Cri tor               329    3336   3B74   3916    5362   443    500   4713    S78    5191
a. Son                           0    500      93      50    44       232       0       1       0       0
b. F1awniat Credits            612   1025   1920    998    1451    376    465    602   2022    1710
C. C_arcial Creits            2683   1811   182   28         36    3823   4595   4110   3765   3S1
/w EWort Credits          160    1311   1427   2078    2776   3066   4107   32           331S   3193
o/w SWtiers' Credits    1075    500    435    78          687      7      488    738    450    289
Private lonlu"atd ILT                0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Total NLT Disb 1remnts            4113   3896   4512   4357   6133   S569   6892   6632   7251    6555
INF Purchas                          0      0       0       0       0    604        0    308        0      0
Net ShortTem Capitol                 4     .4     254    315    339    342  -1049   -905   -85            531
Total Dlebursamt                  4117   3S4    4766   4672   6472   6514   5843   6035   639!   7086
,...............................
Public & Publicly &urJ.LT         3596   347    3562   3806   4563   5113   69    7220   7036   7034
1. Officiat CredItors             649    674    760    886    961    1011   1204   1292   1234   1262
a. ulttitateral                100    143    104    184    208    214    314    392    338    355
Wu IERD                     40      42      51     79      112    112    130    176       166    170
o/ INDA                      0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
b. Bilatewrl                   549    531    456    702    752    79          890   9n0       896    907
2. Privats creditor              2949   2799   2803   2921   3603   4103  575   S928   5801    5772
S. BEnds                        1S      71     27      S8      9       40      16       5     129    663
b. Financal Credits            952    851    56       427    715    919   1356   1357    978   1122
c. Comwarcial Credits         1962   1877   2212   2435   2790   3144   4203   4566   4694   398r
oe Export Credits          832    823   1200   1380   1833   2405   3335   3843   3774   3419
o/e smpliers' Credits    1151   1053   1012   1055    958    738    868    723    921    567
Private ouaIbte elLy                 0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Tota "LT Rpaumnts                 38    3473   3562   3806   4563   5113   6779   722    7036   7034
INF lepur.h                          0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0     166    329
Total NLT eIL ay. a IP Repur.     3598   3473   3542   3806   45a    S113   6779   7m            720    7362
t8rm: 0M



PgeS of 6
TABLE III: EXTERNAL CAPITAL KLOMS AND DEBT
(in  lltona of current USS)
1984    1985   1985   1987   198    1989    1990   1991   1992   1993
.................................................... _...__._._.._.__..._._
Net PIowS
.................. .................................
Public & Publicly Ouar.NLT         S15    423    950    SS1   1570    45S         113   -588    215   -49
1. Official Creditors             170   -114   -121   -4 U       18      127    648   46?    230    102
a. Multilateral                115      41     210      80    264    24S    299    563    213          99
o/v IDRD                    30     106      8?      50     58      92     170    171    101         6
o/M IDA                      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0
b. gilateral                    55    -SS   -351   -525   -453    -118    349         64      17       2
2. Private Creditors              345     538   1072    99S    1759    328   -535  -1215    -14   -581
a. Bonds                       -15    429       65      -8    350     192    -15       -4   -129   -663
b. Financal Credits           -341    174   135T    S7t    737   -543    -912   -755   1045    S88
c. CoImercial Credits          701    .66   -350    432    673    679    392   -456   -930   -506
o/v Export Credits         776    487    228    698    944    661         m      -471   -459   -22n
o/u Suppliers' Credits     -76    -553   -57?   -266   -271        18   -380       15   -471   -279
Private Nondarateed NLT              0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Total NLT Net FLoas                515    423    950    SS1    1570    4S5        113   -ss    21S   -479
Not INF Credit                       0       0       0      0       0    604        0    308   -166   -329
Tota lNLT + IMF                    S1S    423    9S0    551   1570    1059    113    280           49   -808
Net ShortTerm                        4     -48    254    31S    339    342   -1049   -90S   -858    531
Total Net Flows                    519    375   1204    866   1909   1401   -936  -1185   -809   -2m7
Interest
........ ................ _ ..._
Public & Pubticly Quar.RLT        1375    1397   1547   1565   1681    1740   1784   1789   1831   1706
1. Official Creditors             260    271    312    305    329    307    317    356    400    400
a. Multil ateral                4       49      70      88     93      97      117    154    199    212
clI IBRD                    24      30      46      62      72     70      73    1o7      112    113
o/  IDA                      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0
b. Bilateral                   214    222    243    218    236    210    201    203    200    188
2. Private Creditors             111S    1126   1235   1260   1352   1433    1467   1433   1432   1306
aBonds                          22      42      S'8     60     63      91     105      98      90      68
b. Financial Credits           531     446    448    474    532    567    529    455    42?    498
c. Commerctal Credits          562    638    730    726    757    77S    833    880    915    739
o/N Export Credits         242    335    437    488    558    628    704    750    758    632
o/w Suppliers' Credits     320    303    292    238    198    147    129    130    157    108
Privatei onGuarateed LT              0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Total NLT Interest                137S    1397   1547   16    1681    1740   1784    1789   1831   1706
IMF Servic Charges                   0       0       0      0       0      22      62      59      69      42
Interest Paid on ST Debt           13B     140      53     78    399    242    317    482    369    338
Total Interest Paid               1513   1537   1600   1643   2080   2004   2162   2330   2270   2086
Source: DRS



AmM
Page 6 of 6
TE Ills EXTER   CAPITAL FLOSS AD DBT
(in millions of current 35$)
..... ........ ,.... ,,..... ............................       ......................
1984   1985   1966   1987   1988            -199    1991   1992   199
..... ........_._...._..... ,,t*,^....,......,,,,,,,,,,,,,................................
Exterat Debt (DO)
...... .............___....
Pubite & PuCIry Ow.NLT         14124  16380  198 230    24417  24638  269   256   252    248
1. Official Creditos           3513   3835   4218   467    4701   470   5712   4466   6450   6554
a. multiLateral              44      S8     912   1204   1396   1610   20        266    u68   2572
O/vlawRD                  28U    479    693    924    895    960   1208   1413   1474   1S12
s/ IDA                     0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0
b. Sltaterat                3067   3252   3377   3469   3308   3120   3674   3798   3682   3683
2. Private Creditors          10611  12546  1S194  1844?  19713  19908  20684  19499  1877S  18032
a. Scd                       232    680    777    83   1169   1347   1420   1436   1281          4S
b. Finanelt CredIts         3923   4258   5884   7050   767    6877   6189   556    6542   7292
c. Cmmercia Credits         645T   7609   8532  10533  1086   11684  U075  12497  10953  10095
Wu Export Credits        3492   4867   5985   788       64   9125  10724  10142   9146   8552
o/u Suppties Credits    2965   2742   2547   2655   2604   2559   2351   2355   1806   1543
PrivateloMnarateed NLT             0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0
Total, LTDOD                   14124  16380  1942  23080  24417  24638  2639   25964  25225  24587
Use of IMF Credit                  0       0      0      0       0    619    670    995    795    471
ShortTerm Debt                   794    746   1000   1315   1621   1840    191   1239    193    793
Total Extemat Debt             1491  17127 208224395  26038  27096  2788 2819   26813 2580
...._............................
Shas of Total OD
__._._.......------........-
Putic & Ptficly ouariLT        100.08 100.02 100.02 100.02 100.02  97.52  97.52  96.3X  96.9X  98.12
1. Official  Creditors         24.9X  23.42  22.02  20.2X  19.3X  18.78  21.12  24.02  24.8   26.22
a. Aultilateral              3.22   3.6X    4.72   5.22   5.7X   6.4%    7.5X   9.9X 10.6   11.52
o0/vIBRD                  2.02   2.9X   3.a    4.02   3.72   3.8X    4.5X    5.2X   5.72   6.0X
WM IIDA                   0.02   0.O2   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.0%   0.0   0.02   0.O2   0.02
b. Bilateral                21.7X  19.9X 17.32  15.0X 13.5   12.4X  13.6X  14.12  14.2U 14.72
2. Private Creditors           75.12  76.6   78.0   79.8   80.72 78.8X  76.4X   72.3   72.2x 72.02
a. Sonds                     1.6    4.12   4.02   3.L2   4.82   5.3X   5.22   5.32   4.90   2.62
b. Ftnancia Credits         27.8X  26.02  30.22  30.52  31.43  2.2X  22.92  20.6   25.12  29.1
c. Cmsrciat Credfts         45.7   46.4   43.    45.6X 44.   46.3    4.3X  46.4   42.11  40.32
o/ Export Credits        24.72  29.72  30.72  34.1X  33.8   36.12  39.6  37.6X   35.2   34.12
o  Supptier' Cfredits    21.0  16.7X 13.1X11.1SX 0.72  10.12   S.7X   S.7X   6.90   6.22
Private  Nonluarated HLT         0.02OX 0.0    0.02   0        0.0    0.002   0.LX   0.02   0.02   0.02
ToutlLDD          1QO.O100.02 100.02 100.0  10.0  100.02  97.52  97                 96.32  96.98  98.12
Use of IMF Credit                0.L0    0.02   0.OX   O.0    O.0    2.5X   2.52   3.72   3.1X   1.9X
Total Extera Debt OULT)        100.02 100.X 100.02 100.02 100.0  100.02 100.02 100.02 100.02 100.02
squrs m



Annex IV
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLC OF ALGER1A
ECONOMIC REABIlTATION SUPPORT LOAN
KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:                       7 months
Project prepared by:                         Government with the assistance of IBRD
staff and consultants'
Identification:                              June 10-15, 1994
Pe-Appraisal:                                July 11-22, 1994
Loan Committee:                              August 31, 1994
Appraisal:                                   September 12-23, 1994
Negodations:                                 October 27 - November 4, 1994
Board Presentation:                          January 12, 1995
Expected Effectiveness:                      Jamuay 20, 1995
Closing Date:                                December 31, 1996
Bank staff o      to t projec ilude: Mom eMme. Pak (rank Manae), Undewoo (ed conomi),
l Bamudy (Prvet Sector Developmet ad Prvation), Pu (fienacial Sector Reform and PE Restucung), Wolff
(Social Sfety Net Reform), Ruppert Mamconio  Frmork amd Unemplymnt Inun  Systm), Hathon
(Prvaiaia Law), Dutz (Competion Law), Mich"let wnvestm    Pmtio), Ai  (trivet Sector Devlopment),
and Van P (c 0 ren and Disudemest). Mr. Hadi Abuhk is the cound for Algea Mr. Mabrnood Ayub
and Mr. Daie Rhe am,  pivy, th manai Diion Chief and Depatnt Diecto for t   aperaio. Ms.
Mario-Hue" Oen providd excelen suppot savice.



Annex V
Page 1 of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPIULIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMC REHABATION S RT LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPEERAIONS
1.           World Bank Group involvement in Algeria has been intermittent. After a nine-year
moratorium, Bank lending resumed in 1973. By 1980,23 IBRD projects with commtments totalling over
US$1.1 billion had been approved. Over time, increasing disagreement on project selection and
implementation criteria resulted in low disbursement rates. Several operations were canoelled by mutual
agreement in 1980, and another interruption in Bank lending followed. A new agreement led to renewed
lending and, in 1984 and 1985. three projects, totalling US$680 million, were approved. Subsequent
improvements in the dialogue led to a large increase in the lending program. Between 1987 and 1992,
26 operations, with associated commiments of almost US$2.3 billion, were approved. These operations
included two adjustment loans: the US$300 million ERSL and the US$350 EFSAL, approved in June
1991. The EPSAL was co-financed in the amount of US$300 mfllion by the Export-Import Bank of
Japan. Bank lending declined again in 1993, in large measure due to the slow-down of economic reform.
However, a US$110 million Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation project was approved by the
Board in June 1994 and a US$51 million Emergency Reconstruction project for the Mascara region was
approved in December 1994. A significant expansion of lending is envisaged over the FY95-97 period,
pwvided the acceleration of economic reform is sustained.
2.           Despite intrmit  involvement, the IBRD's Algeria portfolio is one of the largest in the
Middle East and North Africa Region. As of November 30, 1994, cumulaive commiments to Algeria
stood at US$3,911 million (less cancellations). Of this total, some US$1,230 million had been repaid and
US$1,175 million was undisbursed (see attached Table). As of the same date, IFC commitents were
US$10 million, of which US$1.54 million was undisbursed. The Bank's shates of Algeriaes total MLT
debt (7 percent) and MLT debt service (7 percent) are low compared with other Bank borrowers.
3.          In close collaboration with the authorities, the Bank is engaged in a broad effort to
improve the pemance of the project portfolio. A full country portfolio perform e review (CPPR)
was caried out in July 1993, which resulted in action plans to address the key issues affecting the Bank's
portfolio, including closing several problem projects.  For 18 active projects, the authorities
communicated to the Bank last June detailed summaries of actions taken and planned. In a subsequent
letter, the Finance Minister indicated his strong support for improvements in the performance of the
portfolio, including full cooperation in putting in place ad hoc project supervision arrangements in
response to the difficult security siuation in Algeria. Six additional projects are slated for closure by
end-1994. The Bank is providing technical assistance to strengthen the project monitoring capacity of
the Ministry of Finance. The Bank is also working with the Ministry of Public Works, which oversees
the single largest share of the public investment budget, to modernize its project management capacity.
4.           Other members of the World Bank Group are active in Algeria. The IFC's strategy for
Algeria focusses on the hydrocarbon sector, due to its strategic importance, and the financial sector. The
IFC approved its first project in 1992: a US$10 million loan to Helios, a joint ventre between
SONATRACH and foreign investors to produce helium gas for export. In the financW sector, the IFC's
efforts have concentrated on establishing a leasing company and a private bank. FIAS drafted a report
on investmet in Algeria, and has actively consulted on the new Investment Code. Algeria has held
preliminary discussions with MIGA concerning fuure membership.



Annex V
Page 2 of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPlBLIC OF ALGEA
ECONOMIC REHAIliTATION SUPPORT LOAN
The taO of Bank Ganoup Operu I Ain ri
Statemet of Ban                 and IDA Ct
As of November 30. 1294
(118$ Milton Amut
Loan or          FIscal
ChditNo.                                                                                 LDA. Yau  m&    Undsbursed
Thiry-vOne loans fiaflv disbursed                                           1,S79.69
Of which SAL., SECAL, and Progrm Loan *a/
3117             1990    Republic of Algria Eonomic Reform                    298.79
2591             1985    Republic of Algerki       Natioral Water Supply/S    262.00              11.92
2808             1987    Republic of Alger         Highways V                 120.00              38.24
2809             1987    Republic of Agrh          Irigao Chelif 1             94.00              46.78
2821             1987    Republicof Algwia         Nat Watw Supplyil          250.00              82.99
2977             1988    Republic of Algeria       Vctonal Trainig             54.00               19.80
2981             1988    Republic of Algeri        Powerm                     159.43              67.51
3076             1989    Republic of Algeria       Mitldja I Aton             110.00              71.47
3105             1989    Republicof Algeria        Ports                       i 63.00            47.88
3176             1990    Republic of Algeria       Tochnic Assisanoo           26.00              18.11
3210             1990    Republic of Algera        Idusti Resnwcuing           47.60              41.44
3211             1990    Republic of Algeri        Indu    ri        4 Retcuing  29.20            24.09
3212             1990    Republic of Algeria       lndurRetucurin              12.70               10.74
3213             1990    Republicof Algeria        Industriesuctning            5.00                .45
3214             1990    Republic of Algera        Industria Restucting         5.00               3.79
3216             1990    Republic of Algeria       Research and Exension       32.00              27.11
3266             1991    Republic of Algeria       UniveriyDevelopment         65.00              55.58
3352*            1991    Republic of Algk           Ep. & FinancialSec        350.00             106.16
3395             1992    Republic of Algera        irt Petroelum              100.00              25.01
3405             1992    Republic of Algera        Sahaa Development           57.00              55.00
3487             1992    Republicof Algerk         Pesy and Waterhed           25.00              22.15
3488             1992    Republic of Algeria       Cadase                      33.00              26.38
3561             1993    Republic of Algeria       Housig Compleion           200.00             146.80
3573             1993    Republic of Algera        Basic & Seondeary Education   40.00            37.49
3690             1994    Republic of Algeia        LaocustCntrol               30.00              27.00
3743             1994    Republic of Algeria       Wate Supply & SeweampbI  110.00               110.00
3813             1995    Republic of Algeria       Mas   Emergency Rec. b/    Sl          5.00    S
TOTAL                                                      3,910.62            1,174.88
Of which has been, reaid (only amortiaon)          1,229.79
Total hold by Bank                                 2,680.84
Amount sold                               36.37
of which repaid                           36.37
Tots Undisbusd                                                        1,174.88
SAL, SBCAL or Program Loan
a/ Appoved after FY80
b/ Not yet effectWv



I                     A   I
~~iIiI
t      ~i.         ii1
I~~~~~~I
In 8              i{l
v  iB  I  I  iR    
-   -   ~I
IX g I
..   .. I t 
w 8  ' 8   8   i g       $t~



IIBRD 26393
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 i d - ;-, t,f                                      i 7*^ O> .. . ................................... 4-<.6-:.-
<                          )                   tE R   Owba: L-    V                               S~~~~~~~~~~~'ow  A
6 r4'                       4                                                              /i         
A~t w
\, Js I \ \ <6 \K;OA,                                                  0
ALGERIA                   -s                                             . X                x                       \          ws~~~~~~~~~~~~A
'~~\                  ..-~'/ ,t'          * Tt                     w _>, ,0
WIIAY CPOSrS              \                        ,      t'               )   s    i                      //~~~~~~
Ti               TANUSIA dou_fv,    ,                                                                          X,,o
---   hER5ANDNIER>511u5  ~         ~        tW111 S '                 -'                                       /
AL    E    I -A ll2^KEONArtoylantytntr
S   .2    z9eO,.MeEE                              n
5 1O-re



