Report No. PIC486
Project Name                        Algeria-Economic Rehabilitation Loan (ERL)
Region                              Middle East and North Africa
Sector                              Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                          DZPA35704
Principal Responsible Agency        National Planning Council
Date PID Prepared                   August 1994
Projected Appraisal Date            September 1994
Projected Board Date                November 1994
I. THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.   In the first quarter of 1994, the further weakening of world oil
prices, the drying up of external financing, growing macroeconomic
imbalances, rising inflationary pressures and a build-up of external
debt arrears convinced the authorities to accelerate the implementation
of economic policy reforms, for which they have requested the financial
assistance of the Bretton Woods institutions and other creditors.
2.   The key development issue facing Algeria is how to foster a
resumption of sustainable economic growth while coping with the
immediate economic and social problems of high unemployment, a severe
housing crisis, and shortages of basic necessities.      The authorities
have developed a three-pronged strategy to meet this challenge: (i)
implement a stabilization program to correct macroeconomic imbalances
and distortions with the technical and financial support of the IMF;
(ii) approach the key creditors for a rescheduling of the country's
official bilateral external debt (Paris Club), as well as a
restructuring of its commercial debt (London Club), in order to finance
an increase in the severely compressed level of imports; and (iii)
accelerate the transition to a market economy by reinvigorating the
structural reform program with the support of the Bank.
The Stabilization Program
3.   On May 27, 1994, the IMF Board approved a one-year stand-by
arrangement (in four quarterly tranches) and a request for a purchase
under the compensatory and contingency financing facility, for a total
of SDR 731.52 million. The program period is from April 1, 1994 to
March 31, 1995. The key elements of the stand-by program are:
adjustment of the exchange rate and reform of the exchange regime, trade
liberalization, domestic price liberalization, deficit reduction,
monetary restraint and higher interest rates. The program also provides
for an explicit increase in budgetary allocations for the social safety
net to alleviate the impact of stabilization on the most vulnerable
groups of the population.
External Debt Rescheduling
4.   Although the total stock of external debt of Algeria of around US$
billion in 1993 is not large relative to many other middle-income
countries, its average maturity has steadily decreased, and was only



about three years prior to the recent Paris Club rescheduling. In early
1994, the drop in world oil prices and difficulties in mobilizing
external financing prompted the authorities to reconsider the option of
formal debt rescheduling. Following approval of the stand-by
arrangement, the Government reached agreement with the Paris Club for a
rescheduling based on favorable terms: 15 years, including 4 years of
grace, with a cut-off date of September 30, 1993 and rescheduling of
interest payments on official debt through October 1994. The
authorities have also approached commercial creditors for a
restructuring of London Club debt on equivalent terms.
Structural Reform Program
5.   The basic objective of the structural reform program is to ensure
a sustainable supply response to macroeconomic stabilization by
enhancing the role of market forces. To accomplish this, the reforms
must eliminate structural rigidities, correct distorted incentives, and
promote domestic and external competition. At the microeconomic level,
developing the private sector and restructuring the PE sector are
crucial priorities. In parallel, the emerging agricultural supply
response must be strengthened and consolidated by restructuring off-farm
services to encourage competition. Moreover, nascent structural reforms
in financial and labor markets need to be deepened to promote factor
redeployment and more efficient allocation of new resources in response
to changes in relative prices.
Medium-term Policy Framework and Outlook
6.   Accompanied by a deepening of structural reform, the stabilization
program will provide a solid basis for a medium-term macroeconomic
framework geared to supporting adjustment and setting the economy on a
permanent high growth path. Sustained growth is important to
maintaining the momentum of the structural reform program and the
transition to a market economy. A key objective is a steady reduction
in the debt service ratio which would trigger a sustained boost in
import capacity. While the amount of growth that higher import capacity
can generate over the medium term will depend on the costs of
adjustment, notably PE restructuring, the objective is to create jobs at
a rate at least equal to the 4% growth rate of the labor force. This
would lower the unemployment rate and ease social tensions. Restored
growth would also support faster structural adjustment, which, in turn,
would accelerate the transition to markets and generate a more rapid
improvement in economic efficiency. The resulting increase in market
forces and productivity would help to sustain growth, and provide for a
more flexible response to adverse external shocks. As the reforms take
hold, sustained growth and greater efficiency would support further
increases in per capita consumption. Of course, it is possible that
growth could falter over the medium term because of higher-than-expected
adjustment costs. This highlights the need for continuous efforts to
convince the population of the necessity and credibility of the
adjustment program in order to sustain popular support.
II. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Rationale
-2-



7.   Two main reasons justify the proposed operation: (i) it will help
the authorities define and implement measures to accelerate the
transition to a market economy; and (ii) it will contribute to, and help
catalyze, the international community's efforts to mobilize the
substantial external financing package needed to support restored growth
and bolder economic reform. The proposed loan is a continuation of the
Bank's efforts to help Algeria in implementing critically important
reforms needed to assure sustained growth, particularly in the areas of
enterprise and financial sector restructuring, private sector
development and privatization.
8.   As explained earlier, restarting the engine of growth requires a
loosening of the external resource constraint. The international
community has launched a concerted effort to reduce Algeria's debt
service burden and provide additional resources. The objective is to
increase imports from their critically low level of 1993. The
multilateral institutions, including the Bank, are foreseen to play an
important financing role, and the IMF program includes this source of
financing. The proposed SAL would contribute to the external financing
plan. Taken together, disbursements from adjustment (and adjustment-
like) Bank loans during 1994 could amount to as much as US$600 million.
Loan Features
9.   The proposed SAL is designed to support the next phase of
structural reforms in the context of the macroeconomic stabilization
program.  It would cover the following areas:
-    Development of the Private Sector
-    Reform and Restructuring of the Public Enterprise Sector
-    Public Expenditure Reform
-    Financial Sector Reform
-    Strengthening of the Social Safety Net
Development of the Private Sector
10. The proposed SAL would build on the existing basis for private
sector development in three areas: (i) promoting private investment,
(ii) stimulating competition, and (iii) promoting the development of the
strategically important SME sector which offers the brightest prospects
for job creation during the transition period.
Reform and Restructuring of the Public Enterprise Sector
11. The proposed SAL would support the development and initiation of a
privatization program. It would also support the establishment of a
market-oriented framework for implementing the medium-term restructuring
plans for the core group of 23 non-autonomous PEs covered under the
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), approved in
1991.
Public Expenditure Reform
12. Fiscal adjustment and more efficient public expenditures are key
objectives of the stabilization and reform program. The proposed SAL
-3 -



would support fiscal adjustment through: (i) a further withdrawal of the
Treasury from the financing of PE investments, and (ii) explicit limits
on future Treasury expenditures on the financial restructuring of PEs.
Financial Sector Reform
13. The proposed SAL would support a deepening of the financial sector
reforms through: (i) extension of the prudential regulations to cover a
broader range of market activities; (ii) measures to strengthen banking
supervision; (iii) a market-oriented framework for the institutional
development of the existing public banks; (iv) clear rules for applying
the new ceiling on bank margins, and a review of its impact; and (v)
studies of measures to encourage the creation of private banking
institutions, and of the modalities for privatizing the existing banks.
Strengthening the Social Safety Net
14.  The proposed SAL would support the implementation of two measures
to strengthen the social protection system: (i) the introduction of a
system to protect redundant workers, including a national unemployment
insurance scheme; and (ii) a reform of the social safety net introduced
in 1992 to compensate for price increases in subsidized food staples.
Risks
15. There are essentially two types of risks related to the
implementation of the reform program to be supported by the proposed
SAL: internal problems related to the political situation in the
country, and risks related to negative external shocks. With regard to
external shocks, the two main relevant factors for Algeria are the world
oil prices and the value of the US dollar.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



