Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3834 AL
Loan Agreement
(Economic Rehabilitation Support Loan)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 26, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3834 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1995, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated December 4, 1994, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
macroeconomic stability and structural transformation of the Borrower's economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently 
needed imports and services required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in a single tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(d)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BAD" means Banque Algerienne de Developpement, the Borrower's Algerian 
Development Bank, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 
71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"Central Bank" means Banque d'Algerie, the Borrower's central bank, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 
1990, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986); and
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
Page  3
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) BAD is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BAD with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to 
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the 
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts 
of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of this Section, the Borrower and the Bank shall, on June 30, 1995, or such other 
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, carry out a review for the 
purpose of evaluating, on the basis of the letter referred to in Recital A of the 
Preamble to this Agreement, the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the 
Program. Thereafter, the Borrower shall take all action which the
Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed is required for the attainment of the 
objectives of the Program.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower may employ consultants, whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the purpose of carrying out technical assistance activities associated with the 
implementation of the Program. Selection of such consultants shall take place in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (i) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (ii) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to (i) the terms of reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank, (iv) amendments to  contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $120,000 equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $60,000 equivalent or above.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or custom 
certificates, where appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Zighout Youssef Palace
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINPLAN
67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Mouloud Belkadi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
       525                --          Radioactive and
                                      associated materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
                                      precious stones, unworked or
                                      worked
Page  7
       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof, fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                      nuclear reactors
       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch cases)
                                      and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of such other country;
(c)
payments made for goods imported prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$30,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such goods imported before 
that date but after September 15, 1994;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; 
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $30,000,000 
for petroleum products and expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$30,000,000 for foodstuffs. 
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be authorized by the Bank upon the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
    On each May 15 and November 15
          beginning May 15, 2000
          through November 15, 2011              6,250,000
Page  8
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                   0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                   0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                     0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                  0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                   1.00
    maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications: 
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms: 
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; or
Page  9
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
(d)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of the time required to 
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the 
contract. The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding 
documents or the request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the 
bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of 
extension. Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Schedule, the Bank's 
prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period 
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent extension 
of the bid validity period.
(e)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and 
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of 
quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct 
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate 
under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities maybe 
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special 
Account, such copies together with the other information required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the 
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to 
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. Where payments under a 
contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation 
Page  10
and the information to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this 
paragraph shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
Page  11
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
