Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19477-TU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan No. 3057-TU)
June 30, 1999
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1998 )
Currency Unit   =    Turkish Lira
US$1    =    TL 259,627.00
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1989      1990       1991       1992       1993        1994         1995        1996         1997
2,120.30   2,606.36   4,168.11   6,864.36   10,965.42   29,669.76   45,678.35   81,035.40   151,238.89
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHSM   -  Basic Health Statistics Module
DOT   -  Department of Treasury
FHP   -  First Health Project
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP   -  Gross National Product
GOT   -  Government of Turkey
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
INHSS   -  Integrated Health Service Scheme
MIS   -  Management Information System
MOH   -  Ministry of Health
MSA   -  Management Service Agreement
PCC   -  Project Coordinating Committee
PCU   -  Project Coordination Unit
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
RM   -  Resident Mission
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditures
SPO   -  State Planning Office
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
UNOPS        United Nations Project Service Facility
TURKEY'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
Vice President:                        Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:                        Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Team Leader:                           Armin Fidler, ECSHD
Sector Leader:                         Annette Dixon, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Turkey
First Health Project (Loan No. 30570-TU)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................-  i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES    .      .              1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES.                                 5
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                       7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY      ..                             9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                     .0
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  1.             .
H. FUTURE OPERATION OF PROJECT DELIVERABLES   .  .12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .12
PART 2. STATISTICAL TABLES .15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS .18
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .18
TABLE 4: CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS .19
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
AND OPERATION .20
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .21
TABLE 7: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .22
TABLE 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVenants .23
TABLE 9: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .26
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS    .   .26
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS   .      .27
Appendices:
A.   MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ...............................................    31
B.    MILAS STATE HOSPITAL: ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE OF
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES (AND COSTS INCREASES) FOR
CIVIL WORKS ...............................................  33
C.   INDIVIDUALS INTERVIEWED DURING ICR PREPARATION 3/1999 ......... 35
D.   BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION ...............................................  37
E.    MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



LIST OF TABLES, BOXES AND FIGURE
LIST OF TABLES
TABLE 1: SELECTED DEMOGRAPHIC AND HEALTH INDICATORS ...............................1
TABLE 2: SELECTED HEALTH INDICATORS .....................................................        2
LIST OF BOXES
Box 1: FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO COST INCREASES FOR CIVIL WORKS .............. 6
Box 2: SUPERVISION RATiNGS 1990-98 ...........................             ......................... I 1
LIST OF FIGURE
FIGURE 1: STAGES OF PCU-MOH RELATIONSHIP ....................................................9



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 3057-TU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Health Project in Turkey, for
which Loan 3057-TU in the amount of US$75 million was approved on May 11, 1989, and made
effective October 17, 1990.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1998 (compared with the original closing date of December
31, 1997), after an extension of one year was requested by the Government and granted by the Bank.
Final disbursement took place on June 11, 1999. As of June 30, 1999, a balance of US$3.84 million was
cancelled.
In order to settle outstanding payments for hospital equipment an extension of the grace period
from four to six months was granted and approved by the Bank. The extended grace period ended June
30, 1999. The total project cost was $146.7 million (SAR estimate), with an actual cost of US$209.08
million (the balance was contributed by the Government of Turkey (GOT). At project closing, there were
outstanding liabilities of the Government of Turkey) of about US$ 31.2 million, mostly due to change
orders and cost overruns on civil works.'
This ICR was commissioned by Armin Fidler (Health Program Team Leader), and was prepared by
Elliott Hurwitz (Consultant), Danelle Howell-Vaughn (Procurement Assistant), and Ayda Aysun Yurekli
(Health Economist).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, March
16-26, 1999, and is also based on materials in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of
the ICR by providing their viewpoint to the ICR team, commenting on the draft ICR, and contributing
their own assessment of the project (Appendix D). A list of the individuals interviewed is also included
as Appendix C.
With respect to extension of the grace period, it should be noted that a July, 1998, mission
informed the GOT that there would be at least US$20 million in cost overruns, and around US$2 million
in final payments due for medical equipment which had been received, but which could not be installed
until hospital completion. The GOT gave assurances that the hospitals would be completed by end-1998
and the US$2 million paid. The Bank verified with the GOT in November 1998, that the project would
close on December 31, 1998, and at that time the Department of the Treasury confirmed this and
requested that the project be closed. In the same exchange, the Bank was reassured that funds had been
requested from the State Planning Office (SPO), and that all liabilities would be satisfied prior to project
closure on December 31, 1998.
1 These overruns are discussed in more detail below in Box 1 and Appendix B.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 3057-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Project Objectives: In the past two decades Turkey has made
substantial economic progress: per capita GNP rose from US$1,940 in 1980 to US$3,160 in 1998,
and population growth moderated to an annual rate of around 1.8 percent (1990-97). At the same
time, the proportion of urban population rose dramatically - from 44 percent in 1980 to 72 percent
in 1997. Among health indicators, infant mortality fell substantially, from 109 per thousand live
births in 1980 to 42 in 1996. However, Turkey still remains far behind OECD averages and falls
behind some comparable lower-middle income countries. In particular, high infant and maternal
mortality rates - 45 per 1,000 live births, and 183 per 100,000 live births respectively - are cause
for concern. The data reflect higher-than-average fertility, poor ante- and post-natal care, unsafe
deliveries, and improper birth spacing. Malnutrition among children is also a serious problem,
especially in rural areas and eastern Turkey. There are wide disparities in economic and social
development across regions, between urban and rural areas, and by gender.
Health Sector Reform: Prior to 1980, the GOT attempted to enhance the quality and
accessibility of rural health services through implementing the Integrated Health Service Scheme.
This was designed to expand coverage into rural areas, but this was not achieved and the public
health system remained inefficient: the Ministry of Health (MOH) public health policy consisted
mainly of building hospitals. After more than two decades of neglect and underfunding, the GOT
began to increase health allocations following the 1987 Basic Law on Health Services. This law
extended MOH regulatory functions, but the MOH lacked managerial capability to deal with
these new responsibilities. Therefore, in the late 1980s, establishing a more equitable and
efficient health system that could deal with large regional disparities of access and quality
continued to be a challenge for the GOT.
Project Scope and Objectives: The First Health Project (FLP) was the first Bank
experience in the HNP sector in Turkey. The FHP was the first of Bank-supported sector
investments that by 1998 would expand to a 3-project portfolio (FHP, Second Health Project,
Primary Health Care Services Project) and a deepening dialogue on sector reform. The overall
goal of the FBP was to begin to develop a more efficient and partly self-financing public health
system capable of providing higher quality services. While continuing MOH policy of collecting
some user charges for curative services, charges for indigent patients would be waived. At the
same time the system was expected to deliver free preventive services for all. The FHP had
three specific objectives:
(1) Improve the health status of people in eight underserved provinces by extending
geographic access and improving the quality of services.
(2) Enhance the efficiency of service delivery and improve financial sustainability
(3) Strengthen the management capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH)



- ii -
Since the FHP was the first Bank financed health sector effort in Turkey, it was expected to
lay a foundation for further Bank supported work and initiate sectoral reform. The FBP covered
the entire public health system in 8 of 67 provinces and was implemented via 2 components:
1. Reorganize and Strengthen Provincial Health Services (initially, US$134 million):
*  Construction of new facilities/upgrading of existing ones, strengthening of provincial
management, reorganization of referral procedures, and provision of equipment and
vehicles.
*  Implementation of 15 health programs, targeted at maternal care, child care, control of
communicable diseases, and improved front-line curative care.
*  Redeployment and better utilization of staff, provision of in-service and induction
training, and provision of health education training for primary school teachers.
2. Institutional Development (US$12 million):
*  Health manpower development, through teacher training, curriculum revision, study
tours, and attendance at international seminars.
*  Development of a Health Management Information Systems (MIS).
•  Strengthening of central MOH management and planning capabilities through studies and
research, and by developing a strong PCU.
At the mid-term review (July, 1994), US$10.4 million was reallocated from civil works to
technical assistance, in line with a shift in emphasis toward (i) identifying and developing policy
options to deal with institutional constraints; and (ii) in the context of the Turkish economic
crisis and austerity program: focusing on health finance, increasing non-budgetary revenue, and
identifying means to increase system efficiency.
Evaluation of Objectives: The objectives were clearly defined but in hindsight seem now
somewhat unrealistic. Objective I (improve health status of people in eight underserved
provinces) seems unrealistic in aiming to improve health status in only 7/2 years. It seems also
unrealistic to launch a program to build new facilities without taking account of staffing
adequacy. In terms of importance, Objective 1 was significant and straightforward considering
that it was conventional by 1980s development paradigms to rely on financing new inputs
(facilities) to enhance service availability, improve quality, and impact health status. Under this
paradigm, it was assumed that providing additional inputs would automatically trigger health
gains. However, viewed from the present perspective, the project paid too little attention to
addressing many systemic (institutional and managerial) bottlenecks.
Objective 2 (stimulate reform of the health care system) was relevant and realistic at
project inception, but Parliament ultimately proved unwilling to accept reforms. This is generally
explained by the fact that Turkish governments during the FLP were relatively weak, and the
environment was not conducive to passage of complex reforms. Objective 3 (strengthening MOH
management capacity) was realistic and critical to better system performance. In terms of design,
the FIP was straightforward and not perceived as risky at project preparation and appraisal. It is
now, ex post, evident that the risks of cost overruns, inadequate staffing, and lack of counterpart
funding were underestimated. The project presented monitorable, and predominantly quantitative
performance indicators, although the lack of baseline data limited the extent to which these could
be used to monitor project progress and evaluate achievement of development objectives.



-  i -
Achievement of Objectives-It is judged that overall, the project was partially successful
in achieving its objectives: Regarding the first objective, improving the health status by
extending access and improving services, the project was partially successful:
*  Two hospitals, 35 health centers, 98 health posts, and 2 training centers were built in the 8
provinces. These undoubtedly increased access to health services of indigent people living in
these areas. However, the effectiveness of the building program was reduced by staffing
difficulties. For example, of the total of 35 health centers built under the FHP, 5 were not
operational in March, 1999, due to staffing shortages.
-  Difficulty in recruiting staff was recognized as a problem in the late 1980s and
throughout the FHP. Medical staff were reluctant to work in rural areas because of a
lack of incentives (e.g., insufficient pay differential) and because of the lack of social
and cultural amenities.
-  Hospital construction encountered major roadblocks, including insufficient counterpart
funds and cost overruns for civil works of around 1 80%--US$99 million out of a total
of US$ 154.1 million. One consequence was that by March, 1999, construction of only
2 of the planned 5 hospitals was complete. Over 300 health centers and posts, 21
hospitals, and training facilities were upgraded, with many receiving new equipment
and vehicles used for outreach.
: More than 13,000 MOH staff were provided with in-service training to provide orientation to
new staff or upgrade existing skills; training materials were developed; and training teams
(including evaluators) established in all 8 provinces; foreign study tours were provided to
more than 100 staff, and 26 fellowships in foreign institutions.
- It should be noted that it is difficult to determine the actual impact of the training, or to
what degree it triggered service quality improvements, since no evaluation was carried
out until 1995.
Regarding the second objective-enhancing the efficiency of service delivery and
improving financing prospects, less progress seems to have been made:
* A strong effort was made under the FHP to develop policy analysis and options in
support of health reform. However, most draft laws were never introduced into
Parliament and the one that reached the Parliament (Draft Law on Personal Health
Insurance) was not considered. In general, the political environment was not favorable
for any reformist legislation, and little progress was achieved.
Significant progress was made on the third objective-strengthening MOH management
capacity:
* The Basic Health Statistics Module (BHSM) information system was installed, along with
new hardware, and became operational in September, 1998. It was networked to all of the
country's provinces, and staff in all parts of the country were trained in its use. This
enabled MOH to make better-informed decisions on resource allocation, and also provided
a foundation for expanded information systems currently being finalized under the Second
Health Project.



- lv-
- The information system also provided a foundation for future health system
reform, since it began to provide individual hospitals with data that they can
potentially use to capture and utilize their own funding.
* A management course was provided to 112 individuals from the central MOH and 78 staff
from provincial offices; 2 workshops were held for senior managers.
*  A Human Resources Department was established in MOH, which helped improve the
efficiency of manpower utilization.
* However, a 1994 Swedish study on restructuring the MOH was not implemented.
Major Factors Affecting the Project: The FHP engaged the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP/UNOPS) as procurement agent for all Bank health projects in
Turkey . The purpose was to expedite the flow of funds and permit the PCU to focus on project
management and implementation, a goal that was generally realized.
Delay in Counterpart Funding-During the last few years of project implementation, the
GOT did not provide timely funding to complete three hospitals (estimated to be approximately
90% finished by the time of project completion - the government assured the Bank that these
civil works in fact could be completed within months of project closing). This substantially
impacted the final assessment of project performance, and increased overruns due to penalties and
interest payments.
Macroeconomic Instability-There was substantial macroeconomic instability during the
FHP implementation, including imposition of austerity measures, high inflation, and a sudden
devaluation in early 1994, in large measure caused by sizeable fiscal deficits. This hindered
implementation and provision of GOT counterpart funding.
Uncertain Political Environment-During most of the period of the FHP
implementation, there was substantial political turbulence, with frequent change of governments.
Fragile coalitions were led by minority parties, a situation detrimental to policy reform. There
were numerous policy and personnel changes, as well as periods of inaction and delay (e.g., the
delay in starting project activity after effectiveness, the 1-year extension of the closing date, and
the need to request an extension of the grace period.).
Inconsistent PCU Performance-At project inception, a strong Project Coordination Uni
(PCU) was established to compensate for the lack of sufficient MOH capacity. The intention was
to gradually integrate the strengths of the PCU into the MOH. While this was partially
accomplished, after 1996 PCU-MOH relations deteriorated (due to a change in government and
political affiliations), and the PCU became increasingly de-linked from the MOH but with
considerable funding and staff which the MOH resented. A previously effective working
relationship began to deteriorate. This failure to follow apolitically-sensitive strategy and better
integrate into MOH may have hindered progress.
Sustainability-Overall prospects of project sustainability are assesed as uneven:
* For the part of the project that attempted to extend access and improve services,
sustainability is likely, since - for the facilities that were completed and staffed - the
lExcept Primary Health Care Services Project



MOH has incorporated these into its system and has supported operating costs. These
facilities are actively providing care to the community. However, the MOH has not yet
provided budgetary support for in-service training, although it intends to do so.
*  For stimulating reform of the heath care system, sustainability is unlikely since
Parliament has not enacted any of the draft laws developed under the FHP, and prospects
remain highly uncertain. Despite this outlook, it is important to note that the reforms
supported by the the FBP may eventually bear fruit.
*  For strengthening the management capacity of the MOH, sustainability is judged as
likely. Management training is continuing; the BHSM information system is operational,
and impact at the provincial level has been high. The system, developed under the FHP,
is operated by the MOH data processing staff with PCU assistance.
Bank Performance-Overall Bank performance during the FHP implementaton period is
assessed as uneven: In identification, Bank performance is deemed deficient:
*  It seems that insufficient attention was given to staffing adequacy for the facilities
constructed-a problem recognized in the late 1980s. Thus, some facilities built under
the FHP were not operating due to lack of staff, and others are understaffed.
*  No baseline indicators were developed, so the project's effectiveness in extending access
and improving services-accomplishment of development objectives-could not be fully
evaluated. No formal project evaluation was performed until 1995.
In preparation and appraisal, Bank performance seemed satisfactory:
- The Bank correctly assessed the MOH as having weak capacity to implement a project
such as the FHP, and attempted to introduce measures to mitigate this risk.
e Consequently, a strong PCU was established, with substantial technical capabilities which
initially contributed to project progress, but in the end turned out to be a mixed
blessing as described earlier.
* To bolster procurement, UNDP/UNOPS was retained as a procurement agent, although the
benefits to the FHP were not as substantial as had been hoped
In implementation, Bank performance was deficient.
*    The Bank exercised insufficient surveillance to assure compliance with the Loan
Agreement. The PCU at times did not follow Loan Agreement provisions
mandating a "no objection" for modifications which would increase contract cost by
15% or more - a critical factor in hospital construction cost overruns.
*    The Bank did not foresee the development of a situation where the PCU gradually
became a rival to the MOH - and did not work effectively with the MOH. While
much of this was beyond the direct control of the Bank - it seems that this problem
was diagnosed too late - it was detrimental to project progress.
*    Bank supervisory reporting seems overly optimistic - even when the PCU-MOH
relations were strained, counterpart funds were lagging, and construction progress
slowed. A lack of transparency and frankness in PCU reporting, including tightly-
controlled mission schedules and information flow, was probably a factor in this.
High turnover in task-management may have also been a factor in deficient
supervision.



- vi -
*    The environment in which the FBP was functioning was changing quickly (e.g.,
deteriorating security situation, urban-rural population migration), and the FHP
seems to have had insufficient flexibility to meet these unforeseen needs.
Borrower Performance: Borrower performance seems to have been deficient in
preparation-mainly due to lack of baseline studies. Borrower performance was also deficient in
covenant compliance, most notably by the PCU's failure to seek "no objection" from the Bank for
substantial contract modifications.
The borrower displayed an overall satisfactory performance in project implementation: all
of the facilities planned were built and completed (except for the three hospitals that reached 90
percent completion by project closing), staffed (to a large degree), and are being supported from
budgetary funds. The training was provided, and the computers and information systems were
installed and are operational.
Assessment of Outcome: Overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. As noted
earlier, the project was partially successful in achieving its objectives, with hospitals, health
centers, and other facilities built and for the most part operating and providing care. These
undoubtedly increased access to health services of indigent people living in these areas - the most
important project goal. The training was provided, the computers and information systems were
installed and are operational. The prospect for sustainability of these activities varies - with the
overall rating of sustainability being uncertain - but there is reasonable evidence that the majority
of the development impact will likely be sustained, and therefore overall project outcome is
assessed as satisfactory.
Future Operation of Project Deliverables: Prior to the FBP completion, the Bank Team
met with MOH Officials to discuss future project operation - in particular the continuous
operation and expansion of the FHP deliverables. It was agreed that future operation of the FHP
would continue under the direction of the PCU, and - under the Second Health Project - would
comprise an extension and broadening of activities begun under the FBP. These include:
* Training of MOH staff will be continued (funded under the Second Health Project, which
became effective on January 31, 1995).
* The Health Information System will be strengthened and extended-also under the Second
Health Project. Technical assistance to MOH for the BHSM will be provided, and the next-
phase Core Health Resources Management System put into service.
* The hospitals, health centers, and other facilities constructed under the FHP will continue to
provide increased access to health services.
Key Lessons Learned
• Lack of an Independent Outside Auditor Reduced Project Success: During negotiations,
the Bank agreed to a GOT request that the project be audited by the State Controller's Office,
waiving the clause in the Loan Agreement for independent outside auditors. Audits carried
out by the Department of Treasury are not compatible with internationally accepted auditing
and accounting standards, and it is therefor fair to say that if there had been an independent
outside auditor, it is likely that problems such as construction cost overmuns would have been
brought to the attention of Government and Bank sooner and could have been corrected.
* A Strong Policy Dialogue, Linked to the Provision of Resources, Would be more
Effective than Resources Alone-A more effective approach to improving Turkey's health



- vii -
care system would be to tackle its systemic bottlenecks in conjunction with financing inputs
such as construction of new facilities or provision of MIS equipment.
*  MOH Ability to Provide Adequate Staff must be an Integral Part of a Project Involving
Construction of New Facilities: Attracting adequate staff to facilities in underserved areas
is difficult, but a satisfactory solution to this problem should have been identified and
initiated before construction of new facilities was started.
*  More Flexibility may have Benefited the FHP: While new lending instruments such as
APLs were not available at the time of THE FHP preparation, it seems evident that such
instruments can better deal with a fluid political and policy environment.
*  The FBIP would have Benefited Substantially from the Presence in the Resident Mission
(RM) of a Staff Member Dedicated to Support of Health Projects: While the FBP was
initially managed from the RM, after the first few years the project would have benefited
from having a dedicated staff member in the RM, especially to monitor operations and
procurement.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 3057-TU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background and Project Objectives
Background
1.   In the past two decades Turkey has made substantial economic progress, with per capita GNP
rising from US$1,940 in 1980 to US$3,160 in 1998 (see Table 1). However, the volatility and high
inflation that Turkey experienced over the same period dampened income growth and increased income
inequality. Over the same period, Turkey's population growth moderated to an annual rate of around 1.8
percent (1990-97), in large measure due to a decline in the total fertility rate. At the same time, the
proportion of population living in urban areas rose dramatically-from 44 percent in 1980 to 72 percent
in 1997. Among health indicators, infant mortality fell substantially, from 109 per thousand live births in
1980 to 42 in 1996. Despite this progress, as shown in Table 2, Turkey still fell below many nations at a
comparable level of development in a number of health indicators.
Table 1 - Selected Demographic and Health Indicators
Turkey and Comparable Countries
Turkey                    Lower & middle income countries
Europe & Central Asia
1980          1997           1980              1997
Population (million)         44            64
Urban population (%)         44             72            58                68
Population growth rate     1980-90       1990-97       1980-1990          1990-97
2.3           1.8            0.9               0.1
1980          1996           1980              1996
Fertility rate (births/woman)  4.3         2.6            2.5               1.8
Infant mortality (per 1000   109           42             41                24
live births)
1980          1998                             1997
GNP per capita (US$)        1,940         3,160           N/A              2,320
Source: World Development Report, 1998-99; World Bank Turkey Country Team



2                                                              Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
2.   As noted above, although there has been substantial progress in some health indicators, for others
Turkey still remains far behind OECD averages and falls behind some comparable lower-middle income
countries (Table 2). In particular, the high infant and maternal mortality rates - 45 per 1,000 live births,
and 183 per 100,000 live births respectively - are cause for concern. The data reflect higher-than-average
fertility, poor ante- and post-natal care, unsafe deliveries, and improper birth spacing. Malnutrition
among children is also a serious problem, particularly in rural areas and eastern Turkey. There are wide
disparities in economic and social development across regions, between urban and rural areas, and
between men and women. Infant mortality in some poor provinces of eastern Turkey is about double that
in most Western provinces.
Table 2 - Selected Health Indicators, Turkey and Comparable Countries
Indicator and   Turkey   Chile   Colombia   Mexico   Poland   Hungary   Malaysia   Tunisia
Source
Infant          45       13       30         31       15        10         11        30
mortality (per
1000 live
births, 1998)
(1)
Maternal        183     n/a       107        n/a      10        10         34        139
mortality (per
100,000 live
births, 1990-
96) (2)
GNP per        3,130    5,020    2,280      3,680    3,590     4,430      3,680     2,090
capita (US$,
1997) (2)
Sources: (1) World Health Report, 1999; (2) World Development Report, 1998-99
3.   Health Sector Reform-Prior to the 1980s, the GOT had attempted to enhance the quality and
accessibility of health care services to the non-urban population through institution of the Integrated
Health Service Scheme (IHSS). This was designed to expand coverage into rural areas through the
integration of basic health services. The plan was expected to improve conditions in the country within
fifteen years, but this objective was not achieved and the public health system remained inefficient in its
use of resources. MOH public health policy consisted mainly of building hospitals, and the high capital
investment in structures left inadequate funds for equipment, vehicles or major repairs, and provided slim
resources for outreach into rural areas. Salaries absorbed most of the operating budget, leading to
shortages of drugs, supplies and fuel, and a general decay of public health services. The resultant
situation was illustrated by the fact that less than 30% of Turkish children were fully immunized during
this time.
4.   The 1980s saw an expansion of private medical facilities and practitioners, but for a majority of the
population the public sector still played the major role in providing preventative and curative services.
The growing demand for cost-effective health care increased pressure on the public health system.
Finally, after more than two decades of relative neglect and underfunding, the Government began to
increase budget allocations to the sector as a result of the 1987 Basic Law on Health Services (considered
as the basis for a General Health Insurance Scheme). This law also extended MOH regulatory functions
over the sector. The MOH, however, lacked the managerial capability to deal effectively with these new
responsibilities. Therefore, in the late 1980s, establishment of a more equitable and efficient health
system-especially one that could deal with large regional disparities of access and quality-continued to
be a daunting challenge for the Turkish Government.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                   3
Project Scope and Objectives
5.   The First Health Project (FHP) was the first Bank experience in the HNP sector in Turkey and one
of the first Health Projects in the ECA region. In this context the FHP was the first stepping stone of
Bank-supported sector investments that eventually would be expanded by 1998 to a three-project
portfolio (First Health Project, Second Health Project, Primary Health Care Services Project) and a
deepening dialogue on sector modernization. The policy dialogue would not only include the public
sector but in addition to Social Security Institutions expand to the private insurance and service delivery
industry.
6.   The overall goal of the FBP was to begin to develop a more efficient and partly self-financing
public health system capable of providing higher quality services. While continuing the MOH policy of
collecting some user charges for curative services, charges for indigent patients would be waived. At the
same time the system was expected to deliver free preventive services for all. The FHP had three specific
objectives:
(i) Improve the health status of people in eight underserved provinces by extending geographic
access and improving the quality of services (see attached map);
(ii) Enhance the efficiency of service delivery and improve financial sustainability;
(iii) Strengthen the management capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH).
7.   Since the FHP was the Bank's first effort in Turkey in the health sector, there were expectations to
lay a foundation for further Bank work and to eventually initiate reform of the health sector. FHP
covered the entire public health systems in 8 of Turkey's 67 provinces (see map in Appendix E):
Diyabakir, Mardin, Mugla, Yozgat, Tozgat, Istanbul, Sivas and Ankara, and was implemented through
two main components:
(i) Reorganization and Strengthening of Provincial Health Services (initially US$134 million):
*    Construction of new facilities/upgrading of existing ones, strengthening of provincial
management, reorganization of referral procedures, and provision of equipment and vehicles.
- FHP envisioned new construction of about 500 health posts, 27 rural and 33 urban health
centers, 5 district hospitals, 3 public health laboratories, and 2 vehicle maintenance
workshops; there was also an ambitious program of refurbishing existing facilities.
*    Implementation of 15 health programs, targeted at maternal care, child care, control of
communicable diseases, and improved front-line curative care.
*    Redeployment and better utilization of staff, provision of in-service and induction training,
and provision of health education training for primary school teachers.
- In-service training to upgrade the skills of all categories of existing staff.
- Induction training to provide introductory and familiarization training to new staff .
- Involvement of school teachers intended to generate more active involvement of the
population in the health improvement process.
(ii) Institutional Development (US$12 million):
*    Health manpower development, through teacher training, curriculum revision, study tours,
and attendance at international seminars.
- It was intended to upgrade the skills of existing staff in all categories; provide
induction training for new or newly-assigned staff; and increase health awareness of
school teachers and community leaders.



4                                                                  Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
* Development of a Health Management Information System (MIS).
*     Strengthening of central MOH management and planning capabilities through studies and
research, and by developing a strong PCU.
8.   At the mid-term review (July 1994), approximately US$10.4 million was reallocated from civil
works to technical assistance, in line with a shift in project emphasis toward (i) identifying and
developing policy options to deal with institutional constraints; and (ii)-in the context of the Turkish
economic crisis and the ensuing government imposed austerity program (see below para. 19)-focusing
on health finance, increasing non-budgetary sources of revenue, and identifying means to increase system
efficiency.
Evaluation of Objectives
9.    The objectives were clear but in hindsight seem somewhat unrealistic. Objective 1 (improve the
health status of people in eight underserved provinces) was unrealistic in aiming to improve health status
in a relatively short period (71/2 years), considering the broad range of factors involved other than
availability of resources. Many of the necessary co-factors to achieving such an objective are clearly
outside the responsibility and influence of a Bank-financed investment program. It seems also unrealistic
to launch a program to build new facilities without taking account of the availability, turnover and
adequacy of staff to serve in the new facilities (discussed further in para. 13). In terms of importance to
the sector, the first objective was significant and straightforward considering that it was conventional by
development paradigms and service standards of the late 1980si/ to rely heavily on financing new inputs
(facilities) as a means to enhance service availability and to improve quality and impact health status.
Under this paradigm, it was assumed that the provision of additional inputs would automatically trigger
health gains. However, viewed from the present perspective, the project paid too little attention to
addressing the limiting factors of the many systemic and institutional bottlenecks in the system.2/
10.  Objective 2 (stimulating reform of the health care system) was relevant and realistic at the time of
project inception. However, Parliament ultimately proved unwilling to accept any significant system
reforms. In general, this is explained by the fact that Turkish governments during the implementation
period of the FHP were relatively weak, caused by fragile and ever-changing coalition arrangements.
Consequently, the environment was not conducive to passage of complex reform legislation in which
there were strong vested interests, and where there would inevitably be winners and losers.
11. Objective 3 (strengthening MOH management capacity) was realistic and was critical to better
system performance. In terms of design, the FHP was straightforward and not perceived as risky at the
time of project preparation and appraisal.3/ It is now, ex post, evident that the risks of cost overruns,
inadequate staffing, and lack of counterpart funding were underestimated. The project presented
monitorable, and predominantly quantitative, performance indicators, although the lack of baseline
indicators limited the extent to which these could be useful in monitoring project progress and evaluating
achievement of development objectives during the course of implementation.
12. Based on the information available at the time of preparation of this report, the full degree to which
the Borrower contributed to project identification could not be determined. Project identification
I Although project preparation started in late 1986, FHP became effective in May, 1990. Most delay was due to
changing perceptions on the part of the various governments concerning which provinces to include.
2Viewed from the present perspective, one could also question whether additional hospital beds were needed.
While in the late 1980s the eight FHP provinces had fewer beds per capita than other regions, the utilization and
occupancy rate of Turkish hospitals is low-55% nationally in 1996-so it is reasonable to ask whether greater
emphasis could have been placed on better utilization of existing facilities or rather to support outreach and
ambulatory services.
3 The SAR identified 3 principal risks: (i) lirnited MOH capacity; (ii) construction of a large number of facilities
scattered in rural areas; and (iii) limnited staff possessing specialized infornation systems skills.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                             5
occurred in the late 1 980s, and some participants who could be located and interviewed asserted that there
was considerable borrower input, while others stated that there was not.
B.   Achievement of Objectives
13.  It is judged that overall, the project was partially successful in achieving its objectives: Regarding
the first objective, improving the health status of people in underserved provinces by extending access
and improving services, the project was partially successful:
* Two hospitals, about 35 health centers, 98 health posts, and 2 training centers were completed
in the eight provinces. These facilities undoubtedly increased access to health services of indigent
people living in these areas.4 However, the effectiveness of the building program was reduced by
difficulties encountered in staffing the new facilities. For example, of the total of 35 health centers
built under the FHP, 5 were not open and operational at the time of the ICR mission in March,
1999, due to staffing shortages. In Yozgat province-visited during the ICR mission-2 out of 4
health centers and 10 out of 18 health posts constructed under the FHP were not open, reportedly
due to lack of staff,5 and others were understaffed.6
-     Difficulty in recruiting staff was recognized as a problem in the late 1980s and
throughout the duration of the FHP.7 At first, the GOT maintained a program of compulsory
rural service for all medical graduates, but this social service program was terminated in
mid-I 995. Medical staff were reluctant to work in rural areas because of a lack of incentives
(e.g., insufficient pay differential - same salary is paid irrespective of service location and
hardship conditions) and because of the lack of schools and social and cultural amenities
found in urban areas. In addition, the social service program was hampered by the fact that
the proportion of female medical graduates is sharply increasing - but female doctors cannot
be sent to remote rural areas due to safety concerns.
-     The hospital construction program encountered major roadblocks, including
insufficient counterpart funding and cost oven-uns for civil works of around 180%. One
consequence of this was that by March, 1999, construction of only 2 of the planned 5
hospitals was fully completed.8 Box 1 below reviews factors contributing to these cost
increases, while Appendix B provides greater detail.9
*    Numerous facilities were renovated: Over 300 health centers and posts, 21 hospitals, and
training facilities were upgraded, with many receiving new equipment and vehicles used for
outreach programs.
*     More than 13,000 MOH staff were provided with in-service training to provide background
and orientation to new staff (adaptation training) or upgrade existing skills (development training);
training materials were developed; and training teams (including evaluators) were established in
4It was not possible to assess the extent to which access was enhanced because no baseline data were collected prior
to project implementation. The lack of baseline data was characteristic of many health sector projects of this era.
5 It was reported that some health posts were vacant for only a few weeks, while others were vacant for 4-8 months.
6 Staffing difficulties were exacerbated-to an extent that could not have been foreseen-by the deteriorating
security situation in eastern Turkey (see below, para 20).
7 For example, a March, 1996 Aide Memoire addressed the issue, finding adequate numbers of GPs, nurses, and
mid-wives, but a shortage of specialists. However, a July, 1996, Aide Memoire called for a Policy Note on the
difficulty of rural staffing.
8The other 3 hospitals were in an advanced stage of construction-around 90%--but their opening dates were
uncertain. It should be noted that of the US$154.1 million for civil works, US$9.9 million was provided by IBRD
and the balance by the GOT.
9 One consequence of the extended delay in completion of the 3 hospitals is that the final payment on medical
equipment for these hospitals cannot be made because the equipment cannot be "installed and tested." This has
proved troublesome, as the equipment has been stored in Customs for an extended period and the vendors have
repeatedly sought payment.



6                                                                   Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
each of the eight provinces; foreign study tours werz provided to more than 100 staff, as well as 26
fellowships in foreign institutions
- It should be noted that it is difficult to determine the actual impact of the training, or to
what degree it triggered service quality improvements, since no evaluation was carried out
until 1995. Training, although considered as beneficial by MOH staff, was generally
regarded in addition to its educational value as a desirable benefit to reward people serving
in rural areas.
Box 1
Factors Contributing to Cost Increasesfor Civil Works
* Over the course of the construction period there were numerous design changes and ex-post
upgrades.*
.  Construction of civil works was carried out via overly complex, and at the same time poorly-
planned management procedures, whereby change orders were approved by MOH, SPO, and
Treasury with insufficient concern for the cost implications.
.  The PCU did not follow provisions of the Loan Agreement stipulating that a "no objection" must
be obtained from the Bank for material modifications of a contract which would increase the cost
by 15% or more of the original contract amount.**
.  The Bank seemed to have exercised insufficient surveillance during the supervision process to
assure that the Loan Agreement was being followed as far as contract changes were concerned.
*  The situation was exacerbated due to the fact that neither Borrower nor Bank had the benefit of
relying on assessments of independent project auditing that would follow intemationally accepted
auditing and accounting standards. (The audit issue is discussed in detail in Section G)
*Some changes seemed to be well-justified, e.g., bringing afacility into compliance with the latest earthquake
standards, while others seemed to reflect poor planning or externalpolitical influence.
**"n one instance in which the Bank did provide a "no objection "-the expansion of the hospital in Fetiye from 100
to 200 beds-the documentation makes clear the understanding that the GOT would pay for all increased costs.
14.  Regarding the second objective - enhancing the efficiency of service delivery and improving
financing prospects - less progress seems to have been made:
* A strong effort was made under the FHP to develop policy analysis and options in support of health
reform. A National Health Congress was held in 1993 as part of an effort to achieve consensus on
reform, a series of technical and policy studies were performed (See Table 7 in the Statistical Tables),
and a number of legislative proposals drafted. However, most draft laws were never introduced into
Parliament and the one that reach the Parliament floor (Draft Law on Personal Health Insurance) was
not considered by the legislature. In general, the political environment was not favorable for any
reformist legislation-in part because of opposition from the Medical Association and other vested
interest groups-and little progress was achieved in this area. (Additional discussion of the uncertain
political environment is presented below in para 19)
15.   Significant progress was made on the third objective - strengthening MOH management capacity:
* An overall Health Information Systems Strategy was formulated, including a nationwide Basic
Health Statistics Module, which became operational in September, 1998. This statistical system is
networked among all provincial health directorates and the central MOH. It was based on a major
rationalization of health statistics reporting forms. Thousands of staff were training in conjunction
with the statistical system. A formal systems analysis was also performed for the MOH financial,
human, material and pharmaceutical resource management requirements. This analysis, together with
the health statistics system, provides the foundation for the MOH Core Health Resource Management



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                  7
System currently being finalized under the Second Health Project. These systems are enabling MOH
to make better-informed decisions on resource allocation.'0
-   The information system also provided thefoundationforfuture health system reform, by
providing, MOH line departments, provincial health directorates, individual hospitals and other
health service units with the information they need to better track outcomes and manage available
resources-including financial resources.
* A one-month course in management techniques was provided to 112 individuals from the central
MOH and 78 staff from provincial offices; 2 workshops were held for senior managers.
* A Human Resources Department was established in MOH, improving this function (none had
existed earlier). This unit participated with the PCU in conducting a study of health personnel
attitudes, and workload indicators, which helped improve the efficiency of manpower utilization.
* However, a 1994 Swedish study on restructuring the MOH was not implemented.
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.  V1VDP Management Service Agreement -- Early in the implementation of the project, it was
determined by the project team that MOH procurement procedures might be cumbersome for the PCU to
utilize, and might restrict its ability to hire and contract qualified foreign consultants. There were also
considerable delays in obtaining necessary funds from the Special Account to carry out project activities
due to a complex system of payment approvals required by the MOH. Consequently, the FBP engaged
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), specifically the UN Project Service Facility
(UNOPS), as a procurement agent and management service provider for all Bank health projects in
Turkey. The purpose of this arrangement - performed by UNOPS for a fee of 5 percent of the contract
amount - was to expedite the flow of funds and permit the PCU to focus on management and
implementation of the projects, a goal that was generally realized. Under the agreement, the PCU was
responsible for preparation of tender documents and implementation of the project, but the overview of
the procurement process to ensure transparency and the direct requests for project funds (through the use
of Blanket Withdrawal Applications) were handled by UNDP/OPS. For specific procurement actions,
IJNDP received all required documentation from the PCU and then cleared the disbursement with the
New York headquarters, which provided funds by drawing down the Bank loan to the MOH-thereby
avoiding lengthy delays within MOH. This was considered to be a simpler, more efficient way to
identify, hire and retain consultants.
The Management Service Agreement (MSA) worked effectively for the FLP in that it achieved what was
intended: it facilitated access to project funds and streamlined procurement processes. While it was not in
the UNDP Terms of Reference to provide formal procurement training to the PCU, it had been hoped that
one outcome of the agreement would be the informal transfer of procurement knowledge, which would
bolster internal PCU procurement capabilities. However, in general this knowledge transfer did not take
place, and as a result the PCU's procurement capability remained weak.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
17.  Delay in Counterpart Funding: During the last few years of project implementation, the GOT
delayed adequate funding to complete three hospitals (estimated to be approximately 90% finished by the
time of project completion - the government reassured the Bank that these civil works in fact could be
completed within months of project closing). This substantially impacted the final assessment of project
performance in this regard, and also caused penalties and interest to be assessed by building contractors,
in addition to increasing overruns.
10 For example, data on the actual incidence of specific diseases by province permitted better allocation of
resources-such as pharmaceuticals-to combat these diseases. Before installing the systemn, MOH used
projections, which were much less accurate.



8                                                              Turkey. ICR - First Health Project
18.  Macroeconomic Instability: There was substantial macroeconomic instability, -including the
imposition of austerity measures- during the implementation of the FHP, which hindered project
implementation and made it more difficult for GOT to provide counterpart funding.. This included an
average inflation rate (1992 to 1998) of 79.6% (GDP deflator), i.e., with 1991=100, the price index in
1998 reached 5,915.11 Turkey experienced also a severe currency crisis (sudden devaluation) in early
1994, in large measure caused by sizeable fiscal deficits, which continued, doubling to 8.8 percent of
GDP in 1996 and equaling around 10 percent in 1997.
19.  Uncertain Political Environment: During most of the implementation period of the FLP, there was
substantial political turbulence, with frequent change of governments.'2 Fragile governing coalitions
were led by minority parties, a situation that was detrimental for public policy reform. Consequently, in
this uncertain environment, bureaucratic caution and outmoded controls increased. There were also
numerous policy and personnel changes, as well as periods of inaction and delay (e.g., the delay in
starting project activity after effectiveness, the requirements for a 1-year extension of the closing date
and the need for requesting an extension of the grace period.). As noted earlier, this political turmoil and
uncertainty reduced the possibility of health system reform.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
20. Inconsistent Performance of the PCU.: At project inception, a strong Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) was established to compensate for the lack of sufficient managerial, technical and administrative
capacity in the MOH. " The early intention was to gradually integrate the strengths of the PCU into the
MOH. While this was partially accomplished (see Figure 1), after 1996, the PCU's relations with the
MOH deteriorated (due to a change in government and political affiliations), and the PCU became
increasingly institutionally de-linked from the MOH - but with considerable funding and staff capabilities
- a fact that was resented by the MOH management and certain technical departments. A previously
effective working relationship with the Ministry started to deteriorate. The rivalry stemmed from the
PCU's ability to make decisions and move quickly, its access to funds, and much higher fees for some
PCU consultants - in some case 25 times higher than the MOH's civil servant salaries. This failure to
follow a politically-sensitive implementation strategy and to better integrate certain functions into the
MOH may have ultimately been a significant factor hindering project progress.
" Turkey Country Assistance Strategy, August, 1997, Annex 7. Data for 1997 and 1998 are estimates.
12 The FHP functioned under 9 governments, 9 Health Ministers, and 6 Undersecretaries.
The PCU started with a high concentration of consultants, and then gradually increased the number of MOH staff.
But then the number of consultants increased again, so that by March, 1999, there were 60 consultants out of a total
staff of 80.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                         9
Figure 1
Stages of PCU-MOH Relationship
1990-92
building
up strong                                         MOH
1993-96
good PCU-
MOH                       PCiU
cooperation                                      MOHI
1997-99
PCU-MOH             i'CU
rivalry             PC,
MOH
D.   Project Sustainability
21.  Overall prospects of project sustainability is assesed as uneven:
For the part of the project that attempted to extend access and improve services,
sustainability is likely, since - for those facilities that were completed and staffed - the MOH has
incorporated these into its system and has supported operating costs. These facilities are actively
providing care to the community. However, the MOH has not yet provided budgetary support for
in-service training to MOH staff, although it intends to do so."/
*    For stimulating reform of the heath care system, sustainability is unlikely since Parliament
has not enacted any of the draft laws developed under the project, and prospects for action in the
near future remain uncertain.is Despite this rather uncertain outlook it is important to mention that
this project supported institutional reform amid an often unfavorable political environrnent. In the
long run, some of these first steps - namely ventilating reform ideas for the first time and preparing
the groundwork for institutional change- may bear fruit.
*    For strengthening the management capacity of the MOH, sustainability is judged as likely
Management training is continuing; as noted earlier, the Basic Health Statistics Module
information system is operational, and is being used by MOH staff in all parts of the country (the
14 Both technical and management training are continuing, with funding being provided by the Second Health
Project.
15 As noted earlier, Parliament has proved unwilling to accept significant reforms. This is largely explained by the
fact that the political environment was not conducive to passage of comnplex reform legislation in which there were
strong vested interests, and where there would inevitably be winners and losers.



10                                                          Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
impact at the provincial level has been substantial). The system, developed under the FHP as noted
earlier, is operated by MOH data processing staff, with the assistance of the PCU.
E.   Bank Performance
22.  Overall Bank performance during the FHP implementaton period is also assessed as uneven: In the
identification phase of FBP, Bank perfornance can be deemed deficient in retrospect:
* It seems that insufficient attention was given to the adequacy of staffing for the facilities
constructed-a problem that was recognized in the late 1980s. Consequently, as noted in para. 13,
some facilities built under FHP were not operating'6 due to lack of staff, and others are
understaffed'7
*  No baseline indicators were developed so that the project's effectiveness in extending access and
improving services and hence the full accomplishment of development objectives could not be
evaluated satisfactorily. It seems from the available records that no formal evaluation of the project
was performed until 1995.
In preparation and appraisal, Bank performance seemed satisfactory:
*    The Bank correctly assessed the MOH as having a weak capacity to implement a project
such as the FBP and attempted to introduce countermeasures to mitigate this risk.
*    Consequently, a strong PCU was established, with substantial technical capabilities which
initially contributed to project progress, but in the end turned out to be a mixed blessing as
described earlier.
To bolster procurement, UNDP/UNOPS was retained as a procurement agent, although the
benefits to the FHP were not as substantial as had been hoped
In the implementation phase, Bank performance was deficient.
MThe Bank exercised insufficient surveillance to assure full compliance with the stipulations
of the Loan Agreement. The PCU at times did not follow provisions of the Loan Agreement
mandating a "no objection" for modifications which would increase contract cost by 15% or more
of the original contract amount. (Additional detail is provided in Appendix B) This was a critical
factor in the cost overruns in hospital construction.
*    The Bank did not foresee the development of a situation in which the PCU gradually became
a rival to the MOH - and did not work effectively with the Ministry. While it is clear that much of
this was beyond the direct control of the Bank - it seems that this problem was diagnosed too late
- the negative fallout of this development became detrimental to project progress.
*    As judged from retrospect, Bank supervisory reporting seems often overly optimistic - even
at times when PCU-MOH relations began to become strained, counterpart funding was lagging,
and construction progress was slow (see Figure 2). A lack of transparency and frankness in PCU
reporting, including tightly controlled mission schedules and information flow, was probably a
factor in this. The absence of useful and independent auditing information (discussed earlier)
compounded the ineffectiveness of supervision. Frequent turnover of Task Managers added to
deficiencies in supervision.
*    The environment in which the FLP was functioning was changing quickly (e.g.,
deteriorating security situation, urban-rural population migration), and the FHP seems to have
failed to be a valid instrument and to have sufficient flexibility to meet these unforeseen needs.
6 During the March, 1999, ICR mission.
17 This is discussed further in the "lesson learned" below which argues for greater flexibility during implementation.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                       11
Box 2 -Supervision Ratings--1990-98                  06/30190
* 12/19190
0816/91
Rating Category                             0312112/91
*313192
Counterpart                                                        M6/30/92
funding            Summary IP   Summary DO   E2/18/93
A                                                    M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U8/24/93
O   n   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M /16/94
036130/94
j jY , , i - Wi-'' { "Jt''', ' '"''' , Xi ' , i.75wt' ''''' '.  '  .;C *1/31/96
3                                     -                                     <6128196
* 6/27/97
4                                     _0°2112/98
_39/16/98
f  1990 -  1998  }      {1990 -4 1998 }      [1990 -* 1998)
Where: I =Highly Satisfactory/No Significant Problems
2=Satisfactory/Moderate Problems
3=Unsatisfactory/Major Problems
4=Highly Unsatisfactory/Major Problems ... not being adequately addressed
F.   Borrower Performance
23. Borrower performance seems to have been deficient in the preparation phase-mainly because of
the lack of baseline studies by which project progress could have been assessed. Borrower performance
was also deficient in covenant compliance, most notably by the PCU's failure to seek "no objection" from
the Bank for substantial contract modifications. The borrower also failed to comply with the covenant
requiring that the FBP be supported on a continuous basis with overall management by a Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC)-consisting of the Undersecretary of MOH and the relevant Directors
General. The PCC was actually formed and did meet several times in an effort to overcome problems
between the PCU and line MOH departments, but was then ultimately discontinued. The borrower also
failed to comply completely or in a timely manner with several other covenants (see Table 8).
24.  The borrower displayed an overall satisfactory performance in project implementation: all of the
facilities planned were built and completed (except for the three hospitals that reached 90 percent
completion by project closing), staffed (to a large degree), and are being supported from budgetary funds.
The training was provided, and the computers and information systems were installed and are operational.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
25. Overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. As noted earlier, the project was partially
successful in achieving its objectives, with hospitals, health centers, and other facilities built and for the
most part operating and providing care. These undoubtedly increased access to health services of indigent
people living in these areas, depending on MOH service-the most important project goal. The training
was provided, the computers and information systems were installed and are operational. The prospect
for sustainability of these activities varies-with the overall rating of sustainability being uncertain-but
there is fair evidence that the majority of the development impact will likely be sustained, and therefore
overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory.



12                                                          Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
H.  Future Operation of Project Deliverables
26.  Prior to FHP completion, the Bank held conversations with the MOH to discuss future operation of
the project - in particular the continuous operation and expansion of FHP deliverables. It was agreed that
future operation of the FHP would continue under the direction of the PCU, and-under the Second
Health Project-would essentially comprise an extension and broadening of activities begun under FHP.
These include:
*    Training of MOH staff will be continued (funded under the Second Health Project, which became
effective on January 31, 1995).
*    The Health Information System will be strengthened and extended-also under the Second Health
Project. The Core Health Resources Management System and the Curative Services Monitoring System
will be put into service. Hospital Resource Management Systems will be deployed in approximately 40
hospitals (implementing, among other things, the new Unified Chart of Accounts). Under the Primary
Health Care Service Project, a Primary Health Care Service Information System will be developed and
piloted in a few dozen primary health care facilities in two provinces. All of the various health
information systems will be linked, as appropriate, among sites, across "sub-sectors" and geographically.
e    The hospitals, health centers, and other facilities constructed under the FBP will continue to
provide increased access to health services.
*    In the Second Health Project-which is currently being restructured-the Bank will have the
chance to address pending issues such as staffing, sustainability, and cost control with the considerable
benefit of lessons learned during the FLP.
G.  Key Lessons Learned
-    Lack of an Independent Outside Auditor Reduced Project Success-During negotiations for the
FHP, the Bank agreed to a GOT request that the project be audited by the State Controller's Office,
waiving the clause in the Loan Agreement. 18/ This is the situation for all loans in Turkey for which the
govermnent is the borrower, and, according to the government, is required under Turkish law. It has been
stated earlier that audits carried out by the auditing department of the Treasury are not compatible with
internationally accepted auditing and accounting standards. In fact these audits are more of an internal
accounting supervision but in general do not encompass issues of cost-effectiveness, legal compliance,
management practices, etc. It is therefor fair to say that if there had been an independent outside auditor,
it is most likely that implementation problems such as the cost overruns on hospital construction would
have been brought attention of Government and Bank sooner and could have been corrected.
-    A Strong Policy Dialogue, Linked to the Provision of Resources, Would be more Effective than the
Resources Alone-A more effective approach to improving Turkey's health care system would be to
tackle some of its systemic and institutional bottlenecks in conjunction with financing inputs - such as the
construction of new facilities or the provision of medical or MIS equipment. In this way, funding for new
resources could have been conditioned and effectively used as a lever to change certain institutional and
managerial practices in an attempt to improve the efficiency and quality of the entire system.
-    MOH Ability to Provide Adequate Staff must be an Integral Part of a Project Involving
Construction of New Facilities-Attracting adequate staff to facilities in underserved areas is difficult, but
a satisfactory solution to this problem should have been identified and initiated before construction of
new facilities is started.
-    More Flexibility may have benefited the FHP-While the new lending instruments such as APLs
were not available at the time of the preparation of the FHP, it seems evident that such instruments have
the potential to better deal with a fluid political environment that triggers many changes of policy and
18 The GOT considers that these are "external" auditors.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                   13
direction. While the overall development objectives of the project may stay valid over the course of
implementation, the means and ground rules to achieve project goals must be adapted as the project
progresses. This would have enabled management to adapt to changes such as population migration from
rural areas to cities, and away from eastern Turkey (due to the security situation).
-    The FHP would have Benefited Substantially from the Continuing Presence in the Resident Mission
(RM) of a Staff Member Dedicated to Support of Health Projects-Especially in Monitoring Operations
and Procurement-While the project was initially managed from the Resident Mission for the first few
years after effectiveness, this arrangement was then not continued. Later project efficiency and
effectiveness would have been enhanced if there had been a member of the RM staff dedicated to support
of health projects.



14                                                                   Turkey: ICR - First Health Project



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                       15
STATISTICAL TABLES



16                                                                       Turkey: ICR-- First Health Project



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                                17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      £2              £2               02                Ex
Sector Policies                     £               O                EI                0
Financial Objectives                a               o                o                 Ix
Institutional Development           O3              1                0                 0
Physical Objectives                 O3              X                0                 O
Poverty Reduction                   O2              O                O                 El]
Gender Issues                       0               0                0                 X3
Other Social Objectives             O3              Xi               0                 0
Enviromnental Objectives            O0                               0                 x i
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development
Other (specify)
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv            Likely                                             Uncertain
0                        C                         X
Hihlv
C. Bank Perfonnance                 satisfactorv             Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                                                                          x
Preparation Assistance                                        x
Appraisal                                                     x
Supervision                                                                             x
Hilwy
D. Borrower Performance             satisfacton              Satisfactor                Deficient
Preparation                                                                             x
Inplementation                                               x
Covenant Compliance                                                                     x
Operation (if applicable)                                    x
Hig&l                                              Hli
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactorv   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
0              cm                C                 0



18                                                                Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose              Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
I.Turkey Health 2       Expand Primary Health    1993                    Ongoing (Closing date is
Care Facilities into the                         12/31/2001).
Eastern Provinces o
Turkey
2. Primnary Health Care  Encourage the policy    1996                    Ongoing (Closing date is
dialogue and training to                         11/30/2000).
facilitate the certification
of the family practitioner
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Sumunary)        05/86
Preparation                                        11/87                01/15/88
Appraisal                                          04/88                06/27/88
Negotiations                                       01/89                03/22/89
Board Presentation                                 03/89                05/11/89
Signing                                            06/89                08/16/90
Effectiveness                                      08/89                10/17/90
Project Comnpletion                                04/98                04/30/99
Loan Closing                                       12/97                12/31/98



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                           19
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY      FY     FY     FY      FY      FY      FY       FY      FY     FY    Total
1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    1996    1997    1998   1999
Appraisal estimate     12.0   14.0  16.50  15.50   8.70    5.00    2.80       .50                     75
(1988)
Revised estimates              .60    .50   5.80   8.80   18.50   14.00    18.80   8.00               75
(1996)
Actual                         .62    .44   5.80   8.44    12.08   16.28    4.17   18.50  5.3419  71.15
Actual Cumulative                     1.06   6.86    15.3   27.38   43.66   47.83   66.33  71.15
Actual as % of         N/A    4%       3%    37%    97%    242%    581%    834%    N/A    N/A
Appraisal
Final Disbursement - 06/11/1999
19
19Actual amount as of 3/30/99. This will be revised for the final report.



20                                                                Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Area          Projected               Action                       Implementation Record
Timing
A. Improve       By December   1. 9 million people in 8 provinces  It could not be determined, at project close,
health status of    1998        receive effective medical coverage  if the provision of health posts, health
underprivileged                 by end 1998.                    centers and two hospitals in regionally
populations (10%                                                under served areas constituted "effective
of the total                                                    medical coverage," particularly in rural
population) in                                                  areas where adequate staffmg was a major
under-served                                                    constraint. However, the utilization of the
areas                                                           centers which are operational to implement
preventive services has been successful.
1995-1998     2. 130 primary health care centers  A total of 163 primary health care centers
and 5 hospitals are constructed.  and two of the five hospitals planned had
been completed at project close.
B. Enhance                       1. 1,500 staff in the Ministry of  Between 1992 and 1996 a total of 108
efficiency in                   Health receive in-service training    MOH personnel went on study tours., 17
service delivery                and 100 staff go on study tours  were awarded scholarships for
and improve the                 from 1991 to 1999.              concentrated studies in health abroad and
financing                                                       310 attended English Language training.
prospects for the
sector
2. Studies on health financing are   The study was completed in March 1996
completed by 1996.             by the Australian Health Insurance
Conmmission
C. Strengthen the               1. MOH is reorganized towards   Not achieved due to resistance towards
management and                  decentralization by 1997.       restructuring and change and difficulties in
institution                                                     placing the draft legislation on the
building capacity                                               Parliament's agenda.
of the Ministry of
Health.
2. Management development      4-week Modular Management training was
programs are launched by 1996.    delivered to 200 participants and 2
weekend seminars were conducted for 23
top level managers. Interpersonal Skills
Development training was conducted for
400 participants. Training occurred
between June 1996 and December 1997



Turkey: *CR - First Health Project                                                           21
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose as defined at         Status        Impact of Study
appraisaVredefined
Health Services    To determine how, where and    Completed    It was a useful tool for those working on
Utilization        how frequently (and at what                 the issue, universities, epidemiologists,
cost) people access health care            health economists and all of the health
services in Turkey                         sector professions, social insurance
June 1992-May                                                  institution and Org. of National Health
1993
Financing Flow of   To determine the total       Completed     Served to identify the linkage between
Health Sector in    expenditure in the health sector,          Health Services and Social Insurance.
1993               with a detailed focus on the
public health sector.
July19 - Dec.
1994
Income Asset       Examination of asset ownership   Completed    Provided the financial details for the GHI
Ownership Study    of household related income                 systems prenmium indicators.
1994-Dec. 1994
Health Financing    To review and suggest updates    Completed    Led to the development of the WB
Policy Options     for: financing system, health               Turkey Social Insurance project.
policy options and their imnpact
Dec. 1994-March    on the public; transition plan to
1996               the preferred option; examining
the role of private insurance
Cost Survey of     Evaluated the cost of health care  Completed  Spurred the implementation of the health
Health Services    services at public hospitals and            survey forms and the revision of the
other health institutions in               financial statements used in the hospitals.
Dec. 1992-Oct. 1994  Turkey.
Health Enterprise   To prepare the foundation for  Comipleted    A simulation software program was
Model Research     the Health Infornation System               prepared for use in the test sites in Ankara
and Eskisehir in accordance to the
Oct. 1994-Dec. 1998                                            operational "environment" identified.
The study also enabled the establishment
of new operational rules for hospital3.
These rules are defined in the "Draft Law
for Hospitals and Health Enterprises"
prepared by the Ministry.. Parliament
rejected the proposal in 1995.
Health             A detailed health sector      Completed    Encouraged the compilation of data now
Expenditures and    financing and expenditures                 comprised in the Turkey Health
Financing Study    analysis.                                   Expenditures and Financing review books
published every year by the MOH.
July 1992-June 1998



22                                                                Turkey: ICR- First Health Project
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)                  Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Source                 Local costs   Foreign       Total         Local costs   Foreign        Total
(GOV)         costs (IBRD)                (GOV)20       costs (lBRD)
Civil Works                43.6           9.3          52.9          131.1          9.9         141
Equipment                   10.8         43.3          54.1           3.2           33.4       36.6
Furniture                   11.6                        11.6          0.8            0          0.8
Vehicles                    4.0           9.4           13.4          1.1           4.3         5.4
Technical Asst.                           4.8           4.8                        21.07       21.07
Fellowships, Trg. Mat.      1.1           7.6           8.7           0.5           1.6         2.1
Monitoring & Sup            0.6                         0.6           0.7           0.8         1.5
ProjectPrepFacility                       0.6           0.6           0.01          0.1        0.11
Total                      71.7          75.0          146.7        137.41         71.15      208.58
20 Please note that in the Borrower's Contribution, a different total expenditures was presented. This could not be
reconciled with the data in Table 7, which were obtained earlier from the Government.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                          23
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Covenant Type   Present    Original     Revised     Description of covenant     Comments
Section                    Status*   Fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Section      Flow & util of   CDB      11/90       --           The Borrower shall open
2.02(b)       funds                                             and maintain in dollars a
special account in its
Central Bank.
Section      Implementation  C         --          --           The Borrower shall carry
3.01(b):                                                        out the Project in
accordance with the
Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Schedule     Management    NC          11/90       --           Overall Project          This was initially
5.A. I.      aspects                                            Management shall be      the case, but the
assigned to the Project  committee was not
Coordination Committee    effective and is not
(PCC).                   currently active.
Schedule     Management    C           12/97        12/98       MOH shall insure that the
5.A.2.        aspects                                           Fellowships Selection
Commnittee, the
Management Information
System Steering
Committee and the
Training Advisory Comm.
shall each be established
and maintained until the
completion of the project
and related activities.
Schedule     Imnplementation  C        11/90       --           The general responsibility
5.B.1                                                           for project implementation
shall be assigned to the
Project Coordination Unit
(PCU).
5.B.2.       Management    C           12/90       --           In each province of the
aspects                                           Project area there shall be
established a full-time
provincial team, headed by
a coordinator, who shall
report to the PCU.
Schedule     Management    CD          12/90        12/91       The Borrower shall ensure  Implementation of
5.C.a         aspects                                          the acquisition of all sites   the construction of
required for construction    Fettihye and
works under the Project.    Hayamana hospitals
suffered delays due
to problems building
on the land
provided.
5.C.b.       Management    CP          12/97        12/98       The Borrower shall       The PCU was
aspects                                           maintain until the Closing   operational, but
Date the PCC and the PCU   inadequately staffed



24                                                                    Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
Agreement   Covenant Type   Present    Original         Revised      Description of covenant       CoiP w ents
Section                      Status*   Fulfillnent   fulffllment
date         date
and all other institutional  i the procurement
arrangements stated in this  and accounting
Schedule forthe purposes   departeents.r
of Project ndplementation.  PCC was not
functional at project
close.
Schedule      Management       NC         12/3111991   12/31/1998   The Borrower shall         Studies were
5.C.(c)       aspects                                               provide to the Bank the    requested but not
finding and                supplied to the Bank
recommendations of the     mission.
studies undertaken under
the Project and exchange
views with the Bank on the
implementation of such
recommendationst .
Schedule 5.C   Management      C          11/90        --           The Borrower shall ensure
(d)           aspects                                               that the health colleges
0                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~referred to in Part A(1) of
ll                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the Project will bel
..                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adequately staffed.
|Schedule 5.C   Management      C---                                 The Borrower shall ensure
l(e)           aspects                                               that no less than two-
-thirds of fellowships
provided under the Project
will be awarded to health
personnel directly involved
in Project hIplementation.
Schedule 5.D   Flow & util of   NC       10/91         --           The Borrower shall ensure   Funding estimates
(a)           funds                                                 the preparation, not later    and procurement
than three months before    plans were not done
the beginning of each fiscal  in a timely manner.
year, of estimates of the
funding requirements for
the Project during such
fiscal year.
Schedule 5.D   Flow & util of   CP       07/91         --           The Borrower shall ensure   The availability of
(b)           funds                                                 the allocation, as required    Counterpart
under Section 3.01 of this   Funding remained
Agreement, of resources    an issue throughout
sufficient to meet such   the project and was
requirements.              particularly crucial
at project close.
Schedule 5.E   Monitoring &    C         06/98         06/99        PCU shall submit serni-
(a)           report.                                               annual progress reports on
Project Implementation.
Schedule 5.E   Monitoring &    CP        --            --           The borrower shall ensure   In progress.
(b)           report.                                               the completion of the



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                              25
Agreement   Covenant Type   Present    Original       Revised      Description of covenant      Comments
Section                     Status*   Fulfillment   fulfillment
date         date
Project Completion Report.
Section       Accounts/audit   CP                                 The borrower shall         Accounts/records
4.01(a)                                                           maintain records and       were maintained,
accounts for the Project in   but not in
accordance with sound     accordance to
accounting practices.     generally accepted
accounting
practices.
Section       Accounts/audit   C        --           --           The Borrower shall have    Accounts were
4.01(b)(i)                                                         all Project accounts audited  audited by Gov.
by independent auditors   Treasury auditors;
acceptable to the Bank.   an arrangement that
was approved by the
Bank.
Section 4.01    Accounts/audit   CP     06/92         --          The borrower shall furnish   Some Audit Reports
(b)(ii)                                                           to the Bank a copy of the    were furnished 8 to
audit report, no later than 6  9 months after the
months after the end of   end of each year.
each year.
Section 4.01    Accounts/audit   C      --            --           The Borrower shall furnish
(b)(iii)                                                          the Bank such other
information concerning
said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.01   Accounts/audit   C                                  For all SOE expenditures
(C)(i)                                                             the Borrower shall
maintain, in accordance
with para (a), records and
accounts reflecting such
expenditures.
Section       Accounts/audit   C        06/99         06/2000     For all SOE expenditures,
4.01(c)(ii)                                                        the Borrower shall retain,
until at least one year after
the Bank has received the
audit following the Project
closing date, all records,
evidencing such
expenditures.
Section       Accounts/audit   C        --           --           For all SOE expenditures
4.01(C)(iii)                                                       the Borrower shall enable
the Bank's representatives
to examine such records.



26                                                                Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
Agreement   Covenant Type   Present    Original     Revised     Description of covenant     Conmuents
Section                    Status*   Fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Section      Accounts/audit   C        --          --           For all SOE expenditures,
4.01(C)(iv)                                                     the Borrower shall ensure
that such records and
accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to
in para (b) of this section
and that the audit report
clearly states the opinion
that the SOE and records
support the related
withdrawals.
* C = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not corplied with
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Description and comment on lack of compliance
All relevant OM statements have been complied with.
Table 10: Bank Resources--Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle                   Weeks                          US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal                          120.1                            305.0
Appraisal, negotiations through Board              32.7                            86.2
approval
Supervision                                       122.3                            380.0
Completion                                         5.2
Total                                             280.3                            771.2



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                             27
Table 11: Bank Resources - Missions
Days                 Performance Rating       Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of  in  Specialization' InMpIem. Development    Problems3
Year   Persons Field                Status     objectives
Through Appraisal       07/1986      3    12   I, H                                  Mission to restart
11/1986     2    1 3                                        project preparation
activities.
07/1987      1    14
09/1987     2    2 1                                        Project Preparation
delayed by SPO
request to create a
Health Sector
Master Plan.
11/1987     3    21
02/1988     4    16
Appraisal through Board   04/1988    7    21   I, H, Ar, T
approval                                        M, P
06/1988     3    15   P, Ar, I
Supervision              11/1990     5    19   T. M, H, Ar, I       1          1     Comnplex
processing
6/1991      5    14   M, H, T, I           2          1     procedures in MOH
28                                        slowing project.
11/1991     2    19   Ar, I               2           2     Little progress
made due to
transitional PCI
mgt.
02/1992     3    13   T, H I               2          1     Personnel Turnover
has affected PCU
Progress
08/1992     4    20   T, M, I, H           2          1     Health Reform
activities in PCU
have Taxed staff
resources for other
project activities
01/1993     3    13   1, T, H              2          1     Shortage of staff;
outdated payment
procedures;
Security problems
in SE.



28                                                                 Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
Days                 Performance Rating2
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of  in  Specialization' Irnplern. Development    Types of
Year   Persons Field                Status     objectives
07/1993     6    17   Ar, I, M, H, T       2          1     Training hampered
by processes &
mobility of health
managers.
05/1994      5    19   I, M, T, P, H       S         HS    Tumover in PCU
affected project
progress
01/1995     5    15   I, T, H, M           S         HS    The austerity
05/1995     5    12   1, H, T, M          S          HS    measures could
07/1995     3    14   I, T, M            (not       (not   affect counterpart
updated)   updated) funding.
09/1995     5    4    I, H E, M           HS         HS
12/1995     5    8    I, H, E, M         HS          HS
03/1996     2    7    I, E                HS         HS
06/1996     5    17   I, E, M, T, H       HS         HS
12/1997     2    5    I, H                S          S
07/1998     9    12   H,M, I, P, Ar,      S           S
E
Completion              03/1999      3    12   P, H, E             U           S     No progress has
been made since
July 1998 mission
due to staff
transition in MOH.
At project close, 3
hospitals remained
incomplete.
Specialized Skills:
A:               Accounting
Ar:              Architect
H:               Health
I:              Implementation
M:               MIS/Computer
T7:              Training
P:               Procurement



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                               29
APPENDICES



30                                                                 Turkey: ICR - First Health Project



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                   31
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE OF THE ICR MISSION
1.   A World Bank rnission consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Dr. Armin Fidler (Health Program Team
Leader), Elliott Hurwitz (Consultant), Danelle Howell-Vaughn (Procurement Assistant), and Ayda
Aysun Yurekli (Health Economist) visited Turkey from March 16 to 26 to assist the Government with
and gather information for the Implementation Completion Report for the First Health Project. The
mission wishes to thank the Government of Turkey and the staff of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
for their helpful cooperation and warm hospitality.
2.   Members of the mission discussed the First Health Project with representatives of the Ministry of
Health (MOH), Treasury, United Nations Development Program, Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and
former PCU staff. The mission also visited a number of health facilities funded by the project, and
interviewed facility staff and Regional MOH and other officials.
3.   The mission discussed with the agencies and individuals noted the three project components: (i)
construction of additional health facilities in underserved areas to improve access to health services and
improve health status; (ii) strengthening the management capacity of the MOH, which included training
MOH personnel to improve and update their skills; and (iii) enhancing the efficiency of service delivery
and improving financing prospects.
4.   The mission also provided additional information to the Government on the Borrower contribution
to the ICR, and discussed a preliminary version which the Government had prepared. It is understood
that this report will be revised and submitted to the Bank no later than April 30, and will include the
Government's plan for future operation of the project, including topics such as evaluation of the
effectiveness of training and plans for the completion of construction. This revised Borrower contribution
will be included, unedited, as an appendix to the ICR. Finally, the mission explained that the Bank will
send its own assessment of the project to the Government for comment (which comments will also be
included as an Appendix).
5.   It was the mission's preliminary judgment that the First Health Project was implemented
satisfactorily and was overall successful at achieving its development objectives. Generally, the most
successful components and subcomponents were: (i) training MOH staff, including in-service and
adaptation training; (ii) construction of additional health centers and health posts, which improved access
to health services; and (iii) strengthening the management capacity of the MOH (especially through
development of a health information system, MIS).
6.   The mission assessed the hospital construction program as less successful, since three of the
planned five hospitals were not finished by project completion due to a number of factors including
insufficient counterpart funding and large overruns in construction of four of the five hospitals.
7.   It was also the mission's judgment that progress in enhancing the overall efficiency of service
delivery and improving the financing prospects of the health care system was negligible. The reason for
this limited success in this field may be attributed to the fact that the project rested in financing inputs
without having the opportunity to tackle many of the systemic and institutional bottlenecks in the health
system.
8.   Finally, the mission noted that although the PCU has made a significant contribution in the past,
recently the performance of the PCU has been detrimental to the success of the project. While it was
initially considered that a strong PCU would compensate for lack of sufficient capacity in the MOH, the
PCU failed to bring its strengths into the MOH, but instead became a rival. This failure to follow a
politically-sensitive implementation strategy and integrate its strengths into the MOH became a
significant factor hindering project progress.



32                                                          Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
Key lessons learned
9.   The lack of an independent outside auditor reduced project success; A more flexible lending
instrument may be better suited to achieve objectives such as those of the First Health Project; MOH
ability to provide adequate staff must be an integral part of any project involving construction of new
facilities; A strong policy dialogue, linked to the provision of resources, would be more effective than the
provision of resources alone; The project would have greatly benefited from the presence, in the Resident
Mission, of a staff member dedicated to support health projects-especially in monitoring operations and
procurement. These lessons will be expanded in greater detail in the ICR.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                  33
Appendix B
MILAS STATE HOSPITAL: ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLEOF PROCUREMENT
PROCEDURES (AND COST INCREASES) FOR CIVIL WORKS
1.   As part of the supervision and ICR mission of March 16-26, 1999, the following reflects findings
from a site visit to the Milas Hospital, built under the FHP. This report also attempts to record the
reasons for the large construction cost overruns experienced in the infrastructure program for FBP,
mainly the 2 hospitals built and 3 under construction.
COST ESCALATION
2.   Milas State Hospital is a 9, 862 m2 100-bed facility in Mugla province. In the SAR (June, 1990)
the civil works estimate for a 100 bed hospital was US $2.5 million. At the time it was put out for bids
(1993) the estimated cost was US $4.7 million, but this estimate was incomplete. PCU records show that
numerous items were omitted due to incomplete construction documents, e.g., only one page of
information on the mechanical and electrical systems for a hospital of this complexity.
3.   The final base building cost was US $14.2 million-or US$ 1,400 per meter. At completion, the
price for the structure as well as the extensive site work and landscaping necessitated by the enlargement
of the original site was reported at approximately US$22 million.
PROCEDURES FOLLOWED AND REASONS FOR INCREASES
4.   According to information provided by PCU engineering staff, the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
hired the architectural/engineering firm which prepared design and construction documents. The firm that
prepared final construction documents was a 50% government-owned company. The procurement
method for civil works was National Competitive Bidding, with the documents in Turkish. Bids were
advertised in 1993 and the hospital was completed in March of 1998.
5.   The PCU awarded a contract to a construction management firm (Prokon) at the end of 1993-one
year after award of the construction contract. Their responsibility was to prepare revised bills of
quantities in consultation with MPW. The PCU reviewed the revised documents and submitted them for
MOH approval.
6.   Construction cost overruns were created by allocating additional land to the original site as per the
1993 bidding documents. As a result, extensive re-grading was required, as well as retaining walls, extra
areas of paving and landscaping and re-routing of utility lines. Revisions to the architectural drawings
also increased costs, especially since those revisions were made after construction had started and
consisted of additional areas in patient rooms to allow for 2-3 beds, a major deviation from the original
design.
7.   Some change orders were originated by the District Health Directorate (end user), but according to
the PCU most change orders were originated by Prokon. The firm advised the PCU of the benefits to be
gained by introducing modifications to the design and specifications, but did not report the budgetary
consequences.
8.   The PCU reviewed these recommendations and approved "all reasonable changes." The MPW,
District Health Directorate, contractor, and construction management firm were notified of the changes.
The contractor prepared all necessary documents to reflect the changes and submitted them to Prokon for
review. Prokon in turn reviewed them and made recommendations to the PCU for approval. The PCU's
A&E department reviewed and revised as required and prepared a cost estimate.
9.   Approval of change order documentation and revised cost estimates was performed by the PCU
Director. The comparative bill of quantities was approved by the undersecretary of MOH. After approval
by MOH, documentation was forwarded to the Financial Directorate of MOH as well as to the Ministry of
Finance for information and records. After final approval, the change order went to Prokon and MPW
district directorate for execution.



34                                                          Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
10. The construction contract for the Milas Hospital was awarded in December 1993, and the contractor
started work in March, 1994. The PCU reported that for change orders within 15% of the original
contract amount the PCU had sole authority to approve. According to the Loan Agreement, increases
above 15% of the original contract amount require the Bank's "no-objection," but there are no records that
such was provided.
11. PCU records show the first major change order in February 24, 1997, three years into construction,
amounting to 300% of the original contract amount. The second major change order was recorded in
July, 1998 and amounted to 395% of the original contract amount.
12. The PCU stated that it did not require approval from any Government agency for an increase of up
to 15% above the original contract price. For increases above 15%, it is required that approval must be
given by MOH and the State Planning Organization, and then communicated to the agencies mentioned
above.
13. Milas State Hospital opened in September, 1998, fully equipped and staffed. In a meeting with the
Chief Doctor and his staff, they indicated that the hospital is adequate for present needs, although some
equipment provided is too sophisticated for their use. Regarding equipment maintenance, they also
indicated that no provisions for staff or budget allocations for maintenance had yet been made.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                                35
Appendix C
INDIVIDUALS INTERVIEWED DURING ICR PREPARATION MARCH 1999
MOH
Niyazi Cahnak             Chief, MOH Primary Care Services, former PCU Director
Suat Duranay              MIS Manager, MOH
Salih Mollahaliloglu      Program Coordinator, MOH
Fatih Pehlivan            Deputy Director of Health, Yozgat Province
Ms. lkbal Akin            Midwife, Yozgat Province
Ismet Ozan                Technician, Yozgat Province
Zeynel Cirik              MOH, Yozgat Province
General Practitioner, Yozgat Province
PCU
Goksenin Aktulay          Acting PCU General Coordinator
Serap Sener               Deputy Coordinator, Primary Health Care
Erre Sezgin              Deputy Coordinator, Project Planning and Coordination
Sadat Yelkenci            Manager, Accounting, Finance, Procurement Officer
Levent Akin               Civil Engineer
Yalcin Kaya               Health Reforms and MIS Coordinator
Esra Canakci              Special Projects and Surveys Department
Zeliha Saat               Former Consultant for Midwives Training
Aykut Vezioglu            Former Education Consultant for POS Health Training
Ahmet Mudderisoglu        Consultant, former FHP Policy Development Head
Aynur Kadihasanoglu       Consultant, former Policy Specialist, PCU
World Bank
Brad Herbert              Principal Operations Officer (Former FHP Task Manager)
Alex Preker               Lead Economist (led Second Health Project appraisal)
Salim Habayeb             Senior Health Specialist (participated in FBP identification)
Craig Neal                Information Management Specialist (MIS component)
Other
S. Erdal Esin             TNDP MSA Management



36                                                                       Turkey: ICR - First Health Project



Turkey. ICR - First Health Project                                           37
Appendix D
Government of Turkey-Borrower Contribution
i.    PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Health Project in
Turkey, for which Loan 3057-TU. This ICR was prepared by Health Project General
Coordination Unit of Ministry of Health of Turkey, acting as Project Coordination Unit for
the First Health Project.
i.    SUMMARY
The objectives of the First Health Project, which started at the end of 1991 and closed on 31
December 1998 are: (i) to improve access to basic health services in the Project Area which
includes the provinces of Diyarbakir, Mardin, Mug1a, Sivas, Tokat, Yozgat, Ankara, Istanbul; (ii)
to introduce measures to improve efficiency in the delivery of health services and the
management of health sector; and (iii) to strengthen the technical and managerial capabilities of
MOH.
The Project has a total budget of US $147.47 million (World Bank US $75 million; Turkish
Govemment US $72.47 million) and consists of the following parts, subject to modifications as
may be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank from time to time to achieve the above
objectives;
Part A: Provincial Health Services
The reorganisation and strengthening of the basic health services in the Project Area through;
(i) upgrading and construction of primary health care facilities and hospitals, health colleges,
and training centres; (ii) provision of equipment, furniture and vehicles for the health service
facilities and of books and training materials for the health training colleges; (iii) carrying out of
in-service training programs to upgrade the skills of personnel, provide induction training for
staff assigned to the Project Area and increase community awareness of health related mafters.
Part B: Institutional Development
Strengthening of the health sector's institutions and increasing the efficient use of its resources
through: (1) implementation of a manpower development program, (2) establishment of a
management information system, (3) implementation of a program to strengthen the capacities
of health central institutions
The total disbursements under the Project were US$185m. (IBRD: US$72.15m. and Turkish
Government: US$112.90m.). The cost overruns in the construction works (construction of 5 new
hospitals) doubled the local contribution of US$72.4m.
As detailed in the following parts of this report, towards achievement of the above mentioned
objectives of the Project, training programs were provided, upgrading and construction works were
done and equipment provided for the upgraded and new facilities, except for the three hospitals
management information system was established and a program was implemented to strengthen
the capacities of health central institutions.



38                                                     Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
PROCUREMENT (GOODS)
1. OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Procurement Department are: to ensure timely and cost-effective
procurement of equipment, supplies and vehicles. to build up national capacities for
international procurement within MoH and towards this end, (i) to assist MoH in the preparation
of a comprehensive set of specifications in English to be used in the preparation of bidding
documents for the international procurement of medical equipment and supplies and vehicles.
(ii) to give advise on preparation of short list of suppliers or lists of pre-qualified suppliers for
each category of goods to be procured and the formulation of a set of specific recommendations
with respect to the competitive bidding process of the Bank. (iii) to assume an advisory role
throughout the bidding process; such that the Bank's Rules & Regulations are duly observed.
(iv) to train MoH staff in the procurement of equipment and supplies on the basis of the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.
2. IMPLEMENTATION
During the term of the project, mainly on the basis of the intemational competitive bidding,
primary health care facilities were provided with standard medical packs (through UNICEF),
vehicles procured for use in transport of both sick people and medical staff, and medical equipment
purchased for existing hospitals, in addition to computing hardware and software for management
information system. Additionally, medical equipment, fumiture and fumishings were procured for
the new five hospitals The medical equipment and supplies for the two hospitals, Milas and Su§ehri
were installed and those for the remaining three hospitals are now being kept at the Ministry's
warehouses and will be installed at the said hospitals upon completion of the construction works.
(Total Disbursements approx. US$40m-WB contribution)
3. DELAYS IN IMPLEMENTATION
The main delay is due to the delay in the completion of construction of new hospitals. The final
payment for the equipment purchased for the said three hospitals (US$2.1 m) cannot be made to the
suppliers since it is subject to the installation and testing of the said equipment which can only be
done after the completion of the works.
4. RESULTS AND IMPACTS
The specifications have been developed to ensure timely and cost-effective procurement of all the
goods and services under the project. Specifications have been improved to include the measures
to avoid the problems encountered during the execution of contracts. Additionally, Ministry's staff
has received procurement courses at ILO, Italy and at UNDP Field Office to ensure institutional
development in the Ministry.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                           39
2. CIVIL WORKS
1. OBJECTIVES
Towards the achievement of the objective of reorganization and strengthening of the basic health
services in the Project Area, upgrading and construction of primary health care facilities, hospitals,
health colleges, public health laboratories, vehicle maintenance workshops, and training centres.
2. IMPLEMENTATION
Under the civil works program, 98 health posts and 11 health centres were constructed through
prefabricated method in addition to 27 health centres and 12 lodgings were constructed through
conventional method. Additionally, in Bilecik, the pilot province for health reforms, 5 health centres
and 15 health posts were constructed through prefabricated method and Bilecik State Hospital
was renovated. In addition to the above, 5 hospitals were constructed in three project provinces,
namely Polati  (100 beds) and Haymana (50 beds) in Ankara, Su,ehri (50 beds) in Sivas and Milas
(100 beds) and Fethiye (200 beds) in Mugla. Two of them, Milas and Susehri are completed and
the rest expected to be completed in 1999.
3. SUSTAINABILITY
Since all the facilities constructed under the civil works program are now under the control of
the Ministry, no sustainability problems are foreseen.
4. DELAYS IN IMPLEMENTATION
The delays experienced during the process may be attributed to the problems that have been
encountered in following areas: (1) availability of land; (2) availability of drawings; (3) flow of
funds; and (4) availability of personnel. The main reason in delay of the construction works is,
however, the cost overruns experienced in the construction of hospitals.
5. FINANCIAL SUPPORT
After the utilisation of the World Bank's contribution to the Project, the payments have been
made through the National Budget or Funds of the Ministry of Health. A huge amount of cost
overruns (from original amount of U$57.5m. to actual cost of approximately US$140m) have
caused to the insufficiency of counterpart funding. Up to the end of April 30, 1999 Government
Contribution for civil works has been US$105m., whereas loan contribution was US$1Om. This
shows a great deviation from the original financing percentages. Almost all of the cost overruns
have been financed from Government sources. As of April 30, 1999, there is a need for
US$25M to finance the awaiting construction payments. Although there was a great additional
contribution from local sources to finance construction works, it has became insufficient due to
high cost overruns.
IN-SERVICE TRAINING
1. OBJECTIVES
1. To conduct in-service training for the health personnel who are working in the field by
forming 10 Training Teams with close collaboration of General Directorate of Health
Education.
2. To train total of 6,720 health personnel. 4,420 health personnel (540 doctors, 490 nurses,
2100 midwives and 1290 other health personnel) will receive training on primary health care,
and 2,300 newly assigned personnel on adaptation training.
3. To promote health issues to encourage teachers and community leaders.



40                                                     Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
4.  To support media programs in order to train public about family planning, preventing
infectious diseases, environmental health.
5. To increase number of teachers, to develop curriculum, to train more qualified teachers by
increasing laboratory and library possibilities, to improve basic paramedical training in 14
Health Training School in Project Provinces.
6. To evaluate all the training materials that are prepared for health personnel and public;
standardise according to the public needs and use in development of in-service training kits.
2. IMPLEMENTATION
In-service trainings at the provincial level are conducted vertically while program approach did
not taken into consideration. During this period, within the scope of programs Project
Coordination Unit was in close collaboration with units of the Ministry. Most of the assistance
provided by the PCU was financial. But there were some training programs designed by PCU
especially for midwives.
In 1994, the period of preparation of second health project, cooperation environment has been
established with ministry's related units. The framework and scope of in-service trainings were
determined with the joint study with participation of all units of ministry, administrators of
Provincial Health Directorates and representatives from universities. Within the scope of the
program, the decision has made on conducting in-service trainings under the title of adaptation
and development trainings and the draft curriculum has been prepared.
1.1 Trainings
Within the scope of health projects, In-service trainings for the health personnel are grouped in
two categories:
1.1.1.1 Adaptation Trainings: Adaptation trainings' aim is to ensure adaptation of the health
personnel to the service at the primary health care level.
Adaptation trainings conducted by the Provincial Health Teams to the target groups within the
period of 10 days. The duration of training and subjects was changed by the Provincial Training
Teams and administration according to province's private conditions and needs of the personnel
as necessary.
1.1.2  Development Trainings: It was decided to provide development trainings for primary
level health personnel in order to increase efficiency in presentation of primary health
care. The target group is the all health personnel that are working in primary health care
institutions.
Development Training's main subject titles are given below:
* Environmental health
* Family Health
* Control of health problems frequently seen



Turkey: [CR - First Health Project                                          41
Total number of trained personnel realised by the Ministry Units and provinces within the project
are given below:
YEARS   CENTRAL                 PROVINCIAL TRAININGS             TOTAL
TRAININGS      ADAPTATION    DEV'T         TOTAL
Before          0             0            2738       2738      2738
1995
1995         338           1147            0         1147       1485
1996         407           464            953        1417      1824
1997         835           802            2424      3226       4061
1998         665           582            2029      2611       3276
TOTAL         2245          2995           8144      11.139    13.384
3. REALIZATION OF TRAINING PROGRAMS
Unfortunately, it is known how the target figures were determined at the beginning of the project.
It is also not known if these figures include number of personnel trained with the efforts of the
provinces themselves or provincial trainers trained at the central level. In SAR, within the period
of the project in adaptation and development trainings, it is planned to train totally 6720
personnel, till the end of 1998, 11.139 personnel were trained, and realisation became 165%.
When we add Ministry Central Units to the trainings realised within the scope of first project,
number of total trained personnel became 13.368, when we estimate it with targeted number
6720, realisation ratio became 199%.
List of the produced training materials to use in service trainings of personnel within the scope
of health programs conducted by Project General Coordination Unit and Ministry related units
and to use these materials in the public trainings.
Two researches have conducted in order to clarify community participation intervention plan, to
determine knowledge, attitude and behaviour characteristics of personnel and public.
However one of the topics in the adaptation courses is Community Participation in Health
Services. In this context, health personnel are being equipped with skills and knowledge relating
to the topic and importance, principles and methods of community participation are being
taught.
No media programs were produced about the subjects in the framework. But within the scope of
the programs, training materials are developed for public and distributed to the field.
Activities planned to be performed at Health Vocational High Schools and teachers by the end
of 1996 are as follows; Training Methodology Refreshment, Community Participation, Health
Services Management, First and Rapid Aid, Effective Use of Computer and Typewriter.
4. SUSTAINABILITY
Trainings have been implemented without a designated system till 1995. Furthermore, In-
service Training Department that is responsible from the conducting of the trainings, is faced
with heavy workload, but couldn't hire sufficient number and qualified people.



42                                                     Turkey. ICR - First Health Project
5. RESULTS AND IMPACTS
At the end of the project, it is hard to say that project has reached its aim. Because, the aim is
not only reaching the training targets but to implement good quality of training programs and in
the end of the project leaving an institutionalised structure that will result with reflection to quality
and quantity of the service.
The success level of trainees according to the subjects evaluated by pre-tests and post-tests.
Besides these, Training Evaluation and General Evaluation Forms were filled, and get their
opinions about the organisation, content of the trainings and sufficiency of the trainings. At the
end of every training, information about training process, presented to the Central Organisation
of the Ministry (Project General Coordination Unit In-Service Training Department) with a report
prepared by the Provincial Training Teams. Especially according to pre and post-test results,
statistically there are significant changes.
It is rather difficult to say that what level these trainings caused changes in the service in the
field. Because, there is no present situation analysis which should have been done at the
beginning of the project to determine the aim. Especially in monitoring tours in the field, in
interviews done with the participants during the training process, personnel expressed that the
trainings caused substantial changes. But if there has been a situation analysis, observed
changes could be evaluated without considering the other factors.
6. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Within this scope of the Project, an Institutionalisation Report has been prepared which contains
present situation and suggestions by the sub-committee of the Primary Health Care Technical
Committee. This report firstly presented to Primary Health Care Technical Committee and to the
Steering Committee.
Also in order to transform credits to the trainings various interviews and two meetings were held
with Turkish Medical Association officials as part of the efforts to institutionalise the in-service
trainings. At the moment, PCU is waiting for application information from TMA officials.
Furthermore, a management problem appeared related to Training Health Centres that are built
in the provinces for training. A detailed Management Protocol has prepared that contains
regulations about how to solve this problem. In order to apply the protocols an authorisation has
prepared by the authorities of ministry and sent to the PCU.
7.   LESSONS LEARNED
As a result of First Health Project below are the lessons learned:
*    Reporting, monitoring and evaluation background of the in-service trainings should be
established before the beginning the trainings.
*    Trained personnel projections should be prepared considering personnel tum over rate at
the beginning of the project.
*    Personnel should receive credits from the trainings and this situation should be regulated
to make positive changes in their rights.
*    Trained personnel should be assigned according to their education
*    Training needs of the provinces (building, tools, equipment, etc.) must be provided at the
beginning of the training and necessary logistics must be provided.
*   Trained personnel should be assigned to positions accordingly and pertaining personnel
rights must be arranged as needed.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                          43
*   When the density and continuity of the training activities is considered, to increase
effectiveness of the service, unit that is responsible from the trainings, must be equipped with
sufficient personnel.
*   An independent In-Service Training Unit must be formed within the structure of Ministry to
carry out all the in-service trainings of the Ministry after the project and to ensure the
coordination of all related units and necessary laws of the land should be published.
*    In Central Organisation of the Ministry and in the field, support and sensitiveness of
central and local directors must be ensured for the trainings.
*    To determine the changes that the trainings created in the beginning and end, first last
researches should be done and by using special statistical methods the relationship between
trainings and changes must be determined.
*    Determining training needs, establishing training program, performing and monitoring and
evaluation information and skills should be given to the Ministry Centre and provincial program
directors according to the aim of the training.
*   For the ones that participate ministry in-service trainings and trainings, an appropriate
amount from the national budget must be allocated.
-   Necessary regulations must be done to ensure that the personnel should work in the
appropriate post for a sufficient period according to their education.
*   Necessary regulations should be done for planning, conducting, evaluation, and
supervision and these regulations should be reflected to the pertaining personnel rights, as the
cooperation with professional organisations must be established.
i.    HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
1.  OBJECTIVES
1. To establish and improve a health human resources planning system with developing
curriculum and trainnig materials in Health Vocation High Schools and determining new
personnel management strategies, personnel norms and performans indicators,
2. To arrange abroad trainnig programes on health economy, health management and finans
management etc.
2.  IMPLEMENTATION
National and regional base-line projections were prepared for Ministry of Health, with the supply
and requirement projection models developed by the Human Resources Development Division
and World Health Organisation. First, the number of required students and teachers were
calculated while the transition of Health Vocation High Schools to university level training. Also
technical support has provided for transition.
"The Meaning of Work and Attitudes of Health Personnel in Turkey" survey and "Measuring
Quality of Life Across District Centres in Turkey" study, to rank all the districts of Turkey
according to their attractiveness in order to ensure a real base for different remuneration
according to the geographic differences, were conducted.
Job descriptions of midwives, medical secretaries, medical technologists and laboratory
technicians working at hospitals was done.
Activity standards of general surgeons, internal diseases specialists, gynaecologists,
paediatrics, nurses, midwives, laboratory technicians, radiology technicians working at



44                                                     Turkey. ICR - First Health Project
hospitals, dentists and pharmacists working at both hospitals and primary health care services
were determined by WISN (Workload Indicators of Staff Need) Method.
To modernise nursing, midwifery and health technician training in accordance with European
Union norms, WHO targets, international nursing standards, the primary health care approach,
technical support has been provided. For curriculum development programs, video cassettes
and 10 books' copyrights, about nursing, were bought. 5 books were selected as course-books
and 2 books as reference books. Training materials on 8 topics were published and delivered.
And also in the frame of this subject, 2271 Health Vocation High Schools' directors and teachers
were trained.
In training and employment to develop quality a competitive approach in employment and
remuneration, career development and systematising the accreditation of continuing education,
incentive to work in less developed and rural areas;
*   As a competitive approach, compulsory service of practitioners was abolished,
*    For the recruitment of nurse, midwife and health officers, an examination system was
placed,
*   A ranking system for Health Vocation High Schools was developed for quality,
*    Health Education Institutes' curriculum, which provide teachers for Health Vocation High
Schools was developed,
*   Job description of Medical Secretary Division was done, the curriculum was developed
and implemented,
*   Converting the training of nurses, midwives, health officers and health technicians into
bachelor degree level in order to raise the level of training,
*    Developing cadre standards depend on workload,
*    Establishing a Human Resources Development Division in the structure of Personnel
General Directorate.
To increase the quality of services, a literature study about standardisation of medical education
and accreditation was done.
To increase and develop the institutional capacity 21 persons were joined several abroad
training on health economy, health management and finans management..
3. 3.SUSTAINABILITY
Human Resources Development Division, which was established in the structure of Personnel
General Directorate, wasn't able to realise its functions because of their point of view.
4.   DELAYS IN IMPLEMENTATION
Determining activity standards of 6 group of specialists working at hospitals were delayed. The
leaving of some members of the HRD team is the reason.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                          45
5.   INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
A Human Resources Division was established in General Directorate of Personnel in
MoH to arrange recruitment,  employment, remuneration and career development
policies on scientific base and harmonious with our country's realities and Health
Vocation High Schools were transferred into Health Vocation Faculties Gevher Nesibe
Health Science Institute was transferred into Health Education Faculty.
PERSONNEL
1. OBJECTIVES
Institutional Development of Ministry of Health
2. IMPLEMENTATION
a. FELLOWSHIPS
Under the First Health Project between 1992-1996, 26 candidates send to abroad and
have been completed their post-graduate education and back to their institutions. 17 scholarship
holders were long term and 9 scholarship holders were short term. The subjects of the
programme are; Hospital Management, Health Economics, Health Management and Finance,
Nutrition, Epidemiology, Geriatrics, Labour Health, Public Health and Child Health.
b. STUDY TOURS
Under the First Health Project in the frame of the institutional development of the
Ministry of Health, Project General Coordination Unit supported the short-term educations,
conferences, meetings, congress and seminars in abroad. In addition to this activity, between
1992 - 1996 totally 108 MoH personnel sent to the abroad. A remaining study tours activity
which has a budget of US$450,000 has been cancelled due to time limitation.
c. ENGLISH LANGUAGE EDUCATION PROGRAMME
Under the First Health Project in the frame of the institutional development of the Ministry of
Health, Project General Coordination Unit arranged English Language Education Programmes
from 1993 to 1996. In addition to this activity, from central MoH and Ankara Province Health
Directorate totally, 310 staff attended this course programme.
i.    MANAGEMENT REFORM SECTION
1.  OBJECTIVE
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Ministry of Health (MOH) through supporting the
organizational development and providing management training for the staff of central MOH and
Provincial Health Directorates (PHD).
2. IMPLEMENTATION
The RestructurinQ of the Ministry oh Health Study:
* Workshop with the participation of the university professors and authorities from public
institutions.
* The "Organizational Development and Restructuring of the MOH" study undertaken by
Swedehealth.
* MOH's Organizational Development Report and MOH's Organizational Structure draft
legislation proposals.



46                                                    Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
Management Training Program:
* Need analysis study and report.
• Management Training Program's curriculum development.
* The delivery of modular training programs to 10 groups and 2 weekend seminars to top level
managers.
* Evaluation of the Management Training Program.
Personal Development Program:
Effective Presentation Techniques training, Effective and Fast Reading training, Time and
Stress Management training.
3. REALIZATIONS
1. Trainings:
* Management Training Program-Modular Training: 4-week training to 200 participants, each.
* Management Training Program-Weekend Seminars: 2 seminars have been realized out of 9
for 23 high level managers.
• Interpersonal/Personal Skills Development Program: 100 participants each in 4 different
topics have been trained.
2. Documents Produced:
- Ministry of Health's Organizational Development and Restructuring Report
• Draft Legislation of Ministry of Health's Organization and Functions
• Management Training Modular Booklets
* Management Training Group Evaluation Reports
• Management Training Final Report
* Management Training Evaluation Survey Report
• Interpersonal/Personal Skills Development Training Reports
• Ministry of Health's Organizational Culture Survey Report
• Women Managers in the Ministry of Health Survey Report
I    ii.    HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEMS
1. OBJECTIVES
Reflecting the scale and complexity of the MOH and the range of its responsibilities, the MOH's
information requirements and flows are both extensive and highly varied. First Health Project
includes subcomponents to improve the MOH's information systems. The Health Information
Systems (HIS) Subcomponent intends to create the core of a modern, computerized Health
Information System for the MOH in order to improve Primary and Curative Health Care services;
enable the Ministry of Health units provide more effective service; improve the communication
between the Central Ministry and Provincial Health Directorates; and provide executive-level
information to support the formulation of policies and the effective monitoring of policy
implementation, objectives and guidelines.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                          47
The main principles of the Health Information Systems include health management decisions at
every level will be based on appropriate information, accurate, reliable, and complete data will
be collected, the collected data will be accessible, and data collection should be cost-effective.
2. IMPLEMENTATION
Based upon these strategies and targets, operational, functional and strategic plans have been
prepared for the design and implementation of a Core Health Information System including
various sub-components:
* Basic Health Statistics Module (BHSM), (First Health Project)
* Core Health Resources Management System (CHRMS), (First and Second Health Projects)
* Hospital Management Information Systems (HMIS), (Second Health Project)
* Primary Health Care Services Information System (PHCSIS). (Primary Health Care Services
Project)
2.1. BASIC HEALTH STATISTICS MODULE (BHSM)
The BHSM is primarily a reporting system for the health statistics that flow to the Central
Ministry of Health (CMOH) from health posts, primary health care units, hospitals and
other institutions providing health services to the CMOH through the 80 PHDs and is
largely based on the data embodied in the data collection forms used by the MOH. The
main aim of the system is to provide reliable, timely and consistent basic health statistics
and indicators at institution, county, province and national levels. The BHSM covers 80
Provincial Health Directorates (PHD) and the Central Ministry of Health (CMOH).
Technical Assistance (TA) contract for the system analysis, design, implementation,
installation, training, on-site support for the Basic Health Statistics Module has been
awarded on October 1995. The hardware procurement on the other hand has been
realized in two parties in order to keep pace with the technological improvements. The
procurements have been performed in August 1995 and May 1996 respectively.
The following tasks have been realized within the framework of the BHSM:
REviSION OF DATA COLLECTiON FORMS
All data collection and reporting forms have been revised and redesigned with the
objective of eliminating redundancy and inconsistency. In this process, in the end, the
number of forms was reduced from 128 to 52. More than 10,000 field staff have been
trained on data collection, evaluation and decision making based on information. These
activities were completed in 1997.
HARDWARE INFRASTRUCTURE
Local Area Networks with one server, three workstations and a printer were established
in 80 Provincial Health Directorates. The PHDs are connected to the Central Ministry by
dial-up connection and can transfer data to the Central Ministry.
Local Area Network with 450 nodes in the CMOH campus and the technology
infrastructure of the Ministry of Health Department of Information Processing were
established.
BHSM Software
After the systems analysis was completed, the system design was performed,
prototypes of the system were developed. The software was developed in two versions;
the CMOH version and the PHD version. Both versions have been installed and are
operational in both CMOH and 80 PHDs.



48                                                    Turkey. ICR - First Health Project
On-site-Support and Training
Training and on-site support activities in each of the 80 PHDs and the CMOH for a four
months period have been performed.
The staff at the CMOH and 80 PHDs were trained on computer literacy topics and on
BHSM User Training. Additionally, identified system administrators were trained on
system and network concepts. Additional user and administrator Refresher Training was
provided due to high personnel turnover in MOH.
MOH DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION PROCESSING (MDIP)
Ministry of Health Department of Information Processing (MDIP) has been established
with the required infrastructure in 1996, with the main tasks defined as the provision of
required information of the Ministry in coordination with the Ministry units, operational
support for BHSM and CHRMS, technical support for the Central Ministry of Health and
Provincial Health Directorates and the coordination of the Information Systems.
BHSM implementation in the PHDs and in the CMOH are also coordinated with MDIP.
1.2   CORE HEALTH RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  (CHRMS) - SYSTEMS
ANALYSIS
The CHRMS is a complex resources management system that contains inter-linked modules in
the areas of financial, material, human resources and pharmaceuticals management. CHRMS
targets reliable monitoring and rational allocation of the human resources, materials, financial
resources at the Central Ministry of Health, Provincial Health Directorates and service delivery
units as well as the effective management and utilization of the resources.
The CHRMS has been planned as a two-phased project. The first phase consists of a detailed
Systems Analysis Study, the results of which formed an integral part of the Bidding Documents
for the implementation phase (software development, establishment of the infrastructure,
training and on-site support).
Within the framework of the First Health Project, the procurement for the Systems Analysis
was accomplished and the TA contract for the CHRMS System Analysis Study was awarded
in May 1995. Within the framework of this contract, systems analysis was performed to
identify the framework of the functions and information requirements to be involved in the
CHRMS.
1.3 OTHER ACTIVITIES
Besides the planned activities, a Health Center Automation Software has been developed for
pilot implementation. The developed software and the hardware have been installed at the pilot
health center for pilot implementation. The staff have been trained on computer-literacy and
application software user training topics.
3    RESULTS AND IMPACTS
As a result of the work accomplished within the framework of the First Health Project - Health
Information Systems, hardware infrastructure and -a software developed targeting reporting and
statistical information were installed at the CMOH and the PHDs. Central Ministry and the PHDS
are interconnected over a network. Additionally, MOH staff were trained on computer literacy,
data collection and evaluation.
The information requirements of the MOH in terms of resource management were determined.



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                         49
4 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
The work for the BHSM and the CHRMS has been coordinated with the MDIP which had been
established within the framework of the First Health Project.
5 SUSTAINABILITY
High personnel tumover It has been observed that there is a high personnel tumover in the
Ministry of Health regarding the users and the system administrators.. This situation resulted in
operational BHSM problems in the PHDs. This was prevented to some extent by the refresher
training program.
Maintenance and operation: In order for the BHSM to operate effectively, the system should be
a part of the current operations and should contain up-to-date data as well as conforming to the
changes in laws, legislations and operations. This can be achieved through continuous help
desk support to solve user problems, and software, hardware maintenance. Software and
hardware maintenance and related technical support services should be supplied by the
Ministry of Health Department of Information Processing.
6 LESSONS LEARNED
Due to high personnel turnover, refresher training is required and should be incorporated as
one of the tasks of implementation projects. Additionally, in order to maintain the sustainability
and operability of the installed systems, all necessary organizational, financial and legal
arrangements must be accomplished.
INDIVIDUAL HEALTH INSURANCE
1.  OBJECTIVES
It is taken into consideration that currently in Turkey, more than 21 million of our citizens do not
have social health insurance and there is not an equal and rational system regarding provided
benefits; it has been targeted proving of social health insurance, easy access to the health
services, similar and equal aids to everyone and making health services contemporary and
effective.
2.  IMPLEMENTATION
GREEN CARD SCHEME
The aim of the Green Card is to provide free in-patient care for the population who are not
covered by any other health insurance schemes and whose income levels are proved to be
below a certain level, until the General Health Insurance Scheme be fully implemented.
Law of Green Card was enacted by Parliament on 18 June 1992 as Numbered: 3816, and a
regulation defining the procedures of implementation of Green Card has been promulgated
since 13 August 1992. Green Card has been implemented throughout Turkey since 5 August
1992.
In 1994, The implementation of Green Card Scheme has been transferred to the Directorate of
Curative Services. Green Card Analysis reports have been prepared to assist the Directorate of
Curative Services in monitoring the scheme.
Nowadays total number of Green Card holders are approximately 7.5 million people in Turkey.
GENERAL HEALTH INSURANCE STUD/ES
A draft law for the implementation of the general health insurance scheme has been prepared
on the establishment of "Health Financing Institution (HFI)". The draft law has been submitted to



50                                                    Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
the Cabinet, after being revised upon the opinions of the related governmental offices. Health
care costs associated with the insurance and operational costs of HFI have been calculated.
Calculations regarding the net burden of health finance reform to State Budget have been
made.
Health Financing Institution Draft Law has been reviewed and revised by the officials from the
related Ministries, Institutions and Organisations since the law proposal became void in the
1995 legislation period.
A meeting has been held with the participation of the representatives from the Union of the
Turkish Insurance and Reinsurance Companies, Private Insurance Companies and
Undersecreteriat of Treasury and PCU of MoH in order to evaluate the operation and the
establishment principles of Health Financing Institution and the role of private insurance
companies within the Health Financing Institution Model, the problems that may be encountered
in practice and in order to forward the subjects to be tackled by MoH and Undersecreteriat of
Treasury.
Draft Law has been revised as "Individual Health Insurance System and Operations and
Establishment of Health Insurance Administration". The justifications regarding the said law
were prepared in accordance with the new model.
Succeeding the study, which has been conducted with the authorities of Prime Ministry State
Planning Institution and Undersecretariat of Treasury, Justice, Finance and Labor and Social
Security Ministries, technical correspondence has been achieved in May 12, 1998 among the
related parties, and the draft law of "Individual Health Insurance System and Operations and
Establishment of Health Insurance Administration" submitted to the Prime Ministry to be
discussed in Board of Ministries.
With the submission of "Individual Health Insurance System and Operations and Establishment
of Health Insurance Administration" to the Prime Ministry in May 1998, the assessment studies
regarding method and variety of the draft law with the directions of General Directorate of Prime
Ministry Laws and Decisions opinions had been made before sending it to the Turkish Grand
National Assembly.
The law proposal became void in the 1999 legislation period.
3. RESEARCHES
In the duration of First Health Project, some researches had been conducted for modeling
General Health Insurance for Turkey, determining of the total expenditure in health sector, asset
ownership of household related with income and a stimulation model for new operational rules
for hospitals.
These are;
*  1992 Health Services Utilization Research (1992-1993)
* Financing Flow Of Health Sector In 1993 (1994)
*  Income And Asset Ownership Study (1994)
*  Health Financing Policy Options (1994-1996)
*  Cost Survey of Health Services (1 992-1994)
* Health Enterprises Model Research (1994-1998)
*  Health Expenditures And Financing Study (1992-1998)



Turkey: ICR - First Health Project                                           51
4.   SUSTAINABILITY
Due to short term governments, changements in govemment's priorities and early general
elections the draft laws regarding General Health Insurance in Turkey could had not been
enacted in the Parliament till today.
HOSPITAL REFORM DIVISION
1. OBJECTIVES
One of the components of the reforms within the First Health Project is the decentralisation of
the hospitals that are under the auspices of MoH by means of preparing the Draft Basic Law on
Hospital and Health Enterprises. During the First Health Project, following studies have been
undertaken
2. IMPLEMENTATION
2.1 THE PREPARATION OF THE DRAFT BASIC LAW ON HOSPITALS AND HEALTH
ENTERPRISES
The purpose of this Law is to arrange basic principles regarding the establishment, operation,
service provision and utilisation of the hospitals and health organisations, in order to ensure
high quality, effective and efficient delivery of second and third level health services. Until
recently, the studies on the draft law have been carried out with the required corrections and
changes in parallel to the priorities and programs of the governments.
2.2. STUDY ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL
SYSTEMS IN THE AUTONOMOUS HOSPITALS
The aim was to establish and develop the appropriate organisational and functional systems
that would enable autonomous hospitals to operate in an effective and efficient way.
2.3. THE PREPARATIVE STUDIES REGARDING THE CONTRACTS BETWEEN
HOSPITALS AND PROVINCIAL HEALTH DIRECTORATES
The study offered a framework that would enable contracts to be implemented appropriately in
the prospective, new health system. By making good use of the outputs of the study, a sample
contract text to be signed between provincial health directorates and hospitals was prepared.
2.4. THE STUDIES REGARDING THE UNIFORM ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
Parallel with the main objective of establishing the autonomous financial structure in the
MoH Hospitals proposed in the "Draft Basic Law on Hospitals and Health Enterprises" as
well as of improving the current structure, the aim of this study is to develop a financial
management system that would enable hospitals to determine the costs of the services
they provide, monitor these costs, easily perform budgeting and financial reporting
activities and take alternative investment decisions.



52                                               Turkey: ICR - First Health Project
2.5. HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT STUDIES
This study has been carried out in the Eski*ehir and Bilecik hospitals selected as pilot
hospitals. This study offers a management model for the Health Enterprises proposed by
the Draft Basic Law on Hospitals and Health Enterprises.
2.6. THE STUDY ON THE CRITERIA FOR CONVERTING THE HOSPITALS INTO THE
HEALTH ENTERPRISES
The aim was to determine the minimum criteria regarding the service and technical
provision, required for hospitals to be autonomised as well as the admission to the
autonomisation procedure, evaluation and admission process and the requirements for
the admission.



BULGARIA                                               0BD26R
(io\9EdTn. ®Ki,kIo...Ii                                          '-SogGEORGIA
GREECE             '                   "-. r®oglo                                                                                                                                                     ATI4yj            A
/ 6IokoE  ®K.oetoonnom                                                    ~,<~f®                                 A tn
emil®    ®~~~ekqeya  ..  -  .'  ~ ~ ~ h)Y       6@oa                                                             j       Rose / ~~~ ARMENI 
5/v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BYUT E~' X[P4k                                                       "                  RZU"RUM                    G'n
CANA!3KAQ,~                                                                                ,kI                 '      < /         7~-/EZNA                                                     
34/                        Rn0,00,       '1~-
RinseR10  /7/   /    ,,     /,~~~~~'  ~                      sno/ MERINCAN<R  O    AN                                    RP.O
IAN    RAN O
®Koyoeo  >      t  ~~MAId BA      ELAZfQ                               >      Bifl'2
Aydin®  Donmoli       '3                                Ronpo        Ak.ono.                                /A~`RAMAN)'           ~       ~         Y                tk      Y      - (  
0        'F  Ad0 
k    ;"        A                                                                     HA~KEAR'-,
//X, ~ ~ ~~~~Anop®*   V4,                                                                                                       Sn3roSANUL'RPA                              /3 4
7/, 3-,                                                                                                                ft                   A~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A 
'o                                                                   .~~~~~~~~ 
3.3.7/4           (AOl0~~" 41                  SY RIA N                                       TURKEY
A R AB R EP.                     FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
NOTE TIn nonoonohpnooioes  (ElPROVINCE CAPITALS                  PROJECT PROVINCES
non, -Icp- one- Noenh-n          NATIONAL CAPITAL                     POPULATION DENS TY
-35' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b nollbi1, beo-_dboo                                                                                                                        BY PROVINCE [j1985):
Aeeoodoynnne-ndIn                    RIVERS
Th,o,10 0-p  p-oboe by she Mop Se-ps ui3oP The World4 Book,                                                                                     on --oo,o ek on -- One0nneoh.k-
ondlonopdooninnpy, onhe pot of ho Wo/oh BnE Grup       if0    200          CYPRUS                                                 p-----1  ..i-dt.kPROVINCE BOUNDARIESŽ7/.kn
wdg---~~~~~~~~~~~~     KILOMETERS                                                                           b-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hsd on 1985 pno.-os bo-no,y  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  4
JllLY / 999



