Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15248
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1883-CE)
December 29, 1995
Energy and Project Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =      Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1988           =      US$ 1.0 = Rs 31.8
Intervening Year 1991         =      US$ 1.0 = Rs.41.4
Completion Year 1994          =      US$ 1.0 = Rs.49.4
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)              =      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 ton                         =      1000 kilograms (kg)
=     2200 pounds (lbs)
1 kilovolt (kv)                =     1000 volts (V)
1 megawatt (MW)               =      1000 kilowatts (kW)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
BOC        Bank of Ceylon
DRCC       District Reconstruction Coordinating Committee
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
ERRP       Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
GA         Government Agent
GOSL       Government of Sri Lanka
HDFC       Housing Development Finance Corporation Sri Lanka Ltd.
HH         Households
IDA        International Development Association
LC         Lanka Cement Ltd.
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MHP        Million Houses Program
MIS        Management Information Systems
MOFP       Ministry of Finance and Planning
MORR       Ministry of Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
MRR&SW     Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Social
Welfare
NEP        Northern and Eastern Provinces
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
NRSC       National Reconstruction Steering Committee
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PCR        Project Completion Report
RDA        Road Development Authority
REPPIA     Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and Industries
Authority
SMI        Small and Medium Industries
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
UNHCR      United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNDP       United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
WaaNngO, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offic of XM DiredowGral
Options Evaluaen
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka
Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1883-CE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Sri Lanka: Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1883-CE, approved in FY88) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office,
with Part II prepared by the Borrower. The loan for US$78 million was approved on March 15, 1988
and closed on June 30, 1994. A total of US$45.6 million were disbursed; the balance was canceled.
The main objectives of the project were to assist the Government of Sri Lanka (i) to deliver crucial
social needs to refugees returning to the North and East regions of the country, which had been ravaged by
civil war; (ii) to rehabilitate and upgrade basic infrastructure damaged in the conflict; and (iii) to
reestablish economic activities in these areas. Specific objectives of the project included: (i) clearing of
mined residential and agricultural areas; (ii) provision of resettlement grants; (iii) assistance for housing
construction and for the recovery of economic activities; and (iv) reconstruction of physical infrastructure.
The project's implementation experience was mixed because of renewed conflict, particularly in the
North. The main physical achievements of the project included the rehabilitation of roads, bridges, and a
cement plant. Loans for shelter reconstruction and for small and medium-sized enterprise rehabilitation
were also made. The bulk of project achievements occurred during the initial two years, when conditions in
the project area were relatively peaceful. After that, however, a deteriorating security environment
precluded any significant achievements and, in fact, undid much of what had been accomplished. Due to
the resurgence of armed conflict, a large part of the rehabilitated population was forced to move back to
refugee camps, and a portion of the restored assets and properties were damaged. The initial institutional
arrangements for project implementation underwent major changes during the life of the project and
progress was also jeopardized by weak implementation mechanisms.
The main lessons learned are: (i) that it is essential to have sustained peace in strife-tom areas for
reconstruction benefits to be achieved; and (ii) that flexibility in project design is key to project success,
particularly to make appropriate mid-course corrections.
On balance, the project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory, its institutional development
impact as negligible and its sustainability as unlikely, due to the resurgence of armed conflict. Bank and
Borrower performance are rated as satisfactory. Commitment to project objectives was high on both sides.
Organizational arrangements were judiciously designed and aid coordination was competently handled.
The PCR is of good quality.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
doficial duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1883-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No
PBEZABE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                            i-vi
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
I.           Project Identity                                           1
II.          Background                                                 1
III.         Project Objectives and Description                         3
IV.          Project Design and Organization                            4
V.           Project Implementation and Results                          4
VI.          Major Factors Affecting the Project                         6
VII.         Sustainability                                              8
VIII.        IDA and Borrower Performance                                8
IX.          Key Lessons Learned                                         9
X.           Future Operation                                           10
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                          12
PART III - STATISTICAL TABLES
I.           Related Loans and Credits                                 14
II.          Project Timetable                                         14
III.         Credit Disbursements                                      14
IV.          Project Implementation                                    15
V.   A.      Project Costs                                              16
B.     Project Financing                                          17
VI.  A.      Direct Benefits                                            17
B.     Economic Impact                                            18
C.     Financial Impact                                           18
D.     Studies                                                    18
VII.         Status of Covenants                                        18
VIII.A.      Staff Inputs                                               19
B.     Field Missions                                             19
Annexure 1 - Assistance Pledged by Donors - 1987-88                     20
Map - IBRD 19995                                                        22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents nmay not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bankc authorization. 






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1883-CE)
Preface
This  is  the  Project  Completion  Report   (PCR)   for  the  Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project, for which Credit 1883-CE in the
amount of SDR 55 million (US$78 million) was approved on March 15, 1988 and
declared effective on June 20, 1988.   The credit was originally scheduled to
close on December 31, 1991. It closed on June 30, 1994, after two extensions.
Final disbursement took place on November 23, 1994, at which time a balance of
SDR 5,278,040.59 was canceled.  Earlier,  an amount of SDR 16,434,604.00 was
canceled on August 19, 1993.  With these cancellations, the net amount of the
credit was limited to SDR 33,287,355.41.   The latter includes a refund of SDR
32,583.34 (US$51,336.68) due from the Government of Sri Lanka to IDA.
The PCR was prepared by S. Vijay Iyer of the Energy and Project Finance
Division. It has been reviewed by Messrs. Per Ljung, Chief, Energy and Project
Finance Division and Paul Blay, Acting Project Adviser, Country Department I,
South Asia Regional Office.
Preparation of this PCR began during an IDA mission in February 1994.1 It
is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower and internal
IDA memoranda. The Borrower has commented on Parts I and III of this report.
The Borrower's own evaluation of the project is included in Part II.
The generous assistance to the PCR mission provided by officials of the
Government of Sri Lanka and its various agencies is gratefully acknowledged.
The completion mission was initially undertaken in February 1994 and preparation of the PCR was
started soon thereafter. However, partly because of uncertain conditions in the areas covered by
the project, there were delays in obtaining the information required for completing the report.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1883-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    This  Project  Completion  Report   (PCR)   reviews  the  implementation
experience of an Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP)
designed to assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to provide for the
emergency rehabilitatiop of the Northern and Eastern parts of the country. The
ERRP was designed to deliver critical social needs for returning refugees,
rehabilitate and upgrade basic infrastructure damaged in the civil conflict and
reestablish economic activities.
2.    Since the early eighties, ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka has raged in the
Northern and Eastern provinces. The impact on the civilian population has been
devastating, resulting in the displacement of nearly 12,000 families, mostly
Tamils, who sought refuge in various camps within the country and fled to
neighboring areas,  mostly  to  India.    The  immediate  context  of  assistance
provided through this project was the peace agreement between the GOSL and the
Tamil leadership, mediated by the Government of India and its army in 1987. The
establishment of peace led to an international effort to channel donor funding
of relief and rehabilitation in order to place the peace process on a sound
socio-economic  footing.  The  project  was  identified  in  September  1987  and
following appraisal and Board approval, the credit became effective in June
1988.   IDA approved a credit of US$ 78 million,  and the total project cost
including GOSL's contribution of US$ 33.4 million was US$ 111.4 million. There
was no cofinancing for this project, but a number of donor agencies, including
the UNDP, were involved in supporting the GOSL's overall reconstruction and
rehabilitation program.   Technical assistance financed by UNDP played a key
role in the project. (see paras 2.2-2.5 and 5.1 in Part I) Although significant
achievements were registered in the first two years of the project (1988-89),
lasting peace proved to be elusive, and hostilities resumed in mid-1990.   The
impact of this project since that time has been marginal, at least in the
Northern province.   The Eastern province, where peaceful conditions persisted
for a longer duration, benefited more substantially from the project.
Project Objectives
3.    The project aimed to deliver immediate assistance to GOSL so as to enable
returnees to resettle and resume their economic and social activities.   Thus,
the project envisaged the clearing of mined residential and agricultural areas,
provision of resettlement grants for returning families, assistance for housing



ii
reconstruction and for revival of economic activities, and the rehabilitation
of physical infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, transportation and
telecommunications. The project was initially envisaged to be implemented over
a three year period from 1988 to 1991 and consisted of six components:(a)
clearing mines and debris from and securing housing, agricultural and
commercial areas, (b) shelter reconstruction, (c) revival of local industry and
other economic activities, (d) rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, (e)
re-establishment  of  telecommunications,   and  (f)  provision  of  technical
assistance for implementation and monitoring. (Section III, Part I of main
report. )
Ilementation Experience and Results
4.    The results of the project have been mixed.    Project  implementation
progress has closely paralleled the security situation in the affected regions.
Implementation experience in the first half, i.e. in the period from June 1988
to the first half of 1990, was satisfactory as a result of conducive field
conditions in the project areas.   Following the renewed conflict in the North
and East in June 1990, there was a serious setback to implementation efforts,
and the project came to a virtual standstill.   Displacement of families and
damage to public and private properties recurred in the conflict areas, undoing
the benefits accrued from earlier efforts. Limited reconstruction work started
again in early 1991 in the Eastern province as ground conditions stabilized
there.   These included road rehabilitation and other civil works within the
urban   council   areas   of   Trincomalee   and   Amparai,   restoration   of
telecommunication  services  in  Trincomalee  and  execution  of  the  housing
assistance program.   Due to improving conditions, the housing loan assistance
program was extended in the latter half of 1991 to two more districts in the
Northeast - Batticaloa and Vavuniya. However, to date it has not been possible
to re-establish civil works or any other reconstruction activity in the
Northern province. It would therefore, be accurate to say that the bulk of the
achievements under this project were limited to the initial two years.   The
poor  security  environment   since  June  1990  precluded  any  significant
achievements thereafter. (Section V of Part I.)
5.    Closing Date.  The original closing date of the project was December 31,
1991. The Government appealed to IDA and the donor community to keep the
funding in place, primarily to initiate activities if and when peace became
possible. Against the backdrop of possible restoration of peaceful conditions,
a donors' meeting in September 1991 endorsed continued assistance. The project
closing date was  accordingly extended to December  31,  1992.   The overall
implementation progress and rate of disbursements remained poor in the extended
period.  In fact until the end of December 1992, only 44 percent of the SDR 55
million credit had been disbursed.   However,  in the interest of aiding the
peace restoration effort and maintaining international donor interest, IDA as
the lead agency made an exception to its normal practices and concurred with
2
the  Government's  request  for  a  second  extension.      The  closing  date  was
extended to June 30, 1994, and the project finally closed on that date. Final
2
IDA agreed to extend the closing date even though project implementation had been rated
unsatisfactory. The exception was made only because of the special circumstances and IDA's desire
to deliver rapid help in case peaceful conditions were established.



iii
disbursements totaled SDR 33,287,355.41, against the original amount of SDR 55
million, a disbursement ratio of 60 percent.
6.    Physical Achievements. 'In terms of physical achievements, 480 kilometers
of roads and 2 bridges were rehabilitated or reconstructed.  Two cement plants
were repaired and rendered operable in the Northern province and digital
switching equipment for operating 1,000 telephone lines was procured and
installed.    Two passenger  launches were  also  financed  to restore  coastal
passenger transport services.   On the rehabilitation of returnees, a total of
38,620 households were granted loans for shelter reconstruction and 908 loans
were made to small and medium enterprises for restart of economic activities. A
variety of other activities, such as restoration and repairs to public
buildings, purchase of equipment (vehicles, municipal service equipment,
furniture etc.), training of staff and implementation support through
consultants were carried out under the credit. (Para 5.3, Section V, Part I.)
7.    Project Expenditures.   Financial expenditures by component are detailed
in table V of Part III.   Total project expenditures were Rs. 2,608 million
(approximately US$63 million), of which IDA financed Rs. 1,886 million (US$45.6
million) and GOSL Rs. 722 million (US$17.5 million). Overall, 38 percent of
expenditures were incurred on shelter programs, 6.6 percent on facilities and
micro-enterprise support, 6.3 percent on industrial rehabilitation, 32 percent
on infrastructure rehabilitation, 15 percent on telecommunications and the
balance on project and site preparation, solid waste pilot project and
technical assistance. (See Tables V A and B of Part III.)
8.    IDA Inputs.  IDA spent about 120 staff weeks on this operation, of which
about 55 staff weeks were devoted to project preparation, appraisal and Board
presentation and about 65 staff weeks were utilized for supervision and project
completion activities. The project was prepared and appraised with exceptional
speed and was delivered to the Board in less than seven months. In all,
fourteen missions were undertaken for project appraisal, supervision and
completion monitoring. (See tables VIII A and B of Part III.)
9.     Institutional Arrangements.   The institutional arrangements for project
implementation underwent several changes during the life of the project.
Initially, the National Reconstruction Steering Committee (NRSC) at the Central
level under the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP), the District
Reconstruction Coordinating Committee (DRCC) in each of the eight districts in
the Northern province, and Government Agents (GAs) in the other six districts
were charged with the principal responsibility of project implementation. The
NRSC was chaired by the Secretary to the MOFP and comprised of the GAs from the
14 districts, secretaries of the line ministries involved in reconstruction and
rehabilitation, participating Banks, Boards and Corporations and the Ministry
of Rehabilitation and Reconstruction. Since the rehabilitation effort was a top
priority of the Government, the NRSC was able to marshall resources and action
from most line ministries.   However, some weaknesses,  such as in procurement
for contracts and equipment, could not be addressed effectively, leading to
delays in implementing critical components. The NRSC was not handed a mandate
to carry out emergency procurement by streamlined procedures to minimize such
delays. (Para 4.2, Section IV, Part I.)



iv
10.   Project   implementation   and   institutional   arrangements   benefited
considerably from technical assistance provided by the UNDP. Its assistance was
instrumental in establishing information systems, meeting expert staffing and
consulting needs and training of local staff. The TA extended to providing a
full-time, resident ex-patriate advisor to the MORR for implementation support
on a continuing basis.
11.   With  the  constitutional  amendments  carried  out  in  April  1990,  the
Provincial Councils (PCs) began to participate in the implementation of the
project. The newly constituted PCs were not organized to immediately undertake
these tasks. The lack of adequate organization and administrative capacity in
the PCs led to further delays in project  implementation.   The Government's
inability to quickly conclude efficient administrative and fiscal arrangements
with the PCs led to diffused lines of control and responsibility,  and impeded
smooth flow of funds for rehabilitation activities.   By the time these issues
were satisfactorily resolved, the ground conditions had deteriorated and the
project activities ceased. (Para 4.3, Section IV, Part I.)
Sustainability
12.   Though  the  project  was  reasonably  successful  in  meeting  immediate
returnee-induced needs, it had only limited impact on the condition of physical
infrastructure. The sustainability of project benefits has been seriously
compromised by the resurgence of armed conflict and its continuance to the
present day. Thus, a large part of the rehabilitated population was forced to
move back into refugee camps and rehabilitated infrastructure suffered repeated
damage in the ongoing war.   Since no missions to the Northern part of the
island have taken place since 1991, it is difficult to estimate the extent of
the damage.   A mission in 1994 visited the Amparai district in the Eastern
province.   It reported that a great deal of normalcy had been achieved in the
area and there were visible signs of resurgent economic activity. However, the
physical infrastructure was in poor shape and telecommunications, roads,
bridges and water supply were in urgent need of attention.   The findings of a
subsequent "Minimum Needs Assessment, " conducted as part of this project,
confirmed that much of the restored. assets and properties have been severely
damaged in the ongoing war.3 (Para 7.1, Section VII, Part I.)
13.   The likelihood of similar operations of this nature in the future is
entirely dependent on the establishment of peace in the strife-torn areas. The
peace initiatives launched by the newly elected government in late 1994 raised
expectations about bringing an end to the conflict and the establishment of
lasting peace.   However, recent events have belied these expectations and the
war is once again raging in the Northern and Eastern parts of the country.
Although donor sentiment to provide reconstruction assistance to the country is
favorable, the likelihood of such operations being launched in the near term is
fairly remote.    In case an operation becomes possible,  the  "Minimum Needs
3 Ministry of Shipping, Ports, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation, Government of Sri Lanka,
'Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Programme (ERRP)- Phase II, Draft Final Report by
Resources Development Consultants Ltd., March 1995.



v
Assexammntw carried out under this project would provide a reasonable basis to
initiate such project preparation.4 (Para 7.2, Section VII, Part I.)
14.  Institutional Arrangements.   The Government's resolve to advance the
project was only partially translated into effective implementation.   A key
impediment was the weak mandate of the implementation committees to adopt
streamlined and expeditious procurement procedures, issue directions to
implementation units organized with other line ministries and establish clear
lines of control and responsibility.  The information flow to the NRSC, which
virtually granted approval to all individual projects, was poor and subject to
delays, causing implementation slippage. One of the key lessons, therefore
relates to establishment of more effective institutional arrangements for
project implementation and monitoring. These findings underscore a need for Sri
Lanka to streamline its basic procedures for managing public investment
operations, to ensure both quality and timeliness of decisionmaking. In areas
where such procedures have traditionally been weak, such as in procurement,
revision of existing procedures would greatly enhance project performance.
15.   IDA's  experience  with central  project  coordination by a high  level
Government task force in the Emergency Recovery Project in Jordan has been more
favorable.5 Streamlined procurement arrangements were ensured during project
commencement  and  the  monitoring  was  carried  out  through  a  Project
Implementation Unit attached to the Task Force.  A similar arrangement, where
the Task Force has high profile leadership and is mandated to make quick
procurement decisions and issue administrative directions to implementation
units, would be much more effective in future emergency assistance operations.
(Para 9.1 & 9.2, Section 9, Part I.)
16.   Flexibility in Project Design.  The circumstances that surround emergency
rehabilitation   projects   necessarily   call   for  speedy  preparation   and
implementation. Hence there is a need to ensure that continuous monitoring and
feedback influences the project attributes in order to adapt to changing ground
conditions. It is desirable to keep the initial design of the project simple
and build in flexibility to make appropriate mid-course corrections, as
circumstances warrant. (Para 9.3, Section 9, Part I.)
17.   Inatitutional Capacity. Although borrower commitment was very strong in
this project, prospective implementing agencies were less associated with
project preparation and appraisal than the Bank now tries to ensure in similar
operations. Part of this problem was due to the limited capacity of traditional
institutions to carry out this type of work. The poor ownership by the
implementing agencies and non-government organizations (NGOs) ultimately
manifested itself in sub-optimal project performance. An important lesson is
4bid
Jordan - Emergency Recovery Project," Project Completion Report (No. 13742) dated December 1,
1994, Country Department II, Industry and Energy Division, Middle East and North Africa Region.



vi
therefore, to build sufficient capacity in traditional institutions, early-on,
so as to enable their meaningful participation in formulating and appraising
the project.    This  approach  should  extend  to  identifying  non-traditional
institutions, such as NGOs and local community based organizations, for
strengthening   implementation   through  participatory  approaches.   However,
institutional capacity building and participatory approaches during project
initiation tend to conflict with the objective of delivering speedy assistance.
Hence, the scope for capacity building and participation had to be moderated to
accommodate the desire for speed.   A flexible project design, that seeks to
build capacity in an incremental fashion, would be more suited to such
operations. (Para 9.4, Section 9, Part I.)
Future Operation
18.   In view of the serious security situation in the project areas,  it is
unlikely that the present operation would deliver any further benefits.   In
fact, past achievements of the project have been largely eroded by the
continuing conflict.    The Government can continue its rehabilitation efforts
in the Eastern province, where reasonably peaceful conditions prevail. However,
few donor funds are forthcoming at this stage for reconstruction activities and
the Government's ability to finance such activities from own resources is
severely limited by large defence requirements. In the event that more lasting
peace becomes a possibility, a new operation might be necessary to initiate
reconstruction activities in the affected areas and to rehabilitate refugees
displaced by the conflict.   The Minimum Needs Assessment,  financed by the
Credit in the later stages of the project, has set the stage for such future
operations by preparing a corpus of basic information on present day ground
conditions  in the North and East.   Against  the background of this prior
preparation and the Government's implementation experience, there is a far
greater likelihood of new projects being more successful in meeting relief and
rehabilitation needs. (Para 10.1 and 10.2, Section X, Part I.)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
ERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJRCT
(Credit 1883-CE)
Part I - Project Review Fron IDA' PermMective
I. Project Identity
Project Name:            Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.:              1883-CE
RVP Unit:                South Asia Region
Country :                Sri Lanka
Sector/Sub-sector:       Emergency Rehabilitation
Total Project Cost:      US$ 111.4 million
IDA Financing:           US$  78.0 million
GOSL Financing:          US$  33.4 million
II. BackgXond
2.1   A peace agreement was signed on July 29, 1987 between the Government of
Sri Lanka (GOSL) and Tamil separatist organizations, aimed at putting an end to
the four-year ethnic conflict in the Northern and Eastern parts of the country.
The conflict is estimated to have cost 7,000 lives, with thousands more
wounded, and rendering nearly 500,000 people homeless.   In the wake of the
peace agreement, the GOSL launched a comprehensive emergency program to restore
economic and social infrastructure in the affected areas, facilitate the quick
return and resettlement of displaced persons and re-establish essential
services.
2.2   At  the request  of the Government,  bilateral and multi-lateral  donor
agencies pledged nearly US$500 million for emergency rehabilitation and
reconstruction in 1987. By the end of 1990, agreements had been signed for
US$366 million and about US$160 million had been disbursed by donors to finance
various activities. Following the withdrawal of the Indian Peace Keeping Force
(IPKF), conflict between the security forces and the separatists started again,
bringing reconstruction efforts to a standstill. The renewed conflict also
meant that more people were displaced, killed or injured and increased the
damage  to  infrastructure  and  housing.    Reconstruction  and  rehabilitation
efforts continued in some peaceful or cleared areas, mainly in the Eastern
province.
2.3 The magnitude of the area and population affected by the civil war can be
gauged from the statistics in Table 1 and the map at the end of this report.
The affected areas constituted nearly 30 percent of the island's area and
approximately 15 percent of the country's population. The war had been raging



2
for nearly 6 years prior to the project's initiation and preliminary field
reports indicated a high degree of damage to infrastructure, housing and other
productive assets. Agriculture activities were virtually at a standstill in or
near areas of intense conflict as access routes had been heavily mined or
breached.
Table 1: Area and Population of Affected Districts
District     Land area      Inland     Total Area     Population       Population
Waters
Sq. Kma.                  Sq. Kms.      1981 (000's)    1989 (000's)
Sq. KMs.
Jaffna         984           42          1026            831             855
Mannar         1985          11          1996            106             127
Kilinochchi      1235          44           1279           na               97
Vavuniya        1967          0           1967            95              112
Mullaitivu      2517          100          2617            77               90
Batticaloa      2686          168          2854            330             401
Amparaii        4318          97          4415            389             465
Trincomalee      2631          96           2726           256              307
Total         18333         558         18881           2084            2454
Source: Ministry of Shipping, Ports, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation, Government of Sri Lanka,
-Energency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Progranume (ERRP)- Phase IS,' Draft Final Report by
Resources Development Consultants Ltd., March 1995.
2.4   IDA took the lead role in organizing other donors for the relief effort,
and in this regard a special Aid Group meeting was convened on December 4, 1987
in Paris. It was decided at this meeting that IDA and the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), would intervene in major components, such as restoration of
infrastructure, restart of industrial activity and housing. Thus the project
was undertaken in conjunction with other aid efforts involving bilateral
agencies, non-governmental organizations, UNDP and the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
2.5   The project is remarkable for its speed of preparation and appraisal.
Work was initiated in September 1987, and the project was ready for Board
approval in February 1988.   Project apprasail took place during November 1987
and Board approval was granted in March 1988.   The credit became effective in
June 1988. IDA approved a credit of US$ 78 million against a total project cost



3
of US$ 111.4 million and a US$ 33.4 million contribution by GOSL. There was no
cofinancing for this project, but a number of donor agencies, including the
UNDP, were involved in supporting the GOSL's overall reconstruction and
rehabilitation program. Financial aid pledged by donors in 1987 is summarized
in Annexure 1.
III. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project aimed to deliver immediate assistance to GOSL over a three
year period (1988-91) to enable returnees to resettle and resume their economic
and social activities.   Thus,  the project envisaged the clearing of mined
residential and agricultural areas, provision of resettlement grants for
returning families, assistance for housing reconstruction and for revival of
economic activities, and the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, such as
roads, bridges, transportation and telecommunications.
3.2   The project aimed to support the following activities:
(a)   Site Preparation (USS1.0 million). Defusing of explosives and clearance
of rubble from public and private areas and restoration of survey
markers.
(b)   Shelter  Reconstruction  (USS29  million).  Partial  funding  of  GOSL's
reconstruction program under two ongoing assistance schemes; a US$22
million rehabilitation scheme managed by the Rehabilitation of Persons,
Properties and Industries Authority (REPPIA) and a US$7 million program
under the Million Houses Program (MHP).
(c)   Assistance  to  Tndustry  (USt17  million). Funding  to  provide  credit
facilities for restarting industries using REPPIA loans (US$4.8 million),
Small and Medium industry (SMI) loans (US$4.8 million), credit through
NGOs to low income groups (US$1.8 million) and rehabilitation of two
cement plants in Jaffna (US$5.6 million).
(d)   Infrastructure Rehabilitation  (USS48 million).  This component included
US$33 million for rehabilitation of about 825 Kms. Of roads and bridges,
US$8 million for urban infrastructure, such as drainage, water supply and
power distribution systems, US$3.5 million for public buildings, US$2
million for equipment and municipal  services and US$1.5 million for
purchase of vehicles for Government departments.
(e)   Telecommunications  (USS13  million).  Partial  financing  of  a  larger
requirement of US$44.1 million to set up about 9,600 lines with digital
switching equipment for Jaffna, Trincomalee and five other towns, basic
telephone services and repair and replacement of damaged equipment.  The
US$13 million under IDA credit was envisaged to finance a priority
program to provide minimal service to Jaffna and Trincomalee and replace
stores used for immediate repairs.   The funding for the balance of the
program was anticipated from other bilateral donors.
(f)   Technical Assistance  (USS4 million).    This component was  to provide
additionality to UNDP's Technical Assistance, feasibility studies,



4
institutional support, consulting services for planning, implementation
and supervision and training.
IV. Prolect Design and Organization
4.1   The project was prepared over a period of seven months (from initiation
to board presentation) to implement the Government's emergency rehabilitation
program.  The institutional arrangements developed for the program and project
implementation attempted to provide a means for the ultimate beneficiaries to
have a voice in project management, and proposed workable arrangements, given
the multi-sectoral nature of the program and the three levels of Government
involvement: Federal, Provincial and District.
4.2   The institutional design of the project revolved around the creation of
two key committees; the National Reconstruction Steering Committee (NRSC) at
the Federal level under the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) and the
District Reconstruction Coordinating Committee (DRCC), one in each of the eight
districts in the Northern Province and the Government Agents (GAs) in the
remaining six districts. The NRSC, chaired by the Secretary, MOFP, comprised of
the GAs from the other districts, secretaries of the main line ministries
involved in Reconstruction and Rehabilitation, participating banks, boards and
corporations and the Ministries of Rehabilitation and Reconstruction and the
MOFP. The functions of the NRSC included providing administrative and financial
approval for project proposals, authorize fund transfers to the line agencies,
monitor implementation and resolve conflicts. The DRCCs were headed by the
respective GAs and consisted of district representatives of various line
agencies, citizen committee representatives and NGOs.
4.3   In 1988, the GOSL elevated the Ministry of Rehabilitation to the Cabinet
level and renamed it as the Ministry of Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
(MORR). The NRSC was also accordingly moved to the MORR from the MOFP in May
1988. However, the Secretary of the MOFP continued to be the Chairman of the
NRSC.   The  funds  for the project  were  to be  channeled through  the MORR.
However, the project administration arrangements were changed more than once by
GOSL, partly to ensure more efficient management and partly to accommodate
changes in the structure of Government, such as the formation of Provincial
Councils in the NEPs.
V. Project Implementation and Results
5.1   Final disbursements under the project were nearly US$45 million, or 60
percent of the approved credit of US$78 million.  In the first two years (1988
and 1989) of the project, the ground conditions were favorable and the initial
components of the project related to site clearing, removal of debris and
rubble, procurement of basic equipment and restart of essential services
proceeded  without  any  major  problems.    However,  the  security  conditions
gradually worsened, and in 1990 with the pullout of the IPKF, ground conditions
degenerated considerably as armed conflict resumed between the separatists and
the Sri Lankani army. Project implementation, which peaked during 1989-90,
worsened in tandem with the deteriorating security environment and came to a
virtual standstill. Limited reconstruction activities were restored in the
Eastern province as more peaceable conditions returned to those areas in 1991.



5
5.2   As a result of the circumstances outlined in the earlier paragraph, the
implementation experience and   development impact of the project have been
mixed. Implementation progress was rated good to satisfactory until May 1990,
but was rated poor thereafter. As a result, the achievement of project
objectives fell far short of expectations. For several components under the
project, such as purchase of government vehicles, repairs to public buildings
and purchase of municipal services equipment, final and reliable physical
progress figures are not available. One has to assume that implementation
performance against these components is poor.   The 'softer' components of the
projects, namely resettlement grants, housing loans and micro-enterprise
credits are more well documented.   The achievements of specific components of
the project are summarized in the following paragraphs.
(a)   Site  Preparation.   Initial  site  preparation  activities  and  rubble
clearance were accomplished early to pave the way for resettlement of
returnees and construction of housing and other infrastructure.  A total
cost of US$0.24 million was incurred, of which nearly US$0.18 million was
financed from the IDA credit.
(b)   Shelter Reconstruction.  Under this component,  7,286 loans for shelter
reconstruction were granted to families with monthly incomes under Rs.
1,500,  against, an appraisal target of 8,293 loans.   For families with
incomes between Rs. 701 to Rs. 1,500 per month, 10,327 loans were made
against an appraisal target of 40,000. In addition, the IDA credit part
financed  20,000  loans under  the MHP.   Total  expenditure under this
component was US$24 million, IDA contributing US$15.5 million and the
Government, US$8.4 million.
lc)   Assistance to Industry.  SMI and micro-enterprise loans for restart of
economic activities were granted under this component. In all, 793 loans
were made against an appraisal target of 908 loans, for a total cost of
US$4.1 million (IDA US$2.7 million and GOSL US$1.4 million) These numbers
include the loans made through REPPIA, commercial banks and NGOs.   The
appraisal estimates envisaged an expenditure of nearly US$17 million
under this component.   However, due to the fragile nature of the peace
conditions, there was little likelihood of substantial achievements under
this component.
(d)   Infrastructure   Rehabilitation.   Against   an   appraisal   target   of
rehabilitating 825 kilometers of roads and 32 bridges, final achievements
were far below expectations. Only  480 kilometers of road length and 2
bridges were reconstructed. Total expenditure was US$11.3 millions, with
an IDA contribution of nearly US$8 million. Rehabilitation of public
buildings and purchase of equipment accounted for US$8.3 million, with an
IDA share of US$5.0 million. Details of equipment purchased under the
credit could not be compiled (as details were not provided by the
Government) . A further expenditure of US$0.87 million was incurred on
rehabilitation of infrastructure in Jaffna town. Under this component,
two passenger launches were also financed to restore coastal passenger
transport  services.    The  total  expenditure  under  this  component  was
nearly US$20.6 million (IDA US$13.8 million) against an appraisal
estimate of US$48 million.



6
(e) Telecommunications. Procurement delays and installation problems hampered
satisfactory implementation of this component, leading to an overall
achievement of 1,000 lines, against the appraisal estimate of 9,600
lines.   The total cost of equipment purchased and installation amounted
to US$9.2 million, US$8.5 million of which was met from IDA credit.
Telephone services in Trincomalee were partially restored in 1991, with
the installation of 1,000 line capacity,  digital equipment.   However,
owing to unsettled conditions, the Jaffna installation could not be
carried out.  The equipment procured for Jaffna was finally installed in
the southern town of Hikkaduwa after obtaining a no-objection from IDA.
(f)   Technical Assistance.   The principal TA for implementation supervision
and capacity building was provided by UNDP.   However,  IDA provided
additionality to UNDP's TA by supporting the hiring of consultants for
setting up returnee registration and management information systems (MIS)
systems for the NRSC and consulting services for planning, implementation
and supervision and training. Total disbursements under this component
were approximately US$8.0 million, including a pilot solid waste project
and project preparation expenses.
VI. Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.1   Factors Not Subject to Governmental Control. The principal problem beyond
the implementing agencies' control was the uncertain security environment. The
project was seriously compromised by the resurgence of armed conflict and its
attendant consequences.   The recurrence of war caused additional damage to
economic assets and properties, particularly in the Jaffna peninsula.  It also
led to displacement of resettled population, forcing the Government to revive
the welfare centers and other relief measures.   Lesser contributory factors
were the difficulties associated with movement of materials and personnel in
the affected areas owing to the economic and security embargoes imposed as a
result of the war.
6.2   Factors Subject to Governmental Control.   There were several factors
within the Government's control that affected project performance, positively
or negatively. The Government's commitment to the reconstruction effort, even
in the face of extremely adverse political circumstances, was unwavering. This
commitment translated into availability of adequate counterpart funding,
priority attention to matters concerning the project and good coordination
among various donor agencies involved with the overall leconstruction effort.
The financial and institutional support from UNDP to the MORR was instrumental
in sustaining a consistent Government response to implementation needs.
6.3   Procurement.  Delays in procurement decisions caused significant slippage
in project implementation.   IDA had recommended the creation of a permanent
Tender Board to expedite procurement decisions. The tender boards did not
become functional until July 1989. However, the tender boards were abolished
soon after and decision making reverted to departments and ministries. This led
to the loss of any advantage that the NRSC had enjoyed in expeditious decision
making. IDA also repeatedly articulated the need to increase the threshold



7
limits for approvals on procurement issues vested with various officers,
departments and ministries. Any decision beyond five million rupees was
required to be made by the Cabinet, which led to serious delays. It was quite
common for procurement decisions to be delayed until beyond the expiry of the
bid validity period (120 days). Prospective suppliers and contractors,
therefore, factored these delays into bid prices, raising costs.
6.4    Coordination.         In  view   of  the  multiplicity   of  agencies   involved,
coordination  was  extremely  important.    The  NRSC,  with  UNDP  support,  did  a
commendable job generally.   However, with respect to certain agencies, such as
the  Road  Development  Authority  (RDA),  NRSC  had  limited  impact  on  project
implementation.    Hence,  the  progress  in  some  components  lagged  appreciably,
adversely affecting project performance. Organizationally, the MORR was on par
with other major line ministries, which tended to reduce its ability to enforce
its mandate with agencies like the RDA. In view of the experience, it would
have been better to establish a separate body, either as a dedicated ministry
or an executive task force with an appropriate legislative mandate to oversee
reconstruction and rehabilitation. In fact, this is also the recommendation of
the UNDP in the light of its experience with the project (for UNDP' s findings
see box)
ERRP - The UNDP Assessment
The UNDP carried out an independent assessment of the performance of the umbrella Emergency Reconstruction
and Rehabilitation program (ERRP). The UNDP played a significant role in assisting project preparation, building
institutional capacity and providing technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring. The principal
benefit emanating from the UNDP's involvement has been capacity creation in the Govemment for mobilizing donor
funds, coordinating all aspects of donor assistance, establishing management information systems in the relevant
agencies and formulating strategies for design and implementation of such projects in the future. This directly
complements IDA's work in helping Govemment identify future physical needs for reconstruction and rehabilitation
of the affected areas as a part of the ERRP.
According to the UNDP assessment, implementation weaknesses have primanly resulted from viewing emergency
assistance and rehabilitation efforts as an extension of traditional administrative tasks. The UNDP recommends that
project management for rehabilitation and reconstruction operations has to be vested in a self-contained, dedicated
ministry or executive body, with a clear legislative mandate, for optimal results. New projects in this area must take
account of participation by affected communities and incorporate elements designed to ensure a progression from
emergency reconstruction towards interim development planning. A practical manifestation of this approach would
be to strengthen the Divisional Secretary and Provincial Council levels of administration, so that they are able to
prepare interim development plans, rather than merely manage emergency or short-term responses.
Source: UNDP: Sri Lanka Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program; Report of the Evaluation Mission, July 1994
6.5    Audits.       The  project  frequently  suffered  from  inordinate  delays  in
accounting  and  audit  compliance.    The  audit  reports  were  submitted  to  IDA,
although usually well beyond the period stipulated in the Credit Agreement. In
this context, the Government's response to the concerns expressed by IDA was
not satisfactory, a fact which is expressed repeatedly in supervision reports.



8
VII. Sustainability
7.1   The project was  reasonably successful  in meeting  immediate  returnee-
induced needs over a limited duration and catalyzing the restart of economic
activity in the affected areas.   However, because of the renewed fighting,it
failed to have a lasting impact on the condition of physical infrastructure.
The sustainability of project benefits has to be viewed in the context of the
overall security environment  in these areas.   As pointed out earlier,  the
resurgence of armed conflict and its continuance to the present day has
seriously undermined the limited benefits created by the project.   Thus,  a
large part of the rehabilitated population was forced to move back into refugee
camps and rehabilitated infrastructure suffered repeated damage in the ongoing
war. Because no missions to the Northern part of the island have taken place
since 1991, it is difficult to estimate the extent of the damage. A mission in
1994 visited the Amparai district in the Eastern province. It reported that a
great deal of normalcy had been achieved in the area and there were visible
signs of resurgent economic activity. However, the physical infrastructure was
in poor shape and telecommunications, roads, bridges and water supply were in
urgent need of attention. This reinforces the impression that household and
economic assistance was delivered in a sustainable manner, but the results on
the infrastructure side are weak. Unless peaceful conditions persist for a
reasonable length of time, it would be difficult to sustain even the limited
benefits accruing from the project.
7.2   As the security situation in the North continued to worsen during the
latter half of the project, it became apparent that future reconstruction
initiatives in that area might have to be fashioned in the form of new
projects.   In order to have a basis for preparing a future reconstruction
project, IDA and GOSL agreed to use credit funds to finance the preparation of
a minimum needs assessment. An assessment was accordingly carried out during
1993-94. The assessment provides data on the nature and extent of economic and
infrastructure related rehabilitation needs in the strife-torn areas, with a
view to pave the way for future reconstruction efforts, as and when peace is
restored.   The report has been finalized in draft form and would serve as the
principal basis for future project preparation.
VIII. IDA and Borrower Performance
8.1       IDA  and  the  Government  collaborated  well  in  quickly  identifying
returnee needs, designing the operation and rapidly mobilizing donor support.
IDA played a lead role in orchestrating the donor response to the
rehabilitation project and was instrumental in quickly organizing the joint
conference  in  Paris.    This  facilitated Government  efforts  to  fashion  the
umbrella program on relief and rehabilitation, involving nearly 20 donors.
IDA's participation was instrumental in effectively coordinating the necessary
institutional arrangements.   Project implementation in the first two years of
the project was relatively smooth, except for procurement delays alluded to
earlier.



9
8.2   The project was characterized by a high degree of commitment, both on the
borrower's  side and on behalf of the donor agencies.   Hence,  it received
priority attention from the Government in the matter of counterpart funding and
administrative resources.   The institutional arrangements, such as the set-up
of the NRSC and upgrading the Rehabilitation Department to the status of a full
ministry,  were competently handled.   Areas in which the Government's  field
agencies had a major role, such as in registration of returnees, distribution
of settling in allowance, site clearance and mobilization of construction
materials, proceeded satisfactorily, though with minor hurdles.
8.3   The NRSC, first under the Ministry of Planning, and later under the MORR
was reasonably well organized. In this respect, UNDP assistance in identifying
staffing needs, installing management information systems and providing
international expertise for supervision and control was critical. The quality
of most NRSC staff was exceptionally high and it quickly established fairly
efficient working arrangements with the various line and field agencies.   The
NRSC could have been made more effective by vesting a stronger mandate to
encourage compliance by some line agencies and by quicker decisions on
procurement issues at the level of the Cabinet.
8.4   IDA supervision was adequate, timely and effective. Supervision missions
were thoughtfully staffed, and within IDA, the project received high priority
and attention from the senior management levels. IDA-Borrower dialogue was
maintained at a high level throughout the attempted implementation of the
project.  There were on average three annual missions in the first three years
of the project.  Following the security setbacks in 1990, missions became less
frequent.   After 1992, supervision missions for this project were generally
carried out in conjunction with other project missions.
IX. Key Lessons Learned
9.1   Institutional  Arrangements.    Although  the  Government  assigned  high
priority to the project, the implementation suffered from several drawbacks.
The key impediment was the weakness of the coordinating committees constituted
to  oversee  implementation.    The  committees  lacked  the  mandate  to  adopt
streamlined and expeditious procurement procedures, issue directions to
implementation units organized with other line ministries and establish clear
lines of control and responsibility.   The information flow to the national
level committees was also subject to bureaucratic delays, which in turn,
impeded effective feedback and monitoring. One of the key lessons, therefore
relates to establishment of more effective institutional arrangements for
project implementation and monitoring, as a recommendation which is relevant to
the whole government machinery for managing public investment projects.
9.2   IDA's  experience  with  central  project  coordination  by a  high  level
Government task force in the Emergency Recovery Project in Jordan has been more



10
favorable.6  Streamlined procurement arrangements were ensured during project
commencement   and  the  monitoring  was   carried  out   through   a  Project
Implementation Unit attached to the Task Force.  A similar arrangement, where
the Task Force has high profile leadership and is mandated to issue
administrative directions to implementation units, would be much more effective
in future emergency assistance operations.
9.3   Flexibility in Project Design.  The circumstances that surround emergency
rehabilitation   projects   necessarily   call   for   speedy  preparation   and
implementation. Hence there is a need to ensure that continuous monitoring and
feedback influences the project attributes in order to adapt to changing ground
conditions.   It is desirable to keep the initial design of the project simple
and build in flexibility to make appropriate mid-course corrections, as
circumstances warrant.   This would require a higher degree of supervision and
development of borrower capacity.
9.4   Institutional  Capacity  Building.  The  focus  of  IDA  operations  is
increasingly shifting towards borrower ownership. Traditional institutions in
developing countries have limited capacity and resources to implement complex
rehabilitation  projects  in  a  speedy  fashion.    Ideally,  initial  project
preparation should focus on building sufficient capacity in traditional
institutions, so that they are enabled to participate in formulating and
appraising  a  project.    This  approach  should  extend  to  identifying  non-
traditional institutions, such as NGOs and local community based organizations,
for strengthening implementation through participatory approaches. However, in
formulating emergency operations, time constraints and the desire to deliver
quick results militate against capacity building approaches.   To the extent
possible, both during project preparation and the initial stages of project
implementation,capacity building and establishing streamlined institutional
arrangements should be accorded priority.   In the ERRP,  although NGOs were
involved in a limited way in implementation, there was no input during the
preparation and appraisal stages. This in turn led to weak ownership and
commitment during implementation.
X. Future Operation
10.1 Through the operation of this project and other donor funded activities
of a similar nature, the Government has built up capacity and expertise to
launch a renewed rehabilitation project in the event that peace is restored.
However, in view of the serious security situation in the project areas, it is
unlikely that the present operation would deliver any further benefits.   In
fact, the achievements of the project have been largely eroded by the
continuing conflict.    The Government can continue its rehabilitation efforts
in the Eastern province, where reasonably peaceful conditions prevail. However,
few donor funds are forthcoming at this stage for reconstruction activities and
the Government's ability to finance such activities from own resources is
severely limited by large defence requirements.
"Jordan - Emergency Recovery Project," Project Completion Report (No. 13742) dated December 1,
1994, Country Department II, Industry and Energy Division, Middle East and North Africa Region.



11
10.2  In the event  that more  lasting peace becomes  a possibility,  a new
operation might  be necessary  to initiate  reconstruction activities  in the
affected areas and to rehabilitate refugees displaced by the conflict.   The
Minimum Needs Assessment has set the stage for such future operations by
preparing a corpus of basic information on present day ground conditions in the
North and East.   Against the background of this prior preparation and the
Government's implementation experience, there is a far greater likelihood of
new projects being more successful in meeting relief and rehabilitation needs.
At the recent Sri Lanka Aid Consortium meeting in Paris on April 28, 1995, IDA
and other donors reaffirmed their commitment to assist the country in its peace
efforts and its desire to establish favorable living conditions for the
affected population.



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1883-CE)
Part II - Proiect Review From Borrower's Perspective
The following evaluation was prepared by the Ministry of Shipping, Ports,
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction, in a letter to IDA dated June, 15, 1995.
This part of the PCR represents the Borrower's own unedited evaluation.   The
original letter is filed in the Asia Information Center.
Acknowledgment
The Ministry of Shipping, Ports, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction would
like to extend its deepest appreciation and gratitude to the World Bank for the
support granted to rehabilitate and reconstruct the affected persons and
property in affected areas especially in the Northern and Eastern provinces of
Sri Lanka during difficult times and abnormal circumstances.
The World Bank played an effective role as an umbrella organization in
organizing the donor funding and formulation and implementation of the
rehabilitation and reconstruction programme.
Comments on the performance of the World Bank
The bank personnel who associated with the project throughout were
recognized as professionals in all respects.   The Mission members were always
highly qualified in their respective fields. They were prompt and co-operative
and demonstrated commendable efficiency and dedication in all stages of the
project in designing, appraising, preparing, implementation and follow-up.
The supervision mission visited Sri Lanka regularly and worked hard with
the  National   Reconstruction   Steering   Committee   and  the  Ministry  of
Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Social Welfare and its successor, Ministry
of Shipping, Ports, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction to achieve the maximum
possible benefits under difficult conditions in which the project was
implemented. Considering the ever changing field situation and field realities
during the project period the Bank was co-operative and flexible in revising
the project targets and granting two extensions for the execution of the
project.
Comments on the performance of the borrower
The   National   Reconstruction   Steering   Committee   Secretariat   was
established under the Ministry of Finance at the central level and the District
Co-ordinating Committee in each of the eight districts and the Governments
Agents in other six districts were charged with the principal responsibility of
project implementation.  The NRSC functioned under the chief executive officer



1.3
who was assisted by consultants provided by the UNDP and executive officers of
the government.   In 1991 the National Reconstruction Steering Committee was
wound up and responsibility for implementation and co-ordination of the program
transferred to the Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Social
Welfare during the middle of the year.  The NRSC Secretariat continued to meet
regularly under the Chairmanship of the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
attended to program co-ordination and monitoring.
The NRSC and the Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Social
Welfare helped the implementing agencies in solving their problems to enhance
their efficiency.
The performance of the participating institutions in overall project
planning was commendable.   The implementation was satisfactory until June,
1990. Unfortunately this progress could not be sustained due to the escalation
of violence and the execution of projects was badly affected.  Due to the ever
changing environment and the additional damage and destruction caused to
persons and property consequent to the continued armed conflict during the
project period particularly in the Northern Province, the attainment of project
targets  was  either  delayed  or  denied.    The  implementing  agencies  were
handicapped due to the disruption caused to transportation, communication and
accessibility to project areas in the field.
The necessary documentation in regard to project progress accounting and
auditing were prepared and forwarded to the World Bank.
The performance of all concerned, the World Bank, Ministry of
Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Social Welfare, Ministry of Shipping, Ports,
Rehabilitation & Reconstruction, the NRSC and the implementing agencies under
the conditions of continued armed conflict was exceptional.
Major lessons learnt
(1)   Newly  established  provincial  douncils  should  have  been  made
responsible for the planning and implementation of the projects
which fell under the purview.
(2)   The emergency assistance and rehabilitation efforts should not be
viewed as extension of traditional administrative tasks.
(3)   Self-contained  dedicated ministry or executive body with  clear
legislative mandate for optimal results should be created for the
project management for rehabilitation and reconstruction.
(4)   The institutional capacity at the central, provincial, district and
divisional levels should be enhanced in order to make them
effective bodies in planning, implementation and monitoring.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1883-CE)
Part III - StatiStical TAbles
I. RELATED LOANS AND CREDITS
No other related loans or credits
II. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                   Date Planned               Date Completed
Identification              September 1987             September 1987
Preparation                 October 1987               October 1987
Appraisal mission           November 1987              November 1987
Loan Negotiations          January 1988                January 1988
Board Approval              February 1988              March 15, 1988
Signing of Agreement        ....                       April 20, 1988
Loan Effectiveness         June 1, 1988                June 17, 1988
Loan Closing                December 31, 1991          June 30, 1994
Il. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements in US$ millions
Estimated Cumulative          Actual               Actual
Bank Fiscal Year         (appraisal)          (Cumulative)       (as % of estimated)
1988                   7.0                  0.35                   5.0
1989                 33.6                   9.62                  28.6
1990                  62.6                  24.35                 38.9
1991                 75.9                   31.65                 41.7
1992                 78.0                   33.78                 43.3
1993                                       38.04
1994                                       43.16
1995                 .                     45.40
Note: SDR converted to US$ at 1.37 US$= I SDR, which is the average rate over the life of the
project (Computed on the basis of annual average exchange rates published in International Financial
Statistics, published by the International Monetary Fund)



15
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
DATE OF            DATE OF
PLANNED            ACTUAL           MONTHS OF
PROJECT COMPONENTS                   COMPLETION  COMPLETION                    DELAY
1. Shelter Reconstruction
(1) 7,286 loans for HH with monthly incomes     Dec. 1991          June 1994          30 months
less than Rs. 1,500
(2) 40,000 loans for HH with monthly            Dec. 1991          June 1994          30 months
incomes between Rs. 701 and 1,500
(3) 20,000 loans for HH eligible under          Dec. 1991          June 1994          30 months
Million Houses Program                      _
11. Infrastructure Reconstruction
Transport Sector
(1) 825 Kms. of roads                           Dec. 1991          June 1994          30 months
(2) 32 bridges                                  Dec. 1991          June 1994          30 months
(3) 2 passenger launches                        Jan. 1990          April 1990          3 months
Purchase of equipment for Municipal services   Dec. 1991           June 1994          30 months
Vehicles for Government Departments             Dec. 1991          June 1994          30 months
Ill. Telecommunications
1,0007 lines of digital switching equipment    Aug. 1990           Dec. 1992           28 months
IV. Industry
(1) Repair of two cement plants
(2) Assistance to Small/medium industries       Nov. 1989          May 1990            6 months
The appraisal estimate was 9,600 lines.



16
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
in US$ millions
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
Foreign                             Foreign
Local      Exchange                  Local     Exchange
Item                 Cost         Cost        Total       Cost        Cost        Total
1. Site Preparation
Civil Works                    0.510        0.410       0.920      0.218         0.000     0.218
2. Shelter
Loans                         15.830       12.950      28.780     23.880          0.00    23.880
3. Industry
Civil Works                    0.090        0.170       0.260      0.232         0.000     0.232
Equipment & Materials          1.750        3.250       5.000      0.557         3.252     3.809
Loans                          4.030        7.480      11.510      4.173         0.000     4.173
4. Telecommunication
Equipment & Materials          2.790        8.360      11.150       1.620        7.648     9.268
5. Infrastructure
Civil Works                   13.470       11.020      24.490     14.185         0.000    14.185
Equipment & Materials          3.310        6.140       9.450      0.374         5.256     5.630
Oper & Maintenance             0.150        0.120       0.270      0.000         0.000     0.000
Solid waste pilot              0.000        0.000       0.000      0.078         0.027     0.105
6. Technical Assistance           2.530        0.840       3.370       0.810        0.666      1.476
7. Project Administration         2.280         1.830      4.110       0.000        0.108     0.108   *1
Total Base Costs             46.740        52.570      99.310     46.127        16.957    63.084
Physical Contingencies         2.020         1.630      3.650          --           --         --
Price Contingencies            4.700        3.780       8.480          --           --         --
TOTAL PROJECT COST               53.460       57.980    111.440      46.127        16.957    63.084
Notes:
1. Includes the IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$750,000 *2.
2. Where applicable, total physical contingencies are about 4% of base costs; design, supervision and management about
4%; and price contingencies (foreign and local) about 9%.
3. Identifiable taxes and duties are US$13.7M, and the total project cost, net of taxes and duties is US$97.8 equivalent.
Comments:
*1. Expenditure on project preparation facility of USS0. 108.
02. US$375820.23 disbursed under project preparation facility through IDA Credit PPF-P-457-CE.



17
B. PROJECT FINANCING
Planned (Credit)
Agreement                Final         Percent
Source                  (US$'000)              (US$'000)      Disbursed
IDA Expenditure
Categories                         78.000              45.613            58%
GOSL                               33.440              17.471            52%
TOTAL                             111.440              63.084            56%
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
The Direct Benefits table provides an overview of physical achievements, such as housing loans
granted and kilometers of road rehabilitated. For components, such as site clearance, rehabilitation of
small industries and purchase of equipment, vehicles etc. no quantitative targets were specified at the
time of appraisal, hence direct benefits in respect of such components have not been shown. Benefits
accruing from the project were compromised to a large extent by the resumption of hostilities in the
Northern and North-Eastern parts of the country in 1989-90. Due to the continuing disturbed civil
situation, neither the Bank, nor the Government is able to reliably state the current status of various
project indicators.
ESTIMATED AT             ._l
PROJECT COMPONENTS             APPRAISAL            CLOSING DATE          FULL DEVELOPMENT
Shelter Reconstruction
(1) Loans for HH with monthly        8,293                 8,293            Could not be completed
incomes < Rs. 1,500                                                         due to security situation
(2) Loans for HH with monthly       40,000                 10,327
incomes between Rs. 701 & 1,500       ,                      ,327
(3)Loans for HH eligible under
Million Houses Program              20,000
20,000
Road Sector Reconstruction
(1) Road Rehabilitation             825 kms               480 kms            Other roadworks and
bridges could not be
(2) Bridge Reconstruction           32 bridges            2 bridges          undertaken due to the
(3) Passenger launches                                                         security situation
2 launches            2 launches
Telecommunications
Digital switching equipment       9,600 lines            1,000 lines           Fully completed
Industry
(I)Repair of two cement plants      2 Plants              2 Plants              Fully completed
(2) Loans to small/medium          908 loans              793 loans         Could not be completed
industries                                                                  due to security situation



18
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
(No economic rate of return analyses were carried out at the time of appraisal)
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
(No financial analysis was carried out at the time of appraisal)
D. STUDIES
STUDY                   PURPOSE AS DEFINED                      IMPACT OF STUDY
Emergency Reconstruction   Prepare an assessment of rehabilitation  Inception report has been prepared by
and Rehabilitation- Phase    needs in the Northern and Eastern   the Consultants and reviewed. Draft
1I study                   provinces with a view to facilitate the    Final report submitted to IDA in April
formulation of a follow-on            95. Findings are being used for the
reconstruction project on establishment  preparation of the Phase II
of peace.                             Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
I Project.
VII. STATUS OF COVENANTS
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF            SECTION
COVENANTS               APPLICABLE         COMPLIANCE                   REMARKS
Preparation    of     Project      General                           Borrower has prepared Part 11 and
Completion   Report  by  the      Conditions            Yes         relevant sections of Part III of the
Borrower                           9.04 (c)                          PCR.
Audit of records and Accounts,    Credit Agreement                  Audits have been regularly carried out
including the special account for   Section            Partial      by the Auditor General, but provision
each fiscal year, and certified  4.01 (b) (i) (ii)                   of audit reports has been subject to
copies of the audit report to be                                    considerable delays.
provided to IDA, not later than
9 months after close of fiscal
year
Records and accounts for                                            Submission of SOE Reports and audits
Statement of Expenditures      Credit Agreement                      of SOEs were inordinately delayed,
(SOEs) shall be audited and         Section             Yes         sometimes one year beyond the agreed
included in the annual audit       4.01 (c)                         date.
report with a separate opihion
attesting to the reliability of
SOEs and supporting records
and accounts



19
vm. Staff Inputs
A. Staff Inputs
Activity in Project Cycle                            Staff Weeks
Preparation                                         16.8
Appraisal                                         28.3
Negotiations                                        10.1
Supervision                                ._l
FY 88                          14.6
FY 89                          17.0
FY90                            8.7
FY91                            5.1
FY 92                           2.7
FY 93                          10.3
FY94                            3.6
Completion                                           3.5
Total                                          120.7
B. Field Missions
No. Of                         .     Project Status Rating
Missions                Month/Year              Persons         Weeks in Field                (overall)
Appraisal   (1)              Nov.1987                  5                  3.0
Supervision (1)              May 1988                 3(a)                3.0                         1
Supervision (2)               Oct. 1988               6(b)                3.0                        2
Supervision (3)              Mar.1989                 2(c)                2.0                        2
Supervision (4)               Jun.1989                5(d)                2.5                         3
Supervision (5)               Oct. 1989               2(c)                2.5                        2
Supervision (6)              Apr.1990                 2(c)                1.5                        2
Supervision (7)               Sep.1990                2(c)                3.0                        3
Supervision (8)               Jan.1991                2(c)                2.5                        3
Supervision (9)              May 1991                 3(e)                2.5                        3
Supervision (10)              Feb.1992                2(c)                2.0                         3
Supervision (11)              Mar. 1993               2(f)                 1.5                        3
Supervision (12)              Feb.1994                 I(g)                1.5                        3
Completion (1)               Dec.1994                 2(h)                1.0       _                3
Notes:
(a)      Task Manager (Fin. Analyst). Engineer, Town Planner
(b)      Task Manager (Fin. Analyst), Engineer, Disaster Management Expert, Solid Waste Expert, Lawyer, Operations Assistant
(c)      Task Manager (Fin. Analyst), Engineer
(d)      Task Manager (Fin. Analyst), Engineer, Infrastructure Specialist,Solid Waste Expert, Operations Assistant
(e)      Task Manager (Fin. Analyst), Municipal Engineer, Sanitary Engineer
(f)      Task Manager (Economist), Civil Engineer
(g)      Task Manager (Economist)
(h)      Task Manager, Infrastructure Consultant
Explanation of Project Status Rating Codes:
I        No significant problems
2        Moderate problems
3        Major Problems



20
Annexure I
Page I of 2
Sri Lanka
Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program
Assistance Pledged by Donors - 1987-88
Donors                 Amount/Terms                          Project/Program Components
1. ADB                US$60.76 million                       a) Road Reconstruction
Loan, 1%, 40 years                    b) Ferry vessels
c) Schools rehabilitation
d) Agrarian support
e) Agriculture credit, infrastructure
2. Australia           US$ 2.23 million                      a) Commodity aid
Grant                                 b) Emergency Food
3. Canada              US $ 14.87 (in two                    a) Food assistance
tranches)                             b) Railway rehabilitation
c) Resettlement
d) School rehabilitation
e) Support for UNHCR
f) Emergency relief, books etc.
4. Denmark             US $ ... (Dkr 275 million)            a) Telecom rehabilitation
b) Water supply
5. EEC                 US S 12.5 million                     a) Multisector support for
Trincomalee rehabilitation
6. Finland             US $ 0.45 million                     a) Support to UNHCR
7. Germany             US $ 18.75 million                    a) TA; water supply and drainage,
animal health, CEB
b) Railway for bridges and
equipment
c) Financial assistance; health, NPC
d) Road transport equipment
8. IDA                 US $ 78.1 million                     a) Road repairs and rehabilitation
Loan, 0.75%, 40 years                 b) Equipment/vehicles for telecom,
RDA and local authorities
c) Housing reconstruction loans
d) Industrial and commercial rehab.
e) TA and training
9. India               US $ 20 million                       a) Irrigation and agriculture
b) Highways and housing repairs
c) Fisheries
d) Vocational training
e) Rehabilitation of widows



21
Page 2 of 2
10. Italy              US $ 20 million                        a) Health sector emergency Grant
$3 million assistance                  b) Building materials
Loan $ 17 million                      c) Reconstruction of hospitals
1.5% 20 years
11. Japan              US $ 55 million                        a) Road maintenance program
Grant $ 23 million                     b) Procurement of buses
Loan $ 32 million                      c) Housing assistance grants
2.75% 30 years
12. Netherlands        US $ 16.3 million                      a) Housing and health sectors
b) Economic activities
13. Norway             US $ 11.18 million                     a) Integrated reconstruction of
Batticaloa district
b) Skill development/Vocational
training
c) Vehicles and equipment
d) Support for UNHCR
c) Importation of timber
14. Sweden             US $ 5.74 million                      a) Support for UNHCR
b) Resettlement
c) Unallocated
15. Switzerland        US $ 5.49 million                      a) Health sector
b) Technical Cooperation
c) Fisheries sector
16. UNDP               US S 3.22 million                      TA to NRSC/DRCC and selected
line ministries
17. UNHCR              US$ 12 million                         Resettlement of refugees
18. UNICEF             US $ 0.25 million                      Health, education and child care
19. U.K.               US $ 36 million                        a) Vehicles and equipment
b) Railroad tracks and fishplates
c) Buses
d) School furniture
e) Nutrition program, clothing
through NGOs
f) Equipment for Jaffna University
and Hospital
g) Purchase of dredger
20. U.S.A.             US $ 75 million                         a) Housing grants and loans
Grant and loans                        b) Agriculture and irrigation
(unspecified)                          c) Private sector/microenterprise
d) Unallocated
21. World Food Program  US $ 2.75 million                      Food assistance






fioninlurml Vulned    un, P.d,u
SRI LANKA
.~ ' *-, ={ \saoiei                                                           EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND
. 4                        k. u rCFemp:ronpusiu                                            REHABILITATION  PROJECT
-D EFIT 0|                                                                                                                         Roads to be Rehabilitated:
/e  -    A Grade
j,                                                    8~~~~~~~~     Grade
C Grade
D Grade
tulu:oun,,o,  -                                                                                               _ -,  '  ~   ~,.  - N  Bridges to be Constructed
ttjilorcit  u             -,         ~           -~                                                 192:1  Kilomlter Post Bridge Number
9-00                                             , - ,  -I I "-1~~~~~~~~~~''                                            Most Affected Districts         ~0
;;,v,,             's       -\'--   A        s    ''tEsisting Roads:
-   A Grade
B Grade
:lowi iwu 0'  ;,5"~                    ~t~>iI Ci                                             k                                  Selected Minor Roads
'.32, V  i                                  ,-i-  ~~~~~~~~~~Railroads
* Notional Capital
cfoul mu-              S    District Capitols
o    Other Towns
T,                                            7                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
PnIo~~~kqd4 .  I ~- N-oraince Boundaries
tn0 Il            -    , l...'                                                   '                                    Formner Pron,ince Boundary
Kuip.i:5u          +         i    .      ~ -t-                                         V /t>;ffg/   \  |>   -       -t--International Boundaries
I                      h                             Podd,nipplod,
tkotuubt.o[)                 P         5         Gp_ompo                                                       7    :w:j2iY  (NEA_ _
M-      - 
\\ < 1 # X \+ ( l 6t e 9 / iSKlSlAN \ h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANGLODiSH
E s nl = t =                                   <S/>                                                       |~~~~~~~~~~NDIA
Z                                                                               I~                                                                              -    -ILOI: S  I1 1 u'nat n
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .00     tl .O  ..Ob- 









IMAGING
Report No:      15248
Type: PCR



