Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1883 CE
       (Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 20, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1883 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1988, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS   the   Borrower   has   recognized   the   need  for
international support for its efforts to implement a comprehensive
program for the reconstruction  and rehabilitation of the economic
sectors affected by the recent strife (the Program);
     WHEREAS the United  Nations  Development  Program, the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and other multilateral and
bilateral organizations have  undertaken  to provide assistance to
aforesaid reconstruction and rehabilitation program;
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied  itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of  the  Project  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project  as part of aforementioned reconstruction
and rehabilitation program; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
Page  2
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to  an  exchange  of   letters   dated   September  30,  1987  and
November 12, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (d)  "Act" means  the  Rehabilitation  of Persons, Properties
and Industries Authority Act, No. 29 of 1987;
     (e)  "REPPIA" means the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties
and Industries Authority established under the Act; and
     (f)  "NGOs" means non-governmental  organizations selected by
the Borrower and the Association to participate in the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent   to   fifty-five   million   Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 55,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized  amount of the Project Prep-
aration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1991 or
Page  3
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  May  1,  1998  and   ending  November  1,  2027.  Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
November 1, 2007  shall  be  one  percent  (1%)  of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Page  4
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  or  cause to be
carried out the Project with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   technical,   administrative  and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to  carry  out  Part A of the Project,
the  Borrower  shall  make  available  such  amounts  as  shall be
withdrawn from the Credit Account  under Category (3) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement, under
memoranda  of   understanding   and   on   terms   and  conditions
satisfactory to the  Association  including  those  referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. In order to  carry  out  Part B of the Project,
the  Borrower  shall  make  available  such  amounts  as  shall be
withdrawn from the Credit Account  under Category (4) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement, under
subsidiary loan agreements and  memoranda of understanding, and on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association including
those referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. In order to  carry  out  Part C of the Project,
the  Borrower  shall  make   available  an  amount  equivalent  to
SDR 3,500,000 as shall be  withdrawn from the Credit Account under
memoranda  of   understanding   and   on   terms   and  conditions
satisfactory to the  Association  including  those  referred to in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
Page  5
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Act shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations under
this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment  of  REPPIA   or   for   the  suspension  of  its
operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that the events specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
Page  6
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Democratic Socialist Republic of
            Sri Lanka
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                SECMINFIN                       FINMIN 21409
                Colombo                         FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
                            SRI LANKA
                          By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works                      15,450,000       85% of expendi-
                                                 tures incurred
                                                 before Decem-
                                                 ber 31, 1989,
                                                 50% of expendi-
                                                 tures incurred
                                                 thereafter but
                                                 before Decem-
Page  7
                                                 ber 31, 1990,
                                                 and 15% of
                                                 expenditures
                                                 incurred there-
                                                 after
(2)  Goods                      14,050,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost)
                                                 and 65% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Loans under Part A         12,550,000       65% of amounts
     of the Project:                             disbursed
     (a)  through the
          State Mortgage
          and Investment
          Bank
     (b)  through the
          Housing
          Development
          Finance
          Corporation
     (c)  through the
          Bank of Ceylon
     (d)  through the
          National
          Housing
          Development
          Authority
     (e)  through other
          institutions
(4)  Loans under Part B          5,180,000       65% of amounts
     of the Project:                             disbursed
     (a)  through the
          Bank of
          Ceylon
     (b)  through the
          National
          Development
          Bank of Sri
          Lanka
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  8
     (c)  through other
          institutions
     (d)  through NGOs
(5)  Consultants'                1,840,000       100%
     services and
     training
(6)  Refunding of                  530,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated
                                 5,400,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                  55,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  5,500,000, may be made on account
of  payments  made  under   Categories   (1),   (2)  and  (5)  for
expenditures before that date but after November 15, 1987;
     (b)  expenditures by the military forces for the diffusing of
explosives;
     (c)  expenditures under the  Categories specified below until
the Association has notified the  Borrower that the Association is
satisfied with the memoranda of understanding:
          (i)  in  respect  of  Category   (3)  (a),  between  the
               Borrower  and  the  State  Mortgage  and Investment
               Bank;
         (ii)  in  respect  of  Category   (3)  (b),  between  the
               Borrower  and   the   Housing  Development  Finance
               Corporation;
        (iii)  in  respect  of  Category   (3)  (c),  between  the
               Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon;
         (iv)  in  respect  of  Category   (3)  (d),  between  the
               Borrower  and  the   National  Housing  Development
               Authority;
          (v)  in  respect  of  Category   (3)  (e),  between  the
               Borrower and other institutions;
         (vi)  in  respect  of  Category   (4)  (a),  between  the
               Borrower and the Bank of Ceylon;
        (vii)  in  respect  of  Category   (4)  (c),  between  the
               Borrower and other institutions; and
Page  9
       (viii)  in respect of Category (4) (d) between the Borrower
               and the NGOs.
     (d)  expenditures in respect  of  Category  (4) (b) until the
Association has  notified  the  Borrower  that  the Association is
satisfied with the subsidiary  loan agreement between the Borrower
and the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka.
     (e)  expenditures under  Part  C  of  the  Project  until the
Association has  notified  the  Borrower  that  the Association is
satisfied with the memoranda of understanding between the Borrower
and the Sri Lanka Cement Corporation, and between the Borrower and
Lanka Cement Limited.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project, as part of the Program, are to
reconstruct and rehabilitate  affected  assets  and properties, to
revive  economic  activities,  and  to  restore  the  delivery  of
services in areas affected by  the strife. The Project is directed
mainly at areas most affected by  the strife, such as the Northern
and Eastern Provinces.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Shelter
          Provision of  loans  for  reconstruction  of the housing
          sector.
Part B:   Facilities
          Provision   of   loans   to   rebuild   the  industrial,
          manufacturing and other sectors.
Part C:   Plants
          Rehabilitation of two cement plants in Jaffna.
Part D:   Infrastructure
          (1)    Repairs in the roads sector.
          (2)    Rehabilitation   of   city   infrastructure   and
                 buildings, and restart of civic services.
          (3)    Provision of  vehicles  and  equipment, including
                 construction equipment.
Part E:   Site Preparation
          (1)    Clearance of debris and rubble.
          (2)    Reinstatement of property boundaries.
          (3)    Other site preparation activities.
Part F:   Telecommunications
          Repair    and    installation    of   telecommunications
          facilities.
Part G:   Technical Assistance
          Provision of consultants' services and training.
Page  10
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works under Parts A and B of
             the Project
    Goods and  works  shall  be  procured  in  accordance with the
procurement  procedures  of  the   Borrower  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
Section II.  Procurement of Goods and  Works  for the remainder of
             the Project
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil  works  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $3,000,000 each, and  up  to an aggregate amount not
exceeding  the  equivalent  of  $21,000,000,  may  be  awarded  in
accordance with competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Rubble clearance, road patching  and  other minor works esti-
mated to  cost  in  the  aggregate  less  than  the  equivalent of
$1,000,000 may be carried out under force account.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated  to  cost less than the equiva-
lent of $200,000 each, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent  of  $5,000,000,  may  be  awarded  in  accordance with
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Miscellaneous items  grouped  in  packages  estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $25,000, and up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $4,000,000, may be procured on the
basis of comparison of  quotations  solicited  from at least three
suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Contracts for goods under Part F of the Project, and up to an
aggregate amount of  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $6,000,000,
may be awarded through limited international bidding procedures on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list
Page  11
of at least three  qualified  suppliers  eligible under the Guide-
lines and in accordance with  the provisions set forth in Sections
I and II of  the  Guidelines  (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55
and 2.56 thereof).
6.   Proprietary items under Part F  of  the Project, and up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the  equivalent of $7,000,000, may
be  procured  in  accordance  with  direct  contracting procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  works estimated to
cost the equivalent of  $500,000  or  more,  and each contract for
goods estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of  $300,000 or more the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to  the  Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to  the  Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of  the  Special  Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
Section III.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  or  cause  to  be employed consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Association. Such con-
sultants shall be selected in  accordance with principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory  to  the  Association  on  the  basis  of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   Loans under Part A  of  the  Project  shall be extended under
memoranda of understanding satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  between the Borrower  and  the State Mortgage Investment
Bank to beneficiaries in affected areas;
     (b)  between the  Borrower  and  the  Housing Development and
Finance Corporation to beneficiaries in affected areas;
     (c)  between  the  Borrower  and   the   Bank  of  Ceylon  to
beneficiaries in affected areas;
Page  12
     (d)  between   the   Borrower   and   the   National  Housing
Development  Authority  to  beneficiaries  in  affected  and other
areas; and
     (e)  between the  Borrower  and  such  other  institutions as
shall  be  agreed  by   the   Borrower   and  the  Association  to
beneficiaries in affected areas.
2.   Loans under Part B of the Project shall be extended under:
     (a)  a  subsidiary   loan   agreement   satisfactory  to  the
Association between the Borrower and the National Development Bank
of Sri Lanka to beneficiaries in affected areas; and
     (b)  memoranda   of   understanding   satisfactory   to   the
Association:
          (i)  between the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  of Ceylon to
               beneficiaries in affected areas;
         (ii)  between the Borrower  and  NGOs to beneficiaries in
               affected areas; and
        (iii)  between the Borrower and such other institutions as
               shall be agreed by the Borrower and the Association
               to beneficiaries in affected areas.
3.   (a)  Part of the proceeds of  the Credit to be made available
in order to assist in carrying out Part C of the Project, shall be
extended under  memoranda  of  understanding  satisfactory  to the
Association,  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Sri  Lanka  Cement
Corporation, and between the Borrower and Lanka Cement Limited.
     (b)  Rehabilitation of the cement plants  under Part C of the
Project shall be carried out  in  accordance with a plan of action
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Site preparation, repair and rehabilitation of infrastructure
and telecommunications facilities,  and technical assistance under
Parts E, D, F and G of the Project, respectively, shall be carried
out or provided, mainly for the affected areas, in accordance with
design standards, programs and  terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
5.   The Borrower shall  establish  and maintain with composition,
staff, resources and  responsibilities  satisfactory  to the Asso-
ciation:
     (a)  a National Reconstruction Steering Committee; and
     (b)  District  Reconstruction   Coordinating  Committees  for
affected districts.
6.   Specific steps in Project implementation shall be carried out
in accordance with an operational  action plan satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5)  set  forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
Page  13
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to  SDR  4,400,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the  eligible  Categories minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  14
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence furn-
ished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association deposit into  the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such  payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further  deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
