Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  FILE  COPY
Report No. P-3201-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
February 8, 1982
{  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
B 1          =  $0.043
B 1 million = $43,478
$1.00        =  B 23
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC   -  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOI    -  Board of Investment
IFCT   -  Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
MOAC   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
NEA    -  National Energy Administration
NESDB  -  National Economic and Social Development Board
STK    -  Sor Tor Kor ("right to farm" certificates)
SAL    -  Structural Adjustment Loan
ROYAL THAI GOVERNMENT
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
----Loan Summary..---...                               . . . ... . .
PART I - THE ECONOMY . .1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.  Recent Political Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
B.  Past Economic Trends and Recent Changes . . . . . . . . .      2
C.  Development Prospects and Constraints . . . . . . . . . .      4
D.  Government Adjustment Plans and Programs  . . . . . . . .      5
PART II- THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . .       8
A. Introduction.                    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
B.  Agriculture and Rural  eveomt . . . . . . . . . . . .D9
C. Industrial Development .12
D.  Energy Use and Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
E. Fiscal Policy .19
F. Institutional Development .21
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN  . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
A. Loan History .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      25
B.  IMF Activities in Thailand, and Relationship to the
Proposed Loan .26
C. Expected Effects of the Medium-Term Structural
Adjustment Program. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
D. Relationship between the Proposed Loan and the First
Phase of the Structural Adjustment Process  . . . . . .    31
E Benefits and Risks .38
F. Loan Amount .39
G. Monitoring .39
H.  Categories of Goods to be Financed  . . . . . . . . . . .    39
I.  Counterpart Funds .............. .                            40
J.  Procurement and Disbursement .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     40
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND AND RELATIONSHIP
TO PROPOSED LOAN .41
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY . . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION .43
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
ANNEXES
I.  Country Data  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .    44
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations. . . . . .   . . . . . .    49
III.  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    62
IV.  Government Letter o; Development Policy. . . . . . . . .    63
V. Use of IMF Resources .75



THAILAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:           Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:             $150 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years, including five years  grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Loan Description:  The proposed loan would support the implementation of the
Government's comprehensive structural adjustment program
outlined in a Letter of Development Policy submitted to
the Bank. The principal aim of the program is to restore
a sustainable balance of payments position while main-
taining the growth momentum of the economy. To achieve
these medium-term objectives, specific action would be
taken to (i) promote agricultural growth and exports,
(ii) increase the export orientation of industry by a
reform of the industrial incentive structure, (iii) pro-
vide a basis for efficient energy development and utili-
zation through the preparation of a comprehensive energy
sector program, (iv) strengthen public sector resource
mobilization efforts, and (v) foster the development of
public institutions so as to use public resources effi-
ciently and provide an environment conducive to struc-
tural adjustment. The foreign exchange provided by the
loan would be used to finance essential imports. The
main risks arise from uncertainties in the external
environment which could affect export prospects and
borrowing costs.
Estimated
Disbursements:   The entire loan is expected to be disbursed by June 30,
1982.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           None.



t



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $150 million to
support its structural adjustment program. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on September
18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated, and an
economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic Economy
(Report No. 3067a-TH)," which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with
the problems which were being encountered was discussed with the Royal Thai
Government in September 1980 and issued on January 8, 1981. An appraisal
mission for the proposed loan visited Thailand in August/September 1981.
Country data are given in Annex I.
A. Recent Political Developments
3.        Frequent changes at the top levels of government have character-
ized recent political developments in Thailand. General Kriangsak Chomanan
was Prime Minister from November 1977 to February 1980. His third cabinet
resigned following increasing public and parliamentary criticism of its
economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected by the National
Assembly as Prime Minister after receiving the support of nearly all major
political parties. General Prem's government, formed in March 1980,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. General
Prem soon announced his government's policies on a number of issues
including economic and social development. These policies place high and
immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes
and improving health and education. Particular emphasis was given to
generating more jobs and a rural public works program, similar to the
1975/76 Tambon Program, was included as a major element in the strategy.
The Government also committed itself to contain inflation, although it
recognized the need for a substantial adjustment of energy prices and most
public enterprise tariffs. Furthermore, it decided to institute reforms in
monetary and fiscal policy and to reduce the trade deficit through improved
export performance and development of domestic energy resources.



- 2 -
4.         After a period of political consolidation, during which an attempt
was also made to inform the public better about the need to take corrective
measures, the Government began to take steps to implement these policies in
the fall of i980. In March 1981, however, the Social Action Party and other
coalition parties withdrew from the cabinet on an issue of handling fuel oil
contracts and a new cabinet Was formed comprising members of the United,
Chart Thai, and Democrat parties as well as a number of technocrats.
Shortly thereafter there was an attempted coup by a group of military
officers which, however, failed. Curing much of the summer of 1981, the
political position of the second Prem cabinet appeared to be weak,
particularly in the wake of the devaluation of the baht against the dollar
in July, which resulted in much public criticism.  Since then, however, the
Prime Minister's position strengthened, not least because of relatively
favorable economic developments, especially in the agricultural sector.
Parliament passed the FY82 budget nearly unanimously. In December 1981, the
Government's parliamentary basis was broadened significantly when the Social
Action Party rejoined the cabinet.
B. Past Economic Trends and Recent_Changes
5.         The 1960s and early 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic
development in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4 to 5%
per capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely
on an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response
to export opportunities was a major factor contributing to these develop-
ments as well as to a sustained growth of exports. An increase in the
investment level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid indus-
trial growth. Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keep-
ing the debt service ratio quite low. The incidence of poverty was reduced
substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to about 31% by 1975/76. However,
poverty still remains a problem, and significant regional disparities exist
with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the highest per
capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecommunica-
tions, schools, public health and other services than the other three
regions, the North, the Northeast and the South. Considerable variations
also remain within regions: farmers who have diversified into the new cash
crops have in many cases succeeded in crossing the poverty line, while the
incomes of those unable to shift out of subsistence rice culture have
stagnated.  By the mid-1970s it became apparent that Thailand was facing
increasingly difficult problems of development, including the lack of new
arable land to continue to absorb the rapidly growing labor force, and an
emerging balance of payments constraint as a result of deteriorating terms
of trade. In order to deal with such problems the country needed to shift
its pattern of growth from one based on the extension of land under
cultivation and on import substituting industries to one based on



increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing for domestic
and export markets under competitive conditions.
6.        In the past three years Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A rela-
tively high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.7% per annum between
1975 and 1978, 6.1% in 1979 and 6.3% in 1980) but this was accompanied by
accelerating inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing
dependence on foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977
and 1978, by 10% in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The central government
deficit reached 4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export
growth, the current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and
1978, but it rose to 7.5% of GDP in 1979 and 7.2% of GDP in 1980;
consequently there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low
external debt.
7.        Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to
the changing internal and external conditions. In fact it stimulated an
already high level of activity in the economy by, for instance, failing to
pass on externally generated price increases, especially for energy. But,
beginning in 1979, policy adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accel-
erating pace. They included sharp increases in prices for most petroleum
products and electricity, measures to increase government revenues, amend-
ments to the usury laws, which permitted an increase in interest rates, and
the introduction of regulations to increase financial stability and exercise
more monetary restraint. In the second half of 1980, the Government began
to give serious attention to developing a longer-term comprehensive adjust-
ment program for the economy, and continued to implement necessary, but
politically contentious, economic decisions. In October 1980 price controls
were lifted on 29 of 36 goods. In the same month the Government started on
a reform of the tariff structure, reducing import duties on 10 categories of
electrical goods by between 10% and 60%. In November, retail prices of
sugar, which had fallen out of line with international prices, causing
domestic shortages, were increased by 60%. In a number of successive steps,
electricity and petroleum prices were increased further, and by mid-1981
they were nearly two-and-a-half times as high as at the start of 1979.
During the first half of 1981, charges for other public services (water,
transport, communications) were increased substantially (mostly by at least
50%). During this period, the Government also introduced various fiscal
measures designed to limit the central government deficit. On the tax side,
the changes were expected to yield an increase in revenues of B 3 billion
(0.4% of GDP) during FY81; on the expenditure side, FY81 expenditures were
reduced significantly from the originally budgeted amounts. In FY82,
similar measures are being taken (see para. 50 below).
8.        Despite the effect that most of these measures inevitably had on
the price level and on effective demand, economic performance in most areas
appears to have been good during the first nine months of 1981.



- 4 -
Agricultural production and incomes increased rapidly, due to favorable
weather and, until recently, agricultural export prices (which a domestic
rice price support program helped to reflect in farmgate prices). The
demand and interindustry effects of a buoyant agricultural sector are
stimulating the other sectors of the economy, largely compensating for the
reduced stimulus from the public sector. Thus, while some sectors of the
economy, notably construction, are weak, the authorities do not foresee a
general recession. At the same time, price pressures have lessened
considerably; on a June to June basis, the 1979-80 increase in the Consumer
Price Index of 24% was reduced to 12% in 1980-81, and by November it had
moderated further to 11%. Because of reduced inflation and increased
nominal interest rates, real interest rates on 1-2 year time deposits have
now become positive, and private commercial borrowing entails a substantial
real cost.
9.        The one area in which the situation did not improve in the first
half of 1981 was the balance of payments. The trade deficit in that period
was $1.6 billion, about $0.5 billion more than in the first half of 1980.
Some deterioration was to be expected, as the deficit in 1980 had been below
trend as a result of a bulge in imports of non-oil intermediates in 1979,
which led to a below-normal level of such imports in 1980. In addition,
exports in the first quarter of 1981 fell below the trend, while the capital
account was negatively influenced by high interest rates abroad. In July,
the pressure on the balance of payments became so strong that the Government
decided to break the longstanding link of the baht to the (then rapidly
appreciating) dollar, decreasing the dollar value of the baht by about 9%,
but keeping the trade-weighted exchange rate of the baht approximately at
the level of the preceding year. Subsequently, the trade deficit has
started to decrease, but for the year 1981 as a whole, the current account
deficit is presently estimated at about $2.5 billion, or slightly higher
than the 1980 deficit in absolute amount, although slightly lower (6-7% of
GDP) in relative terms. Deficits of such magnitude are unsustainable in the
medium term, particularly in view of the recent increases in international
interest rates.
C. Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which contri-
buted to Thailand-s rapid socio-economic development over the past two
decades will continue to do so. These factors include a relatively
equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to
economic incentives and improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry and
agriculture. Also, major gains have been made in family planning in recent
years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3% during the
1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth
two decades later). A new favorable factor is that the infrastructure to
tap the substantial natural gas reserves which have been discovered in the



Gulf of Siam has just been completed, enabling a gradual but significant
reduction in Thailand's dependence on foreign oil. Very recently, oil and gas
have been discovered onshore, and hopes are high that these finds will turn
out to be substantial.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, three major negative ones
must be recognized. Firstly, partly as a result of external influences,
Thailand's current account deficits have over the years 1979-81 reached levels
which are unsustainable in the medium term and therefore must be reduced.
This implies that, in contrast to recent years, the growth in the country's
expenditures must be kept below the growth in its domestic income, at the same
time that net income growth is being reduced by the need to service recently
incurred debt. Secondly, this adjustment, which also implies that exports
have to grow more rapidly than imports, has to be attained in a situation in
which the outlook for the world economy is not favorable, and tendencies
toward protectionism are increasing, thus limiting the opportunity to increase
exports (unless offset by effective domestic policies). Thirdly, the
exhaustion of land reserves threatens to severely constrain the growth in
agricultural production, exports and absorption of labor. All these three
factors would tend to reduce the availability of imports to the economy quite
substantially, thus reinforcing the tendencies toward lower growth in incomes
and employment caused directly by the reduced export and agricultural
potentials. This would occur at the same time that the labor force would
continue to expand at a rate of about 3% a year, thus putting severe pressure
on labor incomes, especially for the unskilled. The consequences for equity,
one of the major concerns of the Government, would in all likelihood be
severe, and this could threaten the social cohesion of the country.
12.       If, in the face of these favorable and unfavorable changes in
circumstances, the Government would continue its policies of the second half
of the 1970s more or less unchanged, making gradual but limited adjustments,
the macro-economic results would not be favorable. Projections made by the
Bank and by the Government (using different models) show that under such
policies the current account deficits would continue to grow rapidly in
absolute terms and would even increase as a proportion of GDP. The total debt
service ratio under this scenario as estimated by the Bank is 22% in 1986,
and, if one were to extrapolate even further, 33% in 1991.  Of course, before
the latter level were reached, undesirably rapid corrective measures would
have been forced upon the authorities, and the consequences for equity would
be even more severe than indicated in the previous paragraph. Thus, the
Government has searched intensively for policy alternatives which would
correct the fiscal and external imbalances without undue consequences for the
growth of incomes and employment, especially for the poor.
D. Government Adjustment Plans and Programs
13.       In response to the challenges posed by the general econQmic outlook
for Thailand, the Government has drafted its Fifth Five-Year Plan, which



-6-
covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major (and interrela-
ted) objectives are, in summary, equity, financial stability, and national
security (growth, of the appropriate kind, is seen as a derived rather than a
primary objective). The Government aims at reconciling these objectives over
the five-year period of the Plan, partly through a reduction in lower-priority
public expenditures, which is already being implemented, but mainly through
medium-term structural adjustments which improve production incentives and
increase the efficiency of the economy, and improve its competitiveness, both
in the external and domestic markets. Important economic and institutional
instruments to attain these objectives include improved fiscal, monetary and
balance of payments management; adequate pricing of public services; efficient
use of public and private resources; accelerated rural development and income
creation in poverty areas; restructuring of the production process in agricul-
ture and industry; and accelerated natural resource development, especially in
the energy sector. To the extent that the needs in these areas were urgent
and the remedies obvious, the Government has already moved on them (para. 7
above). In some cases, where significant preparatory analysis was needed,
policy studies have been undertaken, many with support from the Bank. In
addition, the Government created a number of planning subcommittees to assist
the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) in the preparation
of the Fifth Plan. The committees have reviewed the major structural issues
and have begun to develop concrete policy packages. However, partly because a
firm information base was not yet available, and partly because of
institutional weaknesses, program development is continuing in most areas even
now that the Plan period has started.
14.       Th.e macro targets and projections incorporated in the Plan, while
necessarily based on often yet incomplete sectoral inputs, reflect an
internally consistent estimate of the effect of the Government-s policy
package and of the country-s external environment on the economy, obtained
through the use of a macro-economic model. The major estimates are summar-
ized, and compared with previous periods, in Table 1. By 1986 the current
account deficit would be reduced somewhat in absolute terms (to about $2
billion), but it would be reduced by two-thirds in relative terms, to 2.4% of
GDP, a level which would be quite sustainable in the long term. This
improvement would be the result of continued high real export growth at a
rate of about 11% p.a., combined with a significant reduction in real import
growth, to about 7% p.a.; the latter related mainly to stagnant or even
falling energy imports. In terms of the savings-investment balance, the
improvement would be located predominantly in a large increase in public
sector savings. There would be a moderate reduction in the overall growth
rate, but growth would still continue at a rate of about 6.5% p.a., quite
respectable by international standards. Provided that the structure of this
growth is appropriate, and that special - but not necessarily very costly -
measures are taken to assist backward areas, where most of the poverty is
concentrated, this scenario is, in the Government's view, consistent with
continued progress in the alleviation of poverty.



- 7 -
Table 1: FIFTH PLAN MACRO-ECONOMIC TARGETS
A.  Growth Rates of Constant            Actuals         Projections
Price Aggregates (%)              1976-80          1981-86
GDP at market prices                        7.4             6.6
Private consumption                         5.5             4.8
Public current consumption                 10.4             7.9
Total investment in fixed assets           11.6             6.4
Exports (GNFS)                             11.3            10.9
Imports (GNFS)                             11.4             7.2
Agricultural production                     2.9             4.5
Actuals       Projections
B.  Ratios to GDP (%)                1976      198Op       1986
Investment                           24.9      27.9        29.4
National savings                     22.2      20.7        27.0
Current account deficit               2.7       7.2         2.4
Government revenue                   12.9      14.5        18.0
p = preliminary data.
Source: NESDB.
15.       To assist it in realizing these objectives, the Government has
sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. Agreement was reached with
the Fund on a major standby program, which covers a two-year period starting
in June 1981, and amounts to SDR 814.5 million. In addition, Thailand
purchased SDR 186 million under the Fund's Compensatory Financing Facility
in July 1981. The standby program, of which a first review took place in
August-September 1981, is described in Part III (para. 68) of this Report.
With regard to the Bank, the Government has requested assistance in further
developing and implementing the structural adjustment program, incorporated
in the Fifth Plan, through a series of Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs).
Since the Bank had already worked with the Government on many of the issues
involved, it has been possible to develop the structural adjustment program,
described in Part II of this Report, relatively rapidly.



-8-
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
16.       The Fifth Five-Year Plan provides the broad framework for develop-
ment policies in Thailand over the next five years. Many of the Plan's
policies and programs have been developed in close cooperation between the
Government and the Bank, and have drawn on a large number of Bank reports
and documents related to the structural adjustment issues. The broad goals
and policies of the Plan were reviewed in Part I (paras. 13-14), in the
overall context of the trends and prospects of the Thai economy. Part II
describes in greater detail those components of the Plan which aim at
structural adjustments, identifying the activities in five major areas which
should receive priority attention and will be supported by the proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan. Part III discusses the proposed Structural
Adjustment Loan in more detail. It includes a broad assessment of the
impact which the Government's programs may be expected to have on economic
developments in the medium term (especially in terms of the necessary
gradual reduction of the balance of payments deficits on current account),
and describes the relationship between the proposed loan and the first
phase of the structural adjustment process. Part IV discusses the role of
structural adjustment lending in the Bank's overall lending program for
Thailand.
17.       In Thailand's case there is no single structural issue which
overshadows all others in importance and should therefore be the focal point
of the structural adjustment process. As a result the Government's program
is quite broad, covering five major areas. In agriculture, it is essential
that rapid growth continues even in the face of limited availability of new
arable land, since agricultural exports are a major pillar of Thailand's
balance of payments, and a majority of the population is still dependent on
farming for its livelihood. Thus, the structural adjustment program aims at
increased farmer incentives and regularization of the land tenure of a
substantial part of the farming population. Industry has been developing
rapidly and is still relatively distortion free. However, there have been
tendencies toward increased protection and ad hoc application of incentives.
A change in the direction of industrial policy is therefore needed if
industry is to become more efficient and export oriented, thereby assuming
an increasingly important role in supporting the balance of payments and
creating incomes and employment. In the energy sector, major progress has
been made toward more appropriate pricing. There remain, however, important
issues with respect to energy conservation and the development of indigenous
energy resources, and an integrated program for policy formulation and
implementation needs to be developed. In the fiscal area, budgetary
deficits have substantially contributed to the increasing balance of
payments deficits. Apart from shorter-term fiscal and financial management
issues which are being addressed by the IMF, there is a need for longer-term
fiscal and budgetary reforms. These will serve the objectives of



- 9 -
development as well as financial balance, recognizing that the private
sector in agriculture and industry is the engine of growth in Thailand and
that fiscal policy must therefore minimize disincentive effects.  Finally,
since the success of many elements in the structural adjustment program
depends on effective institutional development, the program aims to improve
the efficiency of resource management in the public sector, and the creation
of additional analytical and policy implementation capabilities in the
Government.
18.       The Government is attempting to introduce substantial change in
all these areas. This is a process which will take time. The program which
is described below therefore includes not only specific actions taken since
the Government opted for a program of structural adjustment in the fall of
1980, or expected to be taken in the immediate future, but also places
considerable emphasis on steps that need to be taken to prepare effective
policy action in the remainder of the Fifth Plan period. This involves the
preparation of detailed and phased implementation programs, and in some
areas requires studies designed to provide the necessary background for the
development of such programs.
B. Agriculture and Rural Development
19.       While agriculture's share of GDP had declined to 26% by 1980, its
value added has been growing at about 5% per year. Agricultural exports
still account for more than half of total exports, and the sector has
continued to absorb a substantial share of the growth in the labor force.
The past pattern of agricultural growth based on expanding the cultivated
area is now coming to an end, however, and future growth therefore will have
to depend largely on increased yields. In Thailand this change from
extensive to intensive agricultural development will have to depend to a
large extent on private initiatives. But the Government also has an
important role to play in rationalizing incentives and removing impediments
to agricultural intensification.
20.       According to recent projections, the growth rate of agricultural
production, in real terms, will fall to about 3% annually (and to less than
1% in the Northeast) unless appropriate action is taken. Through measures
to support intensification, to improve production incentives and to
accelerate development of backward areas, the Government expects to raise
the growth rate to about 4.5%, the target for the Fifth Plan. This target
is to be attained in part through the implementation of projects, covering
irrigation, rainfed agriculture and rural infrastructure, and in part
through policy reforms in the following critical areas under the Govern-
ment-s structural adjustment program: (a) development and implementation of
a rational land use and classification policy; and (b) reform of taxes,
regulations and market interventions, which currently reduce returns and
incentives to farmers and act as constraints on a generally effective and
efficient private marketing system. Studies on land use and development



- 10 -
policy and on agricultural marketing and pricing policy were carried out
with Bank support and are now completed. They provided the background for
NESDB's preparation of the Fifth Plan and have led to the identification of
major actions to be included in the program supported under SAL.
21.       Land Use and Development Policy.  Agricultural development at the
intensive margin will in many areas of Thailand depend on improvements in
the security of tenure and on the implementation of appropriate land
development measures. Bank projects for land reform, land titling, land
development and forestry are now under preparation. Progress in these areas
has, however, been seriously hampered by the adherence to an outdated land
policy, especially in regard to forestry, under which about 4 million ha
(about 20% of the total area under cultivation) are still gazetted as forest
reserves, even though these are suitable for, and actually being used for,
cropping. Reclassification of these lands for agricultural use will permit
the extension of farm support services to these areas and will improve the
security of tenure for the affected farmers. This, in turn, would eliminate
a major obstacle to on-farm investment, and result in much improved access
to credit and better cropping patterns and input use. While reclassifica-
tion of these forest reserve areas is a contentious issue in Thailand,
because it affects the responsibilities of several agencies and the
livelihood of about one million farm families, it is important not only for
improved agricultural performance in general, but also as a prerequisite for
further interventions supporting agricultural development. Reclassification
is therefore expected to open the way for significant and lasting increases
in the rate of growth of agricultural production and exports.
22.       The areas requiring reclassification were identified broadly in
the land use and development policy study but more detailed surveys
(including socio-economic surveys) will have to be carried out as a first
step in the process of reclassification. Once the necessary information is
available, farmers cultivating gazetted forest areas that are considered
suitable for agriculture will be issued "right to farm" (STK) certificates
which are inheritable and assure the family's tenure indefinitely, but
cannot be sold. These certificates satisfy the eligibility requirements for
production and long-term credit of the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC). The Government-s decision to issue STK certificates,
rather than full ownership titles at this point, is based on its concern
(shared by the Bank) that immediately giving full title to farmers who are
cultivating lands now classified as forests might encourage further
deforestation of areas not suitable for long-term agricultural use, and
could lead to widespread land sales, thereby running counter to the
Government's land distribution policy. Once the land tenure situation
throughout the country has been stabilized, the Government will consider
formal degazettement and issuance of full titles.
23.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) has made
budgetary provisions for FY81/82 to initiate the process of forest reserve
reclassification, including detailed land use, land suitability and



- 11 -
socio-economic surveys. The Royal Forestry and Land Development Departments
have, in coordination with the Office of Agricultural Economics, prepared a
broad program for surveying all the areas to be considered, with the objec-
tive of initiating the process of reclassification in all the encroached
forest areas suitable for agriculture by the end of the Fifth Plan Period
(1986). Also, the BAAC will expand its operations in forest reserve areas
as and when they are reclassified. Further detailed implementation programs
for these items are presently under preparation and will be finalized by
March 1982.
24.       Agricultural Pricing, Regulation and Marketing.  The marketing
activity of a dynamic and generally efficient private sector will continue
to stimulate the commercialization and intensification of agriculture. The
returns, and therefore the incentives to farmers, could, however, be
significantly improved through a reduction in export taxes, removal of
unnecessary regulations and controls, and improved marketing facilities and
information flows.
25.       The Government's policy as stated in the Letter of Development
Policy is aimed, in principle, at minimizing its intervention in the
agricultural marketing and pricing processes while ensuring that farmers'
returns increase toward levels consistent with world market prices for the
commodities they produce. In recent months this policy has been translated
into a number of important measures: export quotas for cassava have been
eliminated; the ban on exports of white sugar has been lifted; the
allocation mechanism for maize export quotas has been made more flexible,
permitting more efficient trading in maize; and the export tax for rubber
has been substantially reduced from an average level of about 25% to 11% (at
September 1981 prices). The largely ineffective rice price support program
of the 1979/80 season (based on paddy purchases through the Marketing
Organization of Farmers) was improved in 1980/81 (rice was purchased by the
Public Warehouse Organization through tenders), and farmgate paddy prices
rose by about 20% between September 1980 and August 1981. The effectiveness
of the "cheap rice" distribution program has also been increased, through an
improved geographical distribution (during the first half of 1981, 65% of
the cheap rice was distributed outside Bangkok, compared with 40% in 1980)
and a significant reduction of existing "leakages" in handling the cheap
rice. Furthermore, the gap between market price and subsidized price is
gradually being narrowed. Given these improvements, the rice reserve
requirement, which is the major burden on rice exports, was halved in
December 1981, thus reducing its burden from about 20% to about 10%.
26.       A high priority will continue to be given to increasing farm returns
and thereby improving incentives for agricultural production. In the case of
paddy, the 1981/82 target price has been set at B 3,750 per ton vs. B 3,500
in crop year 80/81; this will be supported, if necessary, by further
reductions in the overall charges on exports. The Government has also agreed
to begin deregulating livestock and meat marketing, by permitting the
operation of private slaughterhouse facilities for export. While the



- 12 -
Government has expressed its commitment to intervene in the marketing and
pricing of agricultural commodities as little as possible, it wishes for the
present to retain a flexible and pragmatic approach toward export regulation.
27.       As part of the structural adjustment program a study will be
undertaken which will serve as a basis for further support of agricultural
intensification through increased fertilizer usage. This study, under the
responsibility of the MOAC's Office of Agricultural Economics, will analyze
the fertilizer supply system and review public sector participation in it. In
general, the Government has stated in its Plan that the private sector will be
expected to provide agricultural services and inputs in the relatively
affluent areas, while the public sector may have to serve the poorer areas,
where there may be insufficient incentives for the private sector to perform
these functions. The study will ascertain whether this principle should apply
in the case of fertilizer. It will also investigate methods to ensure optimal
use of concessional fertilizer supplies by foreign donors to the Government.
In the context of its FY83 economic and sector work program, the Bank plans
to undertake a major study of the effects of taxation, subsidies and price
interventions on agricultural incentives, production and incomes.
C. Industrial Development
28.       The industrial sector in Thailand has in recent years contributed
significantly to the country's rapid growth and diversification of economic
activity. Manufactured exports grew rapidly during the 1970s, reaching about
40% of total exports in 1980. The industrial share in value added now exceeds
that of agriculture, but its share of employment is only about one-tenth that
of agriculture. Since in future agriculture will be less able to absorb labor
force growth, industrial and related service sector growth will have to play
an increasing role in the creation of incomes and employment.
29.       Thailand completed the "easy" stage of import substitution in the
early 1970s, and export development now exceeds import substitution as a
contributor to industrial growth. Pressure for industrial protection has
increased since the middle 1970s. While the sector is not yet subject to
the severe distortions that prevail in many other countries, the rising
levels of protection tend to reduce efficiency, increase prices and reduce
labor absorption. The Government has also been under pressure to support
large, capital-intensive projects, some of which may not suit Thailand's
comparative advantage. If the economic structure of the country is to be
transformed efficiently from one that is primarily agricultural and rural to
one based predominantly on secondary and tertiary production, employment and
export, these pressures have to be reversed. Under the Government s struc-
tural adjustment program the major areas to be addressed are: preparation
and implementation of an integrated industrial development strategy;
strengthening of export promotion; reform of the protective structure;
improvements in the system of investment incentives; and implementation of
an improved system for the evaluation of large-scale industrial projects.



- 13 -
30.       Industrial Development Strategy.  The NESDB's Subcommittee on
Industry, an ad hoc interdepartmental group consisting of policy level
officials from the agencies concerned with the industrial sector in
Thailand, has articulated the Government's Fifth Plan strategy and broad
policies for future industrial growth. This strategy has now been
incorporated in the Fifth Plan and is in line with the policy thrust of the
Bank's past proposals./l Implementation of elements of this program has
already started, as indicated in the following paragraphs.  Since many
agencies are involved, a permanent Committee on Industry consisting of
cabinet members and senior policy level officials of the agencies concerned,
will work out a detailed implementation program following the Fifth Plan
guidelines, and then monitor and direct the implementation of the proposed
policy package.
31.       Export Promotion.  A cornerstone of the Government's policy pack-
age for the Fifth Plan is the stimulation of export-oriented growth of the
industrial sector, and a number of policy and legislative changes have
already been introduced in support of this objective. The recent devalua-
tion of the baht against the dollar suggests that the Government intends to
follow a realistic exchange rate policy. Other measures are being taken to
reduce biases against exporting and to improve the system of export
incentives. A new Export Tax Drawback Act was approved by Parliament and is
being implemented. The Act replaces specific-rate formulae for the refund
of import duties and business taxes paid on intermediate goods used in
export production by ad valorem rates; it provides for an automatic
allocation of 1% of total Central Government tax collection for the refund
scheme instead of the previous insufficient budgetary allocations; and it
facilitates reimbursements through a simplified coupon system. The Customs
Department, which implements the export tax drawback Act and administers the
import duty refund scheme, is also streamlining its procedures and preparing
to improve its organization and decentralize its functions, with technical
assistance f.rom the IMF.
32.       To stimulate exports further, the Government will continue to
increase the number of bonded warehouses from 15 to 25, and intends to set
up five export processing zones in addition to the one already established
within the industrial estate at Lat Krabang. The Government has also
decided to establish an Export Development Fund, along with a high level
Export Development Council to coordinate and supervise its functions, within
the existing Export-Import Act of 1979. The Ministry of Commerce, which
already provides a wide range of institutional support for export promotion,
will serve as Secretariat. The Government will ensure financing for the
Export Development Fund and enable it to begin operation by June 1982.
Details concerning the functions and financing of the proposed Fund will be
/1 See especially "An Industrial Development Strategy for Thailand" (Report
No. 2804a-TH, June 5, 1980).



- 14 -
decided by June 1982. Further possible improvements in the export credit
and guarantee arrangements are under review, and consideration is being
given to drafting a new export promotion act. Legislative changes will,
however, take some time to enact and implement.
33.        Reform of the Protective Structure.  The Government has stated its
firm intention to reform the protective structure, moving toward more
uniform tariffs in the interest of improved industrial efficiency and of a
deepening of the industrial structure of Thailand. However, given the
magnitude and complexity of the reform, the overlapping interests of strong
pressure groups, and the far-reaching fiscal implications, changing the
protective structure will be a lengthy process. Hence a phased approach,
buttressed by detailed studies on major implications of the reforms and by
special studies which identify the best way to proceed in case of major
industries, is indicated. The process will begin with modest general changes
in tariffs toward a more homogenous structure. As a first step, the
Government has already lowered tariffs on a few selected electrical goods.
During the rest of FY82, the Government intends to narrow the range of
tariffs further by reducing nominal tariffs higher than 60% down to 60% and
increasing zero or near-zero tariffs to a level of about 5 to 10%./1
This represents a major departure in the industrial policy of Thailand.
While some exceptions to these general tariff reforms will be necessary, the
Government has indicated that such exceptions will be granted only in
special cases so that the general tariff measures are not rendered meaning-
less. In addition, nontariff restrictions will not be modified in a manner
to compensate for general tariff reforms.  In any case, compared to tariffs,
nontariff restrictions are at present not important in providing protection,
except in the case of the automotive industry.
34.        For the subsequent phase of the reforms, the Government will
develop, by mid-1982, a phased program that will include further changes in
the tariff and nontariff restrictions, which will result in general reforms
across the board as well as specific changes in protection at the subsector
level. The latter, however, will require in-depth analysis of the subsector
so as to identify the best way to proceed with specific tariff adjustments.
To this end, priority subsectors have been selected. Arrangements have been
made for the Bank to assist with the first in a series of such studies.
This study, to be completed by mid-1982, will assess the impact of tariff
and other policies on the electrical goods sector.  Similar studies will
follow, for the automotive sector later in 1982; chemical, plastic products
and ceramics in 1983; iron and steel products, machinery and other equipment
in 1984. Arrangements to carry out these studies will be worked out in
appropriate years. Nontariff restrictions, such as the domestic content
/1 Currently, nominal tariff rates exceeding 60% are levied on such items
as automobile assembly parts (160%), television sets, clothing, and beer
(100%), to name but the most important.



- 15 -
requirements in automotive industry, will be a part of the program for the
overall reform of the protective structure.
35.       Investment Incentives.  These are administered mainly by the Board
of Investment (BOI), with some overlapping responsibilities vested in the
Ministries of Finance, Commerce and Industry. The existing system of
investment incentives has raised many concerns which have been investigated
in a major study under the UNDP/IBRD technical assistance services to the
BOI. Its interim findings are now available and are based on the analysis
of the current incentive package, its implementation, and the functions and
procedures of BOI. Another study was done by a Bank consultant last year on
the impact of the incentive system. These studies indicate that, with few
exceptions, the incentives have tended to reinforce existing distortions
which favor capital use relative to labor, import substitution rather than
exporting, and location around Bangkok rather than decentralized locations.
These observed effects stem not only from the nature of the investment
incentives themselves, but also from their discretionary application by BOI.
36.       Lately, the Government has moved toward a full review of invest-
ment incentives as well as of BOI's procedures. Among the possible actions
considered were the most important ones proposed by the Bank's report on
industrial development (Report No. 2804a-TH), including the replacement of
the present positive list of promoted industries by a negative list; the
introduction of automaticity in granting promotional privileges; and the
inclusion of the present import privileges granted by BOI into the overall
reform of the protective structure. Well-attended public seminars have been
held, covering four major industrial groups, and widespread press coverage
was given to the impending evaluation of the incentives package, especially
fiscal incentives. In September 1981, the Government appointed a Committee
chaired by the Deputy Minister of Industry and including several cabinet
members who are also members of the Board of Directors of BOI, to review the
BOI operations and propose next steps and policy action. This Committee has
prepared a broad program of suitable reforms for implementation over a
number of years. In the short term, reforms will be made within the
existing law governing BOI; these will primarily involve changes in the tax
structure to provide incentives to new economic activity, as well as
elimination of tariff and business tax exemptions on machinery that favor
capital-intensive investment. Other possible new BOI activities, such as
responsibility for screening of foreign investment and technology
agreements, would require amendments to existing legislation, and are to be
contemplated for the longer term. A more detailed program for changes in
the investment incentives will be finalized in March 1982.
37.       With the exception of the proposed tax changes mentioned above,
full implementation programs of reform still have to be developed, their
implications analyzed and a time profile of the policy changes prepared.
The Planning Division of the BOI has begun specific work in this area
starting with the engineering goods subsector, where considerable prepara-
tory work has already been done by the consultants on the BOI study.



- 16 -
Furthermore, the BOI Committee will initiate a study of the fiscal implica-
tions of the incentives currently offered by BOI.
38.       Evaluation of Large-Scale Projects.  As almost all the large
industrial projects are being undertaken in the private sector, and their
financial profitability is at present closely linked to effective protection
and incentive packages, the tacit assumption that financial profitability
also ensures economic viability needs to be carefully evaluated. In this
context, the Government's intention, as stated in the Letter of Development
Policy, to undertake economic evaluation of all major projects for which
incentives are sought is an important element in its effort to avoid making
costly mistakes.
39.       The Government has set up an inter-departmental committee chaired
by the Prime Minister to oversee large-scale projects, but lack of technical
expertise for the time being prevents the concentration of responsibility
for the technical staff work in one government agency. Therefore, the
present ad hoc approach to large-scale industrial investment evaluation is
the only feasible one.  The Bank is directly involved in the preparation of
the Eastern Seaboard Development Program, for which a Center for Integrated
Plan of Operation (CIPO) was established in NESDB to coordinate the planning
and implementation of the Eastern Seaboard projects. The Bank's experience
with CIPO as a planning and evaluation agency for a large investment program
involving both the public and private sectors has been encouraging.
However, the institutional capacity for project review needs to be built up
over the next two years. For promoted private industries, this would be a
component of the general restructuring of BOI; for large public investments,
and private investments requiring substantial complementary public
investments, this will be included under the broader reforms of NESDB's
project evaluation capacity, discussed below in para. 60.
D. Energy Use and Development
40.       Over the last decade, the rapid growth of the Thai economy and
underpricing of energy have led to a steep rise in overall energy
consumption, from 7.4 million tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to 15.6 million
tons in 1979, when oil accounted for about 75% of total energy consumption.
Most of the increase in energy consumption took the form of imported crude
oil and petroleum products. Given renewed petroleum price increases, the
petroleum import bill in 1980 amounted to almost $3 billion, or about 30% of
total import value (as compared with 9% in 1970) and nearly half of total
merchandise export earnings.
41.       The Government's Fifth Plan sets forth a number of targets and
general policy directions for the energy sector, on the basis of the work
carried out by the NESDB Energy Subcommittee which consisted of representa-
tives from various agencies concerned with energy. It establishes a target
for total energy consumption growth of 4.6% p.a. over the Fifth Plan period.



- 17 -
This target is to be met by frequently adjusting energy and fuel prices to
reflect real costs, by introducing measures for energy conservation in
industry and transportation, and by enforcing additional direct measures to
save energy. Another Plan objective is for oil imports to fall by 3%
annually on average between 1981 and 1986, and for the share of oil consump-
tion in total energy consumption to fall to 46% by 1986. The implied import
substitution reflects the impact of current gas and lignite development, the
potential exploitation of oil deposits presently being explored, and further
specific actions which are to be proposed in a master plan study for energy
development that will be completed in early 1982. The Plan stipulates futher
that the Government will support research and development in new domestic
energy resources, especially renewable resources such as geothermal, solar,
alcohol and wind, although these sources are not expected to have much impact
on the structure of energy production during the Fifth Plan period.
42.       A number of technical and policy-related studies have also been
undertaken or have been set in train by the Government, many of them in
connection with the various Bank projects. There is an urgent need to pull
together the various strands of sectoral analysis, policy and investment
planning into a comprehensive and consistent energy sector program. Such a
program, which will deal with the three interrelated areas of energy conser-
vation, pricing and taxation, and energy development, is to be developed
under the structural adjustment program.
43.       Energy Conservation.  The Government has already taken a number of
steps to reduce energy consumption directly, especially during peak hours
(e.g., improvements in the Bangkok traffic flow, limiting viewing hours for
television and opening hours for gas stations, reducing power consumption in
government buildings, etc.), and has introduced an automobile license tax
progressively levied on engine capacity. Concerned agencies are preparing
policy and program proposals to induce energy conservation in transport,
industry and households. In transport, energy policy studies are underway.
A program of public education is being developed to encourage households to
save energy. Agencies such as the National Energy Administration (NEA), the
Ministry of Industry, and the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
(IFCT) are individually or cooperatively collecting technological informa-
tion, operating and expanding pilot schemes, and seeking external assistance
for the design and implementation of energy conservation programs. To
strengthen these efforts further, the Government will in 1982 conduct a
study to assess the existing incentives for industrial energy conservation
as provided by various agencies.  The subject cuts across the energy and
industrial sectors and involves a large number of planning and implementing
agencies. NEA will be the lead agency. Terms of Reference for the study have
been agreed.
44.       Pricing and Taxation.  Most energy conservation is likely to occur
as a result of appropriate policies on energy prices, which also serve the
purpose of resource mobilization. In the pricing of energy, and of energy



- 18 -
using public services such as transport, public policy has shifted dramati-
cally since 1979. Between 1970 and 1978, domestic energy prices in Thailand
increased only slightly faster than the Consumer Price Index, as successive
administrations were unable or unwilling to reflect international price
increases domestically. But as of 1979 significant efforts were made to
adjust domestic prices of power and petroleum products. By October 1981,
average power tariffs had been raised by 124% over the average level in
March 1979, and petroleum prices by an average of 120%. Subsidies to power
users were thus effectively eliminated and petroleum products are again
being taxed (i.e., priced at levels above opportunity cost). As a result,
covenants in Bank power projects are now being observed. Some distortions
remain in the structure of energy prices, as for example, in the relation-
ship of gasoline to diesel fuel prices, but much progress has been made, and
the resulting impact on energy demand has begun to be felt.
45.       For the future, the Government in its Letter of Development Policy
has reiterated its resolve to continue implementing frequent adjustments in
energy prices to reflect cost changes, including those occasioned by the
recent devaluation. With a view to correcting any unjustifiable relation-
ships that may still exist in the relative structure of petroleum product
prices, the Government will undertake a study to analyze the efficiency,
revenue and equity implications of the existing and alternative price
structures, and plans to initiate appropriate changes in the price structure
in 1982. The Ministry of Finance will be the lead agency responsible for
coordinating and reviewing the study. Terms of reference have been agreed.
46.       Energy Strategy Formulation.  Given the importance and dynamism of
the energy sector in Thailand-s economy, the Government attaches high prior-
ity to formulating an integrated and consistent strategy for energy develop-
ment in Thailand. To this end, a large number of studies have been com-
pleted or are underway. Many of these studies are expected to be completed
by March 1982, notably the Energy Master Plan Study, Gas Utilization Study,
Long-Term Refinery Expansion Study, and the Special Study on Natural Gas
Development Policy. There is, however, widespread concern both in the
Government and in the Bank that the large number of agencies active in the
energy sector may work at cross-purposes, and that policies may be inconsis-
tent, unless an effective institutional framework for policy coordination is
created. The Government has therefore selected the NEA to undertake, in
consultation with other concerned agencies, the responsibility to steer the
studies in progress, evaluate those which are completed, propose appropriate
recommendations for implementation, and identify areas for further
investigation. The NEA will complete the initial stock-taking of these
studies and prepare by September 1982 a medium-term energy strategy to
achieve the Plan objectives and targets. Subsequently, this mechanism for
policy coordination will be retained on a continuous basis so that the
dynamic changes in the energy sector are taken into account in further
strategy formulation and implementation.



- 19 -
E. Fiscal Policy
47.       Traditionally, the public sector has been small in Thailand.
Strong private savings have also reduced the need for a public savings
effort. Thus, the ratio of central government revenues to GDP has been
stagnant at 12-14% for many years. Up until the early 1970's, overall
central government deficits were equal to about 2% of GDP, and public
enterprises tended to be self-financing. During the 1970s public sector
deficits increased, however, as central government and public enterprise
expenditures grew in relation to GDP, tax proceeds were inelastic, and
prices for many public services were not raised in line with costs. Thus,
by 1980, the total public sector's cash deficit was some 6% of GDP, and was
contributing substantially to the pressures on the price level and the
balance of payments. For the future, given the Government-s determination
to play a more active role in development (especially in poor rural areas),
the need for continued substantial public enterprise investments, the
probability of increased expenditures for security, the inevitable increase
in debt service payments, and the need for civil service salaries not to lag
too much behind those in the private sector, it will be difficult to reduce
public sector expenditures as a percentage of GDP, even if expenditure
efficiency is improved. This, together with the need to reduce public
sector deficits, implies that public sector revenues will have to be
increased in relation to GDP. The Fifth Plan has set a target for central
government revenue of 18% of GDP by 1986, but this target has not as yet
been clearly linked to other macroeconomic variables, to the expected trends
in central government expenditure, and to the financial performance of the
rest of the public sector. Such links clearly need to be established.
Also, it is necessary to spell out where the major potentials for increased
resource mobilization lie, and how they can be realized.
48.        In view of the need for better information and planning, the Fis-
cal Policy Office in the Ministry of Finance has begun to set up a manage-
ment information system as a basic tool for fiscal policy planning. A major
study has been completed (with Bank support) on "Fiscal Policy for Revenue
Mobilization." In the meantime, the Government has been implementing a
two-year fiscal action program for FY81 and FY82, aiming at a revenue/GDP
ratio of 14.6% for FY82. Organizational reform is being taken in hand in
selected departments of the Ministry of Finance. Bills to reform local
taxes have recently been passed (vehicle tax) or are now before Parliament
(real estate tax). Public enterprise tariffs were increased substantially
for power, water, buses, railways and communications. Government estimates
indicate that the pricing changes will yield more than B 11 billion during
FY82, and transfers from central government to state enterprises are
expected to drop in absolute and relative terms in FY82, compared with FY81
(from 2.4% to 1.9% of total expenditure). Expenditure restraints and addi-
tional revenue measures, together with a target for the overall fiscal
deficit and a strict limit on bank financing of the deficit, were included
as elements of the adjustment program supported by the IMF stand-by



- 20 -
arrangement (see para. 68). Finally, fundamental reforms have been started in
the budgetary process (see para. 55 below). Under the Government s structural
adjustment program for the medium term, two main policy areas have been
given particular attention: development of an overall medium-term fiscal
strategy, and specific improvements in tax policy.
49.       Development of a Medium-Term Fiscal Strategy.  By September 1982
the Government will develop through the Ministry of Finance a medium-term
fiscal strategy designed to translate the fiscal objectives of the Fifth
Plan into phased action programs and concrete policy measures. In this con-
text, an analysis will be made of the trends of major revenue and expendi-
ture components to ensure their mutual consistency and their compatibility
with the Fifth Plan goals. In the tax field, the contributions to be made
to increased proceeds will be split between changes in tax rates, tax
structure, broadening of the tax base, and improved collection. On the
expenditure side, past and foreseeable future trends in major expenditure
items will be analyzed. The Government will include under this item the
establishment of realistic financial targets for all major public enterprises
and a phased program for the achievement of these targets, aiming as a
minimum at the elimination of operational losses. These targets will provide
a framework for ensuring that state enterprise prices are regularly reviewed
and set in line with overall development goals and resource constraints,
rather than on an ad hoc and agency-specific basis. A more systematic
approach will be taken towards investment programming throughout the whole
public sector (see further para. 60 below). Finally, the Government will
review the various extra-budgetary funds, about which currently little is
known, except that there are a great number of them, with a few involving
substantial financial flows. This study will be initiated by M4arch 1982, to
review the operations and effectiveness of these funds, with the objective
of considering whether they should continue to operate as separate entities
and if so, to establish clear performance criteria and a central monitoring
system.
50.       Tax Policy.  The Government will take the following actions in the
area of tax policy. First, fiscal measures to be implemented during FY82
include: restructuring of the personal and corporate income taxes and
reducing exemptions; a progressive income tax on sales of property; selective
increases in import duties on goods now exempted or taxed at low rates (see
para. 33); and increases in some excise taxes, including cement (converting
from a specific to an ad valorem base). The yield of these measures is
estimated at B 4 billion or 0.5% of GDP in FY82, and higher on an annual
basis; this represents a first step in the direction of achieving the tax
ratio desired for 1986. Furthermore, these measures, together with measures
recently taken (such as the prepayment of corporate income taxes and the
change in vehicle taxation from a weight to an engine-capacity base),
represent a step in the direction of an improved tax structure.



- 21 -
51.       Second, the Government will move ahead with its program for
improved tax administration in the Revenue, Customs and Excise Departments
of the Ministry of Finance and in local government. Specifically, the
Letter of Development Policy states that the Revenue Department will, by
March 1983, have set up eight Area Tax Offices in Metropolitan Bangkok,
will have separated its headquarters from operational functions, and will
have organized its headquarter offices along functional lines by mid-1983.
To permit the implementation of this program, the Government expects to
complete all necessary regulatory action by mid-1982 and to make available
the necessary financial resources. Preparatory work for these reforms has
been underway, with IMF technical assistance, for a number of years and they
are expected to lead to a significant improvement in tax administration.
The reforms are a necessary element in any attempt to increase public
resource mobilization in Thailand, since currently many potential taxpayers
escape the tax net. In the corporate sector, for instance, less than half
the companies pay any tax at all, and there is substantial underreporting of
profits. Improved tax administration therefore has ample scope for
broadening the tax base and for raising increased revenues in a more
equitable manner.
52.       Finally, the Government will, by September 1982, identify an appro-
priate long-term tax structure, and develop a phased program of movement
toward it, compatible with its overall fiscal strategy. The high-level Tax
Policy Board, which has recently been set up, will play a major role in
developing this program by facilitating interagency discussion and decision-
making. The Government's overall goal is to modernize Thailand's tax struc-
ture by moving gradually away from its heavy dependence on indirect taxes,
(including taxes on foreign trade) toward greater reliance on direct taxes,
to expand the direct tax base by including a wider category of incomes and
wealth, and to move gradually toward uniform business and excise taxation.
F. Institutional Development
53.       The various measures described above, which are to be taken to
restructure the Thai economy, will place considerable strains on the exist-
ing machinery of the central government. Indeed, many of the structural
problems which confront Thailand today can be attributed, directly or
indirectly, to weaknesses in Thai Government institutions and bureaucratic
systems, which impinge on proper policy analysis and coordination, public
sector investment programming, reconciliation of annual budgets with longer-
term development objectives and plans, and the appraisal and monitoring of
public expenditure programs. While it is not possible to quantify the
effects of these deficiencies on the past growth of fiscal or balance of
payments deficits, they have clearly contributed to a pattern of utilization
of resources which, although not obviously wasteful in a narrow sense, has
slowed the Government's response to rapidly changing economic conditions.



- 22 -
Thus policy changes alone, if unaccompanied by measures to strengthen
institutions and modernize the central bureaucratic systems, will be limited
in their effectiveness.
54.       Since March 1980, when the present Prime Minister formed his first
government, the national leadership has demonstrated a strong awareness of
these problems. A major effort was made to strengthen national development
planning and policy analysis for the preparation of the Fifth Plan. Several
important policy studies were commissioned, making extensive use of Thai
economists and social scientists in local universities and research insti-
tutes. To improve the coordination of central economic management, a perma-
nent National Economic Policy Steering Committee was formed in November 1980,
comprising key economic ministers and senior officials from the central staff
agencies, under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister. The NESDB, whose
management has also recently been strengthened, serves as the official
secretariat to this committee, thereby greatly enhancing the planning agency's
status and influence.
55.       A number of significant budgetary reforms have also recently been
introduced in the preparation of the FY82 budget, including the predetermi-
nation by the cabinet of indicative ministerial budget ceilings or targets,
reflecting national priorities in the context of more stringent fiscal
limitations; the delegation of responsibility to ministries to determine
departmental expenditure allocations in accordance with established sectoral
priorities; and the joint evaluation of consolidated ministerial budget
submissions by the NESDB and the Budget Bureau prior to final cabinet consi-
deration. A new capital budgeting system has been established to identify
the full costs, location and recurrent budget implications of project
activities, and a start was made in designing and testing a system of program
budgeting, elements of which are being applied on a trial basis in the
preparation of the FY82 budgets of two selected ministries. These reforms
in the budget formulation systems have paved the way for greater
collaboration between the central planning and budgeting agencies, for
greater devolution of responsibility to ministries for detailed budget
preparation, and for the ultimate extension of program budgeting principles
to the entire Government. Complementary changes, aimed at delegating
greater responsibility for program implementation to provincial governors
and departmental managers have also been introduced: provincial governors
have been given authority over several line items of departmental
expenditure; the long-established, cumbersome and inefficient trimestrial
allotment system was extensively revised; and greater flexibility was
introduced by giving line managers authority to transfer expenditures
between line items within approved departmental program estimates. The
initiatives taken in modernizing the budgetary systems represent a most
important breakthrough, but are only a partial first step. The Government
intends not only to maintain the momentum of institutional reform in the
Budget Bureau, but also to extend it to the other central management systems
to which the budget system is closely linked, particularly the planning,
investment programming, accounting and auditing systems.



- 23 -
56.       In sum, it is clear that the Government is committed to continuing
the process of institutional reform as part of its structural adjustment
program, emphasizing measures to improve the coordination of economic
management, public policy research and analysis, planning, programming, and
project appraisal; budget administration; and personnel management. These
measures can be grouped into two categories: those which seek to modify the
procedures and systems governing public sector institutions, and those which
strengthen the institutional infrastructure itself. The Government has con-
centrated to date on the first category, but will also pay increased atten-
tion to the enhancement of institutional capabilities, as described below.
57.       Systemic Changes.  During the next two years, the adequacy of the
present planning, budgetina, accounting and auditing systems will be
thoroughly reviewed and changes identified and introduced to improve the
allocation and utilization of resources. The Government intends to employ a
single firm of consultants to undertake this task, to ensure that system
improvements are mutually compatible and are implemented in a coordinated
and orderly manner. The consultants will work with designated counterpart
groups and policy committees in the Budget Bureau, the NESUB, the Controller
GeneralVs Department and the Auditor General's Department to study the
existing procedures, design and test new systems, supervise their introduc-
tion and train local staff in their application and administration.
Financing of these consultancies is being provided by USAID and was approved
in October 1981.
58.       The major objective of the consultants in the Budget Bureau will
be to finalize the design and supervise the installation of a simple program
budgeting system by FY84. Their main tasks will be to complete the repro-
gramming of the budgets of the two ministries (agriculture and education)
selected for testing the new systems, and to initiate and undertake the
budgetary reprogramming of the six other sectors. In addition, they will
continue the work on budget computerization and expenditure reclassification
initiated under the first phase consultancy, redesign the budget preparation
forms and instructions related to noncapital development programs, sub-
programs and departmental work plans, and assist with the reorganization of
the Bureau and the retraining of staff.
59.       The work of the consulting team in the Controller General's
Department will be divided into two phases. During the first, a compre-
hensive analysis of the present accounting procedures, documents, staff and
equipment capabilities, and pre-auditing systems will be undertaken. Based
on this survey and the consultant's recommendations, essential improvements
to the accounting systems and documentation will be introduced, and the
necessary changes will be made in financial regulations, equipment, organi-
zation and training in the Controller General's Department. The first phase
of the consultancy will be completed by the end of calendar year 1982 (i.e.,
at the beginning of the budget preparation process for FY84). The second
phase, devoted to extending and refining the basic accounting system through



- 24 -
the introduction of a cost accounting system, a fixed asset control system
and an internal audit system for use within the Department, will run to the
end of 1983.
60.       The consultants working in the NESDB will be required (a) to
specify and design the details of medium-term planning and sectoral program-
ming systems linked to the introduction of program budgeting; (b) to clarify
the roles and responsibilities of the many different planning units at each
level of government in relation to new planning and programming systems; and
(c) to conduct a management study of NESDB, making recommendations concerning
its organization, management, staff development, and information and data
requirements. The medium-term planning and programming system is expected
to comprise (i) a (probably three-year) rolling investment program compatible
with the requirements of program budgeting and the capabilities of the
accounting system; (ii) a uniform project preparation and appraisal system;
and (iii) a project/program monitoring and evaluation system which would
provide the Executive Committee of the NESDB and the National Economic Policy
Steering Committee with up-to-date overviews of implementation performance
and other major developments. This work is likely to take eighteen months
and to be completed by mid-1983. Of particular importance to the Bank is
the completion of a public investment program. The first such program is
expected to be completed by mid-1982 covering FY83 to FY85. The Bank will
review and assess the program at that time in the course of its economic
work on Thailand. From preliminary information presently available, the
overall level and growth of public investment for the Plan period appears to
be consistent with the broad expenditure targets of the Plan. Moreover,
there does not appear to exist any severe misallocation of public investment
funds among or within sectors. These conclusions, however, remain tentative,
and, in any case, improved investment programming and project analysis are
essential in view of the increasingly important role that these activities
will have to play in the future.
61.       At present, the Auditor General in Thailand, although required by
law to review the general performance of governmental agencies, only has the
capacity to conduct routine financial audits. The aim of the consultancy in
his Department is to design and introduce a modern performance auditing
system, in close coordination with the reforms in the budget, planning and
accounting systems. This will require the installation of computer hardware,
as well as some departmental reorganization and staff training.
62.       Strengthening the Institutional Infrastructure.  The Government
intends to press ahead with measures to strengthen institutional capacity in
public policy research and analysis. Although experience with the prepara-
tion of the Fifth Plan has demonstrated that Thailand possesses considerable
indigenous analytical capabilities outside its core policy-making agencies -
in universities and research institutes in Thailand and abroad, and in the
private sector - institutional and budgetary constraints have stood in the



- 25 -
way of its effective utilization. Thus, Thai planning and economic manage-
ment agencies have come to depend heavily on foreign support for policy
analysis, which is undesirable, particularly during a period of rapid
economic change requiring constant policy assessments and adjustments. The
Government has now decided to reform present policies and regulations pre-
venting agencies such as the NESDB from obtaining the services of Thai econ-
omists or social scientists on acceptable terms to work on important policy
studies, program evaluations or special task forces.
63.       The Government has also commissioned a study of ways and means of
enhancing or supplementing the limited in-house analytical capabilities of
the NESDB and other government agencies responsible for policy review and
formulation. The study, which was financed under an ongoing Bank project,
was completed in September 1981. It recommended that an independent policy
research institute should be established, either by law or as a government-
owned public corporation, with a small nucleus of high-quality staff capable
of organizing research and policy studies required by contracting government
agencies. These proposals have been accepted by the Government, which
intends to complete the arrangements for the creation of what is to be
called the Thailand Development Institute early in 1982, and a number of the
policy studies to be undertaken as part of the Government-s structural
adjustment program are likely to be undertaken by the Institute.
64.       Finally, faced with evidence that the quality of public sector
management has been steadily undermined by weak personnel administration and
uncompetitive salaries, the Government also decided to initiate studies of
the organization, management and compensation for the civil service during
1982. Civil service reforms are unlikely to progress rapidly or without
opposition. But it is important that every opportunity is seized to address
this facet of institutional development.
PART III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Loan History
65.       Over the last several years, there has been an intensive policy
dialogue between the Royal Thai Government and the Bank, based to a signifi-
cant extent on the findings of the last Basic Economic Report and subsequent
economic and sector work. With the emergence of Thailand-s growing balance
of payments difficulties during the late 1970s, and especially in the wake
of the oil price increases of 1979/80, the Bank urged the Government at
various stages of the preparation and discussion of the latest economic
report (in 1980) to initiate a comprehensive program of structural adjust-
ment. The formation of the first cabinet of General Prem Tinsulanonda in



- 26 -
March 1980 resulted in the establishment of a cohesive economic team, and in
the fall of 1980 the Government started to make substantial policy changes
over a broad front. It also began to formulate its Fifth Five-Year Plan, in a
much more systematic manner than earlier Plans, and including explicitly a
strategy for structural adjustment of the Thai economy. Soon afterwards, the
Government approached the IMF to support its adjustment program through a
standby arrangement, which has since been concluded. In January 1981 the
Government formally requested the Bank to consider extending a series of SALs
to Thailand.
66.       As the Bank had been working closely with the Government on issues
of structural adjustment, the SAL Reconnaissance Mission which visited Thai-
land in May/June 1981 could proceed quickly. The mission found broad support,
both at the political and the technical level, for a medium-term approach to
structural adjustment, with assistance from the Bank. The mission was reques-
ted to help identify a package that would address the issues of structural
adjustment over a broad front. Following a review of the Government-s
Droposed program within the Bank, an appraisal mission visited Thailand in
August/September 1981. Substantial agreement on the nature and timing of the
SAL program was reached between the Government team and the mission.
Negotiations were held in Washington from December 14 to 18, 1981. The Thai
delegation was headed by H.E. Dr. Phaichitr Uathavikul, Deputy Minister of
Finance.
B. IMF Activities in Thailand, and Relationship to the Proposed Loan
67.       In the past year the IMF has significantly increased its involve-
ment in Thailand. Discussions were held with the Government on appropriate
policies to address the growing balance of payments difficulties, and a
number of policy measures in the areas of financial, fiscal and pricing
policy have become the basis for a large standby arrangement, covering a
period of two years (starting in June, 1981) and amounting to SDR 814.5
million. The program focuses primarily on the immediate balance of payments
problem and on some of the short-term policies necessary to cope with it,
including reductions in fiscal deficits, limits on credit expansion and on
short-term external borrowing by the public sector, and close review of
interest and exchange rate policies.  As of December 31, 1981, Thailand has
drawn SDR 345 million under the stand-by arrangement (see Annex V).  Based
on reports of a recent IMF mission, the Fund's Board on December 28, 1981,
approved the Government's policy program for 1981/82 as the basis for
continuing purchases under the arrangement. In addition, the IMF has pro-
vided Thailand in 1981 with SDR 186 million under the compensatory financing
facility.
68.       There has been an extensive exchange of information and consultation
between the Bank and the IMF during the preparation of the programs for the
standby arrangement and for the proposed loan. The SAL appraisal mission
overlapped with a mission of the IMF which reviewed Thailand's performance



- 27 -
under the two-year standby arrangement. For the future, continued close
collaboration of the IMF and the Bank staffs is foreseen, especially in the
area of fiscal policy, where both institutions have complementary interests,
and the capacity to assist the Government in formulating its short-,
medium-, and longer-term programs for increased resource mobilization and
improved expenditure programming. With regard to short-term fiscal
management, the IMF standby arrangment includes a Government commitment to
limit the central government budget deficit sharply in fiscal years 1981 and
1982, reducing it from nearly 4.5% of GDP in FY79/80 to less than 2.5% of
GDP in FY81/82. Also, the IMF has already, over several years, provided
technical assistance to reform the organization and administration in the
Internal Revenue Department, and it is presently reviewing the
administrative practices in the Customs Department of the Ministry of
Finance.
69.       Traditionally, the Bank has in its economic work paid significant
attention to fiscal policy, and especially to resource mobilization and
efficient utilization of public resources. It has been encouraged by the
Government to continue its efforts in these areas. In the context of this
SAL, the Bank is supporting an improvement in the link between overall devel-
opment planning and medium-term fiscal policy, and is especially concerned
that, given the requirements of the overall structural adjustment program,
increased resource mobilization is pursued over the medium term in order to
reduce overall government deficits while safeguarding necessary development
expenditures. In the area of expenditure control, the Bank likewise is
concentrating on medium-term issues, including the timely identification of
necessary structural changes in prospective public expenditure patterns, and
the formulation of appropriate multi-year investment programs. It is also
addressing the institutional interfaces between planning, budgeting,
programming and monitoring of the development process.
70.       Intensive consultations between Bank and Fund staff have been
taking place to arrive at an appropriate division of work in the public
finance field under this SAL, and for the future. There is agreement that
the activities of the two Bretton Woods institutions in Thailand have been
complementary and will remain so in the work planned. Under this SAL two
main policy areas are being addressed: development of a medium-term fiscal
strategy, and improvements in tax policy to implement the first time slice
of this strategy. IMF staff will work closely with the Government and Bank
staff in developing the medium-term strategy for the whole public sector.
As this work progresses during 1982, the division of activities between the
IMF and the Bank will be kept under review.



- 28 -
C. Expected Effects of the Medium-Term Structural Adjustment Program
71.       As discussed in paragraphs 13 and 14 above, the Government has
incorporated its medium-term structural adjustment policy program in the
framework of its Fifth Five-Year Plan, and has targeted a current account
balance of payments improvement by about 5% of GDP between 1980 and 1986
(Table 1). In the context of the preparation of this loan, the Bank has
attempted to estimate independently whether, even under relatively conser-
vative assumptions for the external environment and for the effects of the
various policy measures on the economy, these measures may be expected to
bring the balance of payments deficits down to a sustainable level by 1986.
In the first instance, the orders of magnitude of the proposed measures in
the various policy areas can be broadly assessed in order to judge whether
they are substantive enough to expect a quantitatively significant effect.
Such an assessment for the fiscal policy area, where central government
revenues are to be increased by about 4% of GDP while expenditures are to be
kept at the same level in relation to GDP, indicates that this effort is
indeed very significant in relation to the objectives sought, even if it is
realistically assumed that improvements in the fiscal balance are not
reflected fully in the balance of payments. As another example, it can be
noted that the price increases for petroleum products and electricity over
the period January 1979 - July 1981 have increased the relative domestic
prices for these products (as compared to the general price level) by as
much as 60-70%. This is resulting in a significant income transfer to the
public sector, a reduction in the demand for energy - which translates
itself nearly completely in reduced import demand - and in a reduced need
for investments in the power sector, which is very capital- and import-
intensive. Even if the effect of these measures has already at least partly
been realized before the onset of the Plan period,/l most of it will still
occur in this period.  A rough calculation indicates that the effect of
higher energy price in reducing the current account deficit will probably be
of the order of magnitude of 1-1.5% of GDP.
72.       Similarly, in other policy areas, where quantitative estimates are
even more difficult to make, the prospective effects are substantial. In
agriculture, the reclassification of forest reserves suited for agriculture
will positively affect a significant proportion of the farm land and popula-
tion, and increased farmgate prices through reduced taxation and improved
marketing will, if past experience is any guide, induce an appreciable
supply response from the Thai farmer. In industry, stimulation of exports
/1 This is probably the main reason why the current account/GDP ratio has
not increased much since 1979, in spite of the large petroleum price
increase since that year.



- 29 -
and a move in incentives toward strengthening Thailand's comparative
advantage may well have quantitatively important effects by 1986. Given
reasonable assumptions with regard to the various factors governing the size
of the effects in agriculture and industry, the gross effects for each could
be about as large as that in the energy sector./l Finally, there is every
reason to expect that an improvement in the efficiency of the public sector,
which presently directly spends nearly 20% of GDP, and indirectly affects a
much larger proportion of the nation's expenditures, will influence the
overall resource expenditure balance favorably. Thus, a broad and intuitive
review of the Government's program suggests that indeed substantial effects
may be expected.
73.       The combined direct and indirect effects of the various policy
measures can be estimated through the utilization of an economic model. As
indicated in para. 14 above, the Plan projections themselves have been made
with the assistance of a model. The Bank has, in cooperation with Thai
counterpart institutions, been working on the construction of a new model,
especially designed to assess the income distribution implications of various
factors affecting the Thai economy. Since it is always difficult to translate
the various mechanisms through which any specific policy measure influences
the economy into the stylized inputs which a model needs, such model
projections can only give an approximate indication of the economic effects
which can be expected./2
74.       With this caveat, Table 2 shows the projections obtained from this
model./3  Under the "without" alternative it is assumed that the Government
would have continued its policies of the second half of the 1970s largely
unchanged, making gradual but limited adjustments. Economic growth would
be somewhat lower than in the past. Real export growth would decelerate
and import growth even more; because of unfavorable terms of trade, and
accumulating external interest payments, the current account of the balance
of payments would however further deteriorate in percent of GDP, and, as
/1 Probably the net effects will be smaller, as incomes are created which
will be partly spent on imports. However, to the extent that savings
are increased, for instance through the public resource mobilization
efforts mentioned above, this secondary effect will be compensated.
This illustrates the way in which the various components in the SAL
policy program complement each other.
/2 For the same reason, no attempt has been made to use the model to
estimate disaggregated effects of the various policy measures.
/3 The projections for the "with adjustment" case are incorporated in
Annex 1 to this Report.



- 30 -
already mentioned in para. 12, the debt service would grow beyond tolerable
levels. With structural adjustment, but using conservative estimates for
the various coefficients and inputs governing the estimates, the outcomes
would be substantially more favorable. Economic growth would be essentially
the same as in the previous four-year period, and agricultural growth would
Table 2: PROJECTIONS OF SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
UNDER ALTERNATIVE ASSUMPTIONS
1976-80             1981-86
Without       With
Str. Adj. Str. Adj.
Growth Rates of Constant Price Aggregates,
GDP at market prices                               7.4           7.0          7.3
Agricultural production                            2.9           3.1          4.2
Exports GNFS                                      11.3           8.1         10.0
Agricultural exports                               4.8           3.0          5.5
Manufactured exports                              20.2          13.4         15.3
Imports GNFS                                      11.5           5.3          5.4
Imports of petroleum and products                  8.4           3.4         -0.6
1980                1986
Ratios
Investment (% GDP)                                27.9         29.4          29.0
Government revenue (% GDP)                        14.5          14.9         17.9
Current account deficit (% GDP)                    7.2           7.6          4.2
Petroleum imports (% imports GNFS)                28.0          29.2         23.5
Debt service ratio (% exports)                    15.2         22.1          17.1
Debt service ratio, 1991 (% exports)               -           (33.0)       (16.8)
be even higher./l While real export growth, at 10% per annum, would be two
percentage points higher than in the "without" case, it is estimated that
imports would hardly grow any faster. As a result the balance of payments
situation would improve. As Table 2 shows, the improvement, as compared
with the "without" case, would, among other things, occur through increased
agricultural exports (due to increased availability of agricultural export
goods), improved industrial export performance (due to higher efficiency)
/1  Even so, the agricultural growth rate which is assumed here - based on
an estimate by a recent agricultural mission - is somewhat lower than
the Plan estimate. It should be noted that the agricultural growth rate
over the years 1976-80, as stated in Table 2, is below the trend because
of the influence of the weather.



- 31 -
and decreased energy imports (mainly through energy conservation induced by
higher prices). Given the relatively conservative assumptions made, the
resulting current account deficit in percent of GDP is less favorable than
the Plan target /1 but in the Bank's judgement the Plan projections fall
within the range of plausible outcomes. Under the "with adjustment"
scenario the debt service is projected to level off in the second half of
the 1980s and remain within the acceptable range. Summarizing the above
discussion, it appears that, using the analytical tools presently available,
the proposed structural adjustment program may be expected to have
beneficial effects of sufficient order of magnitude to bring the balance of
payments deficit down to a sustainable level in the medium term.
D. Relationship between the Proposed Loan and the First Phase of
the Structural Adjustment Process
75.       The proposed loan is in support of the first phase of the five-
year structural adjustment program envisaged by the Government. The
rationale for this program was discussed in Part II above, and the expected
macro-economic effects were reviewed in the preceding section. The
approach and the specific measures which have been or will be taken under
this SAL are set out in a Letter of Development Policy which has been
received from the Government (see Annex IV) and are summarized in Table 3.
This table distinguishes between actions already taken since the Government
decided to embark on a program of structural adjustment in the fall of 1980,
and the steps to be taken in 1982 and early in 1983. These steps, in turn,
are divided into three categories, viz. studies, program development, and
actions. Studies are designed to provide the necessary analytical base
where this does not yet exist; program development consists in the formula-
tion of sectoral or subsectoral strategies and action programs designed to
achieve specified goals and targets and, to the extent possible, officially
announcing them as government policy; actions are policy interventions
taking place before or after negotiation and approval of the SAL as part of
the Government's agreed program to implement structural adjustment. While
actions are necessary to achieve the desired results, studies and program
development are essential to the further elaboration of a medium-term phased
*           adjustment program, supported by a series of SALs.
76.       Thus, to clarify a number of issues, studies included under this
*           SAL are concerned with fertilizer supply, the feasibility of tariff policy
change in electrical goods and automobile production, the fiscal costs of
industrial incentives, energy conservation in industry, relative prices
/1 Part of the difference is due to the fact that the Government's estimate
for the nominal GDP is higher. Using the Government's estimated GDP,
the deficit estimated by the Bank would be 3.7% of GDP in 1986.



- 32 -
of petroleum products, operations of extrabudgetary funds, and civil service
organization and compensation. The timing and terms of reference of the
studies which will be undertaken early in the SAL period have been finalized
during negotiations; for the remaining studies the terms of reference will
also be agreed between the Government and the Bank. Program development,
prior to implementation of policy actions, will be undertaken under this SAL
in the areas of land reclassification, reform of the industrial protective
structure, reform of industrial incentives, evaluation capability of large
projects, energy strategy, medium-term tax policy, overall fiscal policy and
public enterprise financial policies. These programs will set out, in
detail for the next two to three years, and more generally for the later
years of the Plan period, the specific steps and procedures to be followed
in attaining the Plan goals. It is expected that several of these programs
will already begin to be implemented during the period of this SAL, while
other actions will be deferred for implementation under subsequent SALs.
Finally, the many specific actions already taken by the Government since the
inception of its structural adjustment program, and the others that will
still be taken under this SAL, discussed in Part II of this report and
enumerated in Table 3, cannot easily be summarized, but the main ones cover
the areas of agricultural pricing, regulation and marketing, reform of
industrial protection, export promotion, energy and public enterprise
pricing, tax policy, and institutional reform in the public sector.
77.       The components included in SAL I constitute an appropriate first
"time slice" in the medium-term structural adjustment program incorporated
in the Five-Year Plan which can only be implemented over time. In some
areas substantial progress toward the realization of the overall medium-term
program has already been made or will be made under this SAL; in others
further preparatory work will still be necessary and is to be undertaken
under this SAL. In broad terms, much progress has already been made in
pricing, especially, but not solely, of energy. Significant improvement has
been underway already also in the area of budgetary reform. In the fiscal
and institutional areas quite a large amount of detailed analysis and
implementation will however still have to be undertaken under this and
subsequent SALs to attain the set objectives. With regard to industrial
policy, the most important accomplishment under this SAL will be to reverse
direction in the area of incentives and protection, moving away from an
increasingly discretionary and unsystematic regime toward a set of
incentives more in conformity with comparative advantage and efficiency.
Preparatory to further continued progress, substantial analysis and program
development will however be necessary in the industrial as well as the
energy sectors. Finally, in agriculture, progress is being made under this
SAL in several areas (e.g., export taxation of rice and rubber), but further
detailed preparatory and analytical work will be needed to implement the
principal programs indicated in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy. Overall, it appears that under this SAL appropriate progress should
occur toward the realization of the objectives set out in Thailand's Fifth
Five-Year Plan.



- 33 -
Page 1 of 5
Table 3: THAILAND: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN PROGRAM
Structural adjustment program
Sector and policy issue                           Action already taken                             Steps to be taken
I.  AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1.  Land Reclassification                  Land policy study, completed in May             Program Development:  By March 1982 the
1981, identified the broad extent and           MOAC will have finalized a detailed pro-
location of areas classified as for-            gram aimed at initiating the process of
ests, but suitable for long-term agri-    land reclassification in all encroached
cultural use.  B 73 million allocated           forest areas that are suitable for agri-
in current FY budget to initiate                culture by 1986; and BAAC will have
reclassificationi process.  Broad.work          finalized a companion program for its
program over Fifth Plan period already          operations in support of agricultural
prepared.                                       production in the newly reclassified
areas.
Action: Reclassification process
involving detailed soil and socioecon-
omic surveys and leading to issuance
of "right to farm" certificates to
start in first half of 1982.
2. Pricing, Regulation and Marketing
(a)  Export quotas                    Cassava quotas eliminated.  Export ban    Government policy is aimed at minimiz-
on white sugar lifted.  Quota system            ing intervention while retaining the
for maize exports improved.                     flexibility towards export regulation
required by trade circumstances.
(b)  Export duties                    Export tax on rubber reduced (at Sep-           Achievement of farmgate price targets
tember 1981 prices) from about 25% to           for paddy is to take priority in rice
11%.  Rice reserve requirement halved           policy even if that requires further
(reducing its burden on exports from            reductions of the tax burden on rice
approx. 20% to 10%).                            exports.
(c)  Domestic intervention            Improvements in the efficiency of rice    Action:  A start towards deregulation
and regulation                   procurement programs.                           of livestock and meat marketing will
be made by allowing the operation of
Improvements in the effectiveness and           private slaughterhouse facilities for
geographical distribution of "cheap             export purposes by April 1982.
rice" program.
(d)  Fertilizer marketing                                                             Study of fertilizer supply, including
system                                                                           a review of the public sector partici-
pation, to be carried out under Office
of Agricultural Economics responsibi-
lity, during 1982. Terms of Reference
agreed.
II. INDUSTRY
1.  Articulation and Implementation   An interdepartmental subcommittee on                 Action:  A permanent interdepartmental
of an Appropriate Industrial           industry has developed the strategy             committee consisting of senior policy
Development Strategy                   for industrial development for the              level officials will direct imple-
Fifth Plan.  After submitting its               mentation of industrial policies and
report, this committee was disbanded.          monitor progress.
2.  Protective Structure                   Studies have been carried out for               Action:  Initial reduction in the
changes in general tariff structure.            range of existing duties by lowering
Tariffs have been reduced for several           tariffs on the high side to a maximum
electric and electronic goods and               of 60% and increasing tariffs on the
there have been no major increases in           low side to a minimum of 5-10%, dur-
tariffs or quantitative restrictions            ing FY82.
recently.
Program Development: Program of
medium-term reform of protective
structure, including quantitative re-
strictions, to be drawn up by mid-1982.
Studies: Tariff policy feasibility
study to be undertaken for electrical
goods industry early in 1982, and for
automotive industry late in 1982. Terms
of Reference for first study, to be
implemented by Bank, agreed.



- 34 -
Page 2 of 5
Structural adjustment program
Sector and policy issue                         Action already taken                           Steps to be taken
II. INDUSTRY (continued)
3.  Investment Lncentives                A comprehensive study has been comple-    Program Development:  By March 1982 the
ted on the functions and procedures of    Committee on bOI is to draw up a detail-
the Board of Investment; it has recom-    ed phased program of reform of investment
mended far-reaching policy reforms in         incentives, including the introduction
line with the broad goals of the Fifth    of automaticity in granting privileges,
Plan.                                         and incorporating the present import
privileges granted by BOI into theCover-
A cabinet-level committee has been set    reform of the protective structure.
up, has reviewed the incentive system
and suggested broad reforms.                  Study:  To analyze the fiscal implica-
tions of present investment incentives.
4.  Export Promotion                     A number of policy and legislative            Actions:  A proposed Export Develop-
changes have been introduced to foster    ment Fund will begin operation by June
export growth.  Baht was devalued             1982.  Five additional bonded manufac-
against the dollar in July 1981.              turing warehouses will be established
Export Tax Drawback Act is being              in 1982.
implemented. Customs organization and
procedures are being streamlined with
technical assistance from the IMF.
5.  Evaluation of Large-Scale            An interdepartmental committee                Program Development:  Capabilities of
Projects                             chaired by the Prime Minister has             NESDB to evaluate public projects will
been set up to oversee large-scale            be strengthened (see V.l.a. below).
projects.  A Center for Integrated            Increasing the capability of BOI to
Plan of Operations (CIPO) has been set    do the evaluation of promoted private
up at the NESDB to coordinate the             investments will be made a part of
planning and implementation of                the program development by the
projects in the Eastern Seaboard area.    Committee on BOI mentioned above.
III. ENERGY
1.  Conservation                         The Government has taken a number of          Study: To identify improvements in
steps to reduce energy consumption            the existing system of incentives for
directly, including improvements in           energy conservation in industry.
Bangkok traffic management, restric-         NEA will be lead agency and complete
tions on TV viewing hours, reduction          study in 1982.  Terms of Reference
of power consumption in public build-         agreed.
ings, and introduction of an automo-
bile license tax progressively levied
on engine capacity.
2.  Pricing and Taxation                 Most of the energy conservation is            Government has reaffirmed its
likely to result from an appropriate          commitment to frequent adjustments in
energy pricing policy.  Between March         energy prices to reflect costs.
1979 and October 1981, significant ad-
justments were made to power tariffs         Study:  To review the implications of
(124%) and average petroleum prices          existing retail price structure of
(120%).                                      petroleum products and propose appro-
priate changes. Ministry of Finance
will be lead agency and complete
study in 1982. Terms of Reference
agreed.
3.  Strategy Formulation                 Major investments in domestic energy          Program Development:  NEA will take
development (gas lignite, power) have         stock of available sector information
been completed, are underway, or              and prepare by September 1982 an inte-
planned.  A large number of studies on    grated medium-term energy strategy to
energy planning and development have         achieve Fifth Plan objectives and tar-
been completed or are underway.               gets.  Subsequently, this mechanism
The Fifth Plan puts forward major             will be retained on a continuous basis
targets regarding indigenous energy           to ensure that changes in the energy
resource development.  The National           sector are taken into account in
Energy Authority (NEA) has been               further strategy formulation and
identified as the agency responsible         implementation.
for strategy formulation on a
continuing basis.



- 35 -
Page 3 of 5
Structural adjustment program
Sector and policy issue                           Action already taken                             Steps to be taken
IV. FISCAL POLICY
1. Development of Fiscal Strategy
(a)  Fiscal program for con-          NESDB/Bank fiscal policy study has               Program Development:  Ministry of
solidated public sector          been completed.  Fifth Plan has set             Finance will, by September 1982,
overall targets for public expendi--            organize the preparation of a phased
tures and resource mobilization, and            implementation program for attainment
developed Droad policy approaches for           of Fifth Plan fiscal targets for the
revenue mobilization.                           entire public sector.
(h)  State enterprise finan-          Public enterprise tariffs were increa-    Program Development:  Ministry of
cing                             sed substantially for the following             Finance will, by September 1982, esta-
services:  power, water, municipal and    blish realistic financial targets for
intermunicipal buses, railways and              all major public enterprises and a
communications.                                 phased program for the achievement of
these targets, which will, as a mini-
mum, aim at the elimination of opera-
tional losses.
(c)  Lxtrabudgetary funds                                                              Study:  Ministry of Finance will, by
March 1982, initiate a study to rev-
iew the operations and effectiveness
of extrabudgetary funds and to con-
sider whether they should continue to
operate as separate entities.
2. Tax Policy
(a)  Tax structure                    NESDB/Bank fiscal policy study has               Action:  Tax measures have, or will be
identified major directions for                 taken, during FY82 with estimated in-
reforms in tax structure.  The Fifth            cremental tax yield of Baht 4 billion
Plan has set a goal to increase direct    (0.5% of GDP).
tax share in total taxes and to
increase the tax/GDP ratio from 14 to           Program Development:  Tax Policy Board
18%.  Selective improvements in tax             will by September 1982 identify appro-
structure and rates were made during            priate long-term tax structure and
FY81, including introduction of                 develop a program of phased movement
interim payments for corporate income           towards it.
tax. Tax Policy Board was set up in
August 1981.
(b)  Tax adainistration                Computerization of tax payer identifi-    Action:  By March 1983 Revenue Depart-
cation ano tax collection, as well as           ment will set up a total of eight Area
preparation of program for organiza-            Tax Offices in Bangkok.  by mid-1983
tional reform  in Revenue Department,           it will have separated headquarter
with IMF technical assistance.  Five            from operational functions, and will
Area Tax offices set up on a pro-               have organized headquarter officers
visional basis in Bangkok by                    along functional lines.  Required
December 1981.                                  regulatory action is expected by
mid-1982.



- 36 -
Page 4 of 5
Structural adjustment program
Sector and policy issue                       Action already taken                          Steps to be taken
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
1. Systemic Changes
(a)  Planning and programming,    Major effort made to define and.              Action:  NESDB to engage consultants
project appraisal, and        specify policies and public sector           to:
monitoiing and evaluation    programs in the Fifth Plan as basis           (a)  design and assist in the instal-
for budgeting and investment                      lation of a medium-term planning
analysis.                                         and sectoral programming system,
New approach adopted to budgeting for             and of a uniform project prep-
FY82 (see Budgeting below) involving              aration/appraisal system;
closer collaboration between central        (b)  clarify roles and responsibili-
staff agencies concerned with                     ties of planning units at each
resource allocation.                              level of government;
(c) examine adequacy of existing
monitoring and evaluation
systems, and recommend and
install improved systems; and
(d) determine appropriate organiza-
tional and staffing arrangements
for NESDB and other planning
bodies.
This work is to be completed by
mid-1983.
(b)  Budget formulation            Consultants commenced work in Bud-           Action:  Budget Bureau will:
and execution                 get Bureau in March 1980 to assist           (a)  implement in FY82 the recommen-
in design and introduction of bud-                dations concerning improvements
getary reforms.                                   in allotment system and
FY82 budget prepared on basis of                  relaxation of central controls
sectoral (ministerial) allocations                on budgetary transfers;
fixed by Cabinet on recommendations         (b)  apply program budgeting approach
of Budget Bureau and NESDB.                       to MOAC and Ministry of Educa-
New capital budgeting concepts and                tion on trial basis in FY83 and
procedures devised and agreed.                    evaluate their experience by
Changes in allotment system and                   November 1983; and (c)  prepare
authority for approving budgetary                 FY84 budget on full program
transfers recommended and under                   budgeting principles.
active consideration.
(c)  Government accounting         Consultants commenced work in Control-    Action: By December 1982, the Control-
systems                       ler GeneralJs Department in January          ler General's Department will, with
1981 on project to clarify and stan-        the assistance of consultants, carry
dardize accounting data; draft report       out a comprehensive analysis of pre-
has been completed.                         sent accounting procedures, documents,
staffing, equipment and pre-auditing
systems. Based on this analysis,
accounting systems and financial
regulations will be improved.
(d)  Performance auditing          Request has been submitted to USAID          Action:  During 1982 and 1983,
for consultants to design, test, and        Consultants in Office of Auditor
install performance auditing system.        General will design and install
necessary audit systems, compatible
with revised budgetary and accounting
systems, and recommend appropriate
organizational changes.



- 37 -
Page 5 of 5
Structural adjustment program
Sector and policy issue                         Action already taken                           Steps to be taken
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS (continued)
Action: (a) Funds to be made avail-
2.  Strengthening the Institu-           Numerous policy studies initiated in          able in FY82 to core agencies to
tional Infrastructure                context of preparing Fifth Plan with          finance studies of key policy issues.
funding provided mainly from inter-           (b)  Relaxation, by March 1982, of
national and bilateral aid sources.           restrictions on ability of core policy
agencies to commission Thai
National Economic Policy Steering             institutions to carry out policy
Committee established in November 1980    studies.
to coordinate national economic man-          (c)  Establishment of an independent
agement with NESDB designated as              research or development institute to
secretariat.                                 organize the conduct of policy analyses
and reviews by mid 1982.
Major review of existing development
policies and programs undertaken in           Study:  Study of the organization,
context of preparing the Fifth Plan.         management and compensation for the
civil service to be initiated during
1982.



- 38 -
E. Benefits and Risks
78.       Benefits.  The main benefits of the loan are in the form of the
policy adjustments mentioned above which may be expected to lead to an
improvement in the performance of the economy in general, and in the balance
of payments in particular, over the medium term. This will help maintain
Thailand's ability to raise funds from international capital markets on
reasonable terms. The present positive attitude of private lenders toward
Thailand is based on competitive considerations, and mostly on short-term
assessments of Thailand's creditworthiness. This implies that Thailand's
access to these resources is very uncertain and can quickly be impaired if
structural balance of payments problems in the Thai economy are left
unresolved. Private foreign banks have indicated to Bank staff that the
existence and implementation of an adjustment program, as well as significant
financial support for it from the Bank, will be important considerations in
their assessment of Thailand's further creditworthiness. The loan will also
provide quick-disbursing foreign exchange at favorable maturities, which will
assist Thailand in dealing with the substantial financing needs that will
persist over the period which the country needs to implement its well
conceived structural adjustment program.
79.       Risks.  The Government's structural adjustment program has three
major risks. The first risk relates to the uncertainty of whether the targe-
ted balance of payments improvement will in fact be attained, given the diffi-
culties of estimating the balance of payments implications of the program,
even assuming the external environment as given. The second risk arises from
the uncertainties regarding the external environment, which could affect
prospects for export growth, interest rates in international capital markets,
and the price of imported energy. The third risk is that the program of
policy reforms will not be fully implemented under this SAL or that adequate
programs are not developed as a basis for policy reform in the future.
80.       As regards the first and the second risks, the balance of payments
impacts estimated above are on the conservative side and even some estimation
errors or moderate setbacks in the international economy would probably
still allow the overall objectives to be achieved. The third risk relates
to political developments in Thailand which might impede the Government's
determination or efforts to continue the development and implementation of
an effective structural adjustment program. Under the present Prime
Minister, General Prem, the Government has been able to maintain steady
progress in implementing policy change even under adverse political circum-
stances. Moreover, the present general directions in economic policy appear
to enjoy substantial support across the political spectrum and in the Thai
Government bureaucracy, and there is therefore good reason to believe that
they would continue, even with a change in the leadership. Furthermore, the
gradual approach and broad focus chosen in developing and implementing the
structural adjustment program should help to minimize and distribute widely



- 39 -
the costs to be borne by any particular group, thus reducing any possible
negative political fallout. Indeed, one of the major reasons for associating
the Bank with the structural adjustment program in Thailand is to strengthen
the support for gradual but steady change over a broad front.
F. Loan Amount
81.       The proposed loan of $150 million would meet about 7% of the total
gross external capital requirements of Thailand in 1982. The amount of the
proposed loan was determined in the light of the size of the Bank's lending
program for Thailand and that of other priority projects for which Bank
assistance has been requested.
G. Monitoring
82.       The progress of the SAL program will be monitored in two ways.
First, regular supervision will be carried out. In this context, the Govern-
ment has agreed that it will regularly exchange views with the Bank on pro-
gress achieved under SAL; as part of these exchanges the Government will
furnish the Bank with a report on the status of the implementation of its
structural adjustment program in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The first such exchange of views will take place by June 30, 1982
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Second, the preparation of
an early second SAL would require extensive discussions with the Government,
beginning in the fall of 1982, and would be based on the successful imple-
mentation of the program specified under the first SAL. To ensure such
implementation, the government is instituting a high-level Economic
Structural Adjustment Committee.
H. Categories of Goods to be Financed
83.       All goods imported into Thailand from eligible countries, except
goods in a few categories which are specifically excluded, would be eligible
for financing under the loan. The excluded categories involve goods which
are being otherwise financed by national or international financing institu-
tions or any other agency, goods intended for military or paramilitary use,
and goods for luxury consumption. A list of ineligible imports is given in
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement. Loan proceeds would represent less
than 3% of the anticipated imports in the eligible categories, making rapid
disbursement possible. It is expected that disbursement will be completed
within three months of loan effectiveness, i.e. about June 30, 1982.



- 40 -
I. Counterpart Funds
84.       The funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided under
the loan would be credited to a special account to be established in the
Ministry of Finance. The Government has indicated that it intends to use
the counterpart funds to finance various essential components of its
structural adjustment program, including some of the studies, the programs
for administrative reform in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget Bureau,
the program to strengthen core agencies (including the evaluation capability
of the NESDB), and the establishment of the Thailand Development Institute.
Beyond this, SAL counterpart funds will be used to finance the Government-s
development expenditures.
J. Procurement and Disbursement
85.       Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of less than $7.5 million each will be awarded
on the basis of normal commercial practices of the purchaser. Public sector
imports under contracts below $7.5 million equivalent will be procured in
accordance with standard government practices, which are acceptable to the
Bank. All purchases, both public and private, under contracts amounting to
$7.5 million or more each will be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Certain commonly traded
commodities may be purchased through price quotations available from
organized international commodity markets. Whatever procurement methods are
used, not more than $50 million of the funds would be used to finance the
import of any trade classification subgroup.
86.       The Kingdom of Thailand will be the Borrower.  It has designated
the Bank of Thailand to be responsible for maintaining the loan account, the
collection and coordination of the relevant letters of credit and supporting
documentation and for the preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications.
87.       Procurement and disbursements for the proposed loan have been
designed to ensure rapid drawdown of loan proceeds. The proposed loan will
be disbursed at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported
items through reimbursement to the Borrower or direct payment to foreign
suppliers. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for $50,000
equivalent or less will not be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the loan. Reimbursement applications normally would be consolidated and
submitted from time to time in amounts of at least $1.0 million equivalent.



- 41 -
pART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
AND RELATIONSHIP TO PROPOSED LOAN
88.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1981, had received 66 IBRD loans (including
two third window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellation)
$2,266 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$939.15 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a sum-
mary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.
89.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 34% for energy; 25% for agriculture and rural
development; 19% for transportation; 6% for telecommunications; 6% for urban
development; 5% for education; 3% for industry; and 2% for
population/health/nutrition. As of September 30, 1981, IFC had made
commitments totaling about $111 million in 11 projects in Thailand. IFC's
investments have been primarily in industry and in the development of
financial institutions aimed at mobilizing domestic resources and providing
financing to smaller enterprises.
90.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Goverrnment s
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76 investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for only about 60% of Bank Group lending and
about half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 30%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outsid
the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in the social
sectors, which prior to FY76 were limited to three in education accounting
for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent years
education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 10% of the program.



- 42 -
91.       The role of the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan is to support
the Government's efforts of reducing over the medium term its substantial
balance of payments deficits which have arisen in recent years as a result of
the rapid increase in energy prices a slowdown in world demand for exports,
insufficient savings effort particularly in the public sector, and Thailand's
emerging limits on newly cultivated land. The loan is designed in principle
as the first in a series of such loans. This would offer the Bank the oppor-
tunity to continue to assist the Government in the design and implementation
of structural adjustment policies as part of its implementation of the Fifth
Five-Year Plan, which came into force on October 1, 1981. The programs which
are supported under the proposed SAL are designed explicitly to complement the
Bank's project lending by focusing on policies which cannot be adequately
addressed at the project level, but which in many cases provide important
support for effective project design and implementation.
92.       For instance, in the area of agriculture and rural development,
many interventions) such as land reform and land titling, can be supported
through Bank projects, but the broader issue of forest reserve reclassifica-
tion cannot be adequately addressed through specific projects. Similarly
the issues arising in the context of reform of agricultural taxation, regula-
tions and market interventions, while essential to a successful agricultural
growth and export strategy, cannot be addressed at the project level, since
they cut across too many Thai agencies and transcend the scope of any
individual project. In the case of industrial development, because of the
dominance of the private sector, Bank involvement to date has been relatively
small; as a result, the scope of operations has not been adequate to carry
out an effective dialogue on major industrial policy issues. The proposed
SAL is therefore seen by the Government and the Bank as the most effective
way of continuing policy discussions in an area that is crucial for the
successful restructuring of the Thai economy. In the energy sector, the
Bank has been very active in recent years. Its lending has been mostly for
power generation, transmission and rural electrification, but more recently
also for a gas pipeline and for lignite development. However, individual
project loans have been and will continue to be made to specific agencies
and do not provide the opportunity for full participation of the Bank and
the Government's core agencies (NESDB, Ministry of Finance, Budget Bureau)
in the process of overall energy policy formulation and implementation. The
SAL provides a vehicle for such participation and aims at pulling together
the various strands of sectoral analysis, policy and investment planning
into a comprehensive and consistent energy sector program.
93.       Fiscal policy reform and broad institutional development of the
type supported by the proposed SAL are, by their very nature, outside the
scope of project lending, and yet affect project operations very directly
through (a) the extent to which financial resources are available for finan-
cing project-level investments and through the incentive or disincentive
effects of specific fiscal measures; and (b) the institutional capabilities
and constraints of specific agencies implementing projects which frequently
are inherent to the entire institutional framework in which the public



- 43 -
sector operates, rather than exclusively of concern for the agency itself.
Structural adjustment lending for fiscal reform and institutional development
therefore, as for agriculture, industry and energy, provides a unique
opportunity to assist the Government is a way that is complementary to the
Bank's project lending.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
94.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
95.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The specific actions that the Government plans to take by
March 31, 1983 are listed in the attachment to its Letter of Development
Policy (Annex IV).
96.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
97.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 8, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-44-                                                     ANN EX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                            REFERENCE  OUPS (WEIGHTED AVEWES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             -  MOST RECENT ESTKATE)-
TOTAL             514.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      178.1               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0       210.0      590.0                1136.1                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPIIA
(KlLOGRAHS OP GOAL EQUIVALENT)       62.5        204.3      376.3                1150.6                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27229.0       36499.0   45475.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5          13.2       14.2                  40.8                     64.2
POPULATIUN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         68.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        53.0         71.0       88.5                 373.1                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    210.3         247.5      250.0                2382.8                     94.5
eUPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.7         46.2       42.4                  39.8                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.6         50.8      54.5                   56.7                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          3.0        3.1                   3.5                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6          2.9        2.4                   2.3                      2.4
URBAN                               4.4          3.5        3.2                   3.8                      3.7
CRUDE BIRIH RATE (PER TIOUSAND)      44.0         39.5       30.9                  29.7                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       15.8        11.3        7.9                   7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2         2.9        2.1                   1.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       202.9/c   761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           7.6      39.0                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOoD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0        100.0     124.0                  123.7                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.0        103.0     105.0                  112.6                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         50.0      49.0                   62.5                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.0         15.0       14.0                  19.7                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       15.6         9.6        5.9                   4.8                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECIANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8          57.1       62.0                  64.0                     64.1
INFANT MORIALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        86.0L      68.0                  50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
LUTAL                                ..         17.0      22.0                  45.9                      65.7
URBAN                                ..         60.0      49.0                   68.0                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..        10.0       12.0                  34.4                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF PuPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      40.0                   53.4                     59.9
URBAN                                *-         65.0      58.0                   71.0                     75.7
RURAL                                 *-         8.0      36.0                   42.4                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           8003.8       8462.6    8154.1                 4428.7                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4900.0       7058.4    3542.0                 2229.7                   1288.2
POPULAIION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1351.0e       897.8     814.2                  588.5                    471.2
URBAN                                ..        176.3     519.5                 579.6                     558.0
RURAL                                ..      13910.7    1268.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPIrAL BED            ..         31.0       44.8                  36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSERULD
TUTAL                               5.5/e        5.8       5.5
URBAN                               5. 3/e       5.8       5.5
RURAL                               5.6/e        5.8        5.5 
AVERAGE NUMBER uF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                                ..           ..       2.4
URBAN                                ..           ..       2.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         18.9
URBAN                                *-         86.1
RURAL                                ..          9.0



- 45                            ~                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAI1I;h - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGETED AVE:IIS
- MOST RECENT ESTDIATEeZ
MOST RECENT          HIDDU INCHlE             HIDDLE DNCOHZ
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMIUICA & CADREAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        81.0       82.0                  99.8                    101.7
MALE                 88.0         85.0      85.0                  100.6                    103.0
FIHALE               79.0         77.0      78.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY;   TOTAL                 13.0        17.0       28.0                  53.5                     35.3
MALE                 16.0         20.0      29.0                   58.4                     34.9
EEMALE               10.0         14.0      27.0                   48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    19.0         24.0       17.0                   21.1                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHiR RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        22.0       28.0                  34.2                     29,6
SECONDARY                          20.0        16.0      27.0                   31.7                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0        78.6       84.0                  86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         5.1       6.4                   12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0        76.0     131.0                  174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.2          6.6      17.6                   50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        20.5         ..                 106.8                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        1.7                   4.3                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13958.0      17010.0   21547.7
FENALE (PERCENT)                  48.3         47.3      46.5                   37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.7         79.9      76.6                   50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 4.4          6.0       8.7                   21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3        46.6      47.4                   40.2                     31.8
MALE                                 52.7        49.3      50.9                   49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                              49.8         43.9      43.9                   31.1                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9         1.1       1.0                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.6/f       23.8/g    14.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9T7       49.7      42.27?h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/f        6.1/g     7.67*-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/f       15.9Li    19.1/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                               ..           ..     159.0.4i               248.6
RURAL                               ..           ..     106.0 Ai               193.7                    187.6
LSTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U8$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                               ..           ..     115.0                 249.8                    513.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     110.0 LI               234.3                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      15.0                   21.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      34.0                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends o. availability of data and is noc uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Government program only;  /d 1964-65;  /e 1962;  /f 1962-63;  /g 1968;  /h Preliminary data for 1975-76;
due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional data
overstates incomes of lo. income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
/i   Eatimates for 1977.
May, 1981



- 46-                                                                         ANEX I
Page 3 of
D1FIOITII(1S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
tote.   Although ths dat.  Cre dr     f C.ro  Sout ...ge..erallY Judged the mort .uthorittifi ted  eliabl.. it shold .1.0 b  outed thu  t hytZY Aot be tote.-
-ti.o-aly ooe...ebl. becaus. of Cho l1ch of .t.odaodt.ed delftoitiono W n.4 tocpt. vsed by dif f.orot oooeurlet L. coll1.tio    th. data.  .   dut. aC.nns
_hlon.crfo  to d.re.ib. teds,. of Osctde   odioot. trond.,  .Ad oh& ...ttsoi.  0.000t   J.. digfr-..e lbetwe    -octrie..'
The  tfer.... V-oP. are (1) Ch. se        ..coutry group of ch. sblact touttoy .d4 (2) a Coun.try AtOP 00th eon.Wt hiaMoe   -.sB(  tLc.. Clt. th. country apoop 
of Ch: ..bj.at ... *.,V (-.oPt for 'CUpico1 Surplus 0i1 tUp-otr  group ehV.o 'Middle Inc.  Sooth Al"..t and 1(1d41. tact" L. ob.-e  hoto#  of Sumpoga
eot-ulu   fftistla) .  In rho -9-onu  troo.p dat. the  -votg.  art popuatio  weighted tritttit Sta. for -ath todi.tto  cod th-. aIY Oh.
-Jo,ity of trho couori. in . grop ha. d"t. for Cht Indloator.  Sin.e tht co-rag  of ..ountie L. 00  the tndiotO... d.pend. on ths  -ol.ebtlity of dt
aad i  o   nfr,0.00se --1b.e anorofed  tratu                     ..oS.g. of Cooe inditutr to onuthe.   The.  --rge.. .r. on ly  -jf'l inueprigthu 0-1. of
LAWI AttO (toot-od eq.).)                                                                       youltict  ro 1'0.00t1I Nod - total, urba    Id rurl- IPoutfon (totl.1
Tota  -  ona  cuotuenoe  ooPrutin9, ludeoo.d tolarod eutuo-                              co,tdrrl) 40,04.4 by thiCo _    CLOtOio  noceho  of Ph,.;u.  be.
Atfo    e!Io       Ieot   of eolotouea  ceo  cod tyorou"ly 00 pTo"eaOaly                      eaIl.bls in pblcho cod polton  ge-t.I and optoholind hcpit.1 asite
got crops. peeturee. sachet sod kitche  garden. or to IL. f.llos; 19lt d.ta.                  hUbilit.ti.n  -t.entr.  soepitals OO  ..t.blioant. pernetly etaf  d
by at 1oat ono phyei.i..  tetOhli9_6oPn.. poridg   Lonolpt.Ip ro_t_-
(ISlP P   CAPITA (1(S81 - G   pr.o  pit.  wi-t.te  at 0000r0 otOkat yn    Co .1-                 d40I.cr  uro Ott tuL-d.4.  uro)l hoepittle. hoorr  teld. bo.tbt
octod hT nt"nTOti"O "nth"d en O-cl4 Btoh bolt. (1977-791 hunin;; tObi,                        nod noicl   "t.COr nut Puouetly  MUM 8.  by a ptyojota. (btra:  y
19y0, and 1979 dana.                                                                            ned1:al.. toiIn.  ao..04... oo..l obiob offr.                -einu .
dotocLed p,.oid. a lgnted r..g. of sedlol faoilitis,  For Stwim.-
MSOT CUNUOGTIOO5MU CPI    - anu   osorc  of Ota                 -alanoy (o                       ticcI Pcpoaa urban heapitulo taloda WM.t p,ia.ipAllgtner1  oopinlu.,
end ilgite, pat-olerc  ourur.  .e and bydo-, eoored nobra   lc                                   n  roaru  he.pitl."  locu  00 0001 b-spOncl  an  adicePl  w. ane-ity
totOity) L4 bWestan  of coa  eqcivuiouOo ~cpio  160. 1(70, cd 17970                             outer..  SpaolaiI.d heopitel. no. ioudd only sedor totl.
dete.                                                                                         Adt.iou0e- our gonItul Ned _ Total urbto f  bd-iouon  to 00 dibchng.
lonb.pit.l. 4Tdidd by the  .&no  of bedt
POPOI,TIU dtLOTAL STATISTICS
CoeIPelto. Mi-Tot Lthao-ndg) - A. of July 1; 19160. 1970. sad 1(1701                ltiU
dAto.                                                                                       A-Ot 800i. of S ..ueheId (enrCn  -    oabl   - totnL. cobs. -d rooe -
Urhoo Poentiu  loscet of total) - Ratio of Cnbuo to tott1 poyr1otion;                           AbctbolId oopsi.tsf e pony of iniiduo  b   h..r liin  jeeten
diffte.n.. W2f2ito" of u-bun0.0.syefo   errblt   f4                                           tnd their ta   aol    A hodno or lod-o  ay C0 say at he inciodnd Lo
aang ooentnioe; 1960, 1(170, ai   P9dt.                                                       hoeo.cd for  ettisiu   oupe.
"oO .tn P"01"0"4"                                                                        A,,,&,  .be- of Peron  oa  r_se    totu   .,uban, te  rNrt  - Aenru. 
Loruc ig. Ic  -t  lOu  - (--ton  .Pupution poclootincoo hone...d en  044boo of Pooat pro .oo  Ln ull cob., Ond 00.1 entophaiam                               rtoa
tou   oplto  b   a   rdeoad thoin sortelaty end ferility rut...                         drenliing. oesPecti-ly.  DolnsocoeonPesteruns   S
P-ceoin   utet uref 0  -ortality Cat. oonyio  of thoto l-al  AeSe-                          Coaoou.pied part..
L.g lif. copacteny at boroh hoonetne1.  rth anotnr'o par -apit. ioura                    ACooO0   larIlnieonto   riot)-ttl   rban, ta  rur.1
11.-0,cd f nl.1  lif. apctenty  tnbil.i.ho  or 77.5 your..  Th.eF tr-CoornnrIoa  d.oloatit                                .larct  ho JtOh    Or-at-r to puo.tat
not.Ce for fotutiity frt. 01.0 htr  three 1~levl seno  d.lihoJ. iof totel. arloo, and rura  dv.llhois ePeor
fnctility 000004004 to Lnocte lvl end P.00 tunily plhoonos pront
t..b c-ctry is thsn.oeeotno   ote of CMeo  alecabouto  of soot1ity                      9C_AZION
eod fertility tonode far projootion Poros                                                AdOnotOd  tnlnatttio.
ttatono,ooot.stin -Ina oeto-ecry          . ppttoohotenNnth..L    r,,  Li...Bo   bol-001   0.te   al      r.  toP-l.".els and .fna.
htl.  oOOe               t TC . Cohiao   07eoofriiyrts4000t                                    0r   acboo1-ift-g   nl.n.iana;oosy    OoidS           ido   gdNl
Iho Oepltoot 1-01 oI unit out C,poodtooi  rete,  -b ,:,bgee hnyour bat edjuetd fot diffnrout lnths of priseYop  decotio; for
of  .o   rtpiaoot it "lf cattly.  Th' utetioour  Pcp.lant_ iee msotOlt I.  .th piv-ree   -dotttt.!onoOllne   my  nea4 101 pe.tot
.titnatd an the heal. of tbo projectd oh.-atorioni.  of the  pauitan                           instapupil. a-  abit. 00 then Chs  fflohol .ehn  84p.
Lr. the you  2000, nod the -t.0  cf dnclinu of fertility oatn tonpuc-                        oce,ncaoI   00t.L. 0.1.. ed I.-I.   C.Wot.d an ohon;ennoat
ant level                                                                                     eduction :reanre  et lut Poor your  oappeored pniary tefo
Yf!r ntthnrv-     ouato  ia noa.hod - The yea  vAe. otnlc-y popletien                           p-oida. geSrl.  -eathonal  or teNor trahohg hot-tuton  tsr p.PIfl
ale.hu b  0. b     noched,                                                                    usualy of 12 to 17 poart of toe ; ooonepadtce tor- 00gerly
booUtolot   D-noiny                                                                               anadd
K  id-yec  "popLctloo p.0 squar  kllOateo  (100 hactaooe) of                          Poainc   nalao    eroot. of  oacda, t- 000101 Ltostlttian
tot)esa   0g. 1(170 end 1(17(1 Wct.                                                    hoolde toubaol. teou-t,o, ar otbar Vpruo- ehib apu..tn hdodped-
P00 o. he. oeia.l l an  - Conotad coabo.- f 00 eg Iotra  l_danly C. ae dopart-ote af esoodar  iati-otoa.
Only; lASO  1917  end l197N du.".                                                          Poi-eua    c  -  onaro -            doMOdr  - feta   ntniate 00Usd to
PooUtolaho dOn eoruoco  (sn t -  hildrsa (0-lu pyor.). rorkiag-ogo (15-                           prnr   n   eodo  lvl   14.   y                   0o of  -teco Le  cho.b
hO  .ee)  Wo  roiom   (1    r  cod  _1r)O  par-otage  of nd-year pnpu-                    -         Pcnoupndus  .00
letioo; 19160. 1670. aed 1(1791dt.                                                             dl lite..         :f00hoerer  - Linot-"  6adt. (ebb  to Csed ud -it*)
P .."uiot    crt   Non Otonr -0         l,1- uAe-l mrth  -00.00f totul nd-                                            ...nerteo   toa  edalt poocoo  a     15  ourt sad  -ve.
laIono - ic     o 1150-N   1(1-70. cod 1(17-79."-                                          Fecoato Cote 1p,0 tbaosae  enonati-n   - P..esgo  -car  ..op.Is    t-
Crod. 810th Ien tour tbt.-adl - Aocol lire births per cthceuad of nid-yoan                      ruro entcg I.e. thec oiht p-ron; taldt .clo u  N---o.s and
pop=lo.Le;1(16  19t70.an.d 1(17(1 dat..                                                         ilon.ry   bul.
rosDth Pte _u theson) -  Coeca1 doothe Pantoed  of oid-yaon                             0040  Na-ai-e  (Pen tbac.-d oornbtlo) - All typue of  -oi..n. fct  .di.
ponafo;1(6.1(170. and 19791 da..                                                    brondoant  to Sanro  pobllo Per tha...tod of  Popultihon; enindee .0
Rro   enoute   .t0  - AveoSot oubon of daughcrto  -e ill hour Lolicansad no-i-or. L4 contrh. end ho yanre  b-e rogit-ten of radio
bwo -o-Ia  .Poncdccti- Pnnid if sh%-       oico   reocuoOeib  ito-rt oe10.00.00; da.- f- 0rcan  yours -y oat ho ooanabl. elet
tiiy  os;  ealy tir-yo   eveugt  ediog 04 1(160. 11(17. cod  9(71.                    otOr  oe   ba1iobd Iioonain.
fal   loi a -acntn.40    (tho-nds  - Aao.ol c,bnr of  -utpoono                      TV leoro   ortuae   on.tol-TV rc-tvao  for broadoct to
of bioth--cntol d-i..e ouden antpictof cO tienu  f eniy Pltcoig p0cm...                       S-..,u orichltprOas    pupoletion;  -Icd..                      TVi.ad7(  aaov
Panll, plenla -  fanre (rCent of Stoied woo) - P-retuge of aonitdl    -orntio. aod in yer.rt oo   oisrt    of TOVe.  e  ho efroo.
cof ohld-b-uho  oe  17I( ye-noe  nb h.e  bioth-cooteo1 duvi..o. n                      aoos   irrutien (to  t                protdonno.Luto   - gbe  nba courag  oir
eli arted  n iceta an   ocp.oc CtOn o   dily gana-   teot onppo*dfa   oopnoma
poblicatien do-oted pniarily to  oeodin   aoa   a. I-scnl.e
FOO  A   rtMTtIfCU                                                                             tc he 'deily  if inL    per  o  os t o_nnf COnsca
mods. of P004 POoduoti  000 Cutta  M16-105-tduo   e   oi.  ccl                               (en   onlutncu s  CtOi00 oar Yoa  - %0.ad on the ccbe of
produnoion o. f                                                  W     ..C.1, foo  condt o.! Pocdn1_Ott  eusode sed.0 f,.X i     endTooe.=oud donialt. youo. holodOn  adnleoho   to doiva-h  cinon
is -           ycaodo -ro Moele.  C.di'tio   co-en polnoy gode (e.g.ooren                    nod boil.  icon..
Ooat.ud of  ng.r) which ao ediblo  .        t.4  ancaortnicote (a... coffee nod
too cr  ouclded).  AgOoeatn produtiac of ouch  -taon  LA hosed oc                        LADO1t OPOC
_-luc Sueg  pnodoue  price enioht.; 1=6-6. 19170,. ad 197(1 dote.                     Total Lobun 7,0.0.  -c.da) - liooousally actin   ..p-tn. iclodins
Ie aiaonl of cabrt-1- 0.0  of  rciotnt) - opotu  ton                                 a     tcoc E.    en   Vlc.7  bat encldho  bao-ei-no  ntduntn,  t
asg    qiuetof cot food  u;pplie  avilable L4 ootnr  per cepirs                   cooISng popul.tion of ell agn-   DtfOotiunJ. 04 Ooo  cottoi.. 00
pe  dy.Avilbl  opplho. topiodaeatc poodcctioo, opoCt. le-                             00  coporble; 1(160. 1(170 uod 1(179 dat..
upooe.e and chuosc  ft .tnck.  Oct oupPIios  ntlud. enO-1 f.od,  -oo.,                   F.-I. U(tot _n) - IO  lubar fo..t. .0 p-n"ng. of to-1talbho  foroC.
qu-titioaa04fco .pocesaR  an  bta i4 ditribotic.L  Rs9uina-                              .lA&ioK&E!j   oeat  - Lahoc f roo.a0  fao"iag  0for.tny.h b Loti  aod
ant  eeuettntd  P7 tO by      aad on Lheil.golood   c W           cof   lcfi-              Oohin  ta penrootuge of total lbor fort;1(60, 1970 ted 197(1 data.
000ten  huao  cnidt      e  oonono  tn           Coe ody weTO,aoId-eerv(eooo  -Ltho  fa-o  04tOLg, con tianoo,  nfoto
tad *ndiotoihotlo  of popoltioo. cod elOO   10 pon-t fcn,ran.toa                           ad abotCrioty. neoeo and no. a. -prcnta  of to...l lubar farce; 1(160,
hhooaohold levl; 1(161-65, 170.  o  1(177 data.                                            1(170  o   979 dotc.
Per ..pit. oel o   rti  "naao dY) - p000.04 rnteut at p.o oApitu                           ParOielO.io  juoforat) - total neo.ad fl                   - P  utioputic  on
Pt noPPly cf Ic.d p.o dc. Rot Ouppl7 of food 0. df0iccd a. tho..  No-                      eMtiolt naOe..oepat-d  000.1,  al,-d ftlelbt  far.to
qOioaot  too .11 .coo.e.  utablisbed by USDA pnoid. fcc eloIinpraaa  of cta., alo  and f.-l. popltion of all  gS-  eapacoiv-ly;
elbnstc  ot 60gi  c         -toa  p,Ot.Io Pet day tad 20 goon  of -tino1od1(160 , 1(170 ,  41(17(1 dun..  Th.au a-  bood on  LO'e puotiIPetIon rrte
prob = ctaiv, ofh-o   0  onoaId ho atoine  pootott.  Theoo  taand-                         rofloutio  age-an etnotcrofa thu population, a   100g 0t.  trad.  A
cnd. earo l=n   thnthoan of 75 g---  of tota  pruttin end 23 got  otftont=tnee  onr o.  octionaL   Mcn
en1lpot7      t       -to cr000    ton thu -.01d, pnop"aod by FAO in the Third          ton_ i  toodono  Notio - uiaoi  of  pplotncder 15 end 65 .o  0,00
90014 Ocoi d Sara        -f11-6. 1170 oad 1977 dare,                                       to  th  -o1 labor tfrC..
p. culc  ntoo,0.000_    no  ota  end1-  rle  - Potatoc  ecpply of food d.-
oiveid Ontoo en-   e  n  p:I   aOla. -   S-par day; 1961-65, 19170 and 1977,d.Cc.         oCOif oIcTtIOytION
Chi4  ane 1A)Notolt,No. (ton thousnd~ - Aocca deotbe pen thoc...  inL                 Pe-rorooo  of 7,10-00 lora   (bcth L4 .-hb ad kind) - Octotod by richcec
aS. aroup 1-6 yeane, no oh1ldroc to thin og. anoop, ton eastd I.voiou000                     5 p-noot, rictct 20 P-.c-"o  Poore  10 p00.00. s.d poor-n  4o p-.t00
ottle  dnOa dcrinod foon lift tahblo; 1(160. 1(170 uod 1(17(1 dht.                            f       bn.hlde.
XKAlTO                                                                                       709ERTY TARGET GRDOPS
litlroet   080b  (00.) - A'onuua ocebso of Yceoflt    eiic                         Th. f 1lOn,lg  -ononttar  yr.7 approni-craecao   oet   ooe
Obiotch; 1960.-1(170 sad 19791 data.                                                        audshould ho int.rp..Ord  imb cotoidoobbo cotio..
Indent Herteli  tat  -oa  th.cad   A-1Au     dostha of i.fect. codon 000 700ynntdAeluoPvnnOt.  nrl(IOorrrt)     ra   o   ua
ot00pnthoe   oot(i   biotba                                                            Aob-ouco po rny L_c   1-01 L4 thor Ouca  lIn1 hbo1 eblht onn
A-t.  to Sato W_ta   _r._ra  of   -lotiatOo- toal .ohu. td  -uru  - N-                            tnitbooally edoquato 4i040 Pb-  L.et4   pfo    ou              n. i  out
hn of p-p.07   (.totl;,coe,b   nod   ral)  ith ceancoblracee   t  -oOafodba
nOtsO .opply (inLWda  octdeuftneto  or coot,tod hut ....onoio.to                            tftfnstdbNlstv   ooo   ho.toe  00prcptl     os  a   ua
f50aoo    tohito -op-cti-op inin.It at -chen err.t public                              pcono  io.oc  cO the               U          1on.One  oe  L. dovitr  fno   becornel
-co-cblt c-050    Id ioply oh-O tb.  -oaoloo ob-r  of tOobofh bcl                            od rurol - Ptront of ~poplatioo (urban edruraL) obo err "cb.olut.
d, Cot hoo  t   ,,IIf 0 diopr-p i-orCa P-0 of ohl duyo, fetmOhi0 000h                        poor"
Snoof  -cplc (1001  oha, ucd pr.r.) e-n-d by ooCcrtcffnoep
Ponr    Sot . of their  -oeprti- popolattic.  to-octo diapoo  -.Y Icld
tOo col11oi-oc cd ipeO...  00tlih or clitot oputet,o  h-. -- Eot                                                                  to..i  ond Social hots Divition
ofanoonpby  Ot-r-Ccc  syota_  optho .eo of pit pnlioieoof000                                                        oconoci    Olyo1  cod Pncj c-1-   onp.orc-
Ilopinclic.:                                                                                                                                Y     ar. 1000
P-1-lai.c  -s Ph ricll- - Popolcooo fdi04d4 br t-bor of prorti.tnO  phyo-
ol... qualified too, a noiol -rbo-   a t o._itoly lo_ol.
PooRE  lo cj    Oualc  oro- P.pul.Oiot diridod by ounhon of patc
-1. -d fPolonodocon- e.. p0000l  --roe  -0d  ---OaocrO



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population        46,500 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP per Capita   US$670 (1980)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC rNDICATORS
Amount
(million USS at              Average annual increase (%)                      Share of GDP at market prices (%)
current prices)                 (at constant prices)                                 (at current prices)
Indicator                        1980 /a       1960-7n  1970-7S  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960             1970          1975         1980/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic Product        32,865            8.4       6.3      7.7        6.8          7.3     100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Agriculture                  8,572            5.5       5.3      3.5        4.2         3.8       39.8         28.3         31.5         26.2
Industry                     7,499          11.5       7.8      11.7        8.6         9.0       18.7         25.3         24.8         27.5
Services                    13,326           9.0       7.1       7.8        7.5         8.3       41.5         46.4         43.7         46.3
Consumption                   25,716            7.3       7.0       7.7       4.9         6.2       85.7         78.7         79.3         77.6
Gross investment               9,166           15.8      3.8        8.9       7.0         6.7       15.7         26.2         25.4          27.9
Exports of GNFS                8,211           10.5      3.6      14.1         9.9        9.1       17.4         16.7         19.1          25.0
Imports of GNFS               10,228           13.9      3.7      10.5        4.9         5.6       18.9         21.5         23.7         31.1
Gross national savings         6,995           13.7      4.1        6.8        9.9         8.4      14.1         21.5         20.7          20.7
Composition of merchandise trade (X)
-q-     ~(at current prices)    -       -7
1960   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  1990/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            6,657            5.5       9.0     14.7       10.2          9.3    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                      3,785           4.2       6.6      10.8        6.1         5.0      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.6    37.4
Manufactuires                2,872           29.2     20.9      25.n       14.6        12.7       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.4    62.6
Merchandise imports            8,987           11.5      3.3      10.1         5.2        6.0    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                           303           4.3      -2.7      11.2        5.0         6.0       9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4       3.2      3.1
Petroleum                    2,824          11.8       5.0       8.6       -1.0         3.4      10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    26.9    26.5
Machinery & equipment        2,110           16.1      5.9       4.4        7.8         7.0      25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    25.2    25.4
Others                       3,750          10.1        1.0     18.7        7.8         7.0      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    44.7    45.0
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                        100.0      103.3      112.1      121.8      135.0      154.0
Exchange rate                                        20.4       20.4       20.4       20.3       20.3       20.5
Export price index                                  100.0       97.3       99.4      107.4      128.3      151.0
Import price index                                  100.0      105.5      113.4      122.3      141.4      176.0
Terms of trade index                                100.0       92.2       87.6       87.8       90.8       86.0
As x of GDP
1960           1970           1975            1980/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                      13.6            13.8           13.2           14.S
Current expenditures                                  10.6            12.6           11.7           14.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                            +3.0           +1.2            +1.5           +0.4
Capital expenditure                                    4.3             5.8            3.4            3.9
Foreign financing                                      0.2             0.05           0.06           0.2
1960-70         1970-75         1975-80          1980-85/b         1985-90/b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (R) 8.4                                       6.2             6.9              6.7               7.5
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                5.2             3.4             4.4              4.4               5.4
ICOR                                          2.8             4.0             3.4              4.1               3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.29            0.23            0.21             0.34              0.3
Import elasticity                             1.7             0.6             1.3              0.64              0.77
/a Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
December 14, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 
Population          46,500 (mid-1980, thousands)- 48 -
INP per Capita: US$670 (1980)
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US5$ at current prices)
1970               ~~~~ActUal      ---         ---7                                         Projected197                          91
Indicator                            190       1975      1976     1977      1978      1979    1980/d    1981       1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      197        91
BALANCE OP PAYMPNTS
Exporta of gocds sod nonfactor
services                                     1,108    2,796    3,490    4,029   4,976    6,494   8,211    9,061  10,562   12,793  15,236  18,251  21,794  25,884  51,414
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  686    2,178    2,959    3,456    4,041    5,233   6,657    7,333    9,573   10,397  12,491   14,963   17,832  21,221  42,574
Imports of goods and monO actor
services                                   -1,430  -3,487  -3,892  -5,066  -5,905  -8,170 -10,228 -11,022 -12,319 -14,384 -16,833 -19,706 -23,115 -27,186 -52,347 
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.              -1,148  -2,939  -3,1,46  -4,244  -4,909  -6,822  -8,987  -9,704 -10,928 -12,909 -15,048 -17,679 -20,808 -24,557 -47,913
Nat factor inomne from abroad                      23         4      -63       -97     -6        -477      -703     -4         93-,5    -1,435-173                  2,8    -2,646  -,2
Net transfers                                      49       91        24        40        41       61       353       542      347       373       402       433      467       503       697
Current account balance                         -250      -606      -441  -1,094  -1,149  -2,092  -2,367  -2,359  -2,343  -2,380  -2,630  -2,795  -3,037  -3,443  -5,358
Private direct invetment                           43       86        80       106        51       53        55        60        65       70        75        80       90       100       140
MIT loans (net)              32      111       198       205     ~~~~      ~~~~~~644  995    2,093    1,732    1,916    2,273    2,515    3,005 3,8    341       499
Official                                        71        93       109      212       285      '439       460      639       808       919      933    1,016    1,091    1,169    1,598
Private /a                                      10        1s        99       -7       360       557    1,633    1,093    1,108    1,354    1,560    1,999    2,157    2,243    3,321
Other capitol /b                                   93      356       242       792      490    1,036        223       867      762       437       440       160      159       381       799
Change  in reserves                                82       52       -79        -9      -36         8         -       300      400       400       400      450       450       450       500
international reserves                           906    2,007    2,115    2,208   2,558    3,102    3,026    3,526    3,926   4,526    4,726    5,176    5,626   4,076   8,076
Reservesnas month.eimprts                           8         7        7         5         5        5         4         4         4        4         3         3         3        3         2
EXITtRNAL CAPITAL ABS lEBT
Gross Disbursements
toncessional loans                              11        43        52       80       153      233       222       311       410      475       466       488       518      558       960
SAC                                           11       40        43        53        84      167       158       269       340      377       359       578      405       429       589
IDA                                            -         3        7         9         5        4         4         9       14        19        19        15       10         5         0
Other                                          -         -        -        18        68       62        60        34        55       80        SB        94      103       112       371
Nonconossisnslloans                       188       493       556      558    1,160    1,792    2,595    1,930    2,000    2,605    5,269    3,986    4,565    5,229)   8,373
Officisf emp-rt credits                        7         -        -        54       44       127       169       150      139        86        88        88       95       115       195
IORD                                          19       41        43        65      103       139       143      250       346       442       524      584       645       718      879
Other multilateral                             2       37        46        33       46        36        93        77      107       149       186       225      265       302       470
Pri-ste publicly guaranteed                   17       29       120        37      396       691       712       597      455       435       462      449       440       500       500
Private nong,aranteed                       443       386       367       549      571       799    1,29        856       954    1,581    2,008    2,640    3,116    3,596    6,329
Total gross 'lsh-rsememtn                      199       536      658       638    1,313    3,025    2,617    2,241    2,410    3,168    3,735    4,474    5,081    5,797    9,3533
Internal Sebt (fined-tenm)
Poblic debc outstanding4
disbursed                                      528      622       928    1,094    1,916    2, 8'14   4,563    4,926    6,072    7,216   8,288    9,250   10,425  11,599              0.0.
Official                                    291       548       666       917    1,270    1,638    2,098    2,757    3,545    4,464    5,419    6,433    7,515    8,685   14,440
Private                                       37       68       556       151      520    1,064    1,694    2,199    2,537    2,752    2,969    2,815    2,910   2,914             n.a.
Private nooguaranteed debt
outstandiing and disbursed                  392       730       785       880      939   1,243    1,922    2,845    3,615   4,745    6,187    8,229  10,292   12,330               0.0.
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                                   710    1,352    1,613    1,974   2,735   4,062    5,985    7,771    9,687  11,959  14,475  17,479  20,717  24,129  41,371
indishursed debt                               118      666       840    1,401    1,902    2,358    3,204    3,066    3,386    3,734   4,087    4,514    5,001    5,459    7,710
Debt Service
Total service pay-snts                         162       378      399       443       708      954    1,250)   1,049    1,525    1,913   2,480    3,013    3,733    4,647    8,614
Interest                                      16       35        44       126      198       325       461      640       831    1,019    1,260    1,544    1,890   2,272    4,200
Papmnents an % exoorts of goods and           14.6,    13.3      11.4      11.0      14.2     14.7      15.2      12.7     12.5      13.0      16.5      16.3     17.1      17.9      16.8
noniactor services
Average interest rate on new loans
(1) Ic                                           6.8       7.5       7.8      7.0       6.7       7.3     11.5      10.5      10.7     11.3      11.6      11.9      12.0     12.3      12.4
Of-ficial                                      6.8F      7.4      7.7       6.2       5.3       5.3         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Private                                        6.0       9.5      8.1       8.2       9.8      9.6          -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Average ntarity of new  loans
(Years) Ic                                      18.9      22.9     17.4      14.8      17.3     17.1      14.1      15.6      15.6,    14.8      14.2      13.7     15.5      15.1      12.8
Official                                      19.4     24.2      20.7      19.3      22.3     22.6          -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Private                                       11.2       7.0      7.3       8.3       9.4     10.6          -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Bask Group Eoposure (T5
I8RD 000/total 000)                           22.6     20.0      18.5      17.5      15.8     13.7      11.3
18RD diabsrs.enets/total gross
disbursemensts                              9.5       7.7       7.1     10.2       7.8       6.9       5.5
TSR!) debt service/total debt
service                                    11.1       8.5       9.0     10.0       7.8       7.0       6.3
IDA 000/total DOD                                -      0.3       0.7       1.0      0.8       0.7       0.3
IDA disbursenents/total gross
disbursesents                                  -      0.5       1.1       1.4      0.4       0.2       0.2
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                        -      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.0       0.0       0.0
As % of debt outstaoding
at and of 1979
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 3 years                                                                        28.4
Principal due within 10 yearn                                                                       61.3
Interest strocto~re of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                       4.6
/a Due. to change in classificotion, projected data for 'private MIT loans" include some of the category "other capital".
7N   `Otb,ar capital"  includes met use of IMF funds and met flow  of short-term capital.
/c~ Hisrorical data does oct include nonguaranteed private debt.
7N, Prelitmmary.



- 49 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty two loans and three credits fully disbursed                  613.20   31.74         -
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   46.80
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    4.27
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    0.97
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -   10.73
1253   1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           26.00        -    2.43
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -   10.03
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    0.10
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -    6.32
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   20.58
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -    9.06
767    1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population         -   33.10/b 22.61
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -   31.38
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -    9.65
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    6.33
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   87.59
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   15.57
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban          16.00        -   13.05
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -    9.75
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   64.48
913    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          -   35.00   31.93
929    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture        -   25.00   22.73
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Extension 40.00         -   37.47
1770   1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand                  Power          80.00        -   54.97
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                  Natural Gas
Thailand                               Pipeline   107.00/d       -   23.03
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    80.00         -   75.01
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Credit    19.00         -   15.10



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power               72.00    -          52.35
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority /a                 Water Supply        40.00    -          40.00
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing              29.00    -         28.49
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity
Authority                    Power               75.00    -          75.00
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00    -           53.00
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports                47.00    -         47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             A ."Research         30.00    -         30.00
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand /a          Potash Engineering  8.90    -            8.90
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.
of Thailand                  Industry            30.00    -          21.37
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand /a   Power                100.00    -         100.00
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand /a          Irrigation           57.00    -         57.00
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand 7a          Provincial Roads   35.00    -           35.00
Total                                                        2,265.90  124.84  1,180.05
of which has been repaid                                     262.24    2.28
Total now outstanding                                        2,003.66  122.56
Amount sold Ic                       68.63
of which has been repaid           49.47                      19.16
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,984.50  122.56
Total undisbursed                                            1,102.78   77.27
/a Not yet effective.
7" of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
W   Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
7d Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



-51 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company               Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                   -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials               28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                      -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing               2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00       -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers           4.85    0.34       5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                 tion Materials          63.00    4.00      67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                           100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          65.39    2.56     67.95
Net held by the Corporation                        35.59    7.05      42.64
Total undisbursed                                  28.54    -         28.54



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are
proceeding well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding
satisfactorily.                          . _
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is almost complete. Rehabilitation and on-
farm development works for Part A of the project on about 13,000 ha are
expected to be completed in 1981 bringing the total area developed to
48,5000 ha, compared to 36,000 in the appraisal schedule. Under Part B,
rehabilitation works serving 76,800 ha will be completed this year bringing
the total served to 102,000 ha. Under Part C, 65 km of service roads are
being constructed. Under Part D, a feasibility study for about 175,000 ha
in the Stage II area of Maeklong was completed in March 1980 and a study for
a possible Third Stage Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project was
completed in December 1980.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25,1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now proceeding smoothly. Construction of main and secondary
canals is progressing satisfactorily and on-farm works have been completed
on 1,600 ha. Two new diversioa dams have been built in the Lam Takhong
project area and work has started on canal rehabilitation.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in the
appointment of consultants. Satisfactory progress is now being made in
procuring equipment and vehicles.
Loan No. 2022-TH Irrigation XII Project; $57 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project has not yet been declared effective pending employment
of consultants.                           -
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Develo2ment Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction of almost 400 km of village access roads is complete
and is under way on 700 km: contracts for the remaining 200 km have been
awarded. The road maintenance program is being carried out at an acceptable
rate with good quality work using equipment procured under the project. The
village water supply component has provided 2,400 freshwater wells. The
agricultural extension component was completed in 1978 and subsumed into the
National Extension Project (Loan 1393). The upland crops component is being
satisfactorily completed and research work is being continued by the
National Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1922). The village electrifi-
cation component has been completed with electrification of about 475 vil-
lages. The land settlement component is essentially complete; cash incomes
of pilot cooperating farmers were roughly doubled in the project period, and
settlement cooperative placed on a sound footing.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: July 30, 1982
The project continues to make fairly good progress particularly
with seed production for pasture development. However, disbursement remains
behind schedule and the original loan closing date of June 30, 1981 was
extended by 12 months to July 30, 1982. The Department of Livestock Devel-
opment is currently considering plans for transferring project activities
into the work programs of the regular divisions of the Department, and these
transfers should be completed before June 30, 1982 as part of a departmental
reorganization plan.



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; S50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. The replanting rate over
the projet period has been slower than that envisioned at appraisal, but for
1981 it is estimated that 65,600 ha will be replanted - 312 above the target
of 50,000 ha. Management and the general level of staff efficiency at the
Office of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund is satisfactory. Bank disburse-
ments for the project are expected to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1393  National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Delays in staff recruitment experienced in the early days of the
project have now been overcome and the "T and V" system is operating as
planned. Subject matter specialist training is being given priority atten-
tion. Civil works construction is nearing completion and disbursement has
improved considerably in recent months.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a reasonable start in seven
provinces and disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Subject
matter specialist training is being given priority attention, as also is the
relevance of the information being disseminated to farmers through the "T
and V" system.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Develooment Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date. The
highland agriculture and social component has experienced greater difficul-
ties than the other components and will require concerted action to achieve
a satisfactory level of implementation. The project still can be completed
on schedule if the required action is taken. Difficulties requiring resolu-
tion relate particularly to management, staffing, engineering and budgeting.
IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; S19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation has been somewhat slow, but progress is
being made in appointing consultants. It was agreed that all the Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) branches in the North and
Northeast regions should be allowed to handle the on-going BAAC term lending
under the nonspecified lending category of the project. This would result
in a further improvement in the regional distribution of lending under the
project and would address the credit needs of a larger number of small farm-
ers in the poorer regions of Thailand. This component is progressing very
well, but disbursements under the specified lending components have been
slow.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective in March 1981, but a budget deficiency
in the first six months, which coincided with the last six months of the RTG
fiscal year, seriously affected project implementation, which was
negligible, although much useful preliminary planning was accomplished. The
recent approval of a project budget for RTG FY82 and the pending approval by
Cabinet of the reorganization plan for the Department of Agriculture should
enable implementation to proceed satisfactorily in calender 1982.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tender,ed and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training
programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the
Ministry of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Satisfactory
progress is being made on institutions included in phase one which are
scheduled to be constructed and equipped by end-1981. For this phase, sites
have been selected and acquired. Sketch plans and equipment lists are



- 56 -
.NEX II
Page 8 of 13
completed. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula
are being developed. Technical assistance agencies, except that for the
Center of Educational Administrators, have been contracted and staff
training programs are conducted as scheduled. The studies under the project
are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project implementation and disbursement status have improved con-
siderably over the past year with project implementation now running, on the
average, about 12 months behind the apfralsal schedule. Five of the ten
national level training facilities have been completed, and the rest are now
all under construction. Of the 430 rural health facilities, 251 have been
completed, 131 are under construction and 23 had to be deleted. Although
dealys have occurred in procurement of equipment and furniture, these pro-
blems have largely been resolved. Procurement of the remaining vehicles and
audio-visual equipment is well advanced. Most training, information/
education/communication and population-related research and evaluation
activities have been completed on schedule. The Innovative Village Nutri-
tion Activity has been successfully launched and uise of most of the remain-
ing Innovative Activities funds for testing new id';as in continuing
education and the role of mass communication in health education is about to
be approved by the Government. The serious contraceptive supply problem
highlighted by recent supervision missions has now been largely resolved.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
because of difficulties encountered with the largest contract. The National
Housing Authority (NHA) is taking steps to resolve these problems and
prevent further delay. Good progress, however, has been made on the various
policy concepts on which the project is based, and NHA's financial manage-
ment has been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
The project's overall progress has been slower than expected due
to lack of progress on institutional development of the executing agency
(OCXRT). Tangible project progress to date has been principally (a) the



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
successful introduction of 100 km of bus lanes; (b) introduction of a
computer coatrolled traffic signal system in central Bangkok; and (c) a
variety of minor civil works.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Design and procurement are generally proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; S40 Million Loan of
November 25 , 1980; Closing Date: April 3, 1986
This loan has not yet been decfired effective pending signature of
the consultants contract.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The main civil works were completed ahead of schedule. The reset-
tlement program was completed satisfactorily inspite of terrorist
activities. The first and second units of turbine generator were put in
operation and the third unit is expected to be completed by end-1981.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
As of end-June 1981, work has been started on 3,800 villages, out
of which 2,400 villages have already been electrified. The load promotion
program started in April 1981. Disbursements are slightly behind schedule
due to initial delays in procurement.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date:  May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is slightly behind schedule because of poor soil
condition encountered during foundation piling. Field works are aow
proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up
with the original schedule.



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
Loan No. 1770  Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is several months behind due to unexpected poor rock
foundation. Construction of the resettlement program started at Site I and
Site IV.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 20, 1981. Detailed
designs for the first 9 project provintes-are ready and procurement for 13
of the 20 groups of bids is being processed.
Loan No. 2000-TH Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan has not yet been declared effective pending receipt of
legal opinion from Government.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is proceeding on schedule and within the budget.  Good
progress has been made with the overall physical works and major project
components, including offshore pipeline and onshore main line, have been
completed on schedule. The pipeline was commissioned in August, 1981.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan has been fully committed and the remaining balance is
expected to be disbursed by December 31, 1981.



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1492  The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, comprising the development of a 163.5 ha industrial
*           estate on rice paddy land 35 km east of Bangkok, has been completed and the
Loan has been fully disbursed. Project progress was satisfactory, notwith-
standing some delays in the construction of the roadway, drainage and water
supply systems due to contractor disputes. Almost all developed sites have
been sold and IEAT is currently engaging in an expansion program for the
estate. Since IEAT has sold a substantial portion of the estate area to a
few large firms, its original objective df attracting 120 medium-size firms
will not materialize; only 19 firms have so far settled in the estate.
Total employment in the estate will be in'the range of 5,000-6,000 workers,
if all estate firms are at full capacity production, which falls short of
the original target of 12,000. IEAT is currently establishing the
procedures for its newly established EPZ. IEAT's financial structure and
performance have been satisfactory.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
This loan became effective on June 18, 1981.
Loan No. 1947-TH Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of
March 4, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan has not yet been declared effective due to delays in the
recruitment of consultants.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All construction contracts have been awarded and work is about 75%
completed and proceeding satisfactorily. However, for three of the roads
the bidding and awards were delayed about 10 months to synchronize with bid-
ding and award of contracts in March 1979 on a link road, which is essential
for the effective use of the project roads, and which is being financed
wholly by the Government. Completion of the project may thus be delayed
about nine months. Most of the maintenance equipment has been procured and
with recently increased budgetary allocations, progress with the road main-
tenance program is improving. The studies are also now proceeding satis-
factorily. However, the study of Rural Roads was delayed about 18 months
because the department originally intended to be the executing agency ran



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
into difficulties but the Government made alternative arrangements and the
study is expected to be completed in early 1982.
Loan No. 2035-TB Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Closing Date December 31, 1985
The project has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979: Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial
condition of the State Railway of Thail,and remains weak, and the Bank has
urged the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary
tariff revisions. To correct this situation, the Government has proposed an
action program which is currently being reviewed within the Bank.
Loan No. 1889  Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Preconstruction activities are underway with consultant selection
ongoing. Prequalification of contractors for the river works has been
completed and bid documents issued.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan became effective on August 12, 1981.
Loan No. 1253  Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Original
Closing Date: December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project has been completed except for connection of some new
telephone lines expected during the first half of 1981. About $3.1 million
remains to be disbursed against retention payments and against items missing
from initial supplies or for replacement of faulty items.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Loan No. 1620  Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrover's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind
schedule. The financial condition of the borrower continues to be
satisfactory.



- 62 -
ANNEX III
THAILAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Government Presentation to the Bank: January 1981
(b) Reconnaissance Mission: May/June 1981
(c) Appraisal Mission: August/September 1981
(d) Completion of Negotiations: December 18, 1981
(e) Planned Effectiveness: March 31, 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Prior to June 30, 1982 or other agreed date, the Bank would review
the Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment program
as set forth in the Letter of Development Policy (para. 82).
Section III - Special Conditions
Implementation of agreements relating to agriculture and rural
development, industry, energy, fiscal policy and institutional development
as set forth in the Annex to the Letter of Development Policy
(paras. 19-64).



- 63 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Bangkok, February 4, 1982
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Re: THAILAND - Structural Adjustment Loan
Introduction
1.        As you know, Thailand like all non-oil exporting developing
countries has been severely affected by the rapid rise in petroleum prices and
the ensuing fluctuations and deceleration in the world economy. While the
average balance of payments current account deficit was only about 0.5% of GDP
over the period 1972-1974, it widened to about 4.5% of GDP over the years
1975-1978, notwithstanding a consistently favourable export performance. The
petroleum price increases of 1979 and 1980 would by themselves have doubled
the relative size of the external deficits, and it was only because our
Government initiated significant measures to limit these deficits that they
were held to about 7.5% of GDP.
2.        It is likely from our own calculations as well as from those of the
World Bank that such deficits cannot be sustained for long. Without further
specific action, the deficits are, however, not likely to be reduced in the
future. In order to minimize the costs of the necessary reduction in foreign
deficits to economic development, including the alleviation of poverty, our
GovernmerLc decided in the Fall ot 1980 to opt for a course of action which
seeks to improve Thailand's external balance largely through medium-term
structural adjustments to the economy. Actions to move in that direction were
started immediately. In addition, the Fifth National Economic and Social
Development Plan, 1982-86, was formulated to provide the framework for struc-
tural adjustment.
3.        Thus, apart from the alleviation of poverty as its primary objec-
tive, Thailand's Fifth Plan gives substantial attention to the reduction in
existing fiscal and financial imbalances, and to improvements in the operation
of the economy through increased efficiency in the allocation and use of re-
sources, and rationalization of the incentive structure. Some of the measures
which are envisaged would temporarily increase resource use, and therefore
would put temporary pressure on the balance of payments, but it is expected
that the combined package of policy actions will significantly improve the
balance of payments over the plan period. In the meantime, however, the defi-
cits will have to be financed.
4.        The Government has already started to implement a number of measures
along the lines indicated in the Plan. The policy measures taken included
sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products, and increases in elec-
tricity tariffs sufficient to remove all subsidies to the sector; measures to
increase government revenues; amendments to the usury laws and an increase in
interest rates; the lifting of price controls on 29 of 36 goods; reductions in



-64                       ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
import duties on electrical goods; and substantial increases in water, bus and
railway tariffs and in post and telegraph charges. Various export incentive
measures have been taken. Given the large appreciation of the US dollar
against other currencies, the dollar value of the Baht was reduced by about
10%.  Production incentives in agriculture have been substantially increased.
In addition, severe restraints have been put on public expenditures, while
major reforms are being instituted to increase the efficiency of the public
sector in planning and managing the use of its resources.
5.        As indicated below, we will continue to take measures along these
lines in agriculture, industry, energy, fiscal policy and institution buil-
ding, areas in which the Bank has displayed a significant interest and in
which the Bank has assisted the Government in the past. As indicated above,
the policy packages are aimed at gradually reducing the balance of payments
deficit as a percentage of GDP (to about 2.5% of GDP in 1986) through improved
incentives, increased efficiency, and reduced fiscal imbalances; in most cases
the measures which are envisaged would serve several of these purposes
simultaneously.
Agriculture
6.        The Fifth Plan on agriculture calls for a definite shift of emphasis
from extensive to intensive development as the opportunities to bring addi-
tional land under cultivation are becoming limited. Efforts will be made to
improve the incentives to the farmers. On the input side reliance will be
placed on the free market mechanism, with Government interventions as neces-
sary as in poverty regions or where private marketing systems are not opera-
ting effectively. On the output side efforts will be continued to reduce
export charges as well as to deal with international and domestic market
imperfections.
7.        To hasten the pace of intensification, projects in agricultural
research, extension and provision of inputs will be emphasized, especially in
the poorer regions where the private sector is less active. At the same time
programs will be implemented which increase farmers- security of tenure,
thereby improving their access to credit and inducing them to increase their
investments in land development.
Industry
8.        Measures designed to improve the efficiency of the industrial
structure in general, and more specifically to induce producers to shift away
from import substitution to exports are envisaged. In addition to increases
in export incentives which are being implemented, measures designed to grad-
ually reduce the present unevenness in the incentive structure will be taken.
These include a gradual narrowing in the range of import duties and changes in
promotional privileges. The resulting shift in incentives towards labor
intensification of industry will underline Thailand's comparative advantage



-65-                     ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
and stimulate exports. The planned reduction in Government interventions, and
a greater automaticity and efficiency of promotional incentives, are also
expected to make the production for domestic demand more efficient. In the
case of large industrial projects these measures will be supplemented by the
requirement to demonstrate economic viability along established criteria
before implementation.
Energy
9.        Great progress has been made in energy pricing, although some more
efforts are yet needed to fully reflect the international scarcity of energy
into Thailand's price structure. Emphasis has up to now been more on general
price adjustments than on fairness among consumers or efficiency of produc-
tion. Studies are under way or in the process of being commissioned to deter-
mine the most desirable energy tax level as well as the proper relative price
levels among the various forms of energy. It is the intention of the Govern-
ment to review and implement the conclusions of these studies as soon as
possible.
10.       Apart from pricing, studies are also being commissioned to find
further ways to induce energy conservation, including the financing of such
programs. Upon their implementation the present somewhat arbitrary regulatorv
measures are hoped to be reduced. On the supply side an energy master plan
is under preparation, and will be reviewed and implemented speedily. As soon
as the various studies on energy development, demand management and pricing
are available, the Government intends to give high priority to the development
of an overall and internally consistent strategy for the energy sector.
Fiscal Policy
11.       In order to reduce fiscal deficits substantially the Government
intends to raise the Central Government revenue share of the GDP to 18% during
the Fifth Plan period. This will be achieved through selective but continuing
changes to the tax system aimed at rationalizing its structure, increasing
the tax base, and closing existing loopholes. A major contribution is also
to be made by improved tax enforcement and collection, partly through improve-
ments in the data processing and administration capabilities of the tax col-
lecting agencies. The recently created Tax Policy Board will provide overall
direction to this entire effort. For the public sector as a whole the Govern-
ment will develop a fiscal strategy designed to implement the broad fiscal
targets identified in the Fifth Five Year Plan', including continued progress
towards the elimination of operational losses in public enterprises and
requiring an economic rate of return on the assets invested in them; attain-
ment of the Plan-s revenue and expenditure targets; and streamlining of the
operations of extra-budgetary funds.



- 66 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
Institutional Development
12.       To ensure that the structural adjustment program is properly
executed, the Government will take steps to strengthen the capabilities of
the public sector in the fields of policy analysis and coordination, and pro-
gram formulation and execution. Efforts will be made to use indigenous policy
analysis capabilities increasingly. The Government is introducing a system
of program budgeting to improve the links between planning and budgeting. It
is streamlining and decentralizing expenditure controls in the interest of
more efficient program management. Further changes in the planning,
budgeting, accounting and auditing systems will be made during the next two
years to link annual budgets more closely to Plan objectives and adjustment
policies, and to facilitate the coordination of national economic management.
These measures are expected to lead to a substantial improvement in the
efficiency of resource use by the public sector.
Short-term Stabilization
13.       Measures aimed at short-term stabilization and containment of fiscal
and international payments imbalances have been discussed with the IMF,
resulting in a stand-by arrangement of SDR 814.5 million over a two-year
period which started in May 1981.
Implementation
14.       In order to ensure systematic implementation of the above program,
the Government is instituting a high-level Economic Structural Adjustment
Committee. One of its functions will be to undertake regular reviews
of progress achieved under the program, in cooperation with the Bank.
Conclusion
15.       The set of policies and measures outlined above is further specified
in the Annex to this letter. When implemented over the Fifth Plan period
1982-1986, it is expected to put Thailand on a course of balanced development
which is maintainable in the context of the presently foreseeable interna-
tional economy. On behalf of the Royal Thai Government I would like to ask
you hereby to support our efforts by extending a first Structural Adjustment
Loan to Thailand at the earliest possible date.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
(s) Sommai Hoontrakool
Minister of Finance



- 67 -
Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 8
Actions Taken and Planned for Structural Adjustment
1.        This Annex briefly discusses the various specific actions that the
Government has already undertaken or is planning to undertake to improve the
balance of payments through structural adjustment in the agriculture, industry
and energy sectors, and in the areas of fiscal policy and institutional deve-
lopment.
Agriculture
2.        The general thrust towards increased productivity in agriculture
through the implementation of projects ip various agricultural subsectors -
many of them supported by the Bank - will continue to be given high priority.
In the context of structural adjustment, productivity increases will also be
sought through the improvement of incentives to farmers. Specific actions
towards this objective are being undertaken in the areas of land reclassifi-
cation and agricultural marketing and pricing.
3.        Land Reclassification:  As a result of increased population pres-
sure, 20% of Thailand's farmers are now cultivating land to which they have no
legal rights since it is still officially classified as forest reserve. In
most cases this land is suitable for agriculture, but its productivity is low
since the farmers have no incentives to improve it and virtually no access to
credit to apply modern inputs. In the context of its work on the Fifth Plan,
the Government has prepared a study on land use and development policy
and the magnitude and regional distribution of the problem has been identi-
fied. The decision has now been made to address it through issuing "right to
farm" certificates (S.T.K.) to the farmers who are cultivating soils suitable
for agriculture. These certificates will be inheritable, but to protect the
small farmers, they will not be saleable. They will, however, be acceptable
to the BAAC as loan security. Depending on future developments the areas to
be reclassified may later on be degazetted and certificates converted into
full titles.
4.        The Government has begun the process of land reclassification.
The Ministry of Agriculture has made a provision of Baht 73 million in the
FY82 budget for land reclassification activities and has prepared a broad
program for land reclassification aimed at covering the majority of the
problem area during the Fifth Plan period. By March 1982, the Ministry will
prepare a more detailed work program for land reclassification.
5.        Agricultural Marketing and Pricing Policy:  The Government is
committed to an improvement in the returns and incentives to farmers through
a number of measures aimed at improving the efficiency of the domestic



- 68 -
Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8
marketing system, and responding promptly and appropriately to international
market imperfections. In recent months we have taken a number of important
measures in this area. The export quota system for cassava has been
eliminated; the ban on sugar exports has been lifted; the export quota system
for maize has been made more flexible; and the export tax for rubber has been
reduced from 25% to 11%. The efficiency and effectiveness of the rice price
support program has been improved, and we have been able to increase paddy
prices to the farmers by about 20-25% over the past year. We have also
improved the effectiveness of the cheap rice distribution program in meeting
the needs of poverty groups by limiting the quantity and eligibility for
purchases and by increasing the proportion of cheap rice marketed outside
Bangkok from 40% in 1980 to 65% in the first half of 1981. And, in December
1981, the rice reserve requirement was halved (resulting in a reduction of
its effective burden on rice exports from an estimated 20% down to 10%.
6.        Looking to the future our Government will continue to emphasize the
need to increase returns to farmers and will intervene in the marketing and
pricing of agricultural commodities as little as possible.  In this regard
we will during 1982 make further improvements in the rice procurement and
distribution programs and we have already increased the support price for
paddy from Baht 3,500 to Baht 3,750 per ton; in view of the expected decline
in world market prices for rice this may necessitate further reductions in the
overall burden of rice taxation. A start will also be made on the
deregulation of livestock marketing by permitting the establishment of private
slaughterhouse facilities for export by April 1982. In order to assess the
appropriate role of the Government in the marketing of an important agri-
cultural input we will undertake a study to review the public sector program
for supplying fertilizer to farmers, paying particular attention to pricing
issues and distribution mechanisms and objectives.
Industry
7.        Our major policy objective in this sector, to induce efficient
growth, will be pursued through promotion of export-oriented industries
relative to import substitution, adjustments in the protective structure and
incentives framework, and application of economic investment criteria. We
have formulated the Fifth Plan strategy along these lines and prepared a
program for restructuring of the industrial sector. Broad ranging discussions
on these issues have already begun between officials of the agencies concer-
ned, industrialists, private bankers and manufacturers. Public seminars,
each focussing on relevant subsectors, were recently held on (a) rationaliza-
tion of industrial protection policies; (b) productivity improvement;
(c) export promotion; and (d) energy conservation. Thes.e discussions are
proving to be of great value in formulating our policy for the restructuring



- 69 -                 Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
of the industrial sector. Given that many agencies are involved we are
setting up a permanent high level interdepartmental committee to coordinate,
implement and monitor industrial development.
8.         Export Promotion.  Significant measures to promote exports have
already been taken. With regard to incentives, the dollar value of the Baht
was adjusted, and a new export tax drawback Act was approved by Parliament and
is being implemented. In close consultation with exporters we are also
improving the institutional arrangements and support for exporting through
streamlining of customs procedures, creation of additional export processing
zones and bonded warehouses. The Ministry of Finance is currently exploring
broad-based improvements in organization of the Custom's Department and in
procedures for implementing the import tax refund scheme and the new export
tax drawback Act. These improvements will be implemented in 1982. Five
additional bonded warehouses will be created in 1982, and export processing
zones will be set up in Bangkok and Sattahip early in the Plan period. Also,
customs stations will be created at industrial estate locations and in major
regional cities. In addition, legislation has been passed to establish an
Export Development Fund to provide technical and promotional support for
exports through strengthening the activities of the Ministry of Commerce.
Details concerning the financing and operations of the Fund will be decided by
June 1982.
9.         Reform of the Protective Structure.  To increase the efficiency of
resource utilization, our ultimate aim in this policy area is to achieve
greater uniformity in effective protection. Given the problems of implement-
ation and the far reaching economic, financial and political implications,
the movement towards a more uniform and moderate tariff structure would be a
gradual process. Hence, a phased approach will be adopted. During FY1982,
tariff rates will be modified at the extreme ends so that all imports will be
subject to tariffs no higher than 60%, and no lower than 5-10%. Exceptions
will only be granted in special cases.
10.        For the subsequent phase of the reforms, we will develop by mid-1982
a phased program that will include further appropriate changes in both tariff
and nontariff restrictions. Our approach will be to carry on with general
tariff reform across the board, as well as with subsectoral specific adjust-
ments. The problems in priority subsectors will be analyzed to identify the
best way to proceed with the tariff adjustments. Arrangements have been made
for the World Bank to assist with the first such study in the electrical
goods sector. Other priority sectors will be covered in subsequent years as
follows: automotive in 1982; chemical, plastic products, and ceramics in
1983; iron and steel products, machinery and other equipment in 1984.



- 70 -
Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 4 ot a
11.       Investment Incentives.  Under the UNDP/IBRD technical assistance
arrangement to BOI, a comprehensive study has been completed on the present
system of investment incentives and on the functions and procedures of the
Board of Investment. It has recommended important policy reforms. A high-
level committee has since been set up to review the existing system of invest-
ment incentives, with the objective of substantially reducing distortions
arising from the nature of incentives so as to encourage exporting relative to
import substituting industries; to reduce the capital bias in many projects,
and to increase the degree of automacity in the procedures. These intentions
have already been communicated to the private sector in an effort to seek
broadbased cooperation in their implementation. Our objective is also to move
away from the present discretionary arrangements in the design and
implementation of incentives, towards a system where the incentives are
designed more on a sectoral or subsectoral basis in line with the policy of
industrial restructuring.
12.       Recently our Government has formulated a broad implementation
program for the reform of the investment incentives. It consists of two
parts: (a) a program of reform of the incentive structure that can be
implemented promptly (i.e., within the present BOI Act) and (b) a further
program of rationalization of the incentives and for restructuring the
functions of the BOI, which may require legislative changes. In this context,
we intend to strengthen the capabilities of the BOI over the next couple of
years to evaluate the economic feasibility of projects submitted for its
approval, and to design uniform incentive packages on a sectoral basis. By
March 1982, the Government will formulate a more detailed program and phasing
for these various activities. By mid-1982 the Ministry of Finance in
cooperation with the BOI, will also initiate a study of the economic and
fiscal consequences of the present and proposed incentives.
13.       Large Scale Projects.  We will ensure that large projects, in the
public as well as in the publicly supported private sector, meet the criterion
of economic viability.  As long as the NESDB and BOI are not yet in a position
to fulfill their functions for all large projects, ad hoc arrangements for
review will be made.
Energy
14.       To reduce the demand for largely imported energy and eliminate
underpricing of energy, our Government has, over the past two years,
implemented large and frequent adjustments to energy prices. By April
1981, average power tariffs and petroleum prices had been raised by
about 120% over the average level in March 1979. On the supply side,
the availability of natural gas from September 1981 and further develop-
ment of crude oil, lignite and other domestic resources will also
reduce the dependence on imported oil. Thus, the energy targets
embedded in the Fifth Plan are: to reduce the growth in energy
demand to 4.6% p.a.; to reduce dependency on imported oil from 75% of



- 71 -
Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
total energy consumption to 46% in 1986, and to reduce the quantity of oil
imports by an average of 3% during the Fifth Plan. We are in the process of
developing detailed programs and measures to achieve these targets.
15.       Energy Pricing.  We will continue our policy of implementing
frequent adjustments in energy prices to reflect cost changes and to
encourage conservation. In this regard we will undertake a study of the
relative price structure of petroleum products and we plan to initiate
appropriate changes in the price structure in 1982.
16.       Energy Strategy Formulation.  A large number of studies, sponsored
by various agencies, on energy development, pricing, and conservation have
been completed or are underway. Some of the studies are expected to be
finalized by January 1982, most imporLalitly the Energy Master Plani SLudy and
the Gas Utilization Study. Studies which will take longer to complete include
those on domestic nonconventional energy and on energy conservation. The
National Energy Authority will, in consultation with other concerned agencies,
steer the studies in progress, evaluate those which are completed, implement
appropriate recommendations, and identify areas for further investigation.
The initial stocktaking of these studies will be completed, and an integrated
medium-term energy strategy to achieve the Plan objectives and targets will be
formulated by September 1982. After this initial effort, NEA will be
responsible for further energy strategy formulation and implementation on a
continuous basis so that the dynamic changes in the energy sector will be
taken into account in the planning process. Among the studies which will be
incorporated in the continuing review of energy strategy will be a study of
the existing incentives and disincentives for energy conservation, to be comr
pleted by December 1982.
Fiscal Policy
17.       During the second half of the 1970s overall public sector deficits
increased rapidly. They contributed substantially to the deteriorating
external position of Thailand and to the inflationary pressures which
developed between 1977 and 1980. In fiscal year 1981 and in the budget for
fiscal year 1982, the Government has started to address these problems, on the
expenditure side through increased discipline over public spending, and on the
revenue side through selected tax measures and substantial increases in public
enterprise tariffs. We plan to continue these efforts under our Fifth Five
Year Plan, concentrating on the revenue side, thus allowing to maintain public
spending at an approximately unchanged level in relation to GDP in the
interest of a continued active development strategy. Specifically, central
government revenues will be raised from 14% to 18% of GDP over the Plan period
and operational losses in the major public enterprises will be eliminated.
Complementary to the short-term fiscal stabilization measures to be taken
under the Standby Agreement with the IMF, the Government intends to take the
following steps to ensure the implementation of the fiscal goals of the Fifth
Five-Year Plan.



- 72 -
Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8
18.       Tax Policy
(a) For fiscal year 1982 a number of tax measures have already been
taken or are expected to be taken, including restructuring of
personal and corporate income taxes, a progressive income tax
on sales of property, selective increases in import duties on
goods now exempted or taxed at low rates, increases in excise
taxes on certain sumptuary items, and the change in the excise
tax on cement from a specific to an ad valorem base. These
measures are expected to yield about Baht 4 billion (0.5% of GDP)
in fiscal year 1982.
(b) The government will improve the tax administration in the Revenue,
Customs, and Excise Departmcnts and in local government.
Specifically, as of January 1982, the Revenue Department has set
up five Area Tax Offices in Bangkok covering a substantial portion
of the metropolitan area, and will, by March 1983, have set up the
total number of eight such offices necessary for Metropolitan
Bangkok. Regulatory action required for the Revenue Department to
implement a separation of headquarter from operational functions
and to organize its headquarter along functional lines will be
completed by mid-1982. Sufficient financial resources will be
made available to permit implementation of these reforms by
mid-1983. The IMF has provided extensive technical support in the
area of tax administration and the Government will continue to
seek such assistance.
(c) The Tax Policy Board which has recently been set up, will, by
September 1982, identify an appropriate long-term tax structure
and develop a program of phased movement towards it, compatible
with the revenue targets of the Fifth Plan. Increases in tax
proceeds over the medium term are to be obtained principally from
improved and more equitable tax administration and enforcement.
19.       Development of a Medium-Term Fiscal Strategy.  By September 1982
the Ministry of Finance, in collaboration with other core agencies, will:
(a) prepare a phased implementation program for attainment of the
expenditure and revenue targets and of the broad fiscal policies
identified in the Fifth Five-Year Plan for the entire public
sector, broadly taking account of the fiscal implications of
structural adjustment and other policies in the various sectors;
(b) establish realistic financial targets for all major public enter-
prises and a phased program for the achievement of these targets,
which will as a minimum aim at the elimination of operational
losses;



- 73 -
Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8
(c)  incorporate the operations of the various extra-budgetary funds
in this overall review. To this end, a study will be initiated
by March 1982 to review the operations and effectiveness of
these funds with the objective of establishing clear performance
criteria and a central monitoring system, and to consider whether
they should continue to operate as separate entities.
The Government would welcome assistance from the IMF and the World Bank for
technical support in the development of this fiscal policy strategy.
Institutional Development
20.       The success of many elements in the structural adjustment program
will depend to a significant extent on a strengthening of central institu-
tional capabilities. Improvements in two areas of development management are
particularly important.
21.       Policy Analysis and Coordination.  In the context of the preparation
of the Fifth Plan we made major efforts to analyze critical national and
sectoral policy issues, and to review existing development policies and
programs. The arrangements made for this work, while successful in tapping
existing domestic analytical capabilities, were however essentially ad hoc.
It became apparent that our capacity to conduct policy analysis and coordinate
economic management on a continuous basis required substantial strengthening.
As a first step, a permanent high-level National Economic Policy Steering
Committee was formed in November 1980 under the chairmanship of the Prime
Minister and with the NESDB functioning as its secretariat. Further steps
will include strengthening the in-house capabilities of the core agencies
(primarily NESDB, Ministry of Finance and Budget Bureau) responsible for
economic and fiscal policy analysis and advice; with effect from fiscal year
1983, provision of regular budget resources to permit the greater utilization
of analytical capabilities outside the core agencies themselves in the conduct
of key policy studies; the associated removal of administrative restrictions
on the employment of academic and research personnel for such work by March
1982; and the creation of an autonomous economic and social policy research
institute early in 1982 to provide research support and consulting services to
NESDB and other Government agencies.
22.       Program Formulation, Evaluation and.Implementation.  In recognition
of weaknesses in the formulation, implementation and monitoring of public
investment programs, a number of steps have been taken, or are contemplated,
to strengthen our capabilities in several closely inter-related areas. A
firm of consultants has been working with the Budget Bureau since March 1980
to improve the national budget system. The first.phase of this undertaking
was completed in September 1981. A number of significant changes in the
procedures applicable to the preparation and execution of the FY82 budget was
made, including the introduction of a new capital budgeting system, the



- 74 -
Attachment to ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 8
application of program budgeting concepts to the education and agriculture
sectors on a trial basis, and adjustments in the allotment and expenditure
control systems to vest greater authority for program management in depart-
mental implementing units.  The second phase of this project was initiated
at the end of 1981 for the conversion of the entire Government to full program
budgeting by October 1, 1983 (i.e. for FY84).
23.       To ensure that the utilization of public sector resources - either
through the annual budgetary process or in relation to private large-scale
projects - is consistent with national economic policies and sectoral priori-
ties, consultants will assist the NESDB to design, test and introduce new
planning and programming systems.  These will comprise a three-year rolling
investment programming system compatible with the requirements of the program
budgeting system, a uniform project preparation and investment appraisal
system, and a comprehensive program monitoring and evaluation system. The
first three-year public investment program is expected to be completed by mid-
1982. The capacity of the NESDB and the other planning units at all levels in
the Government to operate these systems will be systematically built up during
1982 and 1983, and the role of the proposed policy research institute in these
processes will be defined. Parallel steps will be taken during this period to
redesign accounting procedures and documentation to meet the needs of the
proposed planning, program budgeting and monitoring systems, and to assist the
Office of the Auditor General to conduct performance audits on operating
agencies- programs and projects.
24.       Personnel Management.  Improvements in the budgeting, planning and
accounting systems should greatly facilitate better program formulation and
implementation. But these developments will heighten the need to retain the
services, and enhance the administrative capabilities of experienced depart-
mental and project personnel. To address this problem, the Prime Minister-s
Office will initiate studies of the organization, management and compensation
of the civil service during 1982.
Miscellaneous
25.       The various studies and programs referred to above shall be carried
out in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and, if
needed, consultants shall be employed whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank.



- 75 -
ANNEX V
THAILAND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Use of Fund Resources, 1976-1991
(In millions of SDRs)
Gross credit drawings                                                             Net      Undrawn balance
Compensatory                Trust fund                                            credit    of agreed
drawings       Standby   borrowing    Total /a  Repayments /b   Charges /c  drawings   standby
(1)            (2)        (3)          (4)         (5)             (6)         (7)         (8)
1973
1974
1975
1976       67.0                                    67.0                          0.3        67.0
1977       68.0                        14.3        14.3                          1.5        14.3
1978                                   41.2       109.7                          4.6       109.7        45.2
1979                       45.2        40.6        85.8                          8.1        85.8
1980                                   34.3        34.3         16.7             9.4        17.6
1981      186.0           345.0          .5       531.5         58.8            12.9       472.7       469.5
1982                      293.0                   293.0         34.4            46.2       258.6       176.5
1983                      176.5                   176.5         47.5            79.8       129.0
1984                                                            70.1           104.8      - 70.1
1985                                                           265.8            97.0      -265.8
1986                                                           320.1            78.3      -320.1
1987                                                           192.8            56.1      -192.8
1988                                                           154.8            56.1      -154.8
1989                                                           103.0            56.1      -103.0
1990                                                            26.1            56.1      - 26.1
1991                                                             0.5            56.1      -  0.5
/a  Use of Fund Credit (regular and borrowed standby drawings, and compensatory facility drawings plus Trust
Fund borrowing.
/b  Repayments through Repurchase and Repayments of Trust Fund borrowing.
77  Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
7-  (4) - (5), cumulative difference between total purchases and repayments in period 1976-1991 is due to a
reduction in repurchase commitments as a result of the quota payment of SDR 21.6 million in 1980.



