RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY              Report No. P-421
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
CENTRAL ELETRICA DE FURNAS, S. A.
(ESTREITO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
AND
USINAS ELETRICAS DO PARANAPANEMA, S. A.
(XAVANTES HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT)
IN BRAZIL
February 17, 1965



INTERNATIOINAL BANK FOR RECOiTSTRUCTIOI AND DEVELOPI9EUT
REPORT AIND RECOMIMENDATION  OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE PROPOSED LOANS TO
CENTRAL ELETRICA DE FURISAS, S.A.
AND
USINAS ELETRICAS DO PARA1APAUE iA, S.A.
FOR TWD HYDROELECTRIC PROJECTS
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on the
proposed loans to Central Eletrica de Furnas, S.A. (FURNAS) and
Usinas Eletricas do Paranapanema, S.A. (USELPA) in amounts in
various currencies equivalent to $57 million and $22.5 million
respectively, to finance part of the cost of the Estreito and
Xavantes hydroelectric projects in Brazil.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.       I informed the Executive Directors on October 22, iL964
that the Government of Brazil, as part of a general rescheduling
of its external debt, had requested the Bank to reschedule a por-
tion of the payments on its loans to Brazii, and that while I felt
that the Bank should lend its support to such a general reschedul-
ing, it would be undesirable for the Bank to reschedule the pay-
ments on its own loans. I accordingly informed the Government of
Brazil that, subject to approval by the Executive Directors, the
Bank would be prepared to lend to Brazil for suitable projects
in the amount necessary to offset the net repayments of principal
(i.e. gross repayments minus projected disbursements) on the Bank's
existing loans to Brazil over the period 1965 through 1970. Net
repayments to the Bank from Brazil during this period aggregate
$80.2 million (gross repayments of $81.5 million minus further dis-
bursements of $1.3 million on presently outstanding loans).
3.       Pursuant to this arrangement, the Government requested the
Bank to lend $79.5 million for two hydroelectric projects: FURUAS'
Estreito and USELPA's Xavantes plants. The proposed 'Loans would be
disbursed between 1965 and 1970 and would maintain the Bank's net
investment in Brazil for this period at its present level of approx-
imately $185 million.
4.       The Projects were appraised by a Bank mission which visited
Brazil in August-September 1964.  Formal negotiations for the pro-
posed loans began on January 13 and were concluded on February 5,
1965.  The Government was represented by Mr. Castro Viana, Brazilian
Treasury Delegate in New York; FURNAS was represented by its President,
Mr. John R. Cotrim, and by one of its directors, Dr. Sergio Octaviano
de Almeida; USELPA was represented by its President, Iir. Otto Cyrillo
Lehmann and by Mr. Alberto Bottini of the same Company; and the State
of Sao Paulo by Mr. Carlos A. Cinelli, representative of the Secretary
of the Treasury.



5.       If the proposed loans were made, Bank lending to Brazil
would increase from $267 million to $3L6.5 million, net of can-
cellations.  The position at December 31, 1964 was as follows:
Millions of $
Total (net of cancellations)              $    267.0
Of which has been repaid                         81.9
Amount outstanding                        $    185.1
Amount sold                  $ 5.7
Of which has been repaid       5,4                 .3
Net amnount held by Bank                  $     184.8
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOANS
6.       The main characteristics of the proposed loans are as
follows:
FURNAS                     USELPA)
(Estreito)                 (Xavantes)
BORRON1ER:              Central Eletrica          Usinas Eletricas do
de Furnas, S.A.           Paranapanema, S.A.
GUARAN TOR:             United States of Brazil   United States of Brazil
LOAN ii0UN T:
Equivalent in
various currencies
of:                   $57 million               $22.5 million
PURPOSE:
Assist in financing:  First phase (533 MW)       Xalrantes hydroelectric
of Estreito hydro-        project (400 NW)
electric project.
TERN AND
AIORTIZATION OF LOAN:   25 years (including        25 years (including
6?: years grace); semi-   5 years grace); semi-
annual repayments from    annual repayments
July 1, 1971 through      from May 1, 1970
January 1, 1990.          through May 1, 1990,
INTEREST RATE:          5½ per annum               5½ per annum
COMMITMEFIT CHARGE:     3/8 of 1% per annum        3/8 of 1% per annum



- 3 -
PART III - THE PROJECTS
7.       Appraisal reports on the projects are attached (Nos. 1 and 2).
The Power Market; Economic Justification
8.       The projects would provide power to the South-Central region
of the country (including the heavily populated cities of Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro, and Belo Horizonte), which is the industrial heart of
Brazil. A consortium of consultants known as CANAMBRA, working under
a United Nations Special Fund grant for which the Bank acts as Execut-
ing Agency, have studied the market for power in the region. They
estimate that demand will continue to grow at the long-term historic
rate of 10 to 11% per annum. These consultants have also prepared an
emergency program of expansion, with which the Governinert is in accord,
to meet power requirerients through 1970. The Estreito and Xavantes
developments, which together will provide additional generating capacity
of almost 1 million kilowatts, are of high priority vwithin this pro-
gram, The Xavantes project has been under construction for several
years.
9.       Both of the projects would provide low-cost power: the cost
per kilowatt installed at Estreito is $130; and for Xavantes, $159 (in
both cases exclusive of transmission and interest costs).
Arrangements for Expansion of Distribution Facilities
10.      FURNAS and UQELPA are essentially wholesalers of power; the
greater part of their combined output is taken up by the cities of Rio
de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, where the distribution systems are under the
control of a Canadian company, The Brazilian Traction, Light and Power
Company, Ltd. (BRATRACO). The Bank has lent BRATRACO approxim,iately
$120 million for the expansion of its generation, distribution and
telephone facilities in Brazil. Owing to the rapid depreciation of the
cruzeiro and the inadequacy of power rates, BRATRACO's operating sub-
sidiaries in Brazil have been unable to generate sufficient funds to
expand their distribution systems to keep pace with the expansion of
generation and transmission facilities in the region.   The distribution
systems in these twso cities are now saturated, and the Bank informed
the Government that it could not proceed with the proposed loans with-
out assurances that satisfactory arrangements were being made for the
expansion of these systems.
11.      As explained in paragraph 12 below, BRATRACO's operating sub-
sidiaries have applied for very substantial rate increases which, if
granted, should afford them a satisfactory return on investment and
enable them to finance from their own resources a substantial part of
the cost of their expansion programs. BRATRACO, with the support of
the Government, has initiated preliminary negotiations for an external



- 4 -
loan to assist in financing the first two or three years of a 5-year
expansion program. During negotiations, the Bank discussed with the
Government the action necessary to carry out at least a minimum pro-
gramn of expansion by BRATRACO.
Power Rates; Future Financial Position of the Companies
12.      In the past, electric power rates were based on the principle
of covering costs (including depreciation and amortization) and provid-
ing a 10% return on the historic value of the remunerable investment
(rate base). Because of inwlation and inadequate enforcement of rate
regulations, power companies in Brazil have been unable to generate
sufficient funds to finance a reasonable portion of their expansion,
and returns on investment in real terms have decreased and almost dis-
appeared. In Novermber 1964 the Governrmenit, in recognition of this
problem, issued a decree permitting power companies to revalue their
assets annually for rate rmaking purposes. Many power companies in
Brazil, including FUPl4AS, USEL2A and the BRITRACO subsidiaries, have
recently applied or intend to apply in the near future for very sub-
stantial rate increases w^ith the expectation that they will be promptly
approved.
13.      FollowTing revaluation and implementation of the higher power
rates permitted, FURNAS will have a debt/equity ratio of about 60/h0,
and should be able to cover debt service from earnings at least 1.5
times (except 1.3 times in 1967), and be able to contribute from in-
ternal sources at least 20% of the cost of its expansion program.
USEIPA will have a debt/equity ratio of about 30/70, and should be
able to cover debt service at least 2 times (rising to 4 times in
1970), and be able to contribute from internal sources about 30% of
the cost of its expansion.
Arrangements for Financing
14.      The proposed loan to FURNAS would assist in financing only
the first phase of a twio-phase project. The second phase (Part B of
the Project described in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreenent) consists
of the transmission system which must be cormpleted simultaneously
with the first phase. FURNAS is obligated to carry out both phases
of the nroject and the Government has undertaken to provide whatever
additional funds are required.  However, at the request of the Goverrn-
ment and FURNAS, I have informed them that if and when the Banl should
decide to engage in further lending to Brazil, the transmission facili-
ties comprising Part B of the project would be among the first projects
for wihich the Bank would be willing to consider further loans.
15.      The State of Sao Paulo, USELPA's principal shareholder, is pre-
pared to enter into a Project Funds Agreement under which it would under-
take to provide whatever funds are required for cornpletion of the Xavantes



Project. In view of this undertaking, a provision of funds covenant
from the Government is not required.
The Borrowers; Execution of the Projects
16.      The FURUIAS Company, organized in 1957, is an autonomous
entity, more than 80% of whose stock is held by Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras S.A. (EITROBRAS), a federal holding company responsible
for national electrification development and planning. In October
1950, the Bank made a loan of $73 million to FURNAS to assist in
financing the 900 Mt1 Furnas hydroelectric project, which is expected
to be in full operation by mid-1965.  Disbursements on this loan were
delayed about 11½ years due to construction difficulties, the increase
in capacity of the plant frormi 600 to 900 MW, and delays in settlement
of the main civil works contract. It is now expected that the undis-
bursed balance of about $1 million will be fully utilized by October
1965.
17.      The USELPA Company, organized in 1953, is an autonomous
corporation 94% of whose stock is owned by the State of Sao Paulo.
USELPA has two hydro plants in operation: the 60 IW Salto Grande
project and the 85 MW Jurumirim hydro plant; these projects wrere
assisted by Bank loans totalling $23.4 million made in 1953 and 1958,
and now fully disbursed.
18.      The organizations of both companies are competent and expe-
rienced in constructing and operating hydroelectric projects; with
the assistance of consulting engineers they are qualified to execute
the proposed projects.
Procurement and Disbursement
19.      Equipment, materials and services still required for the pro-
jects will be obtained on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding, with the followTing exceptions: (a) competition for civil works
contracts (which are not being financed by the proposed loans) will
be limited to qualified firms operating in Brazil - many of which are
consortia of firms including contractors from the industrialized
countries; and (b) spare parts for existing equipment and minor items.
20.      Local manufacturers, who are now able to supp'ly a substantial
part of the equipment and materials for the projects, are protected
from foreign competition by high tariffs (averaging some 60%o ad valorem
in the case of el'ectrical goods) and by Government policy prohibiting
the importation of equipment which can be satisfactorily produced locally.
21.      During negotiations the Bank agreed tlhat it would af ord domes-
tic suppliers bidding on the projects a 15% margin of preference in lieu
of customs tariffs; the Government agreed on its part to take the meas-
ures necessary to permit FUI'IAS and USELPA to purchase and import goods
for the projects under international competitive bidding. The proposed
loans wiould be used to pay for imported or domestic goods for which con-



- 6-
tracts are awarded on this basis.
22.      The exchange rate to be used for bid comparisons in dollars
would be defined as the prevailing commercial bank (free market) sell-
ing rate for dollars (currently about Cr$1850 = Us$1) plus the pre-
vailing exchange surtax (now 10%), but not in excess of 30%. The
exchange rate derived from this formula would roughly approximate
the average between the effective import and export rates and thus
should provide a reasonable basis for bid comparisons. In the event
of significant changes in the exchange system, the Bank would agree
with the Government on any modifications required ir. the formula.
PART IV - LEGAL IN-STRUIMITS ANID AUTHORITY
23.      The draft Loan Agreements between FURIAS and the Bank and
between USELPA and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreements between
the United States of Brazil and the Bank and the draft Project Funds
Agreement on the Xavantes Project between the State of Sao Paulo and
the Bank, together with the supplemental letters on Procurement men-
tioned in paragraph 24(a) below, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
P4.      Tlhe draft Loan, Guarantee and Project Funds Agreements are
substantially similar to those of the previous loans to FURNAS and
USELPA. The following provisions and supplemental letters relating
thereto are of special interest:
(a) Section 3.01 of both Loan Agreements is amplified by (i)
supplemental letters which establish the date of June 30, 1964 from
which reimbursements can be made for each loan and the percentage
(presently 90%) to be disbursed against cruzeiro expenditures; and
(ii) letters on Procurement which set forth the agreed arrangements
for procurement under international competition, the preference of
15% to be accorded to Brazilian firms, the definition of the rate of
exchange formula to be used for comparison of domestic and foreign
bids, and the bases for bid comparisons.
(b) Sections 5.15 and 5.14 respectively of the FURNAS and
USELPA Loan Agreements and Section 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreements
establish the minimum level at which power rates shaIl be set, to
produce, inter alia, a return of 10% on net revalued fixed assets.
Supplemental letters set forth the companies' plans for seeking rate
adjustments in excess of these minimum requirements as permitted by
current legislation.
(c) Under both Loan Agreements, Section 7.01(b) establishes,
as an additional condition of effectiveness, that specific arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made for the expan-
sion of distribution facilities in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. In



- 7 -
supplemental letters to the Government and the borrowers, the Bank has
set out the requirements to be met under Section 7.01(b); namely, that
the power rates of the Rio Light and Sao Paulo Light Companies shall
have been increased to the levels permitted by current legislation,
and that the companies agree to initiate a 5-year expansion program
averaging US$30 to $35 million equivalent per year and to invest from
their own resources a minimum of $15 million equivalent per year to-
wards suchl program.
(d) Section 7.01(c) of the Loan Agreements provides, as an
additional condition of effectiveness, that FURNAS and USELPA's power
rates shall have been increased to the minimum levels established by
Sections 5.15 and 5.14 respectively of the FURNAS and USa.PA Loan
Agreements.
(e) Under Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement for thle
FURNAS Loan, the Goverrment undertakes to provide, as equity or loan
capital or otherwise, whatever additional funds are required to ensure
the timely and eaficient cozipletion of the Zstrcito Project.
(f) Under Section 3.08 of the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor undertakes to encourage coordination of power planning and opera-
tion in the South-Central region; the Guarantor also covenants to take
action to ensure the timely expansion of transmission and distribution
facilities in the same region. By supplemental letters, the Guarantor
confirms its intention to grant increases in power rates sufficienit to
enable such distribution companies to meet a substantial part of their
expansion needs.
25.      Under the draft Project Funds Agreement, the State of Sao Paulo
undertakes to provide, as equity or otherwise, lWyhatever funds are re-
quired to enable USELA to carry out the Xavantes Project.   The author-
ization and ratification of this Agreement by the State has been rmiade
an additional condition of effectiveness under Section 7.01(e) of the
draft USELPA Loan Agreement.
26.      The Guarantor is authorized by existing legislation to give
its guarantee to the proposed loans; no further legislative action is
necessary to make such guarantee effective.
PART V - ECOiOi4IC SITJATION
27.      A Bank mission visited Brazil in October-November of last year
to review Brazil's economic position and to appraise Brazil's new eco-
nomic program. The mission has not yet submitted its report. However,
the main features of Brazil's new program are described in Part II of
the International Monetary Fund's latest economic report on Brazil
(which is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately) pre-
pared in connection with the recent negotiations between Brazil and the



- 8 -
Fund for a standby agreement. Tlis agreement was concluded on Janiuary
13, 1965.
PART VI - COMPLLIACE WJITII ARTICLES OF AGREEKU-l4T
28.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOIMEIMDATION
29,      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolutions:
RESOLVED:
(a) THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Central Eletrica de
Furnas, S.A., to be guaranteed by the United States of Brazil, in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven million United
States dollars ($57,000,00o), to mature on and prior to January 1l
1990, to bear interest at the rate of five and one-half percent (5At)
per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
the form of Lean Agreement (Estreito Hydroelectric Project) betiween
Central Eletrica de Furnas, S.A. and the Bank and the form of Guarantee
Agreemcnt (Estreito Hydroelectric Project) between the United States of
Brazil and the Bank which have been presented to this meeting; and
(b) TIHAT the Baik shall grant a loan to Usinas Eletricas do
Paranapaneara S.A., to be guar~anteed by the United States of Brazil, in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twienty-two and one-half
million United States dollars ($22,503,000), to mature on and prior to
12ay 1, 1990, to bear interest at the rate of five and one-half percent
519.) per annum, and to be upon such terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
the form of Loan Agreemnent (Xavantes lHydroelectric Project) between
Usinas Eletricas do Paranapanema, S.A. ald the Bark, the form of Guar-
antee Agreement (Xavantes Hiydroelectric Project) between the United
States of Brazil and the Bank, and the form of ProJect Funds Agreement
(Xavantes Hydroelectric Project) between the State of Sao Paulo and the
Bank wihich have been presented to this meeting.
George D. lWoods
President
Attachmients (2)
Washington, D.C.
February 17, 1965



