LOAN NUMBER 403-474 BR
Guarantee Agreement (Amended)
(Estreito Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 19, 1966


﻿LOAN NUMBER 403-474 BR
Guarantee Agreement (Amended)
(Estreito Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 19, 1966


﻿(AMENDED)
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1966, between The
United States of Brazil (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by a Loan Agreement (Estreito Hydroelectric
Project) dated February 26, 1965 (hereinafter called the
1965 Loan Agreement) between the Bank and Central
El6trica. de Furnas S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower)
the Bank agreed to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions therein set forth, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-seven million dollars ($57,000,000), but
on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obli-
gations of the Borrower provided for in the 1965 Loan
Agreement;
WHEREAS by virtue of Law No. 1518 of December 24,
1951, Articles 22 and 23 of Law No. 1628 of June 20, 1952,
and Law No. 4457 of November 6, 1964, of the Guarantor
and in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 1965
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, the Guarantor exe-
cuted with the Bank and delivered, simultaneously with the
execution and delivery of the 1965 Loan Agreement, a
Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith (hereinafter
called the 1965 Guarantee Agreement);
WHEREAS such 1965 Guarantee Agreement has been duly
registered by the Tribunal de Contas of the Guarantor and
came into force and effect on July 8, 1965;


﻿4
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed to increase the amount of
the loan provided for in the 1965 Loan Agreement from an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven mil-
lion dollars ($57,000,000) to an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to ninety-six million dollars ($96,000,000),
and for that purpose has agreed, among other things, to
amend the 1965 Loan Agreement by entering into an agree-
ment with the Borrower, hereinafter called the Loan Agree-
ment (Amended), but on condition that the Guarantor
agree to gua.rantee the obligations of the Borrower under
such Loan Agreement (Amended);
THEREAS the Guarantor by virtue of the laws cited in the
second Whereas above and of Law No. 5000 of May 24,
1966, and in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement (Amended) with the Borrower, has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower under
said Agreement by amending the 1965 Guarantee Agree-
ment and to substitute therefor a new Guarantee Agree-
ment, incorporating such amendments and to be known as
the Guarantee Agreement (Amended) (Estreito Hydro-
electric Project);
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank
dated February 15, 1961, subject, however, to the modifica-
tion thereof set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement
(Amended) (said Loan Regulations No. 4 as so modified
being hereinafter called the Loan Regulations), with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, the
terms defined in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
(Amended) shall have the same meanings as therein set
forth.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon
any of the other covenants on its part in this Agreement
contained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guaran-
tees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due
and punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest
and other charges on, the Loan, the principal of and in-
teres t on the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepay-
ment of the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds, and the
punctual performance of all the covenants and agreements
of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement
(Amended) and in the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guar-
antor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures re-
quired for carrying out the Project, to make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures, either by way of
loans or equity investment by Eletrobrds, or otherwise.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guaranitor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan in the allocation or realization of
foreign exchange. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien
shall be created on any assets of the Guarantor as security
for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be
made to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien


﻿6
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; (ii) any lien on commercial goods to secure a
debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the
proceeds of sale of such commercial goods; or (iii) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this
Section includes assets of the Guarantor or of any of its
political subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor
or of any such political subdivision, including the Banco
Central da Repiblica do Brasil and any other institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the
Guarantor.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish to
the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part
of the Guarantor, such information shall include informa-
tion with respect to financial and economic conditions in the
territories of the Guarantor and the international bal-
ance of payments position of the Guarantor. On the part
of the Bank, such information shall include such informa-
tion as shall be available to the Bank regarding the per-
formance of the obligations of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement (Amended).
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of
the service thereof.


﻿7
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit
any part of the territories of the Guarantor for purposes
related to the Loan.
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from any taxes impose(d under the
laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a
holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident
of the Guarantor.
SECTION 3.04. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement
(Amended) and the Bonds shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execu-
tion, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 3.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free from
all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 3.06. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will
not take or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies (including Eletrobrds in its capacity as
holder of the majority of the Borrower's shares, and Banco
Central da Replblica do Brasil and any other institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Guaran-
tor in respect of the allocation or realization of foreign
exchange) or any agency of any political subdivision to
take any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower of any of the covenants,
agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan
Agreement (Amended) contained, and will take or cause to
be taken all reasonable action (including action by Eletro-


﻿8
b'rds in its capacity as holder of the majority of the Bor-
rower's shares and by Banco Central da Repiblica do Bra-
sil and any other institution performing the functions of a
cei ral. bank for the Guarantor in respect of the allocation
or realization of foreign exchange) which shall be necessary
in order to enable the Borrower to perform such covenants,
agreements and obligations.
(b) The Guarantor shall cause the agency or agencies
of the Guarantor responsible for the setting and adjust-
mient of the Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity
to act in respect of any application of the Borrower for
the setting and adjustment of such rates within a. period
of not more than 30 days after receipt of such application.
SECTION 3.07. The Guarantor undertakes that it will:
(a) take all such action as shall be practicable in the cir-
cumstaiices to encourage effective coordination of the op-
eratioii of the electricity generating, transmission and dis-
tribution facilities of the integrated system into which the
power output of the Project will flow with a view to pro-
viding a suitable basis for such coordination by 1970; and
(b) take or caise to be taken all such timely and effective
action as shall be necessary or advisable in respect of the
expansion of the transmission and distribution facilities
in the areas served by such system in order to ensure that
the electricity generated and to be generated by the system
will efficiently reach the retailers and consumers in such
areas.
SECTION 3.08. The Guarantor shall promptly: (a) carry
out a study in respect of the possibility of amending its
legislation aid administrative practices in order to enalble
contractors working on power projects such as the Project
freely to bring into and take out of the territories of the
Guarantor construction equipment and to import permanen.t
equipment for installation in such projects, all with a view
to obtaining the services of such contractors for the lowest
prices and under the most favorable conditions; and (b)


﻿9
take such measures as shall be practicable in the circum-
stances to put the findings of such study into effect as soon
as possible.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse in accordance
with the provisions of the Loan Regulations, its guarantee
on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by the Bor-
rower. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor and such
person or persons as lie shall designate in writing are
designated as the authorized representatives of the Guar-
antor for the purposes of Section 6.12(b) of the Loan
Regulations.
ARTICLE V
SECTION 5.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the kuarantor:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Av. Presidente Antonio Carlos 375
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
MINIFAZ
Rio de Janeiro
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Recoiistruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D. C.


﻿10
SECTION 5.02. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor
is designated for the purposes of Section 8.03 of the Loan
Regulations.
SECTIoN 5.03. If the Loan Agreement (Amended) ter-
minates pursuant to Section 7.03 thereof, this Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Guarantee Agreement (Amended) to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL
By /s/ ANTONIo FRANCISCO PEREIRA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


