Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AJ pécg-44t
Report NoYP-4376-PAN
REPORI AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL RANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
*                                              TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
November 13, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Balboa (B/.)
US$1   =   B/.1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins. The US Dollar (US$)
is accepted as currency.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BDA     -   Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(AgriculturaJ Development Bank)
BHN     -   Banco Hipotecario Nacional
(National Mortgage Bank)
BNP     -   Banco Nacional de Panama
(National Bank of Panama)
ZALV    -   Corporacion Azucarera La Victoria
(La Victoria Sugar Corporation)
CFF     -   Compensatory Finance Facility
COFINA  -   Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
CSS     -   Caja de Seguro Social
(Social Security Agency)
ENDEMA  -   Empresa Nacional de Maquinaria Agricola
(State Farm Equipment Services Company)
ENASEM  -   Empresa Nacional de Semillas
(State Seed Company)
IDAAN   -   Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
Nacionales (National Water and Sewerage
Institute)
IDB     -   Iater-American Development Bank
IFARHU  -   Instituto para el Fomento y Adiestramiento de
los Recursos Humanos
(Human Resources Development Institute)
IMA     -   Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Institute of Agricultural Marke; ng)
IMF     -   International Monetary Fund
IRHE    -   Instirito de Recursos Hidraulicos y
Electrificacion (Hydroelectric Resources
Institute)
MIDA    -   Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Ministry of Agricultural Development)
MIPPE   -   Ministerio de Planificacion v Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Eccnomic Policy)
MIVI    -   Ministerio de Vivienda
(Ministry of Housing)
PAHO    -   Pan American Health Organization
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programwe
USAID   -   U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFMICL USE ONLY
PANAMA
SECOND STUCTURAL ADJISTHT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Panama
hAunt:             US$100 million equivalent
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Loan Description: The proposed loaa would continue to support the
Government's strategy of structural adjustment and
economic recovery. The strategy aims at creating a more
open, export-oriented ecoaomy ia which the efficieacy of
the productive sectors is enhanced through exposure to
greater iateraatioaal competition and through refocused
public services. The major components of the program
iaclude: (i) improving the efficiency of the public
sector; (ii) reorienting the incentive structure in the
iadustrial sector; (iii) removing some rigidities ia the
labor market; and (iv) reduciag distortional interventions
in agriculture.
Benefits & Risk:   The economic program supported by the proposed loan is
expected to result in substantially higher levels of
economic growth and employment than would otherwise
occur. To realize its potential the program requires a
favorable international environment: contiaued growth in
the industrialized countries, recovery in Latin America,
low interest rates and oil prices, aad opea international
markets. The main domestic risk associated with this SAL
concerns the Government's ability to continue the program
despite political pressure. This risk is, however,
diminiahed by some recognition among policy makers that
the strategy adopted represents the most likely
alternative to avoid contiaued stagnation and increasing
unemployment. Moreover, the program will be closely
monitored, and the Government's performance will also be a
key factor in maiataining Panama's creditworthiness with
commercial banks. Therefore, the risk Is considered
acceptable.
Disbmrseinn-
Estimates:         Bank FY87    US$100 million
Appraisal
Report:            None
IBRD 19092
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization|



UnINRATIO     Bas FOL nCNSTRUCnoO  AND
REPORT AND RECOIHENDAXIO OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE  BRED
TO T   EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS ON
A PROPOSED SECOND S3TUCTURAL ADJUSTNT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT aQwvALNT TO US$100 MxnIOu
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) to the Republic of Panama for the
equivalent of US$100 million. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum  entitled "Panama:  Structural Change and
Growth Prospects- (5236-PAN) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 28, 1985. This, together with the policy framework established by
the Government in 1983 and supported by SAL I, has formed the basis of a
dialogue between the Government and the Bank. This dialogue has continued
despite some interruptions caused by domestic political uncertainty, and has
led to the current program of economic reform, begun in February 1986. An
appraisal mission for the proposed loan visited Panama in April/May 1986, and
its conclusions are reflected in this report. Country data are given in
Annex I.
Main Features of the Panamanian Economy
3.        Situated strategically on a narrow isthmus joining North and South
America, Panama functioned as an important ceater for Spanish colonial trade
for more than two centuries. The construction of the Panama Canal in 1904-14
consolidated its entrepot role, and provided the most important source of
economic growth until the early 1970s.
4.        Panama has capitalized on its geographic location, its use of the
US dollar as currency, and its canal to build up strong export-oriented
services, largely geared to the markets of Central and South America. The
main areas of expansion have been in banking, travel and international
commerce. With the stimulus of favorable banking legislation passed in 1970,
the banking sector grew by 11 percent per year during the 1970s. By 1984,
130 banks employing over 7,000 people were established in Panama. The number
of visitors coming to Panama grew by four percent annually in the 1970s,
while the activities of the Colon Free Zone-warehousing, display and
trAnsshipment of merchandise, mainly towards the markets of Latin
America-expanded by 14 percent annually. By 1985, these and other private
services accounted for nearly 60 percent of GDP, and contributed to a per
capita income of US$2,080, more than twice the average for Central America.
Agriculture and manufacturing each contributed only about 10 percent of
GDP.



*                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
Background: 1960-1981
5.        The 1960s saw rapid economic growth in Panama.  Canal-related
activities, agriculture (led by grass-fed beef production and bananas), and
import-substitution industry as well as construction and services contributed
to GDP growth rates averaging eight percent. The benefits of this rapid
development were, however, concentrated in relatively few hands. Income
distribution was highly skewed, social services and infrastructure,
particularly in rural areas, were inadequate, and acute poverty persisted.
6.        A major political watershed came in 1968, when the National Guard
replaced the civilian Government with an administration controlled by General
Omar Torrijos. The new Government strove to increase national economic
sovereignty, particularly over the Panama Canal. It achieved this goal in
1979 with the signing of two treaties -with the United States which
established a timetable for the reversion of the Canal and its related assets
to Panama, culminating in December 1999. To broaden the development process
to include the rural poor and urban workers, the Torrijos Government also
undertook major social reforms.  Distributional objectives were to be
achieved through investments in education, health, and improved rural
transport, as well as agrarian reform and a new labor code. Ambitious public
investment in infrastructure and productive activities, together with rapid
growth in the international free zone, an international banking and
re-insurance center, commerce, and other export services, were to enhance
entrepot-based growth. Private investment flourished in construction and
services linked to international transportation.
7.        Although this strategy was initially successful, real GDP growth
fell from seven percent per year in 1968-73 to five percent in 1973-82.
Externally, the increase in world oil prices was contractionary for the
regional economy, and canal activities slowed after the peak traffic during
the Vietnam war. Moreover, Canal Treaty negotiations created uncertainty in
the private sector, and policies such as the highly restrictive Labor Code
(1972), price and rent controls, and export quotas also undermined private
sector confidence.  Private investment fell, but large public investments
partially offset the decline. During the 1970s the public sector accounted
for over 80 percent of the new jobs created. High spending levels resulted
in sharp increases in the public sector deficit and the public debt, which
climbed to nearly 80 percent of GDP by the end of the 1970s.
8.        The favorable resolution of the canal issue in 1979 reduced
uncertainty and increased the popularity of the Government, enabling it to
modify economic policy. A sustained effort began to reduce the deficit
through increased taxes and tighter controls on expenditures. By 1981 the
deficit had fallen to about five percent of GDP from nearly 12 percent in
1979. Investment and employment incentives were introduced to encourage
private investment and new exports. Despite the partial restoration of
private sector confidence, private investment did not recover to the levels
of the 1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, agriculture and industry
continued to be hindered by the policy and institutional environment.



-3-
9.        During the 1970s the quality of life for most Panamanians,
including many of the absolute poor, improved. Infant mortality, a key
indicator of maternal health and the health of the general populace, fell
from 59 infant deaths per 1000 live births in 1965 to 21 in 1981. The number
of doctors per inhabitant increased more than 60 percent in the 1970s, and
secondary school enrollment rose from 39 percent of the eligible population
in 1970 to 63 percent in 1981. By the late 1970s, the level of absolute
poverty had declined to about 26 percent of the population.
Economic Situation and Policy: 1981-1986
10.       The accidental death of General Torrijos in July 1981 unleashed a
turbulent period in Panamanian politics and uncertainty in economic policy as
new leadership developed and civilian-military relations took new forms. In
July 1982, President Aristides Royo resigned and was replaced by
Vice-President Ricardo de la Espriella, and subsequently by Mr. Jorge
Illueca. A new constitution, adopted in May 1983, paved the way for
elections a year later. Panama's first elected government in 16 years took
office with the inauguration of President Nicolas Ardito Barletta in October,
1984. Nonetheless, widespread doubt about the legitimacy of the election and
the slim margin of victory weakened the Governmeat and stalled the progress
of economic reform.
11.       In 1982, the world recession and the deepening financial crisis
engulfing Latin America converged with domestic political uncertainty to
plunge Panama into recession.   Net earnings from banking, travel and the
Colon Free Zone declined sharply. Private investment fell in real terms
following completion of a transisthmian oil pipeline. In an attempt to
offset the contraction and in response to political pressures, fiscal
coatrols were relaxed and several public sector agencies exceeded their
budgets by wide margins. The consolidated public sector deficit rose back to
11 percent of GDP, almost double the 1980-81 average. Net foreign borrowing
by the public sector amounted to about US$500 million, and the outstanding
public medium-term debt reached US$3.1 billion at the end of 1982, equivalent
to 73 percent of GDP. Interest on the debt absorbed over 30 percent of total
public sector revenues.1/
12.       The Government implemented an IMF-supported stabilization program
in 1983 and 1984, which cut the deficit of the nonfinancial public sector to
an average of just under six percent of GDP for both years. At the same
time, the authorities undertook a program of structural reforms, supported by
the Bank through SAL I, laying the groundwork for trade liberalization and
cutting back some inefficient operations of the public sector. But several
factors contributed to the continuing stagnation of the economy: the
1/   Defined as the current revenues of central governmeat and autonomous
agencies plus the current surplus of the public sector enterprises.
Since Panama uses the US dollar as its currency, this ratio is more
revealing than normal debt service ratios. The ratio of service on
public debt to exports of goods aad noufactor services was 35.4 percent
in 1982, equivalent to 14.4 percent of GDP.



-4-
reduction in deficit spending reduced aggregate demand; the continued
recession in Latin America cut into offshore leadlg of commercial banks and
depressed the activities of the Colog Free Zone; and the completion of the La
Fortuna hydroelectric project together wlth declines in housing demand
reduced employment in construction by one-third. GDP contracted by 1.5
percent in 1983 and 0.4 percent in 1984; unemployment rose to over 15 percent
in the metropolitan areas; this undoubtedly has meant worsening poverty.
13.       The Ardito Barletta Government adopted a broad-based policy of
economic reforms, particularly aimed at the industrial and agricultural
sectors, and began in 1985 to discuss a Second Structural Adjustment Loan
with the Bank in support of this program. The Government also concluded a
standby arrangement with the IMF, and rescheduled 1985 and 1986 payments on
Panama's external debt to both commercial banks and official creditors.
However, the external financing package for the year foundered when the
Government was unable to sustain its economic reform program. A severe
fiscal squeeze then easued, together with some excess internal borrowing.
However, the economy began to show some recovery in 1985, with GDP growth at
about 3.0 percent and employment up by 2.6 percent.
14.       In September 1985, President Ardito Barletta resigned and
Vice-President Eric Delvalle assumed the Presideacy. The new President
reacted to the coatinuing financial crisis by drawing up a new development
program in January and February 1986 based upon extensive discussions with
affected interest groups, political parties, and the armed forces. In March,
the Government reembarked on its program of structural reforms. The
authorities also renewed a financial stabilization program with IMP support.
15.       Growth prospects for 1986 and immediately beyond are somewhat
brighter because of the combined programs, the fall in oil prices and
interest rates, aad the continuing (if weak) recovery in the OECD countries.
Prelimiaary indicators suggest growth of GDP may approach three percent
because of reaewed activity in the Coloa Free Zone, increased canal traffic
aad partial recovery in manufacturing and nontraditional exports.
Short Term Stabilization Measures
16.       To provide the necessary context of financial stability for its new
development strategy, the Government is continuing its fiscal austerity by
keeping the public sector deficit to a very low level in 1986. This has
allowed continued IMF support under the standby arrangement, signed in July
1985 and running through March 1987. The Iff Board approved the 1986-87
compoaents of the standby on July 2, 1986, which provide for purchases of
about US$52 million in 1986 and US$13 million in 1987.  The main conditions
attached to the standby are a public sector deficit of no more than 1.2
percent oi GDP in 1986 and a reduction in the recently expanded public debt



-5-
to the government-owned Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP). The saving and gross
borrowing requirements of the public sector implied by the program are shown
in Annex I.
17.       Because Panama uses the US dollar as domestic currency, the
Government cannot expand the money supply. It also has relatively restricted
access to domestic sources of credit, and therefore cannot sustain a deficit
much above the net external financing available. Since the 1982 financial
crisis, external commercial funding has been almost unavailable, and the
deficit has been largely financed by bilateral and multilateral ageacies.
(An exceptional situation arose in 1985 with the loss of expected external
financing, aad the Government undertook temporary and uasustaiaable
borrowings from the BNP). While the Government could reduce the deficit
through increasing taxatioa or cutting expenditure, the high tax burden (23
percent of GDP) and large share of the public sector in the economy (40
percent of formal sector employment) limits the gains that can be achieved
through revenue increases. Capital expenditure has already been cut
extensively, as have t'.e non-wage components of recurrent expenditure, to the
point where the efficiency of the remaining expenditure is threatened.
Government policy therefore concentrates on the orderly cuttiag back of
recurrent expenditure by reducing public sector employment and improving
efficiency in resource use.
18.       In late 1985 Panama's external creditors and the Government had
agreed to reschedule amortization owed to private commercial banks in 1985
and 1986. This amounted to US$579 million, refinanced over 12 years (of
which 3.5 are grace), and at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1 3/8 percent.
The agreement included a new money facility worth US$60 million of
medium-term credits, which the banks tied to the successful implementation
of the IMF standby and the Government's structural adjustment program
supported by the World Bank; because of delays in carrying out these
programs, these funds only began to be disbursed in July 1986. Twenty-one
million was disbursed in July following the SAL appraisal mission and IMF
Board presentation; the remaining US$39 million is linked to the progress of
the adjustment program through 1986. In addition, the agreement included
short-term credit lines for working capital for some public enterprises
(US$56 millioa), a money market facility for the BNP (US$133 million) to
bring its placements up to the December 1984 level, and a short-term
petroleum import credit of US$28 million. In September 1986, the Paris Club
also agreed to reschedule at various interest rates 50 percent of all
maturities falling due with Paris Club bilateral donors for the period
September 15, 1985/December 31, 1986; these amounted to US$18 million. The
terms included eight years maturity, with three of grace.



-6-
19.       Despite the burden of its external debt, Panama remains
creditworthy for Bank lending. It should be able to meet its external
interest obligations if it continues to exercise prudent financial
management, although the Government will have to reach agreement with
commercial banks to reschedule amortization due in 1987-90 (para 50). As a
result of its debt-management policies there has been an important shift in
the structure of service toward longer maturities associated with the rise in
the proportion of Panama's external debt owed to preferred creditors in
recent years. The share of multilateral organizations rose from 14 percent
in 1980 to 23 percent in 1985; the Bank's share rose from six to nine percenc
in the period, and is projected to be 11 percent in 1990. The generally more
favorable terms of such borrowing have contributed to easing the servicing
burden.
PART II -  E SfRUCTURAL ADJUSTMhEN  PROGRAM
20.       Since 1983, the Government has sought to promote the international
competitiveness of Panama through major efforts to increase the efficiency of
the public and private sectors. Public sector efficiency was to be achieved
by concentrating services on much-needed activities that would enhance
national productivity and by scaling back ancillary activities that increased
public consumption; private sector efficiency was to be achieved through
changing the structure of incentives embodied in the tariff and pricing
system, thus channeling private investment into more productive activities.
Taken together, these efforts were aimed at increasing growth, creating new
jobs, and reducing poverty.
The Accoqplishants of the SAL I Program
21.       The Government's 1983-84 structural adjustment measures had three
main aims: first, to begin the process of increasing the efficiency of the
public sector; second, to commence the reorientation of the incentive
structure in the urban, industrial sector towards exports and employment
generation; and, third, to take measures to increase productivity and output
in the agricultural sector. The First Structural Adjustment Loan was
approved by the Board on November 15, 1983; the first tranche was released by
the end of the year, and the second and final tranche in July, 1984.
22.       Much was achieved during the SAL I period.  In the public sectors
several loss-saking enterprises were sold, restructured or shut down (para.
23), marking an important reduction in subsidies to state entities. Current
and capital cash transfers from the central government to public enterprises
and decentralized agencies fell from an average of B/.25 million per year in
1980-82 to BI.16 million in 1983-84. Controls over public investment and
debt management were strengthened, and capital expenditures were reduced
selectively in accordance with fiscal constraints. They fell from a high of
B/.518 million in 1982 to B/.245 million In 1985. In public housing, the



-7-
Social Security Agency phased out its costly intervention as a direct
promoter of construction. In trade policy, three quarters of the
quantitative restrictions on imports were replaced with tariffs. In
agriculture, there was a slight reduction in the rice support price,
liberation of beef from export controls, establishment of an intermediate
price for medium grade milk, and lifting of domestic price supports and
controls on potatoes.
23.       In 1982, a state-owned banana corporation, COBAPA, was closed,
generating savings of about B/.1.5 million in subsidies per year. In 1983,
the Government closed the Felipillo sugar mill, the most inefficient of the
state owned La Victoria Sugar Corporation (CALV) complex, which accounted for
about 30 percent of La Victoria's total oailling capacity. The mill's losses
in 1982 had amounted to B/.15.5 million (39 percent of the corporation's
total); idle land and equipment at Felipillo have since been offered for
sale. At the beginning of 1983, the Government announced that state
subsidies for the Bayano Development Corporation (BDC) and the Chiriqui
Citrus Company would cease, involving a saving of just over B/.1 million per
year. The National Finance Corporation (COFINA) was closed in 1985, putting
a stop to its loss-making lending operations. All these reforms are
important and remain in place.
24.       The program, however, did not achieve all of its goals.  Progress
began to falter in late 1984, primarily because the turbulent political
situation undermined the consensus favoring reforms. In trade policy, the
Government did not replace all quotas with tariffs. Although a draft law was
prepared that would have set new maximum and minimum tariffs and abolished
the protectionist and discretionary Contracts with the Nation", it was never
put before the legislature, and, in fact, the number of contracts increased.
In agriculture, the Government removed price controls only slowly; it did
liberalize prices on higher cuts of beef, but then reversed itself. In
public finance, the Government payroll continued to increase.
25.       A Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) accompanied SAL I and financed
technical assistance and studies of further public sector reforms, including
major actuarial studies for the social security programs, studies on
industrial protection, agricultural pricing policy and management studies of
key agricultural institutions and enterprises. The studies laid the
analytical groundwork for subsequent new policies toward state enterprises,
social security, industry, and agriculture.
The SAL II Program
26.       The grave financial situation affecting Panama as the financial
program became unravelled by end-1985 eventually created a new momentum to
enact reforms. In early 1986, the Government formulated a new medium-term
development program of reform that builds on the prior SAL I program. It
recognizes that new growth and employment opportunities can no longer be
sought through further public sector expansion, an import-substitution



-8-
process in industry, and an agriculture heavily subsidized through the trade
and price control regimes (including quotas and state price supports).
Moreover, the excess costs of industrial, agricultural and public sector
inefficiency put additional burdens on the service sectors in which Panama's
comparative advantage lies. Since increased wage competitiveness cannot be
achieved through adjusting the exchange rate, inefficiencies must be attacked
directly in each sector of the economy. Opportunities are also being sought
in external markets through the accelerated production of goods for export
and more efficient import substitution based upon Panama's comparative
advantages. Greater efficieacy In agriculture and industry will also help to
improve competitiveness and reduce upward pressures on prices and wage
rates. The strategy also recogaizes the importance of an incentive framework
to stimulate private investment in internationally competitive activities.
27.       The policy measures designed to give practical shape to the
Government's mediumrterm development strategy may be divided into four main
areas: first, improving the efficiency of the public sector; second,
reorienting the incentive structure in the industrial sector towards exports
and more efficient import substitution; th'rd, removing some rigidities in
the labor market; and fourth, reducing distortional interventions in
agriculture to increase productivity and output.2/ In financial services,
there is less urgent need for structural reforms as the sector already
benefits from a favorable legislative regime. In the energy sector, pricing
policy is generally adequate to reflect scarcity, although the Government has
been cautious in passing on price declines to consumers. Ia June 1986 the
Government introduced a differential between the es-refinery prices of
refined petroleum products and the prices at which the refinery sells these
products in order to increase government revenue from the petroleum sector.
The Government is also negotiating with the country's single refinery to
change the profit-sharing contract.
2B.       In the face of considerable political opposition, the Government
has sought to build a domestic constituency favoring reform. It has already
moved forward on several politically sensitive issues: closings and
divestitures of more state-owned entities, opening the issue of social
security reform, reducing tariffs to industry, enacting revisions to the
labor code, and reduciag levels of subsidies and protection to domestic
agriculture. In confronting these several problems over the last six moaths
with a relatively coherent program, the Government has demonstrated its
capacity for action, staved off financial crisis, and put in place a program
to rekindle broadly shared growth. The following sections review the
progress achieved and describe further actions which the proposed loan
supports.
Public Sector Efficiency
29.       The financial constraints on the public sector reveal the need for
increased efficiency. The Government's structural adjustment program is
concentrating on reforming those activities which most hamper the efficiency
of the public sector. The major components include: (i) closing or
2/ The measures supported by SAL II are summarized in Annex IV.



-9-
divesting several money-losing public enterprises; (ii) gradual reduction of
public employment; (iii) reform of the social security system; and (iv) an
investment program for the period 1986-1987 consistent with the priorities of
the new development strategy.
30.       Public Sector Enterpriseu.  Panas's public sector is made up of
about 40 decentralized agencies and state-owned enterprises in addition to
the central government. Together these entities account for somewhat lese
than half of the public sector's employment and wage bill. The decentralized
agencies account for only about five percent of consolidated public sector
revenue and mainly depend on Government transfers. The consolidated accounts
of the decentralized agencies showed an operating deficit of about B/.26
million in 1985, roughly one-half the level of 1982. Following a
comprehensive financial review of all entities carried out in February 1983,
concentrating on the most heavily subsidized, efforts were made to control
costs, raise revenues where appropriate, and phase out loss-making
activities. Revenues rose from B/.67 million in 1982 to B/.80 million in
1985 while current expenditures fell from B/.113 million to B/.106 million in
the same years.
31.       The public sector enterprises are much larger.  Their consolidated
accounts have also Improved; their operating surpluses (before transfers)
rose threefold after 1982 to B/.125 million in 1985. The closings cited
above (para. 23) helped eliminate operating losses; similarly, the financial
performance of Hydroelectric Resources Institute (IRHE), the state
electricity firm, and National Water and Sewerage Institute (IDAAN), the
water authority, have improved, though both still have high costs relative to
comparable organizations in the region, due to overstaffing and high debt
servicing obligations.
32.       To continue these financial improvements, the Government has taken
the following actionB:
The Las Cabras sugar mill of the La Victoria Sugar Corporation
tCALV) was closed in July 1986. This was CALV's oldest and
least efficient operating mill and had the lowest yields and
highest maintenance costs in the complex. Since CALV has to
sell its excess production on world markets at very depressed
prices, the marginal savings from shutting the Las Cabras mill
are correspondingly large. On the basis of recent production
costs and likely world prices, the savings are estimated to be
'on the order of US$1.1 million per year. The closure involved
laying off 250 workers employed year round and reducing
purchases of cane from an additional 250 out-growers. The
Government sold the plant in September to a private group, which
intends to convert the plant to alcohol production. The buyer
is expected to rehire part of the former labor force.



-10-
The Government closed the state seed compaay, ENASEM, in
July 1986. Seed stocks and the company' s research
program were transferred to the State Agricultural Research
Institution (IDIAP). ENASEM employed 60 persons as of December
31, 1985 and recorded losses of B/.158,000 during the year, or
about 20 percent of sales; about 40 of its workers were
transferred to IDIAP.
The Governmeat has sold the state-owned farm equipment servizes
company, ENDEMA (whose assets are mainly rice harvesters) to a
newly created private firm. As with other divestitures, it will
receive no subsidies from the Government. ENDEMA employed about
400 workers oa December 31, 1985. The firm's sale will end
subsidies amounting to over B/.1.6 million in 1985, and losses
of about a further BI.0.2 million. It is expected that about
three quarters of the former employees will be employed by the
new firm.
- The Government has sold the domestic airline Aeroperlas and the
Contadora Hotel. The new owners of the hotel plan to remodel
and upgrade the facility and open two casino operations; these
will generate an additional B/.10 million in revenues for the
Government over the next five years. In additioa, the
Government is committed to selling either the Chiriqui Citrus
Company or the Alanje sugar mill by March 31, 1987.
33.       The total recurrent saving to the public sector from selling these
four enterprises is estimated at around US$12 millioa per year. In addition,
the treasury will benefit from any funds received from the asset sales
(estimated at B/.4-8 million). The sales would transfer about 1,300
permaneat staff out of the public sector, and a total of around 3,200 at the
height of the sugar harvest. Ending of sugar production at Alanje would have
additioaal external benefits, which could be passed on either to private
sector producers as lhigher profits, or to consumers by reducing the domestic
sugar price. Selling the Conradora/Aeroperlas complex would open the way for
the development of the facility as a more attractive tourist destination.
Similarly new investment could well be undertaken at the Citrus Company to
eahance its efficiency and expand production.
34.       Reducing Public Sector Eploy-ent.  The Government also intends to
reduce the public sector labor force by two percent ±n 1986 (in addition to
the closings and divestitures), mostly through attrition.  At year end 1985,
total public sector employment, including municipal workers, temporary
workers and those working on investment projects, stood at 152,000, some 11
percent above the total two years before, and about a quarter of total
employment in the country. Excluding municipal employees over whom the
Central Government has no authority, the workforce was 146,800. A two
percent phased-in reduction implies eliminating about 2,900 jobs and would
save about US$8 million in wage payments in 1986 and about twice this much in
each subsequent year.  This should help the reallocation of spending towards
capital and non-wage recurrent expenditures, while enabling fiscal discipline
to be maintained. The Go!'ernment intends to continue its program-of reducing
public sector employment through attrition into subsequent years.



- 11 -
35.       Social Security.  The Social Security Agency (CSS) is responsible
for various programs: a pension program for almost all formally employed
workers, the special pension (Leyes Especiales) program of government
workers, and a health program. Social insurance contributions for these
programs form a significant and rising compooent of labor costs, adding
aearly 13 percent to the direct cost of employing a worker. The CSS also
occupies a large place in public finance (with cash income equal to nearly
eight percent of GDP). In 1982, the CSS had a total cash income of nearly
B/.320 million, generated cash savings of B/.52 million and was responsible
for nearly one fifth of the total public sector capital expenditure.
However, the savings of the CSS fell to B/.18 million in 1983 and then turned
sharply negative in 1984 and 1985. This reflected both aa urgent near-term
liquidity problem and deeper structural problems.
36.       The near-term liquidity problems stem from the failure of the
Government to pay in cash its contribution for public sector workers and
interest obligations on CSS-held government bonds, skewed cost-sharing
arrangements between the Ministry of Health and CSS for health services,
excessive costs in the health system, and the large deficits of special
pensions for selected public employees, notably the military and school
teachers. The special pensions have unrealistically low contribution rates
and high benefits, and the program's demographics mean that benefits will
become unsustainably expensive within the next few years. The program for
health and the special pensions were in deficit by B/.20 million in 1985. A
relatively low rate of return on its portfolio (6.3 percent in 1985) also
contributed to the weak cash flow of the CSS. While the Government has
become current on its interest payments to the CSS, it paid only about 54
percent of the B/.142 million due the pensioa subprogram ia 1985. Finally,
the administration of the CSS requires improvement; employment increased by
27 percent between 1983 and 1986 (nearly all in 1983/84); internal
decision-making structures are unclear; actuarial estimates are not routinely
made; internal financial information is inadequate; and the investment policy
of the CSS is not sufficiently flexible to provide maximum returns consistent
with low risk.
37.       Long-term structural problems also plague the pension program of
the CSS. First, demographic trends toward an older population structure meaa
the number of pension recipients per contributor is rising. The ratio of
beneficiaries to contributors has risen by one-fifth between 1981 and 1984
and it will likely double in two decades. Secoad, the peasion payments are
too generous to be sustained. Many retired workers are eligible for pensions
virtually equal to their last salary. To maintain the current level of
benefits at the system's present level of capitalization would require an
increase in the contribution rate for workers and their employers from 8.2
percent of salaries in 1984 to 17.9 percent in two decades and rise to 24.3
percent by the end of three. Third, the optional ages of retirement with
full benefits (55 foc meL and 50 for women) are unrealistically low in view
of Panama's high life expectancy (over 71 years) and health standards.
38.       Addressing the social security issues is one of the most
politically volatile and difficult components of the reform program. Yet



- 12 -
addressiag these quickly is essential for improving the medium and long-term
finances of the public sector. Siace any reform law must phase in changes
gradually, the effects of social security changes will be slow.  Nonetheless,
reform is vital to slow the rate of growth in wage costs that would otherwise
be necessary to fund excessive pension levels; rising pension costs could
jeopardize the employment and efficiency gains made in other sectors and
undermine their positive impact on Panama's relative wage costs. The
proposed changes are the most extensive reform of the system siace its
fouading ia the 1940s.
39.       With the guidance of studies fiaanced uader TAL I, the Government
iatends to revise the pension system, reform the special pension program, and
undertake administrative measures to improve the efficiency of the CSS.
Reforms of the main pension program include gradually ending the early
retirement option, reducing the pension rate, and extending the number of
years used to calculate the pension base. Normal retirement for a male
worker wil' be at age 60 with a pension of 65 percent of average salary
(reduced from the present 100 percent). If he elects to continue working, he
could receive a pension increasing by aa additioaal three percent of salary
for each year worked beyoad age 60. Anaalgous provisions will apply to
women, whose retirement age would be 55. This reform is being put into
legislative form; the Goverameat expects the legislature will consider it by
year end 1986. The special pension programs will be transferred to the
general budget begilning in fiscal 1987, and will be reformed in March 1987
reflecting Government's decision on which groups will continue to receive
the extra benefits implied by these almost unfuaded programs. Finally, the
management of the CSS has agreed to undertake administrative reforms that
will, among other things, reduce the workforce by 120 positions in 1986.
40.       In the short term, the administrative measures, the gradual
elimination of early retirement, and the reduction of early retirement
pensions to the minimum set by law may achieve some savings, estimated to be
about B/.50 millioa over the next few years. The balance sheet of the CSS
itself will improve substantially with the continued cash payment of the
Government's interest obligations, the contributions of public workers, and
relief from funding of the special pensions.
41.       The most significant economic benefits are loag-term:  the main
pension system will again be viable, the threat to workers' savings posed by
the integration of the special pensions into the CSS is removed, and the
prospect of redistributing income away from contributing workers to the
unfunded pensioas is minimized. Also, the threat that pensions of today will
decapitalize the system is reduced. Most important, this means that
contribution rates will not have to rise at the same rapid rate as in the
recent past to support high pensions, and so Panama's relative wage cost will
not escalate and erode its international competitive position.
42.       Public Investment.  Overall public investment has fallen from aa
average of over 13 percent of GDP in 1970-82 to 9.3 percent in 1983 and then



- 13 -
to an estimated five percent (B/.245 million) in 1985. The Government is
estimating a similar level (B/.253 million) in 1986, but delays in arranging
financing might, as in previous years, hold investment execution below
planned levels, perhaps to about 4.5 percent of GDP.
43.       Investment spending was cut back in 1983-85 primarily in power,
where a major expansion of generating capacity was completed, transport
infrastructure, where the roads program has been curtailed, and industry,
where the state-owned industrial finance company COFINA ceased operations.
Major cutbacks also occurred in investments with heavy dependence on domestic
financiag. The only sector in which investment has increased is
telecommunications, where the state-owned entity INTEL is profitable enough
to finance its own expenditures, and where investment has been low relative
to the country's needs for a number of years. Areas such as agriculture,
health and housing have suffered modest cutbacks.
44.       Panama's present investment strategy gives a higher priority to
on-going projects, especially those with foreign financing, and to the
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets rather than major new
works. Investment is envisaged to recover slightly to reach B/.350-400
million over 1987-90. About half of public investment will be focused on
infrsztructure, and about one-fifth will be devoted to the social sectors, up
slightly from 19Y5 levels in recognition of their importance to low income
groups. Both of these features are consistent with the policy orientation
being pursued under the structural adjustment program.
45.       In 1987, the share of investment devoted to infrastructure will
fall relative to 1985 (Annex V). In power, priority is now being given to
transmission and distribution, although it is also planned to raise the
Fortuna dam and rehabilitate the country's thermal generating capacity which
should guarantee adequate supply through the early 1990.. The next
large-scale hydroelectric plant, either Changuinola or Teribe, is now planned
to come into operation in 1998, implying that construction need not start
until after 1990. As a basic transport network is in place, priority is
given to road rehabilitation and maintenance. Several major projects, in
particular for a second bridge over the Panama Canal and for a road from
Punta Pena to Alairante, are in suspension for lack of funds, and more modest
alternatives such as widening the approaches to the existing bridge
subst'tuted. Major port improvements are underway, which are of great
importance to Panama in realizing the potential its geographical position
gives it as an entrepot for merchandise trade. A modest (US$5 million)
investment is planned in 1987 to rehabilitate the Panama Railroad, which
links the ports. Finally investment underway in civil aviation is to
replace the obsolete beacons and other navigational equipment handed over
with the reversion of the canal zone. Telecommunication investments have
been restricted during the last few years, but the Government now seems
willing to let INTEL carry out a larger fraction of the works it has
programmed, mainly converting the urban telephone network to digital
switching, but also expanding the network into rural areas.



- 14 -
46.       The share of the social sectors in investment has increased since
1985. The Ministry of Education has a modest program of school
rehabilitation and expension, with relatively little construction of wholly
new schools. The University, which made only very small investments in
1985-86, will start a larger program of works next year, mainly related to
graduate and scientific courses. Demand for student loans from the Human
Resources Development Institute (IFARHU), has fallen because of increased
economic insecurity. Unlike the Ministry or the University, IFARHU enjoys an
independent income from a payroll tax. Its simultaneous existence in a
sector with extreme scarcity of local funds for fined investment implies a
possible misallocation of resources.  The nation's public bealth system is
jointly administered by the Ministry of Health and the CSS. Present
investments are mainly in remodelling and small improvements at hospitals and
clinics, but larger works are planaed for 1988 and beyond. Major efficiency
improvements are needed if this is to be financially feasible.  Other health
investments mainly consist of IDAAN's water supply aad sewerage expansioa.
The entity has ambitious plans, but does not have the financial capacity to
undertake them, with water losses around 40 percent and few connections
metered. Until this situation is improved, major expansions should be
deterred for another few years. In housing, public sector involvement is
mainly through two leading agencies, the Natioaal Mortgage Bank (BHN)O-which
concentrates on small loans-and the Savings Bank (Caja de Ahorros), while
the Ministry of Housing carries out emergency works and low income housing
construction. The CSS is completing the few remaining houses started under
its collective housing program, and plans no further direct housing programs.
47.       Investment in the social sectors will have a positive impact on low
income groups, and levels are budgeted to rise considerably from 1986 levels
(though falling somewhat as a proportion of total investment). The major
effects on low income groups, however, come through the recurrent budget,
where both health and education have received favorable treatment. The
Ministry of Education hopes to be able to include a reasonable maintenance
budget in recurrent expenditure for the first time in 1987. The quality aad
availability of health services will be directly affected also by the
improvement underway in the CSS, as well as by actions to improve health
service administration, now under study for possible support in a future Bank
operation.
48.       Most of the Government's investment in the productive sectors is
in agriculture. It takes the form of projects in forestry, watershed
protection and technical improvements, but also research into improving seeds
and other aspects of agricultural practice is increasingly important. These
programs are strongly supported by USAID, and are consistent with the new
policy direction being taken by the Government. The same is also true in
industry, where the emphasis is on exports and on encouraging small
businesses.



15 -
49.       While its sectoral priorities seem sound and the investment program
is free from major uneconomic projects, the main problem confroating the
Government is how to maintain and evea increase investment levels in an era
of constrained foreign resources. The Governmeat will, if its 1986 financing
package is completed as expected, eater 1987 with a much better position than
in either 1985 or 1986. But it must continue to implement its policy reforms
to increase public savings through expenditure restraint and enhance its
creditworthiness.
50.       In 1987-90, the Government envisages annual investments of
B/.350-400 million. With public savings averaging B/.250-280 million, the
Government could finance as much as 65-75 perceat of its program; an
additional 10-15 percent would have to come from commercial banks (in
addition to reschedulings) and a like amount from multilateral development
institutions and the remainder from suppliers credits and bonds. Ia
September 1986, Panama approached its commercial bank creditors, seeking a
nilti-year rescheduling arrangement for amortization due in the period
1987-1990. The Government submitted the preliminary outlines of a financial
plan for this period, in which it is asking the 180 commercial creditors of
Panama to put up new money towards filling its financiag requirement. The
details of the financing program will become clearer when the Government
finishes these discussions. Having a financial plan in place for 1987 is a
condition for disbursemenlt of the second tranche of the SAL II.
Industrial and Trade Policy
51.       While Panama's previous policies encouraged the development of a
large, internationally competitive service sector, they did not promote
efficient manufacturing activities directed either to exports or competitive
productioa. Manufacturing accounts for oaly about 10 percent of CDP and
employs about the same percentage of the labor force. Productioa has been
orieated almost entirely to a protected domestic market and consists mostly
of construction material, food processing and light industries such as
chemicals and furniture. In 1981, manufactured exports were only 2.6 percent
of industrial output. Ia the 1960s, growth in manufacturing value added was
slightly faster than that of GDP; since 1970, however, the sector has lagged
behind, with output growing at only 60 percent of the rate for the economy as
a whole. Employment in the sector doubled from 24,000 in 1960 to 48,000 in
1970; since then, it has grown slowly to just over 60,000 in 1984. Firms
have become increasiagly capital-inteasive, and many manufacturing plants
operate well below full capacity.
52.       These trends were consistent with prevailing iacentives.  The usual
iacentive mechanism for manufacturiag, tourism aad some commercial investment
was a system of protection that provided maximum security from foreign
competition. Firms usually were granted protection via strictly eaforced
quotas oa final products or excessively high tariffs; to guaraatee low-tariff
inputs, investors sought a Coatract with the Nation under which the
Goverament granted exemptions or reductions from income taxes and import



- 16 -
duties.  Quotas or high tariffs on final products and contractually protected
low tariffs on inputs combiaed to produce excessively high rates of effective
protection on final goods produced for the local market.  These incentives
have diverted entrepreaeurial and financial resources away from exports or
nonprotected activities. Exonerations from payment of Import duties on
machinery and accelerated depreciation allowances also favored the intensive
use of capital relative to labor.
53.       As part of its new program, the Government has embarked upon a
liberalization of its industrial and trade policies aimed at improving
competitiveness.  The first steps in this process-the substitution of most
quantitative restrictions with tariffs, the adoption of Brussels
Nomenclature, and enactment of certaia customs reforms-were supported by SAL
I. The second step in the current program iavolves (a) eliminating all but
20 quota restrictions, (b) the substitutioa of Contracts with the Nation with
a simple industrial registry, (c) loweriag present tariff levels on existing
final products, while restrictiag tariff protectioa on new final products to
20 percent and 30 percent for industrial aad agroindustrial products,
respectively, aad (d) according greater emphasis to ad valorem tariffs. Many
of these actions were embodied in the new Industrial Incentives Law passed on
March 21, 1986.
54.       Conversion of Quantitative Restrictions Into Tariffs.  The vast
network of quotas, a maia element of the prior trade regime, will be
virtually ended under the program. In mid-1983, the Government's survey of
all forms of quantitative restrictions produced a list of 457 8-digit tariff
categories; 368 of these were eliminated in 1983. Progress slowed in
1984-85, however, as the more politically entrenched quotas were reached.
Then in 1986, the Government uadertook as part of its new program the removal
of 19 quotas in April aad another 50 in June, leaving oaly 20 in place.  The
remaining quotas are concentrated oa agricultural products.  The Goverament
believes they are necessary to protect against imports in areas (such as milk
and sugar) where international prices are highly distorted, products on which
an import tariff cannot effectively be levied because of prior Contracts with
the Natioa (such as oils, timber) and a few industries of particular
political sensitivity (salt and fishmeal).
55.       Contracts with the Nation and the Industrial Registry.  Under the
provisions of prior legislation, industrialists could sign Contracts with the
Nation which afforded them exemptions from tariffs on inputs and tax payments
for periods of up to 20 years. (The Contracts, however, did not provide
guarantees of tariffs or quotas oa the final product.) Nearly all major
industrial firms used this mechanism to secure favorable tariff treatment for
iaputs and preferential tax treatment. The contracts eventually became part
of the documentation banks required to extend firms credit. Nonetheless, the
contracts had several drawbacks: they inherently involved administrative
discretion since they were issued on a company-by-company basis, reflectiag
the negotiating power of the investor rather than the rate of return to the



- 17 -
project; the contracts increased dispersion in the tariff structure; they
exempted firms from payment of any minimm tariff; and they provided
continuous fiscal benefits for selected industrial enterprises.3/
56.       As of the date of enactment of the new Industrial Incentives Law, a
total of 570 industrial firms (most of the largest firms) had contracts in
force; about 75 percent of these will expire by 1990 and about 90 percent by
1993. The balance are mostly contracts that have been granted for 20 years
to investment projects located in less developed areas. While the existing
contracts provide for tariff exonerations for raw materials, equipment and
machinery, with the abolition of quotas, protection on fiaal products is
subject to the tariff reduction schedule which began to be applied on August
2, 1986.
57.       While existing contracts will be honored, the new law abolishes the
practice of Contracts with the Nation for the future.  The Government has
instead created an industrial registry, and firms eligible for the benefits
may simply sign up at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and obtain the
benefits for ten years. Benefits include exemption from taxes and tariffs on
imported inputs for a limited period. The registry eliminates the
administrative discretion and concomitaat legal fees involved in the contract
system, and opens the system up to smaller firms which previously had
difficulty in obtaining Coatracts. As a second modification, the registry
will extead exemptions on payment of the minimum tariff only uatil 1990.
While firms caa register under the terns of the new law for new products,
they will be subject to any subsequent legislatioa should the Government
elect to change the tariff and tax systems to provide these incentives
directly rather than through the Industrial Incentives Law.
58.       Maxi-m and Minima Tariff Leweis.  The overall level of protection
in Panama is low by Latin American standards. The uaweighted average level
of tariffs was estimated to be 30 percent in 1985, and when weighted by the
value of imports, the level was estimated to be only nine percent. But these
figures are misleading; because averages disguise the high levels of
protection afforded virtually all import-substitution industries and the low
or zero tariffs on many other imported products not produced in the country.
There is thus a huge variation in protection, as tariffs ranged from zero to
385 percent; of 19 major import categories, 10 had maximum tariff levels in
excess of 100 percent. For the whole tariff code, the standard deviatioa
around the 30 percent mean was 33 percent.
59.       Aside from its distorting effects on resource allocation, the
tariff system is highly regressive, since many products consumed by the
relatively wealthy are imported free of duty or at relatively low rates,
including notably automobiles (26.3 percent on the first US$5,600), or video
cassette recorders (7.5 percent), and air conditioaers (27.5 percent). On
the other hand, products of greater importance to the relatively poor,
3/ This mechanism is not limited to the industrial sector; other laws provide
for similar contracts and benefits to firms in agriculture, retail trade,
and tourism, although the number of such contracts is relatively low.



- 18 -
including many food products and textiles, have ad valorem equivalent
protection commonly ranging from 50 to 200 percent; local industries supply
these to the domestic market at prices well above international levels.
According to 1983 data, food products, domestic soaps and detergents,
textiles, clothing, cemeat, and other building materials were sold on the
local market anywhere from 14 to 114 percent above the landed import price,
while prices for luxury goods are so competitive that Panama attracts
shoppers from throughout the Region.
60.       The new Industrial Incentives Law will reduce these high levels.
Effective upon passage of the law, aew products receive a maximum of 20
percent nominal tariff protection, except for agroindustrial activities,
which to compensate for higher input costs will be eligible for up to 30
percent protection. Existing industries with higher tariffs will have their
tariffs reduced in five equal steps to a maximum of 60 percent over five
years. The only exceptions are 18 products which will have maximum tariff
protection of up to 90 percent; these amount to less than one percent of
products currently imported and represent about five percent of output.  As
with the remaining quotas, these exemptions reflect a variety of special
circumstances; for example, the Government wishes to protect regional
producer interests in the case of tomato products. The first tariff
reduction of 20 percent occurred on August 2, 1986. The new law also enacts
a minimum tariff of three percent on all imported inputs aad capital goods,
many of which were previously duty-exempt. In addition, the Government is
committed to systematically reviewing protection afforded all industry, and
will seek to reduce excessive levels.
61.       Specific and Ad Valorem Duties. The Panamanian tariff code has
historically relied on specific duties, which have been periodically adjusted
upwards, leading to variable and unpredictable rates of nominal protection
and lack of transparency. The Government is reluctant to abandon specific
duties because it is concerned that importers may underinvoice their products
to reduce payment, a problem accentuated by Panama's dollar curreacy and
entrepot role for an abundance of traded goods. Nonetheless, the Government
has decided to apply ad valorem, rather than specific duties, for new
products. Moreover, it will not raise specific duties for existing products,
and will reduce them by the same proportion as the reduction in overall
nominal tariffs. Since the customs authority will charge whichever duty
provides the greater fiscal resources, increases in the general world price
level should lead most specific duties to fall eventually below their ad
valorem counterparts, eventually providing for a more modern tariff system.
Moreover, the Government and the Bank are discussing the implementation of
GATT-like antidumping and safeguards procedures, which should allay
traditional fears of underinvoicing to escape ad valorem duties.
62.       The total effect of these measures will be to reduce the currently
high level of protection afforded a select group of industries. The maximum
tariff will drop from 385 percent to 60 percent (except for the 18 products



- 19 -
that will have tariffs up to 90 percent). The unweighted average tariff will
fall from 30 percent to 26 perceat. More important, the degree of dispersion
in the tariff system will be cut in half; the average deviation from the mean
will fall from 33 percent to 15 percent. These numbers understate the
distortion reduction for several reasons. All new productioa will have a
maximum tariff of 20 perceat (or 30 percent if they are agroindustrial). The
coaversioa of quotas to tariffs will ensure that almost all industries will
have only levels of protection explicitly provided under the tariff code.
The implied gradual phase out of specific duties associated with increases in
the world price level will enhance the efficiency of the tariff system.
Fiaally, the termination of the Contracts with the Nation will contribute
markedly to a more efficieat tariff system by reducing administrative
discretion and making iacentives transparent.
63.       Reducing the implicit subsidies to industry through the tariff
system implies sustained industrial growth as investment and labor resources
are channeled toward more economically appropriate activities rather than to
inefficient activities with high levels of protection. Real incomes will
increase through lower prices. Also, to the extent that high tariffs affect
items that absorb a large share of expenditures of the poor, low-income
groups will benefit directly; perhaps more importantly, the poor will benefit
from more rapid growth in job opportunities in efficient import-substitution
and export industries.
Employment Policy
64.       Panama has high urban wages in comparison with neighboring
countries aad even with some of the newly industrializing nations. One of
the reasons has been the high wage structure of the former Canal Zone, which
in 1983 had an average wage three times that in the rest of the Republic.
The average real wage level, however, has remained about constant since 1970,
while wages in the Canal area rose in real terms by over 40 percent. The
stagnation of real wages is presumably attributable to the increasingly high
level of unemployment. Open unemployment has risen from 6.4 percent in 1975
to 9.7 percent in 1983 and 11.8 perceat ia 1985, a trend which is likely to
continue because of demographic pressures. Concealed unemployment may also
be increasingly prevalent. That wages have not fallen further in response to
this level of unemployment is probably due to the dominant influence of the
high wages in the Caaal segment of the labor market and the rigid structure
of the urban labor market in the non-Canal segments.
65.       The market outside the Canal is unduly rigid because of Panama's
Labor Code. Effective in 1972, the Code made important advances in
protecting employee rights, and is widely regarded by employers as important
in maintaining good labor relations. However, the Code, which was expressly
designed to strengthen the position of labor, introduced rigidities into the
labor market, increasing the costs of dismissal significantly and thus
restraining employment creation. The Code made it difficult to reward
productivity, to pay for piecework, or to vary the workforce iLn line with
economic need because of the high indemnities to be paid in case of
dismissal. The Code also segmented labor markets. While it applies in



- 20 -
principle to all employed workers, the most restrictive of its provisions are
largely confined to the unioaized sector of the labor force, which includes
about 100,000 mainly urban and industrial workers, about 14 percent of the
labor force.
66.       In recognition of these problems, the Government amended the Code
in 1976 and 1981; a further reform was approved by the legislature in March
1986. This recent law has several substantive provisions. The first is to
expand the definition of "small" enterprises to include retail businesses
with six to ten employees. The main importance of this is that such
enterprises are, under the 1981 reform, exempt from the stability provisions
of the Code (Articles 211 and 212), under which employees may not be
dismissed at the discretion of the employer.  Enlarging the definition of
small" retail enterprises will decrease the proportion of the workforce
covered by the Code by about six percent.  Taken together with the existing
exemption of firms producing solely for export and the exemption of seasonal
workers in agricultural enterprises from the stability regime, the March 1986
reform will help the most vulnerable and labor-intensive businesses to
achieve more flexibility in labor use.
67.       The second change concerns overtime.  In agriculture, livestock,
export-oriented and small enterprises, the reform allows the employer to
require his employees to work overtime, subject to daily and weekly limits.
Moreover, the overtime premium is fixed at a flat 25 percent.  This provision
replaces higher rates under which overtime pay depended on the shift worked,
with special premia for weekends and holidays.
68.       Flexibility in the use of labor has also been enhaaced by changes
to the articles o2 the Code governing piecework.  The reforms open up to all
employers the possibility, hitherto restricted to agriculture, of
establishing productivity pay schemes without the explicit agreement of the
trade unions. With such schemes employers avoid the effects of the old
Article 159 of the Code, under which salaries, once enhanced by productivity
bonuses, could never subsequently be reduced. Though potentially important,
this change seems unlikely to have a rapid effect on the Panamanian labor
market, as productivity agreements are complex to design and slow to put into
force.
69.       The reforms also allow work at home on a subcontracting basis,
placing it outside the scope of the Labor Code.  Another change is the
extension of the probationary period for new employees from two weeks to
three months. This should have a positive effect on youth employment, as it
allows for a realistic period of training and familiarization during which an
employer runs no risk of being locked into employing an unsuitable worker.4/
4/ Another (less consequential) change was to increase slightly the payments
to be made to workers on dismissal, by removing the age qualification for
receiving long-service benefits. However, its effect seems likely to be
small, since less than one percent of the amount paid out in court
settlements of labor disputes, and only about 2.5 percent of the amount
paid out in individual settlements, involved such long-service benefits.
In many collective bargaining agreements, these age limits probably had
already been waived by mutual agreement.



- 21 -
70.       The Ministry of Labor has also changed the administratioa of the
Code with a view to reducing abuses. Two administrative changes are embodied
in the 1986 reform: first, the assets of small businesses are now protected
from sequestration by employees during the adjudication of a labor dispute;
and second, aa appeal mechanism is instituted in labor court cases involving
sums of more than B/.2,000. Furthermore, to speed up the decision process in
adjudicated labor disputes, three new labor courts are to be set up in 1986,
and the Minister of Labor has uadertaken to resolve within 60 days all cases
where labor is being dismissed for economic cause.
71.       The recent trend of settlements of labor disputes has been towards
more out-of-court settlements (43 percent ia 1985 as against 31 percent in
1983 and 21 percenc iA 1979-82). Since 1982, moreover, the proportioa of
adjudicated cases settled in favor of the employer or resulting in the worker
withdrawing his case has risen from 43 percent to 79 percent ia 1985. While
such changes in the interpretation of the law are reversible, they indicate
that the former bias of the system against employers has recently been
decreasing.
72.       Overall the modification of the Labor Code has made a modest
contribution to the economic reform program, though it has not yet resolved
the high cost of dismissal facing medium and large firms in the organized
sector. Even so, it has proved to be highly controversial, occasioning a
22-day general strike and other protests. The reform certainly will benefit
more small businesses and introduce some flexibility into the labor market.
The effects of other aspects of the Code (such as productivity-based pay
schemes) could also be significant, but will depend on the manner in which
employers and workers take advantage of the new prov'isions.
Agricultural Policy
73.       During the 1970s, the agricultural sector was the least dynamic of
the Panamanian economy, with average annual growth from 1970-72 to 1980-82 of
only 1.7 percent, compared with 5.7 percent for noa-agricultural GDP. During
the early 1980s, agricultural production continued to grow slowly, at around
1.5 percent. This slow growth occurred despite heavy protection and the
investment of substantial public resources, both in terms of direct subsidies
and personnel.
74.       Ia the early 1970s the Government undertook an ambitious land
reform; over 16 percent of Panama's laad changed haads in five years. The
lending of the state-owned agricultural bank was increased rapidly, primarily
to land-reform settlers. The Government also made major investments in three



- 22 -
new sugar mills, took over a fiaaacially weak citrus firm, and opened new
state enterprises for bananas and other export crops. It also financed
progressively higher support prices for an increasing range of grains,
especially rice and maize. Unfortunately, these actions resulted in many
unrecoverable loans, uneconomic output expansioa, an inflexible price support
system, poorly managed state enterprises, and a bloated state sector. In
1985, the total number of public employees in the sector was nearly 9,800,
about seven percent of the total agricultural labor force. The 1986 budget
for the Ministry of Agricultural Development (MIDA), and the autonomous and
semi-autonomous agencies operating in the sector, is about B/.155 million,
nearly one third of agriculture's value added.
75.       There is no agronomic reason why considerably higher agricultural
growth--perhaps as much as double historical rates--cannot be reached. Such
a goal would require that productioa be based more on Panama's long-term
comparative advantages and less on protection against foreign competition.
Because Panama's arable land is usually not very fertile, these advantages
seem to lie principally in: (a) forestry in the central mountain areas,
based on reforestation with fast growing pulp species; (b) dual purpose
semi-intensive cattle raising in the ceatral and western coastal plains and
foothills; (c) where good land is available, small scale, labor-intensive
production of tropical export crops (e.g., coffee and cacao), and of
temperate zone vegetable and fruit crops in the upper altitudes; and (d)
equally small scale, labor-intensive growing of selected vegetable and fruit
crops with irrigation near the rivers of the central provinces.
76.       The Government has recogaized that this development strategy
requires a fundamental change in agricultural policy to orient the sector
towards higher productivity and output, to increase productive employment, to
reduce the costs of basic foodstuffs, and expand exports. The Government has
decided to take specific measures to achieve these goals, including (a) new
agricultural legislation to more clearly set forth public objectives and
iacentives; (b) revising the role and scope of public institutions in
agriculture; and (c) price actions to reduce distorting subsidies and
protection.
77.       Agricultural Legislation.  The Government has uadertaken a sweeping
revision of the Agricultural Incentives Law which had encapsulated the
philosophy of past agricultural policy. According to the former law, imports
of foodstuffs were quantitatively restricted and annual percentage targets
were established for their replacement by domestically produced goods. Price
controls on a basic food basket were maiatained (though often at high levels
relative to international prices), and the law permitted and encouraged state
interventioa in factor and input prices, capital markets and agricultural
production. New legislation passed in March 1986 gives greater emphasis to
efficiency and comparative advantage as guiding principles of agricultural
policy, and removes mandated quantitative goals of self-sufficiency for
import substitution in the former law. This is an important change in
itself, but to be fully effective will have to be accompanied by appropriate
institutional actions (paras. 78-80) and changes in pricing and trade policy
(paras. 81-87).



- 23 -
78.       Public Sector Institutions.  The institutional reforms in
agriculture focus on closing or divesting inefficient public sector
activities and redefiaing the role of the Agricultural Marketing Institute
(IMA) in pricing and marketing policy. As outlined above, ENDEMA, ENASEM,
and the Las Cabras sugar mill of CALV are now being closed or sold, and other
agricultural entities, namely the Chiriqui Citrus Company or the Alanje sugar
mill, are slated for divestiture in 1987. In addition to the decrease in
subsidy cost to the treasury, these changes can also be expected to produce a
more efficient allocation of resources. The closure of the Las Cabras mill
reduces the need for sugar sales in the extremely depressed world market, and
thus the need for cross-subsidies from domestic consumers. The divestiture
of ENDEMA will eliminate the top-heavy administration of the enterprise and
allow a commercially viable enterprise to perform the harvesting services
under the discipline of the market; the provision of more timely and improved
services tD rice growers could well increase productivity in the trop. The
divestiture of Chiriqui Citrus Company may well lead to improvements in
productivity sufficient for the enterprise to be more profitable.
79.       A second set of institutional reforms concerns IMA.  In 1984-85,
IMA supported the domestic prices through direct subsidies from the treasury
worth B/.0.6 million and cross-subsidies taken from the profits of importing
maize under quota estimated at a further B/.1.1 million. These subsidies
were used to support the price of rice, salt, oaions, beans, and domestic
maize and sorghum. All of these products were under some form of quota
restriction.
80.       The Government annouaced on August 1, 1986 that IMA will restrict
its future activitie. to warehousiag, price and market information, setting
standards, and exceptional market interventions in times of national
emergency. IMA will not otherwise purchase or hold inventories of its own.
Most important, it will receive no further transfers nor increase its
capitalization or net borrowing. IMA has sold off virtually all its rice and
salt inventories and is now leasing many of its warehouses. These policies
will allow the Government to provide for coaceras over price stability and
food security (since IMA's price and production analysis will be used in
setting future tariff rates) while markedly reduciag the price-distorting
effect of IMA. When coupled with the new trade and price policy discussed
below, these policies will introduce new flexibility into agriculture and
improve efficiencies in resource allocation.
81.       Agricultural Trade and Pricing Policy.  The principal objective of
the Government's new trade and pricing policy for agriculture is to reorieat
price signals and incentives toward areas where new o-atput can expand real
incomes and employment. The previous pricing policy of achieving
self-sufficiency had been oriented towards providing incentives for certain
basic products (rice, mai-, beans and sugar), the further production of
which would be an economic burden. To subsidize domestic consumption, price
controls were imposed and restrictions placed on exports of other products
(notably, beef and coffee, and, until recently, fishmeal and cocoa). This
has led to the over-concentration of resources in areas where Panama's



- 24 -
comparative advAntage is weak while providing disincentives for producing
efficiently for domestic and export markets. Support prices have been high,
especially for rice and maize, and this has encouraged overproduction and
given an incentive for contraband imports from neighboring countries. To
finance its losses on rice, IMA used its monopoly profits on imports of
maize, and to a lesser extent, onions and beans. Since mid-1982, however,
these profits have nDt sufficed, and IMA's financial situation worsened
considerably due to the large volume of surplus rice accumulated.
82.       A new pricing and trade policy to emphasize eff±ciency over
self-sufficiency, therefore, implies bringing domestic prices closer to
internatiDnal prices and less restrictive trade measures. Concom'tantly, the
new policy entails a reduction of the state's role in agricultural marketing,
and a greater reliance on market forces. This does not mean a complete
disappearance of the state's role in agricultural pricing; but it does imply
changing both the price and tariff regimes.
83.       The domestic price support system will be effectively eaded by the
cessation of IMP. purchases; the Government has already ended its purchases of
rice, onions, salt, and beans; maize and sorghum purchases will be ended by
February 1, 1987, the date the current crop-pledging system for these
commodities arranged through the BDA is set to expire.
B4.       In addition, the Governmeat has removed controls oa domestic prices
of most agricultural products at the retail level, a major chaage in Panama's
agricultural price regime. In June 1986, the Office of Price Regulation
ended price controls on rice, sugar, coffee, milk, pork, chicken, live fowl,
cream of cereals, wheat flour, juices, dried and fresh vegetables aad pulses,
maize, butter, shortening, margarine, mayonnaise, honey, fish, cheese, salt,
and canned tomatoes. In September 1986, the Government removed controls on
edible oils, eggs, and all beef cuts.  These product categories embraced over
600 discretely specified products, and their liberation from price cow.-rols
is expected to introduce more flexible prices to consumers and more
accurately transmit price signals and incentives to producers.
85.       The import regime has also been changed.  The quotas regulating
imports of IMA-supported products - maize, sorghum, onions, beans and lentils
- as well as on certain other commodities, such as butter, butter oil, tallow
and margarine. were replaced by specific tariffs effective August 1, 1986.
Tariffs on the forme-ly price-supported products were set at levels designed
to avoid sudden farm price declines in mid-season, based on latest estimates
of probable frontier price of competitive imports. This implies tariffs
equivalent to 133 percent of the CIF import cost for rice, 88 perceat for
maize, 74 percent for sorghum, 25 percent for onions, and 20 percent for
beans.
86. -    To bring prices closer to international levels for the next crop
year, these tariff levels are to be reduced on Februiry 1, 1987 by 22
percent in rice (to a 104 percent ad valorem eluivalent), 18 percent in maize
(to 66 percent), seven percent in sorghum (to 66 percent), and 50 percent in
beans (10 percent). Since international prices of rice are especially



- 25 -
volatile, the Government has agreed to review rice tariffs with the Bank in .
the event that & sharp price rise mitigates the intended effect of the tarife
reductions.
87.       Finally, the Government inteads to offer greater incentives to beef
producers to expand production and exports. Not only were domestic price
controls on the more expeasive cuts of beef liberated in April 1986, but all
price controls including those on live animals were removed on October 1.
This, together with new land available from crops currently devoted to
high-cost production of rice, maize, sorghum or sugar cane, is expected to
lead to increases in quality and quantity of beef production.
PART III - TIE PROPOSED LOAN
88.       The proposed loan would support the Government's strategy of
structural adjustment and economic recovery. The loan was prepared duriag an
intensive dialogue with the Government, reaewed in early 1986, and in close
consultation with the IMF. It was appraised in April-May 1986 and
negociations held in Spptember 1986. The Panamanian delegation was led by
Dr. Ricaurte Vasquez, Minister of Planning and Economic Policy. Annex III
contains supplementary loan data.
89.       The proposed loan of US$100 million would meet about 10 percent of
Panama's total gross external capital requirements for 1986 and 1987. The
loan would be in two tranches; the first of US$50 million equivalent would be
eligible for disbursement upon effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, and the
second, also of US$50 million, some six months later. Proposed tranching
will enable the Bank to review the implementation of agreed policy measures
and provide the Goverament with sufficient time to undertake further
difficult reforms.
90.       The specific actions supported by the proposed SAL were reviewed in
detail during appraisal aad are summarized in Annex IV. These include
actions already taken by the Government in each of the four main policy areas
addressed by its program, which are actions the first tranche would support.
Actions Already Undertaken
91.       Public Sector Efficiency.  To increase the efficiency of the public
sector, the Government has already undertaken the followiag actions: (a)
closure of ENASEM and sale of ENDEMA., Las Cabras Sugar Mill, Contadora Hotel,
2nd Aeroperlas; (b) beginning a program to reduce the public sector workforce
by approximately two percent by year-end; (c) cabinet approval of a new draft
law to restore financial viability of the social security pension system by
eliminating early retirement, lengthening the pension base averaging period,
lowering the pension rate, changing the pension rate for special groups, and
transiferriag the financing of the special peasioas to the national budget;
and {d) agreement with the Bank on the public investmeat program for 1987.



- 26 -
92.       Industrial Policy and Trade Liberalization.  In March 1986, the
Goverament passed the Iadustrial lacentives Law described in paras. 53-63
above, under which Contracts with the Nation were replaced by the Industrial
Registry and a first rouad of tariff cuts were made on August 1, 1986. All
but 20 quota restrictions were removed by Juae 30, 1986, and tariffs
substituted for them.
93.       Labor Policy.  The Goverament passed in March 1986 amendments to
the Labor Code, described in paras. 66-72.
94.       Agricultural Policy.  In March 1986, the Government passed the
Agricultural Incentives Law, described ia para. 77. In addition, the
Government sold the agricultural enterprises noted in para. 32. Finally, the
Government (a) liberalized the retail price of most food products; (b) ceased
purchases and storage of rice, onioas, beans, salt and other products; (c)
replaced quotas and embargoes on these products (except salt) with tariffs;
(d) sold IMA's inveatories of rice, onions, and half of its salt; (e)
announced that there would be no future export quotas oa beef; and (f)
anaounced the aew role for IHA to limit its activities to warehousing, price
iaformation, analysis aad emergency stabilization.
Second Tranche Actions
95.       Besides continuing its stabilization and adjustment programs,
several further actions are to be undertaken by the Goverament by various
dates up to April 1, 1987, or prior to the second tranche.  These will
include further major reforms to improve public sector efficiency and
agricultural policy.
96.       Public Sector.  The Government will (a) complete the two percent
reduction of the public sector workforce (i.e. about 2,900 jobs) ia caleadar
1986; Cb) complete the sale of the Chiriqui Citrus Company or Alanje sugar
mill; (c) make fully effective its reform of the maia CSS pension scheme;
(d) implement the new special peasioa scheme and; (e) improve the efficiency
of the CSS, including reducing administrative staff by 120; and (E) have in
place a financial plan for 1987.
97.       Agriculture.  By April 1, 1987, the Government will undertake
further actions, including: (a) the revision of IMA's charter to limit its
role formally; (b) lowering the implicic support prices for rice, maize,
sorghum, and beans through lowering the tariffs by specified amounts; (c)
ending the BDA crop-pledging system to finance maize purchases; and (d) the
sale of the remaining salt inventories.
Economic and Social Prospects with the Program
98.       The Government's structural adjustment efforts will position the
economy to renew growth after four years of aear-stagnation, relieviag the
crisis of public fiaanLe and alleviating poverty. As a small,
trade-dependent country, Panama relies heavily on the iaternational economy.
The program will have maximum benefit for Panama if growth of the OECD
economies is strong, the Latin American region recovers, and the price of oil



- 27 -
and iate.est rates continue to fall. Moderate growth of two perceat is
forecast for the industrial economies in 1986 with a mild acceleration to
three percent for the rest of the decade; and the price of oil, after its
abrupt fall in 1985-86, is projected to rise only slightly in real terms.
99.       The structural adjustment program would permit Panama to take
advantage of this envirooment, and attain a more rapid sustainable rate of
growth toward the end of the decade. The reforms in public finaace will have
multiple, mutually-reiaforcing effects: divestitures and closings reduce
subsidies as well as recurrent costs by reducing inefficiencies and excessive
employment; reforms in social security uill aot only have a sustained impact
on reducing public expeaditures, they will-over time-increase labor
generation by moderating the rise in the cost of labor. Together, these
efforts imply a sharp reversal of negative public savings, so that even after
paying the onerous debt service, more resources would be available for
investment. Taken together, these would permit greater efficiency and a
higher level of public iavestment, which could interact to increase
productivity and output.
100.      Efforts in industrial and labor reform would also promote growth.
Reducing levels of effective protection through tariff reductions and
eliminating nontariff barriers will alter price signals for producers, change
profit rates among industries in favor of internationally competitive
activities, and so stimulate export production and more efficient
import-substitution. This will induce capital to flow from inefficient to
more efficient industries, while the reforms in the labor market will permit
more flexible allocation of labor resources. Firms, especially small
enterprises, the retail trades, and exporters, will be able to avail
themselves of new provisioas in the Labor Code. These permit rewarding
productivity, facilitate employers hiring workers with reduced fear of being
locked into rigid contractual obligations, and reduce, if oaly partially, the
segmentation of the labor market between a relatively highly paid, tenured
minority of workers and the rest. By restraining prices and labor costs,
these changes should also help enhance the competitiveness of the service
sector. The interaction of tatese reforms could help channel private
investment and labor into internationally competitive, labor-iatensive
sectors with high growth potential.
101.      The reforms in agriculture would also stimulate growth and
employment. They would introduce new elements of flexibility and efficiency
in resource allocation. As IMA withdraws from its former role as price
setter, international market forces will assume greater importance in
disciplining domestic prices and production. As with industrialists, farmers
will face relative prices that will reward them for producing internationally
competitive crops and compel them to adjust to changing world price signals.
This will leave IMA free to concentrate on the functions of managing its
warehouses efficiently and providing producers with price and market
information, and should progressively allow output growth in the sector as it
escapes from the constraints imposed by the small size of the domestic
market. Since Panama has no control over its currency or its exchange rate,
and it has fully tapped its borrowing capacity, the only way it can grow in a
sustainable fashion is through productivity-enhancing reforms such as these.



- 28 -
102.      Impact oan the Poor.  The program can also be predicted to have a
positive impact on the real incomes of low-income groups over time. The most
important factor will be the increased employment associated with aew
growth. A more rapid growth in employment would also occur because labor
costs would be lower than in the abseace of the program: the social security
reform will mitigate the rise in social insurance contributions of employers
and workers, the labor reforms will make it attractive for employers to
increase their employment at the margin, and, over the long run, cheaper food
and coasumer goods will reduce upward pressure on wage rates.
103.      IQ addition to employment effects, low-income groups will beaefit
directly from lower prices of food and manufactures brought about by the
shift from the policy emphasis on high cost self-sufficiency in agriculture
to aa emphasis on the efficiency of production and the tariff reform in
industry. In the past, policy had emphasized import-substitution in many
products that absorb the bulk of expenditures of the poor:  processed food
and clothing. This meant that key basic needs items had high tariffs and
usually a correspondingly high price in the domestic market while luxury
goods had low tariffs aad prices. The tariff reform will place a downward
pressure on domestic prices of processed food products and many categories of
clothing. Fiaally, ensuring the financial viability of the social security
system will aid the increasing proportion of old people in the population; if
the Government were to fail to take corrective measures, a great many
lower-paid workers might reach retirement with inadequate pensions or savings
and little prospect of gainful employment.
104.      Although the net distributional effects of the program are expected
to be progressive, unavoidably some groups will be hurt. As inefficieat
sectors contract, some workers will become dislocated and some firms and
farms will go out of busiaess. Some social security beneficiaries will
suffer lower pensions than they had expected. Besides attempting to maximize
the growth opportunities generated in the program, the Government has sought
to mitigate the problem by reducing public employment through attrition, by
gradually changing relative prices over several years or, in the case of
social security, phasing in the new pension levels over five years while
protecting the acquired rights of potential beneficiaries close to
retirement. In the case of industry, tariff reductions will occur over five
years; in agriculture, the price reductions will occur in the second year of
the program. The fact that the Government is aanouncing these actions in
advaace gives farms, firms, and workers an opportunity to adjust.
105.      All of these actions should enhance the country's creditworthiness,
which in Panama is mainly a fiscal matter in the short term, but in the
longer run depends on the growth of the productive sectors of the economy.
Economic Projections: With and Without Adjustment
106.      The expected economic effects of the program can be described
quantitatively by comparing scenarios of the country's development with or
without a program of adjustment. Ia both cases a relatively supportive



- 29 -
international environment is assumed of the kind outlined in para. 98. The
main features distinguishing the scenarios involve differences in the level
of public savings and investment, growth in agricultural and industrial
production and exports, rates of job-creation in the economy, and external
financing.
107.      Both scenarios recognize that, in the absence of a central bank and
powers to independently expand domestic credit to the public sector, the
Government's investment resources are closely constrained by its own
immediately available savings and foreign resources. In the "without
program scenario, the Covernment does aot curtail public sector consumption
but relies on compressed levels of public investment to contain the overall
public deficit. External resources are limited to possible reschedulings.
As a result, the shrunken public investment program fails to recover,
hampering growth.
108.      Growth in GDP is considerably higher in the "with-program" scenario
than in the "without" case, 4.1 percent annually compared to 2.1 percent
(Table 1). The driving force of the "with-program" scenario is the higher
investment levels attributable to improved public savings, increased foreign
and domestic private investment in agriculture and industry associated with
the improved business climate (including clearer rules of doing business and
improved debt management), aad expansion of aontraditional exports and
services. The rate of job-creatioa accelerates with the impetus of labor
reform and social security; unemployment even with the program will probably
still rise slightly because of demographic pressure, perhaps to 13 percent in
1990, but not nearly as high in the absence of the program, where rates might
easily approach 16 percent.
109.      The improvement in public savings associated with the
closings/divestitures, social security reforms, and improved operation of
public enterprises has direct implications for the growth of the public
sector, public investment and debt management. The real public sector wage
bill declines by 0.5 percent per annum reflecting the contraction of
Government employment, compared to a growth of 1.2 percent in the absence of
a strong program. Public sector employment in the reform case is assumed to
decline by two percent annually over the 1986-88 period; without this policy
public employment is assumed to rise by two percent for the next three years
(after which any further increase is financially not possible). The squeeze
on the public investment program abates under the program, allowing for much
needed new investment in productive infrastructure and human resources; this
in turn increases the productivity of private sector investments. Gross
national savings grow at more than twice the rate of the without-program
scenario, fueling the higher levels of total investment and growth ahown in
Table 1.
110.      Measures of creditworthiness also improve as total debt as a share
of GDP falls to 54 percent and the ratio of debt service to public sector
revenues falls also. This debt service ratio, although still high as a share
of public sector revenues, begins to fall toward the end of the decade as
reschedulings provide debt relief and higher public savings permits some



- 30 -
Table 1: SELECTED ECONMaC N DICATORS
ActUal          With Program -    Lthout Program
1980-1985          1986-1990         1986-1990
Amal Crowth Rates (constant 198S prices)
GDP at Malket Prices                                              2.0                4.1               2.1
ConsumLp                                                          3.6                2.9               2.4
GCross Dome.tic Inwstuzet                                        -7.4                7.3               1.1
Esports of GElS                                                  -1.5                4.5               1.7
Iports of CUPS                                                   -6.0                3.4               1.9
Agriculture                                                       2.5                3.0               2.4
Tndus,try                                                        -0.2                4.6               2.1
Gvernmnt Services                                                 5.4               -0.5               1.2
3thar                                                             1.6                3.9               2.2
Other Indicators
Investment as percent of CDP                                     23.8               18.9              17.9
PubLis Invustuman as percent of GDP                               7.6                5.4               4.3
Public Sector DeficLt as percent of GDP                           5.8                0.9               1.1
Public Sector Outstand   External Debt
as percent of GDP C(ed of period) a/                           67.4               53.9              63.8
Interest Payamets an Public External Debt
as percent of Publle Sector Rswenuas (end of period) sI        15.0               15.4              16.2
Seryics an Public Eaternal Debt
as parent of Public Sector RIvens (end of period) *l          28.2                22.4              24.3
aI Include-  flow. and payment. a*socoated with presumd rescheduLing to fill gross
borroving ruquir.mentg eclcudes lU.



- 31 -
amortization. Interest payments as a share of public sector revenues (the
critical indicator of creditworthiness in the case of Panama) holds steady at
15 - 16 percent in both cases; in the reform case this reflects a slightly
lower interest rate on a slightly higher amount of external credits borrowed
over the period.
111.      Growth performance with the program is much improved in part
because exports become a leading sector, permitting higher rates of imports
aad consumption than would occur without the program. Exports grow by 4.5
percent on average in 1986-90 with the more favorable policy eavironment.
Shrimp, meat, maaufacturers, and other nontraditional goods have higher
growth rates among merchandise exports; in additioa, nonfactor services,
including travel, could grow at slightly higher rates in the program's
supportive envirooment. These permit much higher rates of growth for
imports, 3.4 percent annually compared to 1.9 percent.
Benefits and Risk
112.      The main benefits of the SAL program would be the expected
reorientation of economic activity and incentives towards areas of Panama's
comparative advantages in agriculture, industry and services, and the
redirection and strengthening of public agencies towards supporting these
activities. The investment climate would be improved and incentives provided
for the private sector to invest in areas of Panama's comparative advantage.
This should pave the way for sustained, broadly-shared development, and would
increase job opportunities, resource inflows, aad coatribute to alleviating
poverty.
113.      A main risk is the international environment: if the international
ecoaomy weakeas or becomes more protectionist, Panama's exports will grow
less rapidly, Canal traffic will fall with slower world trade, and Colon Free
Zone activity will drop. The main domestic risk is that the Government may
not coasistently follow up the program and make it credible through clear
announcements and effective administrative actions. This applies especially
to the social security reforms, which will require bold political leadership
as well as competent administrative direction to carry through successfully.
It also applies to the later phases of the reductions in industrial and
agricultural import tariffs. There is, however, some recognition that the
Government's strategy represents the best alternative to continued stagnation
and increasing uaemployment. The program, including budgetary and public
investment targets, would be closely monitored and release of the second
tranche would be conditional upon agreed actions beiag taken (paras. 96 and
97). In the short-term the continuity of the adjustment program would also
be reinforced by the IMF standby arrangement which runs until the end of
March 1987. Moreover, the Government's satisfactory performance under the
program is a condition for release of the remaining tranches of the
commercial bank's new money facility through 1986.
Disbursement and Procurement
114.      Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures
backed by Customs Declarations evidencing the CIF cost and importation of



- 32 -
goods and their countries of origin. The Statemeats of Expenditures would be
audited by indepeadent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Customs Declarations
would be kept ia Panama and be available for review by supervision missions.
Retroactive financing of up to US$50 million would be allowed for imports
after August 1, 1986. Imports of military equipment and luxury consumer
goods would not be eligible. All purchases, other than petroleum products,
of US$5 million equivalent or more each would be procured through
incernatioaal competitive bidding.  Petroleum products would be procured
according to Panama's normal procedures. Imported petroleum products and
foodstuffs would be limited to US$20 million equivalent each.  Public sector
imports under contracts below US$5 million equivalent would be ia accordance
with standard government practices which ensure adequate competition.
Private sector imports under contracts below US$5 million equivalent would
follow normal commercial practices.
Monitoring
115.      The progress of the measures supported by the Government's
structural adjustment program will be closely monitored through regular
supervision.  Contiaued supervision will determine compliance with the
conditions for release of the second tranche. The Government will submit to
the Bank progress reports from time to time, and these will form the basis
for an exchange of views. The first of these consultations will take place
no later than February 28, 1987 (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
116.     The Bank has to date made thirty loans and one supplementary loan to
Panama totalliag US$572.7 million (net of cancellations). Of these, 21 loans
for US$325.3 million net of cancellations are fully disbursed, three for
roads totalling US$25.1 million; one for an airport project for US$20
million; four for agriculture totalling US$13.1 million; two for fisheries
totalling US$8.2 million, five for power for US$141 million; two for
development banking for US$21 million; one each for ports (US$24 million),
water supply and sewerage (US$12 million); structural adjustment (US$60.2
million); and energy planaing and petroleum exploration (US$0.6 million).
Ongoing operations include one each for livestock credit, development of
tropical tree crops and road rehabilitation; three in the power sector (for
generation, transmission and distribution); a project to help develop the
water supply and sewerage sector; one for the urban development of Colon; one
for port development and one for technical assistance. The most recent loan
to Panama, a seventh powe- project, was approved by the Executive Directors
oa March 19, 1985.
117.      IFC has made four investments in Panama.  The first was in 1971 to
acquire US$0.3 million of equity in, and lend US$1.2 millioa to, the
Corporacioa de Desarrollo Botelero, S.A., to build a new international
hotel. The second was ia December 1977 to lend US$2.4 million to, and



- 33 -
acquire US$1.4 million in equity in, Vidrios Panamenos, S.A., a glass
container factory. In June 1986, the original investment in Vidrios was sold
and a standby loan of US$0.7 million made. The third and fourth were
commitments in 1979 and 1985 to acquire US$2.5 million in equity in, and lend
US$21.3 million to, the Banco Latino-Americano de Exportaciones (BLADEX), a
regioaal export bank located in Panama.
118.      While there are some difficulties, satisfactory overall progress in
the implementation of ongoing projects was reflected in the steady increase
in Bank disbursements from US$29.5 million in FY81 aad US$39 million in FY82
to US$39.6 million in FY83. Disbursements under SAL I raised the total to
US$94 million ia FY84. The decline to US$27.5 million in FY85 and US$29.5
million in FY86 was due to the severe Government fiscal situation and the
delay in the Government's structural adjustment program. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1986.
119.      Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
medium-term economic reform program described above and the further
development of supporting infrastructure and service industries, the
diversification of production and exports, and the creation of employment
opportunities. Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors in which it can
make a special contributioa in terms of: (i) developing policies and
institutions; (ii) removing remaiaing iafrastructure bottleaecks; and (iii)
better utilizing the country's natural resources, including its geographic
location. In addition to the proposed loan, projects under active
consideration for Bank lending include the Balboa Port project, an urban
transport project for Panama City, a health sector project, a road
improvement aad maintenance project (which would include the substantial
rehabilitation of the Transisthmian Highway) and a technical assistance
project to help the Government in carrying out its reform program.
120.      Both USAID and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have
invested substantial amounts in agriculture, social services, infrastructure,
and technical assistance. The IDB also participated with the Bank and
bilateral aad commercial sources in financing the Fortuna Hydroelectric
Project and is financing rural electrification and water supply. USAID is
lending for alternative sources of energy (other than petroleum). USAID
expects to continue its efforts in manpower training and projects oriented
toward environmental protection. USAID and UNDP are also providing
additional techaical assistance to increase the planning capacity of MIPPE
and MIDA and to carry out additional studies to assist the Government in its
policy reorientation efforts.
121.      The Bank's share of Panama's medium-term publicly-guaranteed
external debt outstanding and disbursed was 9.3 percent at the end of 1985
and the Bank's share of public external debt service was 7.4 percent in
1985. These percentages are expected to increase slightly in the late 1980s;
the Bank share of outstanding and disbursed debt is expected to rise to just
over 12 percent in 1987-88 and end the decade at 11 percent.



- 34 -
rmT v RBWHNTION
122.      1 am satisfied that the proposed structural adjustment loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
November 13, 1986



- 35 -
ANLE I
Page 1 of 5
PANA.A: PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL INDICATORS
-Actual               - ------------- Projected cI -- --------
1983    1984    1985         1986    1987    1989    1989    1990
- I               I. Operations
.*              A. In MlLlons of US Dollars
Current Revenues  a/              1385.5  1424.6  1523.3         1604    1735    1844    1980    2152
Current Expenditures              1243.0  1333.6  1373.9         1407    1519    1581    1681    1776
Publlc Savings                     142.5    91.0   149.4          197      216      263      299      376
Capital Expenditure bi             407.2   365.4   242.5          265      292      313      351      393
Consolidated Deflict              -264.7  -274.4   -93.1          -6a      -76      -49      -52     -17
-. As a Percentage of GDP
Current Revenues a!                 31.7    31.4    31.7         31.6    31.7    31.2    30.8    30.8
Current Expenditures                28.4    29.4    28.6         27.7    27.8    26.7    26.1    23.4
Public Saving.                       3.3      2.0      3.1        3.9      3.9      4.4      4.7      5.4
Cepital Expenditure bl               8.2      6.9      5.1        5.2      5.3      5.3      5.5      5.6
Consolidated Deficit                -4.9    -4.9    -1.9         -1.2    -1.4    -0.8    -0.5    -0.2
II. Nediin and Long Tem Ezxrernal Debt (USS mllion)  di
Interest Payments                  301.2   321.6   323.1          358      346      350      347     341
Amortization                       189.4   241.4   159.6          219      149      170      184      171
Total Debt Service                 490.6   563.0   482.7          577      495      520      530      511
Debt Outstnding                   3330.4  3485.9  3544.0         3608    3694    3733    3785    3902
Debt Service (Z of GDP)             11.2    12.4    10.1         11.4      9.1      8.8      8.2      7.3
Interest (1 of Current Revenue)     21.7    22.6    21.2         22.3    20.0    19.0    17.5    15.5
Debt (t of GDP)                     76.1    76.8    73.9         71.0    67.3    63.1    58.9    54.4
aI Coneral gn t currnt revemns plus current surpluses of public enterprises excludlng the
ncnoonsolidated public sector.
bi Capital expendltures are net of investets financed by the revennes  of public sector fci-iL agencies.
cj WLth SAL 13 scenario assuemptios (see text).
di Includes IlU, and nev flovs ad interest payments associated vith additional capital requirements.



-36-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of S
Real. Annual Grankh Rates CZ)
Amount
(USt SLlion) ---------A                 ctual----------           ---------Projectd A/1-------
1385     1981      1932      1913     1984      1985         1986      1937       1968      1969     19900
National. Accounts
Gramm Domestic Product                    4,798.3       4.2       4.?      -1.5     -0.4       3.1          2.9       3.5        4.0      4,.5      4.5
AarcLultusre                             493.3       83.      -1.5      4.9      -1.3       2.5          2.6       3.0        3.2      3.2       3.2
In,duatcy                                460.4,    -2.9       2.3      -1.9      -0.1       1.8          2.3      4.0         3.0      5.5       3.5
Other                                  3,3sibi. 6    4..7      5.8     -2.3      -0.4       3.3          2.9       3,5        4.0      4.5       4.5
*    Coc@usptit@                               3,920.2       2.8       6.0       1.1      0.9       6.5          4,3       2.9        2.8       3.4       2.5
*    Cross Domestic Investaent                   320.9      13.1      -3.7    -23.3    -13.2       -3.2          8.2       &.9        6.4       6.8      11.0
Export. of CR75                           1,793.8       1.3      -1.1     -5.2      -6.5       4.4          0.1       4.0        4.4       4,8      4.5
IE9orts of CR73                           1,690.0       4.5      -3.8    -13.1      -4.4      -2.5          6,0       3.4        2.8       3.6      3.8
Prices
GDP Deflator (1985-100)                     100.0      85.5      90.1      93.5     97.5    100.0         103,0    107.1       111.4    115.9    120.5
Exchange Rate (DaLboas par US$2                1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       i.a          l.a       i.e        i.e       i.0      i.0
Share of GDP at Market Prices CZ)                      Average Annual Increase (2)
------(At current prices)------                        ----(at Constant 1985 Prices) ---
1970     1975      1980      1995     1990 Al           1970-75      1975-80  1980-85   1985-90 at
Grams Doewstie Product                       17.3      87.0      89.3     90.4      39.9                    4 7       5.9        2.0       3.7
AMrlcuLture                               14-.6     11.2     10.0      10.3       9.9                    1.2      2.3         2.5      3.0
Other                                     72.7      75.8     79.3      80.1      30.0                    5.7       4.8        1.6      3.8
Consuiqtton                                  75.5      76.5      75.5     31.7      30.8                    4.6       4.2        3.6       3.2
Gross Domestic Iv3tvestnt                    27.8      30.9      27.7      17.1     20.3                    6.0       0.2       -7.4       7.5
Exports of 097S                              30.0      47.0      4.4.4    36.9      42.2                    3.9       8.9       -1.5       3.6
Imports of GNE'S                             41.4      54.3      47.T7    35.7      33.0                    4.6       5.0       -4.0      3.9
ml With SAL II senamrio asskqutlons.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
PAYMANA  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
;USS mIllLon at cuurrnt prLoes)
--------      -Actual------------------            --------------Projected a/--------------
1981      1982      1983     1984      1985        1986      1917      19B0      19;^     1990
Exports of Goods and Non Factor Service.         1734      1770      1774      1705      1794        1843     2063      2315      2611      2950
of whlch Merchandlse f.o.h.                    46 4f88             426      419       *11         427       495       573       tA2       767
Imports of Goods and Non Factor Services         1855      1871      1697      1693     1690        1733      1929      2140      2383      2654
of whlch Merchandise f.o.b.                  1470      1496      1353      1343      1339        1376      1535      170Z      1£93     2106
Net Transfers                                      31        46        *4        79        83          79       84        92        97       101
Investuant Income                                -271      -350      -324      -350     -427        -413      -409      -422      -429      -434
Current Account                                  -360      -405      -203      -239      -240        -223     -191      -15A      -105       -37
Capital Account                                   386       360       207       153        34         223      191       154       105        37
Official Capital (let)                            205       510       302       214        32         108       130      125       1I0        75
Amortization                                  -240      -305      -232     -266      -375        -535      -586      -579      -'98     -296
Disbursement                                   445       815       534.     431       l18         289       214       220       235      183
Nescheduling% b/                                                                      225         354       501       484       312      184
Other Official Bank Transactlons (Not)            -40         0       -b7       -13       135           S      -54       -76       -58       -So
Dlrect Investment (Net)                           171         1        55        37        91          44        53       58        64        70
Other Private CapLtal (Met)                        50        49       -63       -e;      -223          66        63       47       -li       -50
Net Errors and XLssions                           -26      -155        -5       102       205           0         0        0         0         ∞
at WLth SML I1 scenario assumptions (see text).
bi ReschedulLnss of conbereLaX bank and Parils Club d4bt (1985-86), and additional capital requiremants (1987-90) (sec text).
Source: Ministry of PlannLng and Economic Policyl IMF, and World Bank



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Pose 4 of 5
PANAMAs PUOLIC OlTfuL CAIPTAL AND DO3T rJ
(USS mIlILon at aurnt prices)
---- ru----------
1Wl 1an2          19is      1am4      ins        19u6    is;        zosa     1S89      1960
Grees  Dlsbmrsinm                               £73       779      527       £96      467        6"        734       714      616       379
OffLCLl Cicamrt                                5         5        3         3       57           7        7        10        *         7
Loms                                        467       774      523       491      409         687      726      704       605      372
OaffcIlal. 3tLateral                       81        91       62       45        21          45       30       £2        40       36
OfficLL IuLtieatoral                       73        91      147       139       90         16       153      166       185      141
lUND                                    3        £C        77       52       26          to      Lo        10£      10i        57
Other PaLtilatAeal                      34       51        70       a8        64         73        53       62        76       *4
*PWrint.                                  225       592      197       204      262         £30       12       11        11        9
lrU                                        39         0      116       103       36          44       11        0         0        0
AMLialeI  equyired Capital bt                                                                           501       £s3      372      14
Debt Outstanding Iblsusg Ubdisbursed           330£      3591     £147      3393     3931        4120     4136      4277     £269      4272
Outstandlng and Dlsburse                    2533      3011      330      34386    3544        363      3634      3733     3785      3102
OfflaaL                                   776       915     1133      1343     1433        1305     1545     1564      1606     1594
Privat                                   1759     2096      2136     2143      2106        2103     2139     2170      2179     2207
UndI.buzred                                  769       53S      317       407      437         512      44£       543      453      £69
Total Debt ServLce of                           516       631      £91       563      483         577      495       520      330       511
Interest                                     236       344      301       322      323         353     3U6       350       347      341
*  seNiaatia                                 229       237      189       241      160         219      149      170       13£      171
Servi   Payrents eas I of ampors  MS           29.7      35.7     27.7      33.0     26.9        31.3     24.0      22.5     20.3      17.3
LAmizg. Ixner   Naze a  Debt Outstanding    11.9         12.4      9.5       9.4      9.2        10.0      9.5       9.4      9.2       9.0
Official                                     6.4       5.7      5.5       6.0      6.5         7.9      7.9       7.6      7.9      7.9
Print.:                                     14.1      15.4     11.3      11.5     11.0        11.5     10.7     10.6      10.2      9.3
Aeage maturity efer fLos                         12        11        10       29   i 3             14       17        16       17        17
Offbvicl                                      22        20       14        29      .           ..           .n .  n.S. -   .n.-    n.-.
--ri st-                                       9         9        7         5       S.&       a.&.     U.-.          .S.  IL.&.    u.&.
00 IDS                                     162.7    190.7    253.4    207.3    291.3         352.5    416.4    £29.4    429.8    426.4
snnITots  CZ)                                6.7       6.3      3.1       1.9      9.0        10.7     12.2      12.1     11.7     11.£
atInludes fDV.
W Includes  -m disbusemes associated wlth fillng grose capital borrowing rezAiXmmontS through possible resebadulin
end mm      y facilitie.
ol Includes adtitis-l seorve asseciated wIth fillsa grass capital berfowiLru req _rements-
5eeres.  World Desk Debt Reporting Sexvice  nd staff satLates of fusru Lnflows
F.3



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
PAMAMMA EXTER1AL TRADE
Amount                              Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(USS mIllion)                          Cat constant 1985 prices)
-- -Actual--------           ---------------Projected----------------
4                                                      1985 &I             1983      1984      1985 ad  1986       1987      1988      1989      1990
Merchandise Exports F0B          410.9               -14.0       2.1      -1.2      153       4.7       4.8       5.0       S.1
Primary                       176.9                18.2       0.8      2.8       2.9       3.1       3.2       3.3       3.5
Marnufactures L Other bI    233.9                 -36.3       3.4     -4.0      24.7       5.7       5.8       6.0       6.1
MerchandLse Lmports FOB         1339.4               -11.9      -4.4       1.2       8.9       3.3       2.6       3.4       3.7
Petroietas                    298.8                -6.3      -1.8    -12.5      16.2       2.1       4.0       1.8       2.4
Machinery & Equipment         266.2               -28.0    -13.0       -0.6      8.2       4.9       4.7       6.8       8.4
Manufactures                  659.0               -25.4      -1.5       9.8      6.4       3.5       1.1       2.9       2.8
Other                         115.3                 0.7      -1.5       2.5      5.1       2.6       1.9       2.2       1.1
Price IndLees (1985-LO0)
Export Price Index            100.0                95.7     t'9.2    100.D    102.5    110.4    118.9    128.1    138.2
Import Price Index            100.0              o05.0      00.9    100.0       96.7    104.1    112.3    120.8    129.6
Terms of Trade Index          100.0                91.1      98.3    100.0    106.0    106.0    105.9    106.1    106.7
Camposition of Merchandise Trade CZ)                     Average Annual Increase (2)
Cat current prices)                               (et constant :985 prices)
1970      1973     1980      1985 af  1990              1970-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
Exports                          100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100-0                   n.a.        2.5       0.2       5.6
Primary                        74.2      46.6      39.0      32.9     46.3                n.a.       1.3       0.8       3.1
Others bI                      25.8      55.4      61.0      67.1     53.7                n.a.       2.B      -6.0       7.4
Imports                          100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                   n.a.        7.5     -3.1        3.8
Petroleum                      19.0      34.4      31.1     29.6      14.4                n.a.      12.1      -5.5       Z.3
Machinery   E Equipment        27.5      29.0      19.'      21.8     25.0                n.a.       98       -3.7       5.9
Others                         53.5      36.6      49.5      48.6     60.6                n.a.       5.9      -1.8       3.0
Share of Trade vith                    Share of Trade with                     Share of Trade wLth
Direction of Trade                   Industrialized Countries (2)             Developing Countries (1)           Capital Surplus OlI Exporters CZ)
1960      1970      1975     1980      1960      1970      1975      1980      1960      1970      1975      1980
Exports                        99.0      89.6      74.8      79.0       1.0      10.4     24.6      20.0       0.0       0.0       0.6       1.0
Primary                    h.a.      U.&.      96.7      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       2.3      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       1.0      c.a.
Manufactures                m.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.e.      n.-.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      a.-.      n.e.      n.a.
Imports                        7&.9      61.3      41.4      63.7      24.7     20.7      18.9       6.5       0.4      18.0      39.7      29.8
at Stlmated.
bl Includins petroleum products.



- 40 -
ANM= II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellatioas)
Loan or        Fiscal                                                            Undis-
Credit No.      Year     Borrower              Purpose          Bank     IDA    bursed
21 loans fully disbursed                                        325.3
1397-PAN       1977      BNP                 Livestock II         8.0            0.8
1470-PAN a/    1977      IRHE                Power IVa/          31.3            8.7
1672-PAN       1979      BNP                 Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.         19.0             9.4
1878-PAN       1980      Republic
of Paaama         Urban               35.0            13.1
2020-PAN       1981      Republic            Road
of Panama          Rehabilitation    19.0              6.4
2182-PAN       1982      APN                 Secoad Port         24.4            15.3
2222-PAN       1983      IDAAN               Water Supply II    21.6             16.0
2313-PAN       1983      IRHE                Power VI            32.1           25.4
2356-PAN       1983      BNP                 Livestock III        9.0            7.3
2358-PAN       1983      Republic            Technical
of Panama         Assistance           5.0             1.2
2506-PAN       1985      IRHE                Power VII           51.0           50.9
TOTAL                                     572.7
of which has been repaid                 131.6
TOTAL aow held by Bank                    441.0
Amount sold         9.2
of which repaid    9.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                         145.1
at  Supplementary loan



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
PANAMA
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Investment     Fiscal                    Types of
Number         Year    Obligor           Business       Loan    Equity   Total
---($1US millioa)-
202-PAN         1971    Corp.Des.        Tourism          1.2       0.3     1.5
Hotelero
393-PAN         1978    Vidrios          Glass            2.4       1.4     3.8
Panamenos       Factory
427/783/PAN 1979/85/86 Bco. Latino       Money &         42.3       2.5    44.8
Amer.de Expor-  Capital
taciones S.A.   Market
Total gross commitments                                  45.9       4.2    50.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment, and sales                                   28.4      0.3    28.7
Total commitments now held by IPC                        17.5       3.9    21.4
Total undisbursed                                          -        0.1     0.1



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
PANAMA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I.  Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:             Two years
(b) Prepared by:                       Goverament with IBRD assistance
(c) First IBRD mission:                October 1984
(d) Appraisal mission departure:       April 1986
(e) Negotiations:                      September 8, 1986
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:   Mid December 1986
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III. Special Conditions
Prior to disbursement of the second tranche, the following conditions
should be met (paras 96 and 97):
(a) completion of program to reduce the public sector workforce by two
percent;
(b)  adoption of all necessary measures to strengthea the administrative
capabilities of the CSS, including a reduction of 120 in
administrative staff;
(c)  reform of the CSS  IVM program in a manner consistent with an
actuarially sound financial basis;
(d)  adoption of necessary measures to reduce the long-term financial
burden of pensions under the Leyes Especiales;



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)   reduction of tariffs on agricultural products to agreed levels;
(f)   reorganization of IMA, including ending the BDAs maize pledging
scheme and sale of all crop and salt inventories;
(g)   complete divestiture of three of four specified public
enterprises; and
(h)   ensure the Government's external financing needs for 1987.
- 



-44 -
*A w
PAK-    SECIX S1URTMAL 'Aun         IM    R2
SEMER AND MCY ISSUE                     Fn    TRNE                 SEMD  RAU
.~ ~~I REICf
L EUM ElCr9=R
1. Closes of BlblIc Entities
a) ENASI (Seed Gmpany)         Seserch ftnctioos
transferred to MDIP.
Quare of CAlial
operatimrs axd
-disposa of assets.
b) HIDI. (Agriculural          Draft sale reseoluo  co
Pyol)              Cabint.
Disposl of assets.
c) Azuer &1gar Mil             M'lM  dstoed ard Ca3ut
nagr~iaitto disposal of
assets.
Final disposal of
assets.
2. Divsmats of Ebblic Eatities   Sale of na  of these         Sale by April 1, 1987 of t
enterprises.             Jfurter enerprises on this
(i)  Cttr1o d Chriqui                                     list.
(it) Aeroperlas                Assts sold.
(ili) IHtel ontalora           Assets sold.
(iv) Alaaje Sugpr MIM          Intenaoa  aantd.
3.  A*lic Sector Workforce                                    It  percent redmction dring
1966.
4. Social Security Fund            (i)  Transfer leyes        (i)  iactmnt of new
Eapeciales to             Pension 1aw, including:
hxget;            (a) Reidctim of early
(ii) initiate measres    retiresnt pensions aad
to iprowe administra-     gradal elimdnadon of early
tlve efficieacy;          rer1nr;
(iii) Cab   t approval    (b) ncw srale of pension
of draft La govening      rights;
pens  se;                 (c) lo1r averaging period
(iv) understasdiog on     for pension Fase;
reform of leyes           Cd) inflation adjustmnot of
-nles:,                   pensions;
(e) maiaterance of
captalzatonlevel.
Cii) Redaction of CSS
wcrkforce.
(iii) Refom of layes
Espedales.
5. Financial stabilization         Pt in place aa accept-    Satsfactory cculiaoc with
able stabilization        staRih1elon progra.
yprogra6
6. Ebblic nvestment program        Aguenet with Bark          Satisfactory financial pla.
prelindnary 1987 invest-
mat program



-45 -
ANNE IV
Pow 2 of 3
PNMN - SEN   SIUCRA  ADJMlMr IDAN PR1XAM
SECIIR AND HLICY ISSUE                   FDlT IRNE                  SECOID IRANDE
IL  INDUIS4AL AND RA1DE F.LCI
1.  lndustrial Incentives 1        New l  passed, March
1986, inhxd1r.
(a) disaoidnatain of
Contracts with the
Nktica;
(b) nxdma tariff
protection of 20 percent
for new inristrtal
products, 33 percent for
Lew agroustrial
products.
(e) reductim of
existilg prtection;
*d) those percent
ugniam tariff.
leduction of exlsting
ariff  Aigust 1, LW986,
as the first of 5 equal
acts to a adimn of 60
percent (90 percent for
a few exceptional
products).
2. Geral incentives and            All bit Z import quotas
protec-tive struca re                med before June 30,
1986.
3. Thriff AdLinistration           B1N system and CIF
tariff base aiopted.
eci c duties to be
supplaeted with
ad-valorem duties for
all cmwdities; no
specific duties to be
raised.
III. IABDCL VLICIES                l   passw dM i 1986,
1.   Labor Cods                    mDdifying the Gode to:
(1) permit plecewk;
(ii) encurag rewards
for productivity;(iii)
rationalize overtime
provisioas for satll,
export and agro-based
firms;
(iv) remov subcantract-
ing frmm the scope of
tie CGle.
Imrovements ia the
adadaistration of the
labor CQe, including
quidoar decisiocs,
appeals, etc.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
PaE 3 of 3
BOM  - SEUND SWICIUR&L ADtrfh    IfMAN FAM
SO     IN)P         ISSUE               FIRST  RE                  SEC     D
IV. AIaJiaM1R AND RUtAL
1.              Incnitives NaIW LOW passed, March
TPgLlat1m                     1986.
(i) replacing self-suf-
ficLer-y aim wLth the
purstdt of amparative
advatare;
(ii) aboklishing iqport
ubstitutim targets;
(ii)  ablsR  g
automatic quntitativie
-restrictime c
agriaditwal imports.
2.  Promher Prices and biuort      End of support prices      Reduction of import dutie  co
Tariffs                       for rice, crzimxs, bems    rice, anize, anions, and
a  salt.                  bens.
hibort quotas on rice.    En- of support price for
mime, oxiiis, and beans . i!
lifted and replaced with
eqtivaUmt tariffs.
3. Qnsumer Pfle                    Hading of price controls
cz 20 categories of
foods.
Baling of price cztrols
on faor further items.
4. Rbbic Sector RPle                      e    of end to      En of UI crcp-pledgL:g
1D  crop pirdasing,       systen.
incling salt.             Revisim of mA's charter.
kM30LMcemet Of 1m3ch       Sale of remsinirg salt
red  role for NAL.        imentories.
Sale of rice aid part of
salt lnentories.



- 47 -
ANEX v
FIXED INVESTMENTS: SECTORAL ALLOCATIONS FOR 1985-87
(percent)
1985      1986      1987
Actual   Estimated Preliminary
Agriculture                             7.5       8.2        10.0
Industry                                1.2       2.8        1.9
Productive Sectors                    8.7      11.0       11.9
Education                               3.3       6.5         6.2
Health                                  8.2      15.3        12.2
Housing                                 3.5       3.0        2.0
Social Sectors                       15.0      24.8       20.4
Energy                                 37.7      21.6       26.3
Transport                              26.1      19.1       17.9
Telecommunication                       7.8      11.0        10.3
Infrastructure                       71.6      51.7       54.3
Multisectorala/                         4.7      12.5       13.2
Total                                 100.0     100.0      100.0
Memo: Public Investment (B/.million)
Total Capital Expenditures            243       265        292
Fixed                                 203       220        242
Net Lending and Ocher                  40        45         50
at Includes integrated rural development projects, preinvestuent studies and
a group of small non-cacegorizable investments.
Source: MIPPE and World Bank staff.



S
MAP SECTION



*1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                            E  l.
P A N A M A
OIL PIPELINE
. NATIONAL PORTS
PORTS AND DOCKING LOCATIONS
SURFACED ROADS
GRAVEL ROADS
PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
RAILRDADS
*t  AIRPORTS I LANDING STRIPS
F RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ur ;, - -.-
ELEVATIONS IN METERS
_ y>= '   f--                           _1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---
1-0 ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~         U
IL
r ...........HE R   R)EUAg,
-~~~~eC1(...q rti! W'>
U-
G.mi      *                                         I 5         x
H~~~r' IMn    ....  R    \I<f
ik~~~~~~~~~~~h.
n    h _       L.W.A                 HE     R R                   ___. d 
A                                 ,1-' t
(     C                                                           A 
.r  f                                                          F6C  
F   A    C   i F        / C0                                    C    E    A    AN
B?                                           B



IBRD 19092
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F -1                                                              IIM*AMA%II)EI11
A     P- /11  . A'               -i     v
I LIIA     rX IMWJ AIJ
Mit Xi, 0    It SCLU   JAMAICA  A HIl
CAJATrMAlIA 11J(5JINAS
Fl SAVADON 'f NIt AhAGUA
COSIA RICA--
PANAMA        NAL
No.WiclitD5m     V                                                                                                              11*AJIL
C,1  O                                                           I,
_tie    4         \,p00 ,A                                                                                             I
r~~~~~~~r
---c1-                                                                                  ', A  AJ
AA 
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06
r 5
G u/                                                                                   . :       I                                           _
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~C .   .,. .      . . .. 
KIIOMETERS                                                                    .       j
0       D      7.0    30       Z               60
MIILES--
JULY 1985



I1



