Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RepOt No. 8488
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAd 2015-BR)
MARCH 26, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Brazil Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
T1hd document bas a resticted diwbudon and may be used by recipiets only In die performce of
thde  offic  dutis Its contets may not othrwise be disckled without Word Bank autoriadon.



CURRENCY I9uIVALRNTS
Currency Unitl - Brazilian New Cruzado (NCz$)
US$1.00 - NCz$ 1.3532
NCz$ - US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil = January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE Program - April 1 to March 31
Project - April 1 to March 31
/ The Brazilian currency was changed from the cruzeiro (Cr$) to the
cruzado (Cz$) in February 1986, at the ratio of Cr$1000 - Cz$1. On
January 16, 1989, the currency was again changed to .-he novo cruzado
(NCz$) at the ratio of Cz$1,000 - NCz$l.
2/ As of June 22, 1989.



FOR OFFICAL Ui OINLY
TO* WORLD BA tIE
USA^
0. d Oiacorilr
Darch 26, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Copletion Report on Brazil
Piaui Rural Develoyment Pto1ect (Loan 2015-BR)
Attached, for information, is 8 copy of a report entitled OProject
Completion Report on Braxilt Piaui Rural Development Project (Loan 2015-BR)
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this tlme.
Attachment
T1i documnt hasa mrdcutod ditzibuto sd oma be _W by tociptl   n thMe psfo
of thei oci dutes Its cotets mayot oterWi be dieod    t Woud Seek audh@dum



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CEPA-PI                 Comssao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Piaui
(State Agricultural Planning Comnission)
CEPRO                   Comissao Estadual de Programacao
(State Planning Foundation)
CIDAPI                  Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuaria do Piaui
(State Agriculturrl Development Company)
COBAL                   Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Federal Food Company)
CODERPI                 Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario do Piaui
(State Company for Road Development)
CPS                     Central Projects Staff
IMBRAPA                 Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER                Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e
Extrnsao Rural
(Federal Rural Extension Company)
FAO                     Food and Agriculture Organization
ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
INCRA                   Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform)
INTERPI                 Instituto da Terra do Piaui
(State Land Institute)
LCB                     Local Competitive Bidding
MINA6RI                 Ministerio de Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
MINTER                  Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
NRDP-PAPP               Program de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural
(Northeast Rural Development Program)
PCR                     Project Completion Report
rTh document ha a sicdditdbutn and may be usd by rdpients only in th peformane
of thi offica dutis Its contents may not otherwieb be dicsed without Wodd Dank authodbaton.



G0o1aaty of Acrosyms (Continued)
POLONORDESTE            Ptogratm  dt  Desenvolvfiento de Areas ITtogradas do
Rordeste
(DevOlopm9nt Program for Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
SAR                     Staff Appraisal Report
SUDEN                   Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for Northeast Development)
UBPAS-PI                Unidade do Bxecucao da Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
P piaui
(State Branch of Federal Agricultural Research
Comany)



BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2015-BR)
?ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Con.ents
PREFACE*#** ...1......                                               i
BASIC DATA SBEET *                                                 ii
_EVALUATION                            SMAY,iv
II.  MNTODCT                 O 
_1. PROJECT FORMULATION ..... ..... ..................................  1
Identification, Preparation and Appaisal ...........1
Board Approval .......... ...........................t ...2
Objectives and Descriptions...................................  2
Project Costs and Financing ..................................  4
III.  IWLM       P L EMN......      E NT...............I O N...   4
Project Components. ... t  .......... . ........                    4
aDisbursements ..........       ................................ 12
Procurement ......................... 1.2
Reports and Audtn .................  0                        g000   12
Adherence to Covnnt v...................... 13
IV.  ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL IMACT ..................          ..      13
On-Farm Benefits and Aggregate Production.................... 13
Economic Rate of Return...................................... 14
Other Be efis.......................... 14
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PEFRFMCE .................................... 15
VI.  BANK PERFORMANCE.................. to.  15
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .........             ........... 16



Table of Contents (Continued)
AWIEX I
Table Is Project Targets and Accomplisbments ................ 19
Table 2s Annual Projects Costs .............................. 21
Table 3:  Total Project Costs ................................     22
Table 4s Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan ............. 23
Table St  Project Beneficiaries ..............................     24
ANNEX It
Table Is Farm Incoms.-s ..................................... 25
Table 2:  Land Beneficiary Farm M2del..                            26
Table 3s  Land Beneficiary with Irrigation Farm Model ........ 27
Table 4:  Crop Yields ........................................ 28
Table 5:  Project Production ................................. 29
Table 6s  Project lconamic Ahnalysis ........................... 30
IBRD 20444R



BRAZnL
PIAUI RURUL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- (Loan 2015-BR)
PROJECT ClOM ON REPOT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Piaui Rural
Development Project (Loaa 2015-nR). The loan of US$29 million was approved
on June 16, 1981, and the Loan and Project Agreements a'.e dated August 10,
1981. The loan closed on its original date, December 31, 1986, and the
final disbursement took place on March 31, 1987. Some US$17 milllon vas
disbursed, and US$12 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Brazil Department in the Latin America and Carribean Region. The PCR is
based on a Bank field visit in May/June 1988, the Staff Appraisal Report,
the President's Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, a PCI prepared by
the state and other state studies. Bank supervision reports, project
correspondeace, and internal Baok memorand.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on January 16, 1990, for comments by
March 6, 1990, but none were received.



i..
PIAIJ MM   }TAPV
POECT CWeTU rSR
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual or         Actua as X
Appraisal          Estime            of Appraisal
Idt"Lo               Actual            Estiate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)             84.4                 86.8                  4S
Loan Amount (USS mliton)                     29.0                 17.0
Disbursed (USS m llIon)                    2s.a                17.0                  50
Cancelled (US m   1m OR)                                       12.0                  -
Date Board Approval                                             06/16/81
Loan Agreemat Date                                              098/1/1
Date Effectioelnsl                           11/09/81           92/96/2                1690
Closing Dat                                 12/31/86            12/81/86               199
Econoelc Rate of Reburn M)                     20                 10                    t9
Institutional Porformac                        1                   2
Technical performance !i                       1                   2
Numbr of Diret Bncliarles
Agriculture                               9,6                  7,767                 82
Fisheries                                 I,m                     185
Staff Input/F FY7                  8           FY1       9          FY84   FYOS  FY8 FY87  FYN  TOTAL,
IdentifteationPreparatlon   6.0  74.1  79.6                                                          160.9
Appraisal                                     179.6                                                  179.5
Negotiations                                    6.7                                                    6.7
Supervision                                     1.1  61.8   8.8  14.6  19.1   6.5  14.2    .6  120.1
TOTAL                 6.9  74.1  79.6  178.8  61.3   9.8  14.6  10.1   6.5  14.2    .6  467.2
CUMLTVE DISBURSEMEN
FY81   FY52   FYS8   FY4   FY05   FY66   FY67
Apprnnasl Estimate (USS million)  9.00   4.9   14.6   22.1   26.1   20.9   29.9
cul (US1 *illIon)                 0.00   2.0    5.5    6.4   18.5   16.8   17.0
Actual as X of Etimate             -    41      87      88      62      66     50.0
Date of Final Disbursement:  March 31, 1967
s/ Calculatod In teors of months from date of Board approevl.
1 a Problem-free or minor problems; 2 * Moderate problem; 8 a Major problem
s/ Input as staff wees. Source: World Bank Latin America and tho CariMben Region Office of the Chief
Administrator



- ul1 -
Date     No. df  S/D in  Speial lasio          l o
lloXYh~c                   e Fruone  Fi-ld    s-&- * r'
Idsntlflcotlon           173        2          1       c.e
Identificatlon           J/l        6         6       e.a,g,o,o
Preparation             S/7         I          a      k
Preparation             11/76 3          646 a.bie,g,,d
Prparration              2/79       S         6S      *,b,c,h*,c,
Prepration               5/73       3         2C      o,f,c
ore  rtln       6/79       2          4      e,e
PrepFrlon      11/79       1                 a e
Preparation               ns        11                e
Preparation             19/79       1                 a
on        ~~missing -  see pro)ect brefo
Preparrtion               /6 5/10   9        147     c0c,e,J,d,o,o,i,f
Apprisetl               l/$U        9        t1       k,f,c,c,c,J,d,a,*
Post-Aper isal           2/SU       5         s9       I,c,c,c,o
Ispl_tation              siei       a          9      e,d,l
Full Supervislon 1      11/"1       0         es      e,-,a,I,lj             2          1          b, T
Parolal Superviotin 2    8/82       1          8
Partial SupIrtvion a    8/a2          *               h
Full Supervision 4       6/82       0         a       e  J,hh,               2          1          i, T
Full Supervisiong S       /62       1          a      c                      2          1          it 
Partial Supervislon 6    1/$$       1          4      h
Partial Sup.rvlelon 7   4/33        1          1      1
Partial Supervision 8   1/e3       1          4      1
Partlal Supervilion 9    2/64       1          4      h
Full Sup r"vision 1 e     /4        1         14      a                      2          1          4 T
Partial Supervision 11  19/84       2          4      d,d
Partial Supervision 12   1/U        1          t      h
Partial Suwprvislon 18  4/U6        1          8      d
Full Sun rvlsion 14      4/UC       2         26      a,d                    2          2          T, U
Partial Supervislon 16  9/Ut        1          0
Partial Sup"rvliion 10 12/86        1                 h
Full Supervision 17      8/86       1          9      a                      9
Full Supervision 16      0/U        1         14      a                      2
Ptrtial Supervision 19  £2/U        1          0
Pull Supervision 20     J/
TOtAL                963
Other Proecct Dat.
Sorrrowr           :  Federative Republic of rsalil
Ex t eut!n A  n    :  State of Plant
F_l_f_ ___         :  April 1 - March J1
Nor  of Currency (Abbrevlation)  :  broailian Crus iro (CrS)/Sr*azlln Cruzade (Cs$)
Appraisl   Yer (19(lo    Averg    1USS1 M.  a Cr3Si   /
Intervening Years Average         USS1.36 a Cal 4.521/
Completion Year (1986) Average   U1831.10 a CaU31.65
Fo Nig   n  rslect:         :mNorthbet Rural Devolopment - Piaui
Loan NuRber                 : 2762-IR
Loan Amount (US$ million)   : USJ1 million
Date of Ooard Approval      : July 269 1937
a a Agriculturist; b a Agricultural Economist; c = Econeolst; d a Irripgtion Engneer; o a Loan Officer;
t * Rural Sociologist; 9 * Heslth/Senitatlon Specialtst; h a Educatlon SpecIalist;
I  Fisheries Specialiet; j a Roads Engineer; k a Land Spectlat t; I a Civil Engtner
1 * Problem-troo or minor problems; 2 a Moderate problems; 3 a Major problem,; ccording to SPN *eport
ratings
j/   1 * Improving; 2 : Stationary; 8 a Deterating; In 1966 new SPN reporb doe nt includ trends
a/ F = Financial; U * Manangrlil; T a Technical; P a Political; 0 a Cthsr, new SVW does not quality types of
problem
#    A Full Supervlsion Mission was done In June 1967; draft rpe.t vas not distributed.
Sup&. vision date  xclud   ot partial road supervisions which were conducted once or twice a yer until
Exchang rats so stated in AppraIsal Report, Vay 22, 1931
Averages of cruse ro  (at euado equivlency) and cruaos fero  April 1961 to Marh 196? wets averagd
out.



- iv -
PIAUT RURAL DEzYOWPMENT PROJECT
floan 2012-BR)
PROJECT 2_      "  REPORT
FJWUATION SUMHARY
Obiectfvte
1.       The Piaui Rural Development Project was the eighth in a series of
tea Bank-financed integrated rural devolopment projects in Northeast Brazil
approved between 1976 and 1983. It was the first to have land ten"ri
Improvement as its central focus. In addition to increasing agricultural
production and improving incomes and living standards, the project sought
to develop simple, technically sound, and cost-effective methodologies for
land redistribution and regularization.
plewntatlon
2.       At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$84.4 million, and
the Ba&% loan of US$29 million vas to finance 35Z of project cost, net of
taxes. In 1983, the project was included in the Special Action Program to
accelerate disbursements for agricultural protects in Brazil, and Bank
cost-sharin;J was Increased to 50S. At the close of the project (December
31, 1986, with final disbursement on March 31, 1987), the Bank had
disbursed USS47 million, or 592 of the original loan. Some US$12 million
were cancelled. Total project costs were estimated at US$36.3 million or
432 of the original estimate.
ReSUlts
S.       The number of direct agricultural beneficiaries was 822 of the
appraisal estimate (about 7.760 compared to 9,500). Incomes of project
benoficiaries did improve, but not as much as anticipated at appraisal.
Actual incremental income is estimated to have reached the lower levels of
SAR estimates. Incomes for land beneficiaries with irrigation improved the
most, from about US$890 annually per farm to about US$2,610. Average
incomes for rainfed land beneficiaries also improved, from about US$890
tanually to about US$2,140. The increased incomes for land beneficiaries
cue primarily from an expansion In cultivated area and the elimination of
land rental payments. Relatively small yield Increases also occurred, in
the range of 10 to 402 for rainfed farmers and 30 to 702 for irrigated
fegmers. Yield increases were primarily the result of improved seeds, some
Improved spacing and lntercropping, and irrigation where available. The
technological level remained basically unchanged.
4.       In aggregate terms, the total cultivated area increased by about
162 (as opposed to 1022 estimated in the SAR), and the value of production
increased by 502 (as opposed to 2192). The appraisal report estimated the
ERR to be 202, but stated that a range of 15 to 252 was more realistic.
The recalculated rate of return is about 10. The shortfalls between the
PCR and the SA. estimates are due to a lower than expected number of land
beneficiaries, and more modest yield and area increases.



m- 
S.       A number of Important project benefits are not captured In the
rate of return analysis. The project provided empirical evidence that land
activities, such as discrimination and redistribution, could be carried out
without social conflict. Institutional development was also significant.
In addition to changing attitudes toward small farmer development, the
project trained a cadre of technicians who are key figures in current state
rural develop mt activities. The human resource development vhich took
place in most POLONORDISTE projects was truly noteworthy in the Piaui case.
Finally, Improved roads, education, and water supply unquestionably
Improv d the quality of life in the comunities which benefited from these
activities.
6.        The Piaui project developed workable and technically sound
methodologies for land redistribution, and some of these are being
suceessfully replicated in other parts of the Northeast. Bowever, on the
whole, the Piaui experience is not replicables it was possible only
because the price of land was, and continues to be, very low in Piaui, both
In absolute terms and in relation to land prices throughout the rest of the
region.
Sustainablitv
7.        'hile requiring an inordinate amount of Bank staff resources for
appraisal and early supervision, the experiences derived from project
implementation were applied beyond the state boundaries and influenced the
design of the second generation of *ural development projects throughout
the Northeast. The project was not overly ambitious In terms of physical
targets, many of which were fulfilled, but it was overly optimistic in
terms of adoption rates for improved technology, particularly in light of
existing rural credit policies (high subsidies leading to severe cutbacks)
and the very low initial levels of farmers' incomes and knowledge.
Nonetheless, farm incomes did improve considerakty for the beneficiaries,
and the project brought important institutional benefits to the state and
to the region. As was the case with the other POLONORDESTE projects, more
might have been achieved if counterpart funding and regional and federal
institutional performmace were better. On the whole, institutional
performance at the state levcl was satisfactory, and in retrospect,
probably much better than could have reasonably been expected.
Findings and Lessons Learned
G.       The major lessons learned from the Piaui project are the
followings
(a) The price of innovation is very high, particularly in areas
with high levels of poverty and low levels of institutional
development. If the Bank is to continue upon occasion to do
innovative projects, it must explicitly recognize the cost (in
terms of heavy staff inputs) and be willing to pay the price.
(b) intensive supervision in the initial stage of a project can be
very effective a84 can result in fewer implementation problems
and lower Bank staff requirements in subsequent stages.



- vI -
(c) Political commitment to the project's basic objectives is a
key ingredient for success; in the absence of such a
comaitment an a continuing basis. it is doubtful whether
sustainability can be achieved.
(d) Multi-component projects which are organized around a central,
leading theme (whether it is land or something else) are more
likely to be implemented in an integrated fashion at the field
level.
(e) Institutional capacity under certain circumstances can be
created or strengthened fairly quickly; other non-technical
constraints, such as counterpart funding delays and
shortfalls, may seem 6asier to eliminate in principle, but can
prove to more difficult and intractable in the long run.
(f) Beneficiary couitment to operate and maintain project
infrastructure, such as rural water supply systems, is
essential; this commitment should be obtained prior to
construction.
(g) Land redistribution, by itself, is not a solution to rural
poverty. Without complementary services and investments to
induce technological change, production and income levels will
remain relatively low.



BRA-ZIL
hAul RURAL DEVELOPHETPRJC
{Loo0a 201S-BR)
PROJECT COMPLUTION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Since the late 1800., the Northeast has been viewed as Brazil's
foremost 'problem area    The country's Wealthiest region during the sugar
boom of the colonial period, the Northeast subsequently lagged behind as
industrial, agricultural, and coummercial activity shifted to the south.
Periodic droughts, uneven rainfall, a relatively poor natural resource
base, and a highly skewed land distribution combine to make the Northeast
one of the largest poverty areas on the Latin American continent.
1.02     In 1973, the Government and the Bank initiated a dialogue on rural
development issues and strategies for the Northeast. The dialogue
coincided with, and was partially the result of, a growing interest on the
part of the Bank and the Government in poverty-oriented integrated rural
development programs. In October 1974, the Program of Development of
Integrated Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE) was created. It sought to
Increase the production, ~roductivity, incomes, and the standards of living
of small farmers and their families in selected micro-regions. The Bank,
over the next decade, cofinanced ten POLONORDESTE projects in eight
Northeast states. The Piaui Rural Development Project, the subject of this
PCR, was the elghth in the series and was the first to attempt to tackle
land tenure issues In a comprehensive fashion.
1.03     The POLONORDESTE projects represent the "first generation' of
rural development projects in Northeast Brazil. Reviews of POLONORDESTE
and other Northeast rural programs were carried out by the Government and
the Bank during the 1980s. Drawing on these interim assessments, a 'second
generations of projects began In April 1905 with the signing of the first
two loans for the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP-PAPP) in
the States of Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe. Subsequently, under the
NEDP, a regional lnd tenure Improvement project and eight more state
projects were approved and are currently under implementation.
II. PROJECT PONMLATION
Identification. Preparation and Appraisal
2.01     The State of Piaui first contacted the Bank as to the possibility
of preparing a project for Bank financing in October 1977. The Bank's
support of POLONORDESTE projects In other Northeastern states prompted
Piaui's request. Project identification and preparation were very lengthy
because of three factorss a) the agroclizatic and socLoeconomLc condLtions
in part of the state (the Vale do Parnaiba which eventually became the
project area) were different from the semi-arid drylands where the Bank had
already begun to work on rural development in the Northeast;
b) Infrastructure, logiLtics, and technLcal capacity within the state were
precarious; and c) the land tenure situation in the state (the worst within



-2-
the Northeast) was such that the Bank felt it could not proceed with a
rural developmeat project unless a comprehensive, workable strategy for
addressing this issue was developed.  --cause it was recognized that this
would be a difficult and costly project to prepare, appraise and supervise,
responsibility for the project was transferred during preparation from the
agricultural division within the Latin American region to the Rural
Development Division within CPS.
2.02     Although the state's planning foundation, CEPRO, was responsible
for the final preparation document, it received heavy assistance from
SUDENE (the Superintendency for Development of the Northeast), federal
ministries and agencies (such as MINUGRI and MINTER, the Ministries of
Agriculture and Interior, respectively; and COBAL, the Federal Food
Company), foreign consultants, and the Bank itself, particularly the Recife
Field Office. In fact, the Bank alone invested 59 staffweeks in the field
for identification (three missions) and preparation (ten missions).
Appraisal took place In October 1980, followed by a post-appraisal mission
in February 1981. About 43 staffweeks were spent in the field appraising
the project. In total, about 330 staffweeks were spent on the project's
identification, preparation, and appraisal. This heavy manpower input was
explicitly recognised and justified on the basis that the project was
innovative and would be the first to address land-related issues in the
Northeast in a comprehensive fashion.
Board Approval
2.03     Laud-related matters and counterpart funding were extensively
discussed during negotiations, and Bank staff were reasonably confident
that the Piaui project would start on a firm footing. The project was
enthusiastically supported by Bank management and the Board. No major
questions arose during the Board Presentation, although previous problem
with counterpart funding and implementation of land activities were
mentioned. As it turned out, problems with both of these, and particularly
the former, were significant during project implementation.
Obiectives and Description
2.04     The project was aimed at raising incomes and employment levels of
the rural poor, improving rural living conditions, and expanding farm and
fishery production to help ensure an adequate food supply to the urban
population, and enhancing the capacity of state and local institutions to
provide production-related infrastructure and services to small farmers and
fisherman. A special objective was the development of a simple, relatively
low-cost, and technically sound approach to land redistribution and other
land-related matters. These objectives remained unchanged throughout
project implementation.
2.05     The project was to be implemented over a five-year period.  The
project area of 26 municipalities (about 1OX of the state area) was located
in the western part of the state, generally considered to be the area with
the greatest agricultural potential. Through an amendment, two adjacent
municipalities were added to the project area in 1984. Project components
included the following:



-3-
(a) Land activities: Acquisition, allotment and redistribution of
about 200,000 ha to about 5.000 landless farmerss land tenure
regularization of about 900,000 has demarcation and land titling
for about 1,500 small farmers; and assistance to the newly created
State Land Institute;
(b) Agricultural develoiment:  applied research; extension; seed
production and distribution; marketing, and small-scale irrigation
on about 1,500 ha;
(c) Fisheries developments provision of equipment, marketing
facilities, research, technical assistance and training for about
1,800 fishing families;
(d) Phtsical infrastructut : rehabilitation and upgrading of about
1,350 km of existing rural roads; and construction of about 400 km
of new rural access roads and tracks;
(e) Social infrastructure: Construction of about 200 low-cost water
supply systems, and expansion of basic education facilities and
services in 11 municipalities; and
(f) Proiect administrations coordination, planning, monitoring and
evaluation.
Although requested by the state, rural health activities were not included
in the project, because both preparation of the component and the state's
implementation capacity were found to be deficient. The Government
financed this component without Bank participation. Rural credit was also
not included, because the level of official credit subsidies was
unacceptable to the Bank. The Government also financed this component.
Because the existing POLONORDESTE coordination unit was found to be weak,
the project set up a separate administrative unit to coordinate project
activities. This unit was also to be responsible for project land
activities until the newly created State Land Institute was prepared to
execute project land activities. Project design was recognized as
ambitious in light of the state's institutional capacity. However, these
measures, along with significant technical assistance and above average
Bank supervision input, were designed to increase the chances for project
success.
2.06     While resembling a classic integrated rural development project,
the emphasis on land activities set the design apart. One key feature of
the strategy was that no project infrastructure and social investments were
to h1ve been made in any munic pality until the project had acquired land
for redistribution in that municipality. Detailed annual planning,
allowing for adjustments, was also considered to be a key feature in
project design. Project design and components remained essentially
constant throughout project implementation.



-4-
Proiect Costs and Pinancina
2.07     Project costs were estimated at US$84.4 million, and the Bank loan
of US$29 million was meant to finance 35? of project cost, net of taxes.
In 1983, the project was included in the Special Action Program to
accelerate disbursements for agricultural projects in Brazil, and the
overall disbursement percentage was raised to 67.5?. In June 1985, the
overall disbursement percentage was lowered to 502 in order to arrive at a
maximum 50Q Bank cost-sharing over the life of the project. By that time,
the norm for Bank cost-sharing in Brazil had been increased from 352 to
50. At the close of the project (December 31, 1986, with final
disbursement on March 31, 1987), the Bank had disbursed US$17 million, or
59Z of the original loan. Some US$12 million were cancelled. Total
project costs were estimated at US$36.3 million or 43Z of the original
estimate. The Bank's actual cost-sharing percentage was 47? (Annex I,
Tables 2-4).
III. PROJECT IMPLEENTATION
3.01     The Piaui loan was approved in June 1981, signed in August 1981,
and became effective in February 1982. The delay in effectiveness was a
result of delays in signing a written agreement between the State Land
Institute (INTERPI) and the National Institute for Land Reform and
Colonization (INCRA), a condition of effectiveness. The loan formally
closed on its original closing date, December 31, 1986. At that time, the
number of direct agricultural beneficiaries was 82? of the appraisal
estimate (about 7,760 compared to 9,500); the number of rainfed land
redistribution beneficiaries was 722 of the appraisal estimate (about 2,460
compared to 3,500); the number of land beneficiaries with irrigation was
about 53? of the appraisal estimate (about 795 compared to 1,500); and the
number of fisheries beneficiaries was 35? of the appraisal estimate (about
630 compared to 1,800) (Annex I, Table 5). At the time of loan closing, it
was recognized that the project had not yet completed all of its original
targets, but the Bank believed that essential activities could be completed
under the second-generation follow-up project and decided not to extend the
closing date. Estimated targets and accomplishments b) component are shown
in Annex I, Table 1.
Proiect Comuonents
Land Activities
3.02     Land Acquisition and Redistribution.  Land-related activities,
particularly the acquisition and distribution of land, were the most
important (and most controversial) aspects of the project. Appraisal
targets were the acquisition and distribution of 200,000 ha to 5,000
families. Land offered for sale to the project was to be evaluated
rigorously by a technical commission, comprised of state, INCRA and rural
union representatives, in order to establish its quality and fair purchase
price; unsuitable lands or lands which were too expensive were not to be



-5-
purchased. Subsequently, careful surveys were to be conducted, so that the
allotment of 30 to 50 ha plots per family vould be done in a technically
adequate manner, taking into account soils, topography, distance from
roads, and the need for and location of complementary infrastructure (e.g.,
water supply, schools). Beneficiaries were to be chosen carefully, in
accordance with such criteria as proximity to the property, land tenure
situation (landless or inadequate holdings), and size of the family. After
a grace period, beneficiaries were to make annual payments for the land.
State technical expertise was virtually to ba built up from scratch through
technical assistance from INCRA, private consultants, and the Bank. Major
worries were that large landowners would unite and block land offers to the
project; land offered would be exclusively of poor quality; and the project
would fuel land speculation, driving up the price of land in the area.
3.03     Surprisingly, many of these concerns proved to be unfounded during
the course of project implementation. About 520,000 ha were offered for
sale; some 197,600 ha were purchased, and about 140,000 ha were
redistributed by the time of loan closing. The project managed to acquire
land in 24 of the 28 project municipalities. The average price of land
(estimated at US$40/ha at appraisal) actually declined during the course of
project implementation, and overall was closer to US$15-25/ha. The drought
during the 1980s, the constrained macroeconomic situation, the
modernization of Piaui (the landholding elite diversified into other
activities), and the Governor's explicit declaration that lands with
productive potential would be expropriated if not used are probably the
major factors responsible. Conservative and committed project management
in the first couple of years was also important.
3.04     Nonetheless, not all of the land distributed was of suitable
quality. In saw. cases, land of dubious quality was either donated or
purchased to avoid social tension; in a few cases, acquisition was
apparently based on political factors. At the request of the Bank and the
new State Government, a special study of the situation of the redistributed
properties wva carried out in late 1987 by the State Agricultural Planning
Commission (CEPA-PI), which had only been marginally Involved in project
mplementation (marketing component). The study, the state's completion
report, and a subsequent Bank mission found that, in general, the average
quality of the land redistributed was in line with the average quality
fourv within the project area. Of a total of about 3,260 lots, only 3.6?
had never been distributed because of land quality. Of the remainder,
another 11.8? were considered to have problems because they were either
abandoned, the owners were not cultivating, or they were being cultivated
by renters or sharecroppers. In the survey conducted by CEPA-PI, the
principal causes cited weres poor soil quality (18?); personal problems
(divorce, poor health, no interest In living on or working the land)(23Z);
lack of water supply (17X); insufficient wood for fences (11); lack of
access to the property(7Z); and lack of credit or own resources to
cultivate (18X). The highest percentage of problems was found in the
southern portion of the project area, where many of the early properties
were acquired. Unquestionably, the psychological factor of not knowing how
much, if any, land would be offered to the project in its starting months
was a factor.



-6-
3.05     The build-up of technical skills among project land redistribption
staff was impressive. Several of the Piaui technicians went on to provide
advice to other states and to INCRA itself. However, while formal
responeibility was with INTERPI, the land redistribution group remained
within the project coordination unit until 1985. In the final years and
until today, the transfer to INTERPI slowed down the pace of land
redistributi -r, and INTERPI is now considered to be one of the worse state
land institutes in the Northeast. Its poor institutional performance also
affected land repayment. Land repayment, because of the drought, was not
begun until 1984. In 1984, about 50Z of the beneficiaries made the annual
payment. After the transfer to INTERPI, and as a result of legal and
institutional problems, land repayments were not required of the
beneficiaries.
3.06     Land Discrimination.  The activity of discrimination (study of
land claims, recovery of public lands, and title regularization) was less
successful than that of redistribution. Executed by INTERPI, staffing and
counterpart funding problems hampered progress. About 43Z of the original
targeted area was actually discriminated. However, with the help of
foreign technical assistance and a very capable coordinator of the
activity, the methodology employed (including the use of orthophoto maps)
was innovative, allowing for increased efficiency and cost-effectiveness.
The methodology used in the Piaui project, after considerable years of
debate, went on to substitute INCRA's original methodology and is now the
standard methodology for discrimination employed throughout the Northeast.
Agricultural Develomaent
3.07     Technological progress was a major theme of the project.  The
central agricultural strategy was to improve production and yields through:
a) increased use of animal traction and mixed crop/livestock systems; and
b) improved soil preparation, seed varieties, intercropping, input use, and
more timely planting.
3.08     Agricultural Research.  Piaui was and continues be one of the only
Northeastern states without a state research agency. The Federal
Agricultural Research Company (EMPRAPA) maintains a branch in Teresina
(UEPAE-PI) and was responsible for component execution. Physical targets
for experiments and trials exceeded appraisal targets (291 trials compared
with 220). However, the lack of careful quality control, insufficient
linkages with extension, and the lack of farmer participation even In the
case of on-farm trials (45Z of the total) were frequent themes during the
course of project supervision. Also, not all of the trials were of direct
relevance to the small farmer beneficiaries of the project. Nonetheless.
by the close of the project, a perceptible improvement had occurred.
Research personnel, at first openly resistant to working with small farmers
on low-cost tec!nology improvements, were now enthusiastic and had
increased their field presence and cooperation with farmers significantly.
Linkages with extension were still not satisfactory, principally because of
institutional problems within the extension service.



3.09     Rural Extension.  The project financed both agricultural and
social extension. In addition, the state extension service was to play a
key role in land redistribution activities and credit planning. Physical
targets, in terms of farmers reached, were satisfictorily met (82Z of
appraisal estimates because of the shortfall in land beneficiaries, or
about 7,750 farmers). A number of field extensionists were highly
motivated, and a close relationship between some extension staff and land
beneficiaries was noted by some project supervision missions. Some
technical improvements, such as improved spacing and seeds, were also
witnessed in the field, and the work of extension was of fundamental
importance in the irrigated areas. However, no widespread technological
change occurred; most farmers, even land beneficiaries, continued to use
traditional technology with little or no use of modern inputs.
3.10     During the project's early years, the National Extension and
Technical Assistance Company (EMBRATER) maintained a Methodological
Innovation Project in part of the project area, aimed at improving the
efficacy of extension. Under constant supervision from EMBRATER, extension
In that area improved, only to revert back over time as EMBRATER lessened
its supervision. Extension problems encountered were similar to those
found all throughout the Northeast during the periods a) lack of
commitment to working with small farmers and/or lack of knowledge of the
project's basic objectives; b) logistical and administrative problems;
c) irregular field visits and frequent extensionist rotation; d)inadequate
training; and e) poor research-extension integration. Nonetheless, the
lack of availability of credit and the drought were probably more
responsible for the limited agricultural progress than the performance of
the extension agency per se.
3.11     Seed Production and Distribution.  The project envisaged that
three cooperatives would be equipped with 1,200 ton capacity storage units
and related equipment for the seed storage and treatment. The cooperatives
were then to sell the seeds (with a subsidy, declining from one-third of
the market price to zero by the end of the project) to project
beneficiaries. The three large storage units were not built, although
sixteen smaller units, with a total capacity of 3,750 tons, were
constructed at the village level under the marketing component. Some
equipment was installed in the cooperatives. In the earlier project years,
concerns about sanitary conditions and quality control by the cooperatives
were repeatedly expressed by supervision missions. Only about 168 tons of
improved seeds were eventually distributed to farmers under the project.
However, according to data provided by the extension service, about one-
quarter of project beneficiaries (1,930) were, by the project's eud, using
improved seeds on an estimated 8,750 ha.
3.12     Marketint. A comprehensive marketing component was included in
the project. Subcomponents were: a) a marketing diagnostic study and
market information services; b) improved input supply including
constructing eight new input supply stores (five by cooperatives and three
by the state-owned input supply company); c) collection, processing and
marketing of farmers' production (including rice for land repayment) by
cooperatives and COBAL (working capital for this financed only by the



Government) ; d) the participation of local retailers and cooperatives in
COBhL's wholesale supply system for basic food items (Rede Somar); and
e) expansion of the state's extension service and the state cooperative
organization's technical assistance and training activities with respect to
small farmer marketing and cooperative development. Physical
infrastructure targets were generally achieved or even surpassed, and by
the project's eompletion, about 1,500 farmers were regularly marketing
their production through cooperatives at prices generally above those
offered by private middlemen at the farmgate. The cooperatives were
considerably strengthened, in one case going from less than 300 members at
the start of the project to well over 2,000. Despite the project's support
to both, the relative importance of the cooperatives in input supply and
marketing increased, while that of the state agency's decreased. Seven
training courses for extension and cooperative workers were given. The
state's cooperative organization was provided with technical assistance
and, in turn, did visit the cooperatives on a more or less regular basis.
However, it is unclear whether their visits actually had an impact,
although cooperative accounting systems and financial control improved.
3.13     The two least successful subcomponents were the market information
system and the CORAL wholesale supply system. Regarding the former, data
was collected only in a relatively small number of municipalities, and
written lnformation was unsuitable (and not distributed) for small farmer
use. Only the daily radio shows had some impact. One warehouse was built
for the wholesale supply system and went into operation. However, most of
the retailers who used the system were from the neighboring city of
Parnaiba (the second largest in Piaui) and not from rural areas. The
project, therefore, had little or no impact on the relatively high cost of
food and basic hygiene products sold in rural areas.
3.14     Small-Scale Irrization.  Although a little over 5O0  of the
physical target (1,500 ha) was met, this component was plagued with
difficulties from the beginning. The institutional arrangements foreseen at
appraisal did not materialize, and the project coordination unit would up
executing the component directly. Some subprojects were not adequately
planned and designed; others lacked needed agricultural technical
assistance since farmers had virtually no experience in irrigated
agriculture. Nonetheless, as the years passed, increased production, due
to both increases in area and yields, was observed on most of the schemes.
While rice is the principal crop, a few schemes are also producing basic
grains and vegetables, and production from the irrigated areas has a
substantial impact on the project's estimated rate of return. Perhaps the
component's most important impact was on institutional development. Piaui
is one of the most promising Northeast states with regard to irrigation
development potential. The problems with project implementation brought
out clearly the deficiencies at the state level in terms of trained
technical staff and institutional support. Shortly after the project
closed, the state created a new institution for water resource development,
and technical capacity for irrigation slowly began to improve.



_9-
Fisheries Development
3.15     Coastal fisheries activities includeds researh; tecbnical
assistance and training; credit provision for fishing equipcent, boats,
processing equipment, boatbuilding equipment, and related working capital;
and tecbnical assistance and marketing credit for an existing fishing
cooperative. The Bank financed only the research and tachnical assistance
and training activities. Although research was carried out on a broad
range of topics, it is not clear that any of it was disseminated or of use
to the small-scale fishermen. About two-thirds of the projected fishing
beneficiaries received technical assistance, although the fishing
exteusionists provided assistance to non-project beneficiaries (inland
fishermen and larger fishermen). Extensionists were from the state
agricultural extension agency, and in general, did not have sufficient
training. Only about one-third of the 1,800 targeted fisherman received
some sort of credit, but more boats were financed than the appraisal target
(295 compared to 230). Considerable technical and financial assistance,
Including at least two years of an FAO fish marketing specialist, was
provided to the Luiz Correia fishing cooperative. While experiencing ups
and downs during project implementation, the cooperative was almost at the
point of closing at the time of the Bank's completion mission. Despite
these implementation problems, however, most small coastal fisherman have
Increased their production and productivity and are marketing more fish,
particularly dried fish (inspired by the lAO technical assistance). Living
standards have visibly improved in the area, although how much of this may
be attributed to the project is an open question.
3.16     The project also sought to improved the land tenure situation of
the small fishing communities which were located on federal coastal land.
A loan condition was that no project infrastructure would be provided to
the fishing communities until they had been conferred appropriate tenure
rights. Basically, this problem was never resolved. Although an agreement
was finally reached with federai authorities that the communities would be
given long-temn lease rights, only two of the ten communities had been
demarcated by the project's completion.
Physical Infrastructure - Roads
3.17     Physical targets for road construction and improvement were
reached. However, this component suffered from a number of problems. The
state road company, CODERPI, had considerable political power of its own
and considered itself independent from the coordinating unit's control.
Consequently, project procurement procedures were not always followed
(force account and single-source procurement instead of local competitive
bidding); locations and standards of roads were not always as specified by
the coordinating unit; and problems developed for road maintenance because
of poor compaction and drainage. On the maintenance side, some road
maintenance equipment was finally acquired and some training was provided
to local communities. The problems with this component were consistently
known and followed up by the coordination unit, SUDENE, and the Bank.
Periodically, the Bank sent letters outlining the problems to the State
Government, and supervision missions were assured that problems would not



- 10 _
reoccur. Things would improve for a time, and then problems would
reemerge. Given this pattern, the Bank never really was in a position to
take additional action, such as suspension of disbursements for the
component, and the coordination unit simply did not have the political
clout to make CODERPI comply. More than any other project activity, the
mplementation experience of this component highlights the need for a
strong, autonomous coordination unit, fully supported by comaitted state
authorities at the highest level.
Social Infrastructure
3.18     Water SurDlv. The water supply component vas to build 200 simple
systems with laundry facilities, and distribute some 11,300 filters.
CIDAPI, the state integrated agricultural development company (in charge of
rural water supply, as well as marketing activities) vwas to be the
executing agency, with the state extension company distributing the
filters. CIDAPI was also to train local operators  t.4 provide maintenance
back-stopping. Municipalities were to be responsible for operating costs
and the collection of water charges from the beneficiaries. About 402 of
the filters were distributed. Early on in the project, problems with
CIDAPI's implementation of the systems occurred, and the coordination unit
itself assumed responsibility, contracting private firms. Later on, it
passed this responsibility to the water resources project established
,ithin the Secretariat of Planning, and in 1986, responsibility for
execution was again returned to the coordination unit. Construction
targets were met at relatively low cost, since a simplified and less
expensive design was substituted for the original. However, not all the
systems were adequately located, and operation and maintenance were
continuous problems. After the departure of CIDAPI, the state's urban
water supply company waa contracted for maintenance and training. While
its performance was satisfactory, it needed to establish a whole new
operational structure for rural areas. Costs rose sharply, and the
decision wae taken to rescind the contract. In 1983, agreements were
finally signed with municipalities (the original concept) to take over
operating costs, while the coordination unit directly contr..cted
maintenance services.  While performance improved somewhat, field visits
detected mny systems in need of maintenance or without funds to operate.
Beneficiaries took the attitude that the systems were fthe project's' or
'the mayor's*, and no real effort was made to collect water charges. While
local operators were trained, there was a high turnover since their
salaries were either extremely low or seldom paid.
3.19     The lessons learned from the project are slowly reshaping
implementation of water supply activities in the follow-up project.
Operation and maintenance costs are now the beneficiaries' direct
responsibility, and not the municipalities. Water supply is increasingly
coordinated with community development activities, and no new systems are
to be built unless a written agreement has been signed with the conumnity.
3.20     Education.  The project sought to construct and equip 78 new
classrooms, remodel or expand another 52, provide teacher training and
curriculum development, distribute teaching materials, and equip canteens



- U1 -
for the school lunch program. The project was to act only in 11 southern
municipalities not covered under the Northeast Basic Education Project
(Loan 2815-BR). In aggregate, about 772 of the physical
constructionlremodeling targets were reached. With some delay, curriculim
development, particularly for the first and second grades, was achieved,
and teaching materials were distributed. Canteens were also equipped;
however, school lunch provision (funded tarough another program) was
precarious. Teachers were trained, as well as some supervisors. The basic
systematic problems were not resolved, however. Teachers' salaries
continued to be extremely low; training and supervision were inadequate;
and the Secretariat of Education did not adequately fulfill its
coordination role, resulting in late delivery of materials and poor
construction and maintenance of project schools. Since the follow-up
project did not contain an education component, and other federal programs
for Northeast rural education have either been terminated or are at a
virtual standstill, the situation, already inadequate in the project's
final days, has since deteriorated.
Proiect Administration
3.21     In general, the performance of project administration was
satisfactory. Technicians in the separate coordination unit were committed
to project objectives and strategy, and the first project manager,
appointed after appraisal, was highly effective. Early on, enthusiasm and
dedication substituted for expertise, but as implementation proceeded,
technical and administrative capacity matured. Prolonged involvement as
the executing agency for some components (e.g., land redistribution, water
supply) had both benefits and costs. The costs are clear in terms of the
delayed and still incipient development of long-term state institutional
capacity in those areas. Nonetheless, that function probably kept the
coordination unit much closer than usual to the beneficiaries and daily
implementation problems. Partially as a result of this, integration of
project activities at the field level, particularly with respect to land
beneficiaries, while far from perfect, !a more readily apparent than in
other POLONORDESTE projects. The design also aided this integration since
land activities served as a focal point around which other project
investments were organized.
3.22     In the 1983184 fiscal year, in an effort to save costs, the
project's coordination unit was finally merged with the state's
POLONORDESTE unit. Total integration was achieved of the units' staffing
under the follow-up, second generation project. As was the case in other
POLONORDESTE projects, staffing of the coordination unit tended to swell
far beyond appraisal estimates or actual needs for project coordination.
The unit, originally planned for twelve staff (nine in Teresina and three
regional coordinators) closed the project with forty-two staff (thirty-nine
in Teresina). The merger with the POLONORDESTE unit, direct execution of
some components, and over-staffing led to sertous cost overruns for the
administration component (over 10 of actual project costs as opposed to 4Z
estimated at appraisal).
3.23     While project management and monitoring were generally acceptable,
project auditing and evaluation were not. During the last two to three
years, financial control and reporting were so bad that the auditors could



- 12 -
not perform the audit (para. 3.27). Project evaluation was virtually non-
existent. Despite the fact that excellent baseline data existed on the
registration forms and detailed questionnaires filled out for land
beneficiaries, none of this information was used subsequently. Despite the
unit's close relationship with some beneficiazies, no cases studies were
conducted. On the recomnendation of the Bank, some specific evaluations
were planned (e.g., situation of distributed lots, cadaster of water supply
systems), but these were only carried out after the loan closed. There is
some expectation that further evaluation work will occur In the future. In
1987, the coordination unit agreed to begin using some of the baseline data
and to carry out case studies. Also, although not financed by the Bank, a
former project manager is writing his doctoral dissertation on the project
and is comparing baseline data with results from current field surveys.
Increased attention to evaluation is being promoted under the follow-up
project.
Disbursements
3.24.    By the closing date, 59Z of the original loan amount had been
disbursed. The remainder was cancelled. Disbursements were much slower to
start than expected. They exceeded appraisal estimates in 1982, 1984, and
1986, but were much lower than anticipated in the other years. The
principal factor, as in other POLONORDESTE projects, was counterpart
funding delays and shortfalls.  The situation improved in 1984 under the
Dank's Special Action Pzwgram. The disbursement percentage increased,
improvements were made to funding channels and a system was set up in the
Central Dank to advance the estimated portion of Bank-financed project
costs. Besides counterpart funding problems, overestimates of unit costs
and implementation capacity during appraisal were contributing factors to
low levels of disbursement, although to a lesser extent.
Procurement
3.25     No ICB procurement was planned under the project.  LCB procedures,
which were, for the most part, satisfactory, were used. The component
which experienced the most procurement difficulties was the roads
component. While the Bank raised the issue in supervision mlssions and
letters, problems with the use of force account and single source
procurement continued through much of project implementation (para. 3.17)
Reports and Auditing
3.26     Reports. A simplified two-page quantitative monitoring sheet was
planned for the project. For the first coutle of years, this was completed
on a quarterly basis and was identical to the key indicator annex included
in Bank supervision reports. Complementary qualitative reports were also
prepared. As time passed, and given the various regional monitoring
demands, the sheet was abandoned and the qualitative report became less
useful. Although reports were forwarded regularly, inconsistencies and
gaps in data became a regular occurrence. The reports, using the standard
regional format, were not very helpful; they were too long and filled with
unimportant detail. A mid-term evaluation report and the a project
completion report were prepared. Although quantitative data in the reports
were not always accurate, they contained useful analysis and were used
extensively in preparing this report.



- 13 -
3.27         itln    Auditing was a major project issue, and almost led the
Bank to suspend disbursements. The first audit report vas issued for the
82183 fiscal year.  Each audit report after that grew progressively worse,
until the auditors not only gave a negative opinion, but basically stated
that the accounts were in such poor shape that they could not conduct an
audit. Upon further examination, many of the problems were found to be
relatively minor% e.g., use of a limited amount of project funds and
equipment for non-project purposes; transfer of funds for one component to
another (encouraged by the Bank, but not permitted by the Government); and
particularly, poor record-keeping. After the entrance of the new State
Government in 1987, and given consistent Bank follow-up, the system, with
outside technical assistance, was total revamped, and the situation
dramatically improved. Under the follow-up project, financial control,
accoumts and auditing are considered to be very satisfactory.
Adherence to Covenants
3.28     Adherence to loan covenants was, on the whole, satisfactory.  The
Bank was kept 'informed of the facts surrounding non-compliance, and for,
the most part, after consideration of the reasons, took no further action.
Most dated covenants were fulfilled, but generally after-the stipulated
date (e.g., land acquisition, mid-term review, provision of annual plan).
A number of covenants were never fully complied with. These includeds the
federal government's obligation to provide adequate credit resources for
beneficiaries (particularly bad after 1983); counterpart funding; auditing;
regularizing the land tenure of the fishing communities; and operatiou and
maintenance arrangements for water supply systems. In retrospect, the
legal documents seem to contain too many and too detailed covenants.
Nonetheless, given the innovative nature of the project, in the end, this
was probably useful. In practice, the documents served more as a 'road
map' than a binding contractual agreement.
IV. ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
4.01     As has generally been the case in Northeast Brazil, reliable data
on project impact is very scarce. The data presented in this section was
collected by the PCR mission, using information from the state extension
service, the mid-term evaluation report, and direct field observation.
On-Farm Benefits and AsArezate Production
4.02     Annex II, Table 1 summarizes farm incomes. Under the project,
Lucomes of project beneficiaries did improve, but not as much as
anticipated at appraisal. Actual incremental income is estimated to have
reached the lower levels of SAR estimates. Incomes for land beneficiaries
with irrigation improved the moet, from about US$890 annually per farm r 
about US$2,610. Average incomes for rainfed land beneficiaries also
improved, from about US$890 annually to about US$2,140. Tenant and renter
beneficiary incomes basically stayed the same (122 increase); these



- 14 -
families are still impoverished. Small owner operators' incomes
experienced a 35 increase from US$1,780 to about US$2,410. The increased
incomes for land beneficiaries came primarily from an expansion in
cultivated area and the elimination of land rental payments. Relatively
small yield increases also occurred, in the range of 10 to 402 for rainfed
farmers. These were higher in the case of irrigated land beneficiaries,
ranging from about 30 to 70Z and even higher for some irrigated rice
farmers (Annex II, Tables 2-4). Yield increases were primarily the result
of improved seeds, some improved spacing and intercropping, and irrigation
where available. The technological level remained basically unchanged.
Finally, increased use of family labor on-farm also occurred; most land
beneficiaries no longer seek employment off-farm.
4.03     Tn aggregate terms, the total cultivated area increased by about
162 (as opposed to 102X estimated by the SAR). The aggregate volume of
production also increased: about 60X for rice, 402 for corn and manioc, and
502 for beans. The total value of production is estimated to have
increased by about 50  (compared with 219? esti-aated in the SAR).  The
shortfalls between the PCR and the SAR estimates are due to a lower than
expected number of land beneficiaries, and more modest yield and area
increases because of the relatively stagnant agricultural technology
employed (Annex II, Table 5).
Economic Rate of Return
4.04     The appraisal report estimated the ERR to be 202, but stated that
a range of 15 to 25Z was more realistic. The recalculated rate of return
is about 10? (Annex II, Table 6). However, some project costs included in
the initial calculation were excluded. The actual ERR is probably in the
range of 6X to 11?.
Other Benefits
4.05     A number of important project benefits are not captured in the
rate of return amalysis. T'he project had an important demonstration effect
and influenced the design of the second-generation rural development
program.  It pr. ided empirical evidence that land activities, such as
discrimination and redistribution, could be carried out without social
conflict. Methodologies employed were later used on a much wider scale
throughout the Northeast. It also demonstrated that if project activities
were designed around a single dominant theme (in this particular case,
land), integration of project activities at the field level was possible.
In addition, the project provided valuable experiences in community
organization which were taken into account in the design of the community
development component in the second-generation program. Institutional
development was also significant. In addition to changing attitudes toward
small farmer development (e.g., research), the project trained a cadre of
technicians who are key figures in current state rural development
activities.  The humazi resource development which took place in most
POLONORDESTE projects was truly noteworthy in the Piaui case. Finally,
improved roads, education, and water supply unquestionably improved the
quality of life in the communities which benefited from these activities.



- 15 -
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORNANCE
5.01     Federal and Regional Level. A number of completed PCRs for
projects included in the POLONORDESTE program have reviewed institutional
performamce at the federal and regional levels. Excessive bureaucracy,
poor interinstitutional coordination, funding delays, bureaucratic in-
fighting, and weak SUDENE authority and technical capacity influenced the
Piaui project as well. The state's completion report, however, noted a
significant improvement in SUDENE's performance, in terms of decision-
making authority, technical assistance, consistency, and staff motivation,
during the project's final year. This coincided with the beg;Sning of the
second-generation regional rural development program.
5.02     State Level.  On the whole, institutional performance at the state
level was satisfactory, and in retrospect, probably much better than could
have reasonably been expected. At the time of appraisal, it was generally
recognized within the Bank that, given the innovative nature of the project
and the modest level of institutional development within the state, that
the project would probably become a 'problem project". This did not occur
(para. 5.03). There were, however, varying degrees of performance (the
project coordination unit at one end of the spectrum and CIDAPI at the
other). Despite at least five different project managers from appraisal to
completion, project objectives and strategy were maintained. Perhaps the
single most important factor in Piaui's satisfactory institutional
performance was the state's political covaitment at the highest levela to
the project and itc objectives.
VI. BANK PERORMCE
6.01     The Bank's role and performance with respect to the Piaui project
were somewhat unusual. Heavy staff inputs were needed at the preparation
and appraisal stage (para. 2.02). In addition, during the first year of
implementation, some 61 staffweeks were spent on supervision. After that,
supervision coefficients were much lower, in fact, somewhat less than those
usually spent on this type of project. In the earlier period, the Bank
strongly influenced project design, and it was largely at the Bank's
insistence that land tenure improvement activities became the central focus
of the project. Bank staff and consultants were also heavily involved in
component preparation and the design of the agricultural development
strategy. After appraisal, the Bank continued to provide strong doses of
technical assistance. As a result, during its first years, the project was
widely perceived as a "Bank project", as opposed to a federal or state
project. During that period, the coordination unit, more frequently than
not, identified itself as 'the World Bank technical unit' or, even more
succinctly, as *the World Bank".
6.02     How to evaluate this unusual level of Bank involvement (much
greater than that in any other Northeast rural development project) is



- 16 -
difficult. Bank participation was clearly excessive in terms of the norm.
However, given institutional capacity within the state at that time, it is
likely that the project would not have been appraised or would have been a
complete failure without that level of input in the beginning. The
experience clearly points to the efficacy of heavy supervision during a
project's initial phase.
6.03     Beginning in 1983, the Bank devoted relatively few staff resources
to supervision. In part, this was a conscious decision; in part, it was a
result of organizational change, since the Rural Development Division was
disbanded and the project was transferred back to the Agriculture Division
within the Latin American Region. In any event, the project continued to
be implemented; it was not a "problem project"; and it gradually lost its
identity as a "Bank project". In its evaluation of the Bank's performance,
the state, ihile maintaining a positive overall view, highlighted the
followings a) the Bank was excessively optimistic in terms of the size of
the project area in relation to state capacity and infrastructure at that
time; b) the Bank's supervision in later years was not systematic and there
were frequent staff changes; c) despite having worked so hard on the design
of evaluation activities during appraisal, evaluation was largely ignored
by supervision missions; and d) the Bank did not pay enough attention to
resolving fundamental issues, such as the scarcity of rural credit.
Regarding the last point, it was probably not so much that the Bank did not
pay attention to the issues; it simply did not succeed in resolving them.
6.04     The agricultural division was aware that it was not paying
sufficient attention to the Piaui project in its later years. However,
resource and staff constraints, combined with the major effort required to
prepare and appraise the second-generation Northeast program beginning in
1983, severely limited supervision capabilities. Because concerns over the
lack of technological change emerged as early as 1982, the decision was
taken to change the project officer from an economist to an
agriculturalist. This was a sound decision, but agricultural expertise
should have been complemented by other technical specialists, particularly
in the areas of land, institutional development, fisheries, monitoring and
evaluation.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01     The Piaui project, the eighth Bank-financed project in the first-
generation POLONORDESTE program, was an innovative and bold undertaking.
While requiring an inordinate amount of Bank staff resources for appraisal
and early supervision, the experiences derived from project implementation
were applied beyond the state boundaries and influenced the design of the
second generation of rural development projects throughout the Northeast.
The basic design of the project was reasonably sound and remained unchanged
during implementation. It was not overly ambitious in terms of physical
targets, many of which were fulfilled, but it was overly optimistic in
terms of adoption rates for improved technology, particularly in light of
existing rural credit policies (high subsidies leading to severe cutbacks)



- 17 -
and the very low initial levels of farmers' Incomes and knowledge.
Nonetheless, farm incomes did improve considerably for the beneficiaries,
and the project brought important institutional benefits to the state and
to the region. As was the case with the other POLONORDESTE projects, more
might have been achieved if counterpart funding and regional and federal
institutional performance were better.
7.02     One important aspect of project design needs to be highlighted.
The Piaui project developed workable and technically sound methodologies
for land redistribution, and some of these are being successfully
replicated in other parts of the Northeast. However, on the whole, the
Piaui experience is not replicable: it was possible only because the price
of land was, and continues to be, very low in Piaui, both in absolute terms
and in relation to land prices throughout the rest of the region.
7.03     Sustainability is also open to question.  lhile Piaui now has an
adequate technical base to carry out successful rural development,
political commitment played an essential role in project Implementation.
In the event of a weakening political commitment to small farmer
development objectives, technical capacity and staff dedication, which were
built up fairly quickly, could easily begin to erode. Without continued
support services Ce.g.,research, extension, infrastructure), some portion
of land beneficiaries could still abandon their plots. The project
implementation period of five years was clearly too short to guarantee
sustainability. Nonetheless, if the follow-on project is successfully
implemented, the prospects are much brighter.
7.04     A number of lessons can be drawn from the Piau. project.  Many of
these lessons are not new. They are particularly relevant since a second
generation rural development program, which builds on the Piaui and other
POLONORDESTE project experiences, is currently under implementation in
Northeast Brazil. The major lessons learned from the Piaui project are the
following:
(a)  The price of Innovation is very high, particularly in areas with
high levels of poverty and low levels of institutional
development. If the Bank is to continue upon occasion to do
innovative projects, it must explicitly recognize the cost (in
terms of heavy staff inputs) and be willing to pay the price.
(b)  Intensive supervision in the initial stage of a project can be
very effective and can result in fewer implementation problems and
lower Bank staff requirements in subsequent stages.
(c)  Political commitment to the project's basic objectives is a key
ingredient for success; in the absence of such a commitment on a
continuing basis, it is doubtful whether sustainability can be
achieved.
(d)  Multi-component projects which are organized around a central,
leading theme (whether it is land or something else) are more
likely to be implemented in an integrated fashion at the field
level.



- 16 -
te) Institutional capacity under certain circumstances can be created
or strengthened fairly quicklyt other non-technical constraints,
such as counterpart funding delays and shortfalls, may seem easier
to eliminate in principle, but can prove to more difficult and
intractable in the long run.
(f) Beneficiary commitment to operate and maintain project
infrastructure, such as rural water supply systems, is essential;
this commitment should be obtained prior to construction.
(g) Land redistribution, by itself, is not a solution to rural
poverty. Without complementary services and investments to induce
technological change, production and income levels will remain
relatively low.



-19 -                                 ANNEX I
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
maCT cR-wM
ProJelt Taras ad AeaMal ammtee
Aegrolool           Actu al              A otuflI
.i iitl**i Fifiivifiiil
- Total ha                                                  5S9,750S-
1.2 Land atually purchased
- Total ha                             299,99               197,594               991
1.3 Lend actually allocated
- Total he                             2S,0                 138,445              609.2
- Total No. of benoflctiri..              S,                  8,480               79
1.4 Land diseriel.ation
- Ara studied                          in,Om                838,623               48.2
- Ares dicrimlnated                       -                 249,659                -
- Are   urveyed and titled                -                 889,288                -
2.  agrifult-r l Resoe
2.1 No. .  *fxp rchns                          220                  291              132
- on reserch sttions                                            161                -
- on forms 
S.  Alarlie url 1  M  son
- techniietne                               79                  104              182
- social workers                            51                   51              100
8.2 No. of farmers *sOited                   9,599                7,767               82
8.8 Groups of fure reached                                          g18                -
8.4 Demonstration Unita establishd             785                  643               67
4.  Sd Production
4.1 Use of impred seed
- No. of farmers                                              1,980               -
- No. of hectares                                             6,760               --
5.  bfrkoting
.1 No.f outlat  in operation
- CRDDPI                                    O8                   as              167
- Cooperatives                              as                    8              1U
5.2 No. of municipelities where SIMA
obtaino informetion                         26                   10               g8
5.8 No. of now SIMA sub-agencies                02                   08              1S0
5.4 No. of fareors who market through
cooperatives                              -                   1,524               -
5.6 No. of mm Cobol posts In operation          02                   s1 SO
5.6 No. of cooperatives tn the project          04                   06              125
6.7 No. of grain stores eonstructed
or under coientruction                      08                   16              688
5.6 8Grin storage c_pacity (ton.)            1,809                8.750              208
6.iJNo eihv auidor Irrigation               1560                   788               52
8.2 No. of beneficiaries                     15s9                   795               58
7.  p,e2r SMuIpY
7   1 No of Systems construeted                 W                   206              1
7.2 No. of beneficiaries                    a,00                 41,910               75
7.8 No. of water filter  distributed        11,800                4,659               48



ssss     PP   !at~! lW    I
igt¢ * *t  3  0~~  -    - I
8[|gl  8;e   |
'q'tis a._
[t X1
wP    #    1g g         o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l | lle  ZlS W   i    1       0
lE''Ih   tlh  k 
Ui~1f# :h 1 
Ettaxa  aBt     aS              ' o'-



-21-                               ANNEX I
Table 2
PIAII MOAL KEVEL8PEN PROJCT
P WOX  CCW%ETZU  WEG
Annal Project  cat
CATEGORY              S1/82    S2t/8     83/84    64/85    8t/8e    88/67    TOTAL
1. Land Development         809.8  1,726.1  2,597.8   2,148.8    702.8  1,649.8  9,117.8
2. Agrloultur.l R.eanrch    126.2    186.2    187.2       119.5    191.5    299.1  1,069.4
S. Agricultural Extonnlon   487.8    996.7    611.6   1,110.4  1,270.4  1,719.4  0,895.9
4. Seed Produetion           14.8    174.6      6t.6       9.7       1.8      22.4    278.9
5. marketing                129.6    381.6    186.0      219.8    824.7    146.0  1,827.0
0. Sal I-Sclo l-rrigatlon    17.0    129.2    424.2       567.7    968.4  1,909.9  8,178.8
7. Ftohrleo Dewelopmnt    218.2    284.6    244.0         190.6    180.4     82.7  1,046.1
6. Rural Rode               a865.6     98.8    652.4      642.5    588.2  2,71.2  6,018.8
9. Water Supply              27.5    264.1   609.85       028.8    456.0    992.7 2,9111.6
10. Educatlon                 20.7    161.4    810.2      889.4    217.1    129.4  1,264.2
11. Project Admlnaltratlon    264.5    601.2    850.8     072.9    654.8  1,465.8  8,048.4
12. Support to Smll
Rural Counitiee        86.9 00.0 oo.10    108.4    208.7                 7.7    811.6
TOTAL                 2,565.7  5,658.4  0,574.8   0.976.9  5,697.9  0,956.7 86,281.9



-22 -ANX I
Table 3
GRAM
PM  JRL  DnMft  ERCS
Proj Wect? coo
pprail                               Actual/
Category                    =lmete4        Actual                Appraeal
Cost*         Cowt 
1.  lend     lomnt                            .16.7           9.2 
2.  Ariultural Dovotoent                       24.2          12.0                     so
Tu1i*   Resrch                             2.4
Agricultural Exten.ion                    9.6           6.3                     64
Seed Production                           1.0           0.8                     as
rketkoing                                 8.8           1.3                     39
all-Scale Irrigation                      7.7           8.1                     40
S. Fisheries Vev*logRent                        2.6           1.1                     80
4.  Social and Phleical Infrastructure         17.0           9.6                     So
Kural  Roede dI                                         5 .4                   ii
Water Supply                              6.4           2.6                     44
Education                                 1.6           1.3                     61
S. Prolect Administration                       2.5           8.7                    146
6. Support to Small-Rural Comunities            -               3                     _
7.  Total  aelIne Costs                       68.2          36.6                     57
Physical Contingncieos                   T-                                   0:1
Prico Contingencies                      17.8           0.5                      8
TOTAL COSTS                                64.4          80.8                     43



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                    Table 4
PROJE  CDW%"ET    REPO"
Withdraal of the Proceeds of the Lo
AMOUNT OF THE     AOUNT ACTUJLLY    ACTUAL DIUWJRSED
CATEGORY                 LOAN ALOCATED         DISBURSED        AMOUN ALLOCATE
1. Goods  nd  ervice for
Land Deop"eat                        4,88,65          2,916,712.08              01ff
2. Goods and servies for
Agricultural Developmnt
Reseah Program                       3,00               s88x610.                6f
8. Goods and services tor
Agricultural Developm_t
Extensolo Serviesn                   4,580,000        8,886119.2t               88f
4. Goods and servies for
Agricultural Developent
Seed Production and Use               650,00             70,096.9               1f
S. Goods and services for
Agricultural Developomnt
Small Farmrs' Marketing              1,8",858           7s8,780.6               013
6. Goods and servics for
Irrigation                           2,9,             1,868,187.S0              47ff
. Goods and servtces for
Fisheres Development                 1,109,0            840,892.46              sox
8. Goode and services for
Rural Roads                          8,658,           8,684,762.98              04i
0. Goods and services for
water supplr                         2,158,           1,409,088.14              s6f
10. Goods and servies for
Education                             7?0,000           669,204.67              96f
11. Goods and services for
Project Adminietration               1,1691,86        2,179,184.42              1971
12. Special Account                      2,8,0o              967,877.79             19f
18. UnaIlocated                            5010,9110               6.5                0
TOTAL                     29,in58          16,978,6C4.75              C9f



ANNME I
24                                Table 5
PIAI NMAl. OEVBAWUDT PR*CT
gory                     Ea  sted           Actual          Appraisal
U
Land SettIclaris                          *,650            2,482              70
Land Den.telartes and Irrigation          1t0f               795               S8
$smII Own.r                                1,500            1,60              lag
Sma1I Owners and Title                     1,iOO            1,COO             1a
Landles le telarieg                        1,6Wf           l,CO 
Fiseries                                  1,50              68N               11



Pam         r
KTNWIT T                    Wm                                  N
Land Beneficiaries:
Patsb                s. C0                      120.0        [2.141            70.0         (1.253         140X
s    /               60.0    [8             £".6- .0   (2.14-5.86]          79.0-2.0   [1.25-4.473    14SX4M
Land S.ntclariem
with Irrigatlon:
PCI:                 60.0      0                146.O       [2.61]            06.0          (1.11] 
SaR:                 60:900.*  F891          140.9-880.0  [2.50-5.893      90.0-280.0   (1.61-5.]    1605-50
Landless Ben    iie:rls                                                                                                                t
PCRs                 60.0    tO.8.]            68.0         [1.00              6.0           .111           121
SARs                 60      re: 10.0  F       70.0         PL.2q             20.9          p.aq I
Small Owner Operators:
PCR:                l0ee0     F117*3            185.0       [2.41]            8.             -6831          asx
SAR:                190.8     P:.76]        180.0-81.0  [2.82-5.58]        80.0-210.9   [0.54-8.75]    80O-2101
From Reconstructed Representtive Farm MWedls.
Farm Incmes are In Cruzados and In Thouand Dollars In Parentheses.  (Both In Constant Soptember 160 values).
Farm Incomes In the PCR exercise assume that *at ftrmers achievd at loet the levl of 'Intormedtate
Technology/Manual Cropping in rainted agricultur conditions. Thls It conslstent with the SAR'n original
assumptIons and survey reults from the proj ct area, i.e., no aajor technolognIcl development has ta en plece;
hemoical fortilizr and other purchased inputs ar praetially not used. Yield Increa _ are primrily du  to th
us  of Improved *seds by projct b nefcIarie s. N  lncom  Improvement of 'land bneefioiarles' and 'laind
beneficiaries with lrrigatlon' rsulted mInly from cropped aro  expansion and the ellmin tIon of land raAtal
payments.
5/ These are the rang  of lncrementl Income according to the SAR, which asseue that at full development the projet                     H
would hve Introduced Improved agricultural and pecuary prectices4 from:  I'nsrsedlt. Technology/Manual
Cultivatlon' to 'Intermedlate and High Technology/Anl_al Traction , for both relaefd and trrigated conditions.



-26-                                ANNEX II
Table 2
0P CT CRLEUOC 
Lan S.l.t.nr fL  F.. M.d Ib
n wriim                 ento moe
.~~~~Cmn   .aten                                                    ..l. n Im
CROPPIN  PATTER  OHA                 YIEW  ~(TON/A)
WITHOU    wITH'   NRENT           WWITH      ITHE   INREMN
RI..                       8.60    4.50       sox            9.70    1.60      48X
1.1*.                      2.28    3.40      56o             8.8    8..9       8ox
Dean.                     9.84    6.51       6a              8.28    0.28      89
Menlo.                     2.18    8.28       56             4.00    6.20      8z
Cultivated Are             8.o0    4.60      s6
(OConaorclo Tradlio.nmal'
WITHOUT           WITH           INRMEN
See. (Ks/be)                     (80t+5U.6)        (49R*U4M)       (1OR * M + so)
Cutting (MS/h.)                     8."              3.60               0..0
LaW Rnt (CZ/h)                      2.77             9.60              -2.7r
SmIll Eqipment ()                   0.84             0.96               0.21
j A t ul I evelopmnt (Year 0)



-27-                                   ANNE4X 11
Table 3
Ot 4PINS PATTERK (M                   YIELDS LMHhIA
RICe SKifd                  ."1      4.60       so             0*i       1.U       48X
RIC* (I"rr"Igted)           -        0.00                       1.19    2.50 
MaIze                      2.23      8.49       so%             1.81    also       us
fleans                     0834      G.M        sex             I.e.    6.23       so
Menlo.                     9.18      8.15       sW              4.6      5.2s
Cultivated Area            3.66      5.40       on
['Consouelo Tradioionai'1
-    -  M -w  w
WITHO'JT           WmT              IJ4CREMWN
Seeds (KS/be)                      (8.+SU4S)         (40.SM4S)         (ton * am +o
Cutting  (Ms/ha)                      i.e.              i.e.                O.M
Land Ret (CZ/ba)                      9.77              9.61               -2.77
$MallI Equipment (CZ)                 0.84              8.74                9.49
~ At tullI development (Yeas 1)



-28 -                                    AN=E  II
Table 4
WJCr.. Yield. tT.h.'
W0UT UT
PADDY RICE
PCR:              0.7                 0.77-1.90 for Rantfed; 2.5 for Irrigted
SAR:              (9.7)              (1f00-1.  tor Rainfed; 2.5-3.6 for Irrigte)
MAIZE
?CRt:             0.8                                G.a-089.
SAR:              (9.8)                              (9.W.0)
BEANS
PCR:              0.2                                0.22-0.28
SAR:             (0.2)                              (09.0-04.9)
MANIOC
PCR:              4.0                                 4.4-t.2
$AR:              (4.0)                             (7.0-15.0)
p/ InXtrcroppings.
k Range  of crop yield utiIlzed In the representative Faru Models according to actual
(PCR) and expected (SAR) level* of technological Innovation.
PCR: Intermediato Technology/Manual Cultivation;
SAR: Intermediate Technology/Manual Cultivetocs; Intermediate Technolely/Animal Traction;
and High Technology/Animal TractTon.



PlME ! L   reMEIMM  PROJECT
0m  c54n)
PROJCT guW mI  wpmT
CULTIVA        ('AM   VO   */           PRODUCTION ("'  TM)                  VAE O P_ROUT (_
_HCUE M                               D,REMT                                      DICRE"
W~"Mff ~  WM  MFAwzm.NN     a"m                   !A!iC-   I           n n      K        VAUE 
Paddt  RIc     39.6    46.1      .6    16            27.6    46.3      17.5      633           5.9      9.7       3.6      6
MaIe           2to.?   $3.4      3.7    181          6.9    12.4       3.$       41            1.0      2.2       9.6       an 
0eane           4.2     4.?      0.5    12X          6.0      1.2      6.4       so            *.6      6.6       6.2       U3
Menlo.         27.6    *1.1       .5    lox          l1.$   13.5    48.2         40            5.9 0.2            2.$      a
TOTAL      39.6    46.1      a.5 s   01                                                   14.0      3.9       6.9       491
(35.4)!I  (71.6)  (36.2)  19                                                    (12.4)   (31.5)   (27.1)    219X
!/1 Int.rcr.ppwg.
Cultvee  emrw ed valwe of preodets  In pereethea are th*rO    of the so.
g/ Septemer 1S    Prim.



ANNEX II
30-                                 Table 6
PWf   ALOVUP1 wnrOJE
,PJECT CUq   M
Proi.et Emamemnc Mabelr
CrIedme 'ls. Setec 19")
YR1    YR2     YRS      YR4     YRS      YR     YR7   YR8   YR9  YR10_ YRIR-20
INCREMONTAL UEN ST$,
Net On-frm Benf it.   (.014    18.13   85.22   74.e8   125.12  18.56 246.57 295.47 826.23 888.65 844.99
PRO,JECaT S ,/
Land Develapmmnt       42.44   82.88  162.76  141.84   47.49   61.16   6.09  0.09  N.61  0.00  6.W
Agriculturol R_eareh    8.57    8.88    5.16    4.75    7.76   19.61   2.12  2.12  2.12  2.12  0.00
Agricultural Ext nelon  22.98   47.C   16.80   78.48   95.90  101.04   6.98 60.98 609.8 00.98 66.98
Seed Production         9.68    8.       8.46    0.64    6.08    1.83   9.00  6.96  o.o  6.90  0.00
Marketing               8.12    8.0S    5.91    7.10   11.20    4.89   6.99  6.96  o.oo  6.96  6.96
S;al ll Irrigetion    0.80    6.16   26.59   86.90    0..0   64.26   6.96  6.eo  6.o9  6.96  6.96
Rural Rood             14.67   86.16   46.41   47.89   88.81  104.67   7.04   7.64  7.04  7.64  7.64
Water Supply            6.18    4.99   19.16   21.21   15.09   29.9*   6.96  6.96  6.96  6.96  6.96
Education               0.60    4.89  1t.16   18.15    7.49    8.90   6.96  6.96  6.96  6.96  6.00
Project Administratton   16.60   20.29   16.66   87.8e5   7.85   ?0.83  14.07 10.7?  7.51  4.22  6.96
Support to Sall
Rural Cmaunittee      6.96    6.96    6.96    6.64   18.57    9.46   6.o9  6.96  6.96  6.9   9.96
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    99.92  221.76   48.18  891.15  829   42.11  84.21 96.92 77.65 7?4.8  68.02
(91.98) (298.68) (812.91) (817.67) (118.98) (261.55) 162.86 214.56 247.58 264.29 276.97
ERR a 16.61
g/ Not aggregate on-farm benefit. were estmaeted through representative form budget., based on estimated production
coat and on *pl- ytild end area harvested data furnished by the CEPRO foundation.
Invtment and operating cost are for the agriculture development program only. Thus, the fisheries compoenot
as well *o 1S of the expenditure, for marketing, rural roadb, water supply, education, and project
administration wore deducted from the total project coat. Investment. ficluded are 66X of the expenditures for
Ogricultural research, marketing, water supply and education, and 1961 for the other compent  Operating cost.
includ 2RX of year 6 *xpenditureu for agricultural reserch [years 7-16]; oex of year   expenditures for
agrtcultural exten ion (yeare 7-20]; 15X of average year 1-6 invntment *or rural ro   Cyears 7-20]; and 2RX of
yonr 6 expenditures for project administration, declining to 6x In year 10.



