Document of             H, i  COPV
The World Bank    FILE                        OJ
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3078-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May-28, 1981
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomae of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authorbatlo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980       May 26, 1981
Currency Unit  =        Cruzeiro (Cr$)          Cr$
US$1            =       Cr$53.25                Cr$84.26
Cr$l            =       US$0.14                 US$0.012
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$56.00)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of September 1, 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CEPA-PI       -   Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Piaui
(State Agricultural Planning Commission - Piaui)
CIDAPI        -   Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario do Piaui
(Piaui Agricultural Development Company)
COBAL         -   Companbia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Federal Food Company)
CODERPI       -   Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodovario do Piaui
(State Company for Road Development)
DER-PI        -   Departmento de Estradas e Rodagem - Piaui
(State Fighway Department - Piaui)
DNOCS         -   Departamento Nacional de Obras de Controle da Seca
(National Department for Drought Related Works)
EMATFR-PI     -   Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural - Piaui
(Piaui Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA       -   Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
FSESP         -   Fundacao Servico Especial de Saude Publica
(Foundation for Special Public Health Services)
FUNVALE       -   State Land Purchase Fund
INCRA.        -   Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INTFRPI       -   Instituto da Terra do Piaui
(State Land Institute - Piaui)
OCFPI         -   Organizacao das Cooperativas do Estado do Piaui
(State Organization of Cooperatives)
PMTT          -   Project Management Utnit
POLONORDESTE  -   Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integrados do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
POLONOROESTF  -   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Northwest Brazil Integrated Development Program)
SIJDENF       -   Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
SUDEPE        -   Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento Pesqueiro
(Fishing Development Superintendency)
r Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:               US$29 million equivalent
Terms:                Interest at 9.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace.
Project
Description:          To expand farm and fishery production, and increase
incomes and employment opportunities, of about 11,300
poor families in rural and coastal areas of Piaui through
allotment of land, improved security of land tenure,
adaptive agricultural research and extension, marketing
facilities, construction of small-scale irrigation schemes,
development assistance to fisheries, feeder roads and
water supply systems, the provision of basic education,
and coordination, monitoring and evaluation.
Risks:               Coordination of federal, regional, state and local
entities involved in multi-sector rural development
with innovative land redistribution activities
may prove difficult and delays in execution could
affect the extent of the expected benefits. The
uncertain availabilities of public and private lands
for project use also represent potential project risks.
Initial results of the land acquisition program have,
however, been encouraging.



- 1i -
Estimated Cost:
-------US$ Millions-------
Local      Foreign    Total
Land Component                        15.2        1.5        16.7
Acquisition                          4.6         -          4.6
Demarcation and Titling              4.3        0.7         5.0
Land Institute                       6.3        0.8         7.1
Agricultural Services                 19.4        4.8        24.2
Applied  Research                    2.0        0.4         2.4
Extension                            8.7        1.1         9.8
Seed Production                      0.8        0.2         1.0
Marketing                            2.7        0.6         3.3
Small-scale Irrigation               5.2        2.5         7.7
Fisheries Development                  2.4        0.4         2.8
Rural Roads                            6.0        3.0         9.0
Social Infrastructure and Services  5.9           2.1         8.0
Water Supply                         4.7        1.7         6.4
Basic Education                      1.2        0.4         1.6
Project Administration                 2.2        0.3         2.5
Baseline Costs                        51.1       12.1        63.2
Physical Contingencies                 3.0        0.9         3.9
Price Contingencies                   14.0        3.3        17.3
Total Cost                            68.1 1/   16.3         84.4 1/
1/   Including local taxes equivalent to about US$1.7 million.
Financing Plan:                            ------US$ millions-----
Local   Foreign   Total
Government           55.4        -        55.4
IBRD                 12.7      16.3       29.0
Total                68.1      16.3       84.4



- iii -
Estimated                         ----------US$ millions equivalent----------
Disbursements:       Bank-FY      FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86   FY87
Annual       3.7      6.3     6.4      6.4      5.1    1.1
Cumulative   3.7    10.0    16.4    22.8    27.9   29.0
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return has been estimated at about
20% for the directly productive components of the project.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 3398-BR of May 22, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$29
million to help finance a rural development project in the state of Piaui.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that visited Brazil in March 1980 and was updated
in August 1980. The mission's report will be distributed shortly.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with accelerating inflation and a
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and a better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic
growth, with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of
about 9% and 6% per year, respectively. During the 1967-1973 period, growth
was achieved with no significant deterioration of the external resource
balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a
gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Given the heavy dependence
of Brazil's industry and transport system on petroleum, however, over 80%
of which was imported, the quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973
resulted in a sharp deterioration in the nation's terms of trade. Excess
aggregate demand and a succession of bad harvests have, along with increased
energy costs, resulted in increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and the
reacceleration of domestic inflation.
1/   This section is reproduced without substantial change from the economic
section of the President's Report on the Alcohol and Biomass Energy
Development Project (No. P-3039, dated April 23, 1981). It is identical
to the corresponding section of the President's Report for the Second
Agricultural Research Project (Report No. P-3077-BR, being distributed
at about the same time as this report.



5.        Coping with these short-term constraints, while responding to
continuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment
and simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment,
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the
past seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining
rapid growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to
reduce energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for im-
ported petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were
successfully contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports
(particularly of manufactures), increased import barriers, accelerated import
substitution, and heavy external borrowing, including large additions to
international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil's dependence on imported
petroleum, however, necessarily involves a long gestation period. Meanwhile,
the rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports, and inten-
sification of domestic inflationary pressures have been increasing the eco-
nomy's vulnerability to further external shock. That vulnerability is being
severely tested by the additional sharp increases in petroleum prices and
international interest rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports.
Industrial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricul-
tural output suffered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs
resulted in a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the
end of year, the highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit in
1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%,
or US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to
which more than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising
gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion
in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9
billion to US$9.7 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0 billion,
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves



-3-
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 6 months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$49.9 billion, or 24% of GDP.
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were fol-
lowed by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April
1980. The most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of
the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the
prior deposit requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enter-
prise investments, imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the intro-
duction of a programmed phase-out of most tax earmarking; a modification of
administered credit programs intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of
direct controls on credit expansion by the private banking system; and the
establishment of ceilings on monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment
during 1980 and the first half of 1981 in an effort to dampen inflationary
expectations.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
economic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest and
continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.       On the external side, preliminary estimates are that exports grew by
32% in 1980 as a consequence of the excellent harvest and continued expansion
of manufactured exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports
expanded almost as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth
of the economy, higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory
accumulation early in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import
controls.  Despite the rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume
of petroleum imports fell from 1,003 thousand b/d in 1979 to 929 thousand b/d
in 1980 as a result of conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution.
Nevertheless, the trade deficit for the year totaled an estimated US$2.8 bil-
lion. External borrowing totaled about US$15 billion (including an estimated
US$2-3 billion of short-term borrowing), and reserves were drawn down by an
additional US$3.5 billion falling to about 6.9 billion 1/ by the end of the
year. Although Brazil was able to obtain the required US$5-6 billion net
external financing, loan terms were tighter. Total medium- and long-term
external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was about US$56 billion.
13.       A number of important policy measures have been announced for 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been further tightened, and monetary
expansion is targeted at 50-60%. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction will be brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate will again be fully
adjusted for the differential between domestic and international inflation.
Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls, interest rates
on official credits have been raised, and price controls are being progres-
sively relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions tax on
imports from 15 to 25% will further discourage imports. Although the net
1/   Including gold and dollar valuation adjustments.



- 4 -
impact of these measures may be some short-term increase in inflation, the
overall result should be greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown
of economic activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.
Poverty Programs
14.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the Northeast
region have been protected from the present tight fiscal and monetary re-
straints. Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is
now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which
is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast.
The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2
million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since
1964. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the
urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to
finance home improvement and building materials. High priority has also been
given to the extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently,
some 6 million households comprising about 30 million people have been con-
nected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of
urban dwellers who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made
to attack the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
15.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports constituting an estimated US$10.2
billion (nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation
of economic decision makers.
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. The December 1979 devaluation of
the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import sub-
stitution. Public investments may be constrained by reduced resource avail-
abilities over the next several years and foreign lenders, including the Bank,
should be prepared to finance a higher proportion of project costs including,
when necessary, a part of local costs. Furthermore, priority attention will
continue to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agricul-
ture and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per year in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit through 1983, falling there-
after. The debt service ratio would decline slowly. These projections are
highly sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, international interest rates,
and the rate of growth of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt
service and a high share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy
more vulnerable to external events than it has been for many years, and this
situation may be expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85 period
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account de-
ficits on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1983. As a proportion of GDP,
the current account deficit is projected to fall steadily from its peak of
5.6% in 1980. This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate
pace through 1985, reflecting continued import substitution, as well as a
strengthening of the overall domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would
then appear beginning in 1982.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to
be around US$11-12 billion in 1981, and to decline progressively thereafter to
about US$5 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about US$19 billion
this year and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over the five-year period,
with 75-85% obtained as financial credits from private lenders. Consequently
the net debt service ratio 1/ would decline from about 61% in 1980 to about
43% in 1985.
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



- 6 -
2C.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market. Never-
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left the
ecoi-. my increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The Government
reco,gnizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports, despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By April 30, 1981 the Bank had made 103 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$5,657 million (net of cancellations), of which 51 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$185 million in
the first half of FY81. They are expected to increase further during the
next few years. The total undisbursed amount as of April 30, 1981 was
US$2,772.9 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as
of April 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year.  In FY76, ten loans were made totalling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totalling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totalling US$695 million were made. So far in FY81,
six loans totalling US$755 million have been approved -- US$125 million for
a second power transmission project of ELETROSUL, US$56 million for a second
Ceara rural development project, US$54 million for an electric power system
coordination project, US$90 million for a third urban transport project,



- 7 -
US$180 million for a multi-state water supply and sewerage project, and US$250
million for a fuel alcohol and biomass energy development project. The
documents for a loan of US$60 million for a second agricultural research
project are being distributed at about the same time as this project. Work
is relatively advanced on an integrated regional development program in the
northwest, a rural development project in the state of Maranhao and a multi-
state power distribution project.
24.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1979 amounted to US$51.0 billion, and is estimated to have been
US$56 billion at the end of 1980. At the end of 1979, the Bank held 3.6% of
the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.0%. In
1980, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated to have risen
slightly to 3.8% while its share in total debt service fell to about 1.9%.
25.       As of April 30, 1981 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$581
million, of which US$374.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$206.4 million, US$152.7 million represent loans and US$53.7
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of April 30, 1981 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to these ends
that the proposed Piaui rural development project and the proposed second
agricultural research project are mainly directed.   Previous loans for
nutrition research and development, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension and polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco
river basin and for integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande
do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe, and Pernambuco were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Further projects to
assist the rural poor are in preparation including several additional inte-
grated rural development projects in the northeast and northwest. Loans for
water supply and sewerage projects in the State of Minas Gerais, in Greater
Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans for urban transport in
several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing, and
a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities are assisting the improve-
ment of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly of the
urban poor. Additional urban development projects are in preparation including
an urban development project for Recife.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are
used economically through rational selection of investment projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
project which seeks to build up the planning and administration capabilities



required at the state and local levels for promoting rural development activ-
ities and for designing and implementing land policies appropriate to the
needs of a large segment of landless farmers in the state of Piaui. It is
expected that the experience gained in dealing with the state's acute land
problems could be applied elsewhere in northeast Brazil. Loans for urban
development, electric power, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricul-
tural research and extension, rural development, water supply and sewerage,
and the recently approved loan for alcohol and biomass energy development
also have important institution-building objectives.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange con-
straint on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the
increase in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to
increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute
domestic production for imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's
terms of trade and balance of payments which took place at the time of the
1974 energy crisis, this objective was placed in the forefront of the Govern-
ment's economic policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this
objective, since it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its devel-
opment lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer
and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute large-scale
efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-of-payments
position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project recently approved
by the Board directly addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum
imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports, and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is
being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's
abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to continue contributing to the
country's development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation is helping Brazil obtain additional resources
in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies
and private financial institutions than may otherwise have been provided.
Eleven co-financing operations, for more than US$425 million, have been
concluded since 1976 with private financial institutions and several others
are in preparation, including about US$110 million in private co-financing
for the CEEE power distribution project (Loan No. 1824-BR), US$50 million in
private co-financing for the Second Minas Gerais Rural Development Project
(Loan No. 1877-BR) about US$65 million in private co-financing for
the ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No. 1895-BR), and
US$250 million for the Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project
(Loan No. 1989-BR).



- 9 -
PART III - THF AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints, and Policy
30.       Agriculture employs about 35% of Brazil's economically active
population and contributes about 11% of total GDP and about half of total
export earnings. Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange
juice, the largest producer of sugar cane, and the third largest producer of
soybeans. Other major agricultural exports include meat and fish products,
cotton, corn, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. In most years Brazil
is self-sufficient in basic food production, except for wheat. From 1970-79,
the average annual agricultural growth rate was about 5%.
31.       While aggregate agricultural performance has been satisfactory,
there have been large variations over time in the relative performances
of the major agricultural product groups and among the several regions of
the country. Tn particular, the north, northeast, and center-west continue
to employ traditional agricultural practices and rudimentary technology.
Constraints on increased agricultural production, particularly for small
farmers, include: limited access to institutional credit, to adequate ex-
tension services, and to modern agricultural inputs; inadequate supporting
services and infrastructure for marketing, storage and transport; and un-
certain land tenure and highly uneven land distribution, especialy in
northeast Brazil.
32.       Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's Third National Development Plan (1980-84), including measures aimed
at a more efficient exploitation of the country's agricultural potential.
Major policy objectives include: (a) the increase of basic staple and export
production, especially by small and medium producers; (b) the improvement of
production, storage, transport, and marketing systems; (c) the expansion of
agricultural research and extension activities; and (d) the decentralization
of agricultural policy execution and the increase of participation by the
private sector and state and local governments. Government measures aimed
at stimulating agricultural production and raising rural incomes, particularly
among small producers, include: (a) the reorganization of federal extension
services to provide better rural extension services to a broader segment of
the rural population; (b) the support of special programs such as POLONORDESTE
in the northeast and POLONOROFSTE in the northwest that focus on poorer
regions and small-scale farmers and/or the incorporation of new areas into
production; and (c) the expansion of the overall supply of agricultural credit
coupled with a series of actions which included measures intended to increase
access to institutional credit.
33.       An important aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the
provision of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates. With the
continuing high level of inflation, these rates are negative in real terms.



- 10 -
Tb subsidies were originally introduced some years ago to induce an expan-
sion in agricultural production by offsetting the high cost of inputs and by
giving special assistance to disadvantaged groups. However, the drawbacks of
the system -- economic distortions and administrative complexity -- have
become increasingly apparent. The Government recently announced some increases
in nominal agricultural interest rates for all types of agricultural credits,
as well as reduced eligibility for subsidized funding for larger farmers and
specified end-uses, and has indicated that it intends to continue reducing
these subsidies over time.
L.id and Rural Development in the Northeast
34.       The nine states of northeast Brazil have a population of about
35 million (in 1980), after growing at a net rate of 2.2% per year over
the 1970-80 period. About half of the population lives in rural areas and the
region accounts for about 45% of Brazil's agricultural labor force. Much of
the region has a semi-arid climate with periodic severe droughts, and there
are extensive areas of poor soils. Nonetheless, the northeast is a signifi-
cant agricultural region, with a large share of the national production of
cocoa, cotton, manioc, beans and sugar. Although some crops are grown predom-
inantly on large farms, basic food crops are produced mainly by small farmers
who lack access to adequate production services and inputs. Insecurity of
land tenure and lack of access to land have compounded these difficulties and
in many areas constitute the basic constraint on increasing production and
productivity among small farmers.
35.       The distribution of land is highly skewed in northeast Brazil.  Farm
units larger than 500 ha represent about 1% of total farm units but account
for about 40% of the region's farm area. Farm units of less than 10 ha
represent about 70% of total units and occupy less than 6% of total area.
Some 70% of the rural labor force is accounted for by non-landowners and
their families, the vast majority being sharecroppers, tenants or illegal
occupants of public and private lands. For those small farmers who own a
piece of land, a frequent problem is the lack of proper legal title since land
ownership records are incomplete. Overall, concentration of land ownership
has increased during the past twenty years in the northeast.
36.       Government policy to date has had a negligible impact on amelio-
rating the northeast's land tenure situation. Limited enforcement of the
Brazilian land law and the lack of specialized judicial procedures for land
matters have impeded progress toward improving land tenure security for small
farmers. Neither large-scale colonization schemes nor the creation and
funding of a number of rural poverty programs, such as POLONORDESTE, have
succeeded in reaching substantial numbers of landless farmers. Recently,
however, this situation has begun to change. Limited land-related activities
have been included in a number of POLONORDESTE rural development projects and
the program is placing increasing emphasis on land tenure issues and possible
solutions. The National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform
(INCRA) has also begun to play a much more active role in the northeast. In
1980, a progressive federal land taxation law was approved with tax rates
increasing with property size and degree of non-utilization or inefficient



- 11 -
exploitation. As a first step toward universal enforcement of the law, INCRA
has executed, in several areas of the northeast, land tenure regularization
programs designed to identify underdeclared private properties and public
lands available for subsequent redistribution to the landless. INCRA has
also declared parts of the northeast as "priority areas for agrarian reform".
Bank Involvement in Rural Development and in Land Activities
37.       The range of Bank-assisted operations in the agricultural sector
in Brazil reflects a two-pronged strategy combining an area development
approach, as is the case with the proposed project, focussed on poor rural
areas in the northeast and northwest, with a functional approach, such as
the proposed second agricultural research project, that additionally aims at
bringing about needed policy changes and institution-building. To date the
Bank has made 19 loans totalling US$712.6 million for agricultural and rural
development in Brazil. Of these, nine were for rural development, two each
for irrigation, livestock development and agro-industries, and one each for
land settlement, agricultural research, agricultural extension services, and
grain storage. Project performance audit reports have been issued for the
grain storage and the two livestock projects (not in the northeast), but none
has yet been produced for rural development projects, most of which are of
relatively recent initiation. In addition, Bank loans for fertilizer produc-
tion, a nutrition research and development project, secondary and feeder roads
and a northeast basic education project are having a direct impact on agricul-
tural production and rural development. The documents for a loan of US$60
million for a second agricultural research project are being distributed at
about the same time as this report. An additional rural development project
in the northeast state of Maranhao is at a relatively advanced state of
preparation. Additional agricultural and rural development projects under
consideration are designed to assist the Government in its priority efforts to
further settlement by small farmers and economic development of suitable areas
of the Amazon region.
38.       The Bank has actively participated in the rural development effort
in northeast Brazil since 1973 especially through the POLONORDESTE program.
The program, initiated in 1974, was designed to improve the productivity of
small farmers, and to raise the standard of living of the rural poor in the
northeast. Bank assistance to the program aimed at helping the Government to
sharpen the focus of efforts on behalf of the rural poor and to better inte-
grate development activities, especially on the productive side. The initial
strategy called for concentrating development activities on selected geogra-
phical areas while promoting the establishment of an effective administration
for the program. This latter expectation, however, has been frustrated by
the financial difficulties and administrative shortcomings that have plagued
SUDENE, the federal agency entrusted with the overall management of the
program. While a number of shortcomings in organization and funding mecha-
nisms are being remedied, SUDENE remains a weak, underfunded, and inadequately
staffed agency. In contrast, good progress has been made by several of the
northeast states in improving their planning and execution capability for
rural development projects. Competent technical units have been established
in most states and a significant group of experienced managers has been
developed.



- 12 -
39.       The Bank has to date made seven loans for area development projects
in six different northeast states with diverse agricultural, ecological,
economic and social characteristics: Rio Grande do Norte (1976), Paraiba and
Bahia (1978), Sergipe and Pernambuco (1979), and Ceara (two loans in 1977 and
1980 respectively). A rural development project in the state of Maranhao
which is at an advanced stage of preparation, would, like the Piaui Project,
place a special emphasis on land issues. Although it is too early to assess the
overall impact of Bank-assisted rural development activities in the northeast,
there is a general impression that they have significantly contributed to
orient productive components toward small farmers and services toward the
rural poor.
40.       Bank lending for rural development for northeast Brazil has included
a limited number of land-related activities. The Bahia Rural Development
Project (Paraguacu) includes a significant land titling component (some 2,300
titles already granted and a further 3,700 in process, with a target of 15,000)
and a small land purchase component to be executed by a newly created state
land institute. The first Ceara Rural Development Project (Serra do Ibiapaba)
provided for a small land purchase scheme which has thus far benefited a small
number of sharecroppers. The Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, and Sergipe Rural
Development Projects all have modest land purchase and/or titling activities
currently under implementation. The recently approved second Ceara Rural
Development Project provides support for land tenure regularization and
titling, and a new state land institute. Lessons learned from these experiences,
combined with increased support from federal and state authorities, have made
it possible and feasible for the proposed project in Piaui to address land
issues on a significant scale and in a comprehensive manner.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission which visited
the state of Piaui in early 1978. Several project preparation missions fol-
lowed, to assist the State Planning Comission in designing the project. The
project was appraised in September 1980 and the appraisal completed in
February 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington from May 11 to May 15,1981
with a delegation led by Mr. Jose Augusto Arantes Savasini of the Federal
Secretariat of Planning. A staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Northeast Brazil,
Piaui Rural Development Project" (No. 3398-BR, dated May 22, 1981), is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Project Area
42.       The State of Piaui, one of the least developed in Brazil, has a
total area of some 251,000 square kilometers and a popuIation of about
2.1 million (1980). Average population density is 8/km , the lowest of any
northeast state. Average per capita income amounts to about US$300 and is
below the relative rural poverty level in Brazil (US$330). Income distribu-
tion is uneven, with the top 5% receiving 60% and the bottom 40% earning 7%
of the state total. Agriculture employs an estimated 70% of the economically



- 13 -
active population and contributes 40% to the state GDP. While farming con-
tinues to be Piaui's predominant economic sector, its relative importance has
been declining, partly as a result of recurrent drought conditions, and partly
owing to deficient soil and water management and poor labor productivity. It
has been estimated that some 88% of the state's farmers own no land and have
no tenure security. Support for small farmer-oriented agricultural develop-
ment comes primarily through the POLONORDESTE program, which accounts for over
60% of public resources being invested in rural areas.
43.       The area of the proposed project (see IBRD Map No. 15479 attached
at the end of this report) covers some 2.4 million ha or    roughly 10% of the
territory of the state and includes 26 municipalities. It stretches some 400
km from north to south along the eastern bank of the lower and middle Parnaiba
River, and consists of three areas with varying ecological conditions: the
delta of the Parnaiba in the north along the Piaui coastline, the middle
Parnaiba in the south, and the intermediate transition zone in the vicinity of
the state capital, Teresina. The project area has the highest population
density in the state. Its population is estimated at 770,000 (1975), or
nearly 40% of the state's inhabitants; slightly less than one-half of the
total population is rural. Of the 58,000 farmers, about 78% are landless.
They work mainly as tenants or sharecroppers on large estates, cultivating
small plots (3 ha average), usually leased for one crop cycle, under oral
agreements, with rents as high as 50% of the value of annual production.
Despite the relatively low cost of land (average of US$35/ha) compared to
other areas of the Northeast and the fact that huge tracts of cultivable land
remain idle, small owners and tenants have little opportunity to acquire land
because of the reluctance of large land owners to sell off small plots and the
limited availability of land purchase credit. Some 70% of the owners, many
of whom lack proper titles, are small farmers with holdings of less than
100 ha.
44.       Soils in the project area vary, but are generally characterized by
low to medium fertility, low moisture retention, and high erosion. Annual
rainfall averages more than 1,100 mm, but is highly concentrated with varia-
tion in its distribution. Drought conditions occur periodically. As yet, the
available water resources have hardly been tapped for irrigation. About 1.7
million ha, or 70% of the project area, is suitable for agriculture but only
about 20 to 30% is under cultivation, with 10% cropped annually. The main
crops are rice, corn, beans, and manioc. Among small farmers, yields are
low and subject to climatic swings. Most individual landholdings are too
small for fallow periods to be observed; thus despite the existence of unused
land, the land that is farmed is overutilized, resulting in a steady decline
in fertility. Agricultural practices are rudimentary, and labor productivity
is low. Few small farmers use animal traction. Fertilizer and pesticides are
seldom applied, and the use of improved seeds lags far behind other regions of
the country.
45.       The Parnaiba River delta accounts for 44% of the project area.
There, in addition to the local farming population, the project would also
benefit 2,500 families of fishermen. Despite existing known marine resources,
present incomes from fishing are very low; equipment is inadequate and the
technology rudimentary, resulting in limited catches. Ice-producing facili-
ties are inadequate, and fish processing is limited.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Strategy
46.       The proposed loan would aim at raising incomes and employment
levels of the rural poor, improving rural living conditions, expanding farm
and fishery production to help ensure an adequate food supply to the urban
population, and enhancing the capacity of state and local institutions to
provide production-related infrastructure and services to small farmers and
fishermen. A special objective of the proposed project would be the develop-
ment of a simple, relatively low-cost, and technically sound approach to land
redistribution and other land-related actions. These objectives correspond to
the Bank's and the POLONORDESTE program's goals of improving the productivity,
incomes, and standard of living of the poorest income groups.
47.       A key feature of the proposed project, and the main element influ-
encing its design, would be the redistribution of land to the rural poor
combined with other measures to improve land tenure security. Land to be
redistributed to small farmers would be acquired using a variety of methods,
including purchases (this would represent the bulk of cases especially in the
project's initial years), transfer of public lands, and exceptionally, expro-
priations. Transforming a farm laborer, a tenant, or a small-holder into an
uncontested owner of an adequate plot of land, and equally important, pro-
viding him with appropriate production services and inputs, should prove to be
the key to accomplishing the objectives of the proposed project. Annual
project planning would ensure that complementary project actions remain
compatible with the scope and timing of land activities. Project design and
appraisal have consequently placed a considerable emphasis on start-up mecha-
nisms and procedures, criteria to be applied during the process, and a com-
prehensive monitoring system.
Project Components
48.       The proposed project would consist of the following:
(a)  Land activities:  Acquisition and allotment of about 200,000 ha of
land for redistribution to about 5,000 landless small farmers;
land tenure regularization of about 900,000 ha; demarcation and
titling of land for about 1,500 small farmers; and assistance to
the newly created State Land Institute;
(b) Agricultural development: applied research; extension; seed
production and distribution; marketing; and a program of 1,500 ha
small-scale irrigation;
(c) Fisheries development: assistance to about 1,800 fishermen
families through the provision of equipment and marketing
facilities; research; technical assistance; and training;
(d) Physical infrastructure: rehabilitation and upgrading of about
1,350 km of existing rural roads; and construction of about
400 km of new rural access roads and tracks;



- 15 -
(e) Social infrastructure: Construction of about 200 low-cost water
supply systems for selected rural communities; and expansion of
basic rural education facilities and services in 11 of the 26
project area's minicipalities; and
(f) Project administration: coordination, planning, monitoring, and
evaluation of project activities.
The project is expected to be carried out over a period of about five years
beginning mid-1981.
49.       Land Acquisition and Redistribution.  Some 200,000 ha
of agricultural land would be acquired by the State Land Institute (INTERPI)
for the purposes of the project. This would be primarily privately owned
land, purchased at market prices utilizing resources from FUNVALE, the state
land purchase fund, or -- in exceptional circumstances -- expropriated by
INCRA, following a procedure involving a presidential decree and compensation.
Suitable public land would also be transferred to INTERPI for redistribution.
Some 43,000 ha of private land and about 7,000 ha of public land have been
acquired already. Land acquisition in the first year of project execution is
expected to raise the cumulative total to at least 100,000 ha. At least
50,000 ha would be acquired in each of the following two years. The state
government would take all necessary steps to meet these minimum acquisition
targets (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Land acquisition costs
are included in the proposed project costs as this item is central to the
execution of the proposed project. The Bank would not, however, disburse
against land purchase expenditures. Thus far, purchases have not stimulated
land price increases in the project area, and no significant land speculation
is anticipated. Initial experiences with land purchasing show the amount of
suitable land offered for sale to be higher than expected and the number of
offers is increasing. It is expected that the land redistribution program
could continue with public lands identified during the land tenure regulari-
zation process (see para. 51) should land prices rise too sharply. Develop-
ments in the land market would be closely monitored throughout project
execution. In addition to the land acquisition and redistribution program,
the state government would take all necessary steps, in accordance with
Brazilian legislation, to obtain the concession of public coastal lands in
the project area for purposes of conferring appropriate tenure rights to
fishing communities to be served by the project, which are currently settled
in such coastal lands (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
50.       A plan for allotment of the acquired properties for small farmers
would be drawn up by INTERPI, once the necessary topographical studies, soil
and water resources surveys, and an assessment of infrastructure needs have
been completed. After discussions with the prospective beneficiaries and
approval by INCRA, demarcation and titling of the individual plots, averaging
35-50 ha, would proceed. The land acquired by INTERPI is expected to be
redistributed to about 5,000 currently landless families selected in priority
from among tenants, sharecroppers, and farm laborers already living on the
properties. Land distribution beneficiaries would be required to pay for the
land received under the project in rice, or an equivalent sum in cash, in four
annual installments. The total amount of rice to be paid would be based on
the land value, taking into account production potential, infrastructure and



- 16 -
access, determined during the allotment period. Each annual installment would
be equal to or less than the amount of rent currently paid by area tenants.
The rice would be collected by area cooperatives, processed and subsequently
transferred to COBAL, the government food company, which would pay INTERPI.
It is expected that 20% to 25% of total land acquisition and redistribution
costs (in real terms) would be recovered. Certain conditions, such as the
acceptance of technical assistance by EMATER-PI and the agreement not to sell,
would be placed on beneficiary usage of the land during the repayment period.
Contractual arrangements, specifying the terms and conditions for the transfer
of land, would be entered into by INTERPI and the farmers benefiting from land
redistribution. Such arrangements would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section
2.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
51.       Land Tenure Regularization and Titling.  In order to generate land
for subsequent redistribution and assist small owners in securing legal titles
to their land, the project would finance land tenure regularization and
titling of a total of about 900,000 ha of land (one-third of the total project
area) during the second, third, and fourth project years. This component
would be carried out by INTERPI with technical assistance from INCRA. The
areas to be covered by this component are currently being selected and would
be fully identified during the first project year. In each selected munici-
pality, all land claims would be scrutinized and legal claims identified, with
public lands distinguished from private holdings. Subsequently, suitable
public lands would be turned over to the project for redistribution, while
privately owned lands would be demarcated and titled. The full cost of these
services would be recovered, proportionally to property size, in accordance
with existing INCRA legislation (Section 2.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
The project would also support the provision of legal assistance to small
farmers involved in the process. Three lawyers would be contracted for this
purpose beginning in the second project year. A complete program satisfactory
to the Bank for executing the project's land tenure regularization and titling
component would be forwarded to the Bank for review and approval no later than
October 1, 1981 and three lawyers, with qualifications and terms and condi-
tions of employment satisfactory to the Bank, would be appointed by the
Project Management Unit (PMU) no later than April 1, 1982 (Section 2.05 of
the draft Project Agreement).
52.       Assistance to the State Land Institute.  INTERPI would play a major
role in the carrying out of project land components. INTERPI was formally
established in December 1980. The staff of an existing land unit, created for
the purposes of preparing and initiating project activities, is currently
being transferred to INTERPI and would constitute the core staff of this new
institute. Additional staff, consultancy services, equipment and other opera-
tional costs directly related to project activities, including the establish-
ment of effective cadastral and titling services, would be financed under the
proposed project.
53.       Applied Research.  The applied research program, to be implemented
by the state branch of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA),
would complement ongoing research activities and those planned under the
proposed second agricultural research project. It would focus upon adaptive



- 17 -
research to improve current farming practices. Initial recommendations would
be based on practices currently employed by more advanced farmers in the
project area, which are mainly related to increases in labor productivity
through mechanization with animal traction. Other possible improvements would
include: (a) reductions in crop failure due to drought conditions through the
dissemination of improved soil and water management techniques; (b) increases
in crop productivity through improved planting materials, fertilizer and
pesticide use, timely planting, diversification of crop alternatives, and
improvement of intercropping systems. Trials would be conducted at the
existing experimental station in Teresina, which is representative of average
ecological conditions of the project area, and at two complementary sub-stations.
Farm level experimentation and demonstration fields would be established with
farmers' participation. Items to be financed under the applied research
component include equipment, incremental salaries and related operating
costs.
54.       Rural Extension.  Agricultural and social extension services would
be expanded under the proposed project. The extension service would be instru-
mental in disseminating improved agricultural and farm management practices,
organizing seed production, and promoting improved hygiene and nutrition. The
extension service would also play a key role in ensuring community participa-
tion both prior to and during the land redistribution process. Improved
training and some degree of specialization would allow the extension staff to
deal effectively with their increased responsibilities under the project which
would also expand and upgrade the institutional capability of EMATER-PI, the
state rural extension service. The establishment of local offices, equipment,
training, and incremental staff and related operating costs would be financed
under this component. By year 4 of the project, about 80 additional agricul-
tural extensionists and 50 social extensionists would be recruited. A
number of specialists, including marketing and cooperative specialists, would
also be employed. A special coordinator would be appointed within EMATER-PI
to help it carry out its special responsibilities under the proposed project.
55.       Seed Production.  A statewide seed production and distribution system
has recently been established in Piaui. The project would provide three addi-
tional storage facilities required to complement this newly created system.
Multiplication of basic seeds would be carried out by a selected group of
small farmers under the supervision of EMATER-PI. Project area cooperatives
would purchase, treat, and sell the certified seeds. To encourage the use of
the improved seeds project farmers would be charged about two-thirds of market
price for the seeds in the first year of dissemination. Financing under the
project of part of the seed program's operating cost would cover the differen-
tial between production costs and the selling price. By the end of the
project investment period, all farmers would be paying the full market price
for the improved seeds.
56.       Marketing.  Marketing facilities and services would be improved in
the project area. A study of the current marketing situation in the project
area would be carried out and the existing marketing information system up-
graded, through the creation of new information agencies and the strengthening
of existing ones. Subsequently, the input sales network and the channels for
marketing small farmers' agricultural production would be improved. Eight



- 18 -
new input supply stores would be opened. Activities of the cooperatives,
local retailers and involved agencies such as the Piaui Agricultural Develop-
ment Company (CIDAPI), and the federal food distribution company (COBAL) would
be expanded and better coordinated. A project marketing coordinator within
the Piaui Planning Commission (CEPA-PI) would coordinate all project marketing
activities. Thirty months of consultancy services would be provided in the
first project year to help strengthen the planning and implementation capaci-
ties of the various institutions involved. The initial marketing study would
be carried out under terms satisfactory to the Bank. The results of the study
would be submitted to Bank review by April 1, 1982 (Section 2.06 of the draft
Project Agreement). A program satisfactory to the Bank, for rice collection
and marketing, and for the operation of COBAL's wholesale supply system for
basic food items, and progress reports on other technical assistance activities
included under this component, would also be furnished to the Bank (Section
2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
57.       Small-scale Irrigation Schemes.  Piaui has relatively abundant
surface and ground water resources, and irrigation is likely to play a major
role in the long-term development strategy of the drought-prone state. The
proposed project would include a component aimed at developing low-cost
approaches to small-scale irrigation, and at strengthening state-level capa-
bilities in planning and implementing water development schemes. A program
for 1,500-ha of small-scale irrigation would be implemented under the project,
chiefly in the delta of the Parnaiba where the state's irrigation potential
is highest. The schemes would mainly consist of protective dikes and small
pumping stations, and in a limited number of cases, tube wells and pumps
for underground water. Selection of schemes to be developed under the pro-
posed project would be based on a set of technical, economic, and social
criteria, including an economic rate of return of at least 15%, soil quality,
and population density, each case being assessed on its own merit.  Investment
cost per hectare is not expected to exceed US$5,000 (September 1980 prices).
Local water users' associations would be set up prior to the construction of
each scheme (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement). These associations
would be responsible for the collection of user charges and operation and
maintenance of the systems. A water charge scheme, satisfacatory to the Bank,
providing for full recovery of operating and maintenance costs and the reco-
very of investments in infrastructure, taking into account the beneficiaries'
capacity to pay and the revaluation of the recoverable portion of the invest-
ments, would be furnished to the Bank no later than six months before the
estimated date of completion of each small scale irrigation system (Section
2.07 of the draft Project Agreement). An average of 30% to 35% of investment
costs is expected to be recovered. Such a cost recovery level would be
justifiable considering the incentives required to induce participation of
project farmers in a new activity, and the current low level of income of the
potential beneficiaries. The irrigation component would be supervised by
INTERPI's technical services department. Initial selection of sites would be
the responsibility of this department. Subsequent feasibility studies to be
carried out by consultants would be subject to Bank approval prior to the
completion of detailed designs and construction (Section 2.07 of the draft
Project Agreement). A state water commission comprising representatives of
the State Secretary of Agriculture, EMATER-PI, the National Department for
Drought Related Works (DNOCS), and chaired by INTERPI, would be set up no



- 19 -
later than October 1, 1981 to review feasibility studies and designs, and to
establish water charges (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
58.       Fisheries Development.  The proposed intervention, the first of
its kind to be supported by the Bank in Northeast Brazil, would strengthen
the traditional coastal fishing sector by disseminating technology already
employed to a limited extent within the project area, and by improving exist-
ing institutional arrangements. The project would provide funds for: (a)
extension, technical assistance and training of fishermen to be implemented
by EMATER-PI and the State Organization of Cooperatives (OCEPI); (b) experi-
mentation and research to be carried out by the Fishing Development Super-
intendency (SUDEPE); and (c) coordination of project activities to be carried
out by SUDEPE with the assistance of outside consultants. It is expected that
some 1,800 fishermen and their families would be assisted by EMATER-PI fishing
technicians and social extensionists over the five-year project period. The
experimentation and research programs would test new types of fishing gear and
equipment as well as different types of fishing systems, and would be carried
out with the assistance of consultants, using a research ship owned by SUDENE.
Coordination of the project fisheries component would be the responsibility of
a special coordinator to be appointed within SUDEPE. Credit for working
capital and equipment including fishing vessels would be financed outside the
project by existing credit lines.
59.       Rural Roads.  The project would include the design and construction
of about 400 km of rural access roads and rural tracks, and improvements on
about 1,350 km of existing roads in the project area. Road maintenance
equipment, a small soil laboratory, training for maintenance crews, and
consultants would also be financed under the proposed loan. The project
management unit would coordinate and monitor project road activities. Con-
struction would be carried out by the state company for road development
(CODERPI), and maintenance by the municipalities with the technical support of
the State Highway Department (DER-PI).  Prior to initiating the municipal
roadworks provided for under the project, DER-PI would enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the municipalities con-
cerned, for purposes of defining the responsibilities of each such municipality
with respect to the maintenance of the roads under its jurisdiction, the
preparation and carrying out by the municipality of an annual road maintenance
program and to establish the municipalities' responsibility to rehabilitate
with DER-PI mechanized assistance, municipal roads included in the project
area for which rehabilitation is not financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
(Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
60.       Rural Water Supplies.  About 200 low-cost village water supply sys-
tems, including public laundries would be financed under the proposed project.
Some 11,000 water filters would also be distributed by EMATER-PI social exten-
sionists. The water supply component is expected to benefit some 65,000
persons. The Foundation for Special Public Health Services (FSESP) would be
responsible for all preinvestment and design studies, construction supervision,
and water quality control. These preinvestment studies would be carried out
according to satisfactory federal guidelines. The Piaui Agricultural Develop-
ment Company (CIDAPI) would be responsible for operation and maintenance of
the systems. CIDAPI would establish a new division to help it carry out its
responsibilities under this component. Water charges to be levied by the
participating municipalities would be gradually raised to cover all system
operating costs. Prior to initiation of construction works, FSESP and CIDAPI



- 20 -
would enter into an agreement with the municipality concerned defining mainte-
nance and operation responsibility and funding (Section 2.12 of the draft
Project Agreement).
61.       Education.  The activities of the Northeast Basic Education Project
(Loan No. 1867-BR) would be extended to eleven municipalities located in the
area of the proposed project which were not included in that project. Items
to be financed under the component include curricula upgrading, educational
materials, training of about 650 teachers and 40 school administrators,
construction of about 80 new classrooms, and remodeling and equipping of
about 50 existing schools. The State Secretariat of Education would be the
executing agency.
62.       Agricultural Credit.  Because of the highly negative real interest
rates for rural credit in Brazil, credit would not be included in Bank financ-
ing for the proposed project. However, the Government would ensure that
adequate credit for working capital and investment would be made available as
needed for all farmers and fishermen participating in the proposed project
(Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Incremental credit requirements
for the project, estimated at about US$23 million, would be provided by local
banks through the existing POLONORDESTE credit line or their regular rural
credit programs.
Project Implementation
63.       Organization and.Management.  Administration of the proposed project
would be an integral part of the state POLONORDESTE organizational framework.
A POLONORDESTE State Management Council (chaired by the Governor and including
the heads of all state secretariats and official banks as well as representa-
tives from the state rural trade union, the state university, and the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture) meets regularly to decide policy issues and give
overall guidance to the state's rural development activities. Important
operational issues involving POLONORDESTE projects are dealt with by an imple-
mentation committee, comprised of executive staff from all of the implementing
agencies. This committee, which meets monthly, is chaired by the coordinator
of the State POLONORDESTE Technical Unit. The Technical Unit, linked to the
Secretariat of Planning, is responsible for the daily coordination, administra-
tion, monitoring, and evaluation of all state POLONORDESTE projects. The
Technical Unit would be reinforced under the proposed project, chiefly through
the creation of a special Project Management Unit (PMU), to coordinate project
activities.
64.       PMU, headed by a Project Coordinator, would be responsible for the
overall coordination, planning, monitoring, and evaluation of project activi-
ties. It would be comprised of: (a) three sub-coordinators to coordinate and
monitor project land, agriculture development, and infrastructure activities;
(b) a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Unit; (c) Administrative and
Financial Sub-Units; and (d) three regional field coordinators to supervise
and coordinate activities at the regional and local levels. PMU would be
assisted in its tasks by a project marketing sub-coordinator within CEPA-PI
and a project fisheries sub-coordinator within SUDEPE, both of whtom would



- 21 -
have direct access to the Project Coordinator. Beneficiary participation in
the relevant project decisions would be ensured through regular meetings
between project staff and beneficiaries at the local level. The State
Government would ensure that PMU would be established and maintained under
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and would maintain a Project Coordinator
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.13 of the draft Project Agreement).
65.       Annual Operating Plans.  Activities to be carried out during the
first year of project execution have been well defined and some of them are
already underway.   Hiring of staff and consultants has already begun.  About
450 beneficiaries should be settled on their own plots by the end of the first
year and provided with the required services and infrastructure works. The
pace of project execution in subsequent years would be influenced by the
progress of the land tenure components, and comprehensive annual planning
would be essential to project success. The planning, monitoring, and evalua-
tion sub-unit of PMU would be responsible for overseeing the preparation and
timely submission of the participating agencies' proposals and their consoli-
dation into coherent annual operating plans. The state would ensure that the
annual plans for the following year's activities, including related cost
estimates in terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be submitted to the Bank
and SUDENE no later than October 1 of each year. (Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement). These plans would subsequently be submitted by the state
for review and approval at the federal level. The federal Government would
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on any proposed material
modifications to these annual plans submitted by the state (Section 3.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       Operating Agreements.  In line with Brazilian practices, the terms
and conditions governing the participation of various agencies and entities
in the execution of the proposed project would be embodied in operating
agreements (convenios) between such agencies and the state Government and
among agencies participating in the execution of the same project component.
These agreements, which have already been prepared, would be subject to Bank
approval (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Signature of operat-
ing agreements satisfactory to the Bank between the state government and
INTERPI and between the state government and INCRA would be conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
67.       Technical Assistance.  A total of about 235 months of short-term
consultancy services at an average cost of about US$5,000 per month would be
financed under the project to provide technical assistance and training to
various project executing agencies and their staff. The qualifications and
experience, and terms and conditions of employment of these consultants would
be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.15 of the draft Project Agreement).
68.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Sub-Unit within PMU would be responsible for keeping up-to-date records
on physical implementation progress, conducting short-term studies on specific
implementation problems, and contracting and supervising major evaluation
reports. Quarterly consolidated monitoring reports, giving details on project
implementation progress and expenditures would be prepared by PMU and provided



- 22 -
to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Evaluation
activities would consist of: (a) ongoing evaluation; (b) a mid-term evalua-
tion; and (c) a post-project evaluation. Ongoing evaluation, carried out by
the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Unit in the PMU, would consist of
short-term studies of specific project activities and implementation problems.
These studies would complement monitoring information and would be useful for
project management and annual planning. An in-depth mid-term evaluation would
be conducted during the third year to provide project management with informa-
tion on emerging development trends within the project area and preliminary
ass.nssments of project impact both on beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries.
Major responsibility for the mid-term study, as well as the ex-post evalua-
tion, would be contracted externally to consulting firms and/or academic
institutions. The results of all evaluation studies would be sent to the Bank
for review promptly upon their completion, and terms of reference for those
requiring more than six staff-months would be subject to prior approval by the
Bank. The project mid-term evaluation report would be provided to the Bank no
later than October 1, 1984 (Section 2.14 of the draft Project Agreement).
Cost and Financing of the Project
69.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$84.4 million equivalent,
of which US$16.3 million, or 19%, would be in foreign exchange. The total
includes about US$1.7 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical contingen-
cies were estimated at about 6% of baseline costs, including 20% of water
supply and irrigation construction costs, 15% of other construction costs, and
5% of the cost of equipment, vehicles, and vehicle operation and maintenance
costs. Price contingencies equal 27% of baseline costs were calculated in US
dollar terms, based on estimates of international inflation rates declining
from 12.5 to 7% during the five-year period of execution. A breakdown of the
estimated cost is shown in the Loan and Project Summary at page ii.
70.       The proposed loan of US$29 million would finance 35% of the project
cost (net of taxes). These include the entire foreign exchange component
and US$12.7 million equivalent (or about 19%) of the local cost. It seems
reasonable for the Bank to finance this portion of local costs in order
to make a meaningful contribution to a project designed to raise the incomes
and living conditions of the rural poor in Brazil's northeast. Retroactive
financing of up to US$2 million would be permitted to help cover eligible
expenditure incurred after October 1, 1980 for start-up activities, such as
the organization of INTERPI and various consultancy services. The federal
government would contribute the balance of the project cost from the budget of
the POLONORDESTE program. The federal government would ensure that these
counterpart funds as well as facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose of the project would be provided in a timely manner (Section
3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
71.       Most of the equipment, vehicles and materials required by the
numerous executing agencies are locally produced and readily available. They
would therefore be procured in accordance with local bidding procedures, which
are acceptable. Road maintenance equipment to be acquired in two relatively



- 23 -
small lots would be procured after local competitive bidding advertised
nationally. Contracts for rural road construction and improvement would be
awarded in accordance with local procedures for competitive bidding. These
procedures do not preclude foreign contractors from bidding, but they are not
expected to be interested because of the scattered nature of the works and
limited size of construction lots. Most civil works related to irrigation,
water supply, and marketing facilities would be awarded following competitive
bidding advertised locally; a fraction might be carried out by force account.
As these works would be small and dispersed, foreign firms, which are not
precluded, are not expected to bid.
72.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against 36%
of expenditures on each project component (excluding land acquisition). In
order to reduce the interval during which the Government would finance the
Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the Government may
request the Bank to make advance payments in dollars from the loan account
into a Special Account to be opened in the Central Bank (Section 2.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The Government would be entitled to make withdrawals
in cruzeiros from the Special Account upon submission to the Central Bank of
statements of expenditures on the project. Conversion from dollars into
cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date the
expenditures on the project were made. The Central Bank would forward those
statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.
Supporting documentation for salaries, administrative expenses and minor
construction under force account would not be submitted to the Bank, but would
be retained by the PMU and made available for inspection by the Bank during
project supervision missions. Standard documentation covering civil works,
vehicles, equipment, and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank.
A schedule of disbursements is set out in the Loan and Project Summary at
page iii above. The Closing Date would be December 31, 1986.
Accounts and Audits
73.       Each of the participating agencies, including the PMU, would main-
tain accounts of its project expenditures, which would be annually audited
by government auditors according to satisfactory standard procedures for
POLONORDESTE projects. Copies of the audited statements of the various
agencies' project accounts would be provided to the Bank through the PMU
within six months of the end of the POLONORDESTE fiscal year. These reports
would contain a specific reference as to the adequacy of the procedures used
for the verification and preparation of statements of expenditure for dis-
bursement requests (Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
74.       According to estimates based on farmgate and dock prices prevailing
in September 1980, the annual value of incremental production at full develop-
ment would amount to about US$34 million equivalent; about US$27 million would
be from crops, US$5 million from livestock and over US$2 million from fish.
The traditional crops of rice, corn, beans and manioc would continue to
predominate in the project area. However, a few beneficiaries are expected
to grow fruit and vegetables on irrigated plots and some might gradually
specialize in rice. Cattle raising as part of small mixed crop/livestock



- 24 -
operations would be expanded. The composition of the sea catch would not
change significantly, but better quality fish of readily marketable varieties
is likely to represent a larger proportion.
75.       Selling the incremental output would present no difficulty.  Beans
and corn would be absorbed locally, and manioc flour and rice would be marketed
in other states of the northeast.  There has long been demand in Piaui for
meat and dairy products which could not be satisfied. The fish would be sold
fresh, or in processed form, to meet rapidly growing consumption throughout
the northeast.  Improved marketing infrastructure and services are expected
to raise the producer's share of the price payable by the ultimate consumer.
76.       Incomes from farming and fishing are likely to rise substantially.
For a landless family not benefitting directly from project land activities,
the present average annual income of US$900 equivalent may go up to US$1,250
equivalent, at full development (year 10 of project execution). A small-holder
and his family could more than double their income owing to the project, from
US$1,800 to US$3,900 equivalent. The family of a typical landless farmer who
would be allotted a plot of land under the project, might see their income
increase from the present US$900 to US$3,750 equivalent without irrigation and
US$3,930 with irrigation, at full development. Without the project, the average
annual income of a fisherman's family has been estimated at US$600 equivalent;
at full development, it is expected to reach US$3,000 equivalent.
77.       At full development, the project would create new on-farm employment
equivalent to 20,650 workers. About two-thirds of this additional employment
would be filled by family members, some of whom would otherwise seek employ-
ment in urban areas. The implementation of the fishery component would gene-
rate some 840 employment openings for fishermen. Other permanent job openings
would arise in the processing and marketing of agricultural and fishery
products, and in the maintenance and repair of infrastructure and equipment.
78.       The economic rate of return for the directly productive components
of the project has been estimated at 20%. However, given the number of
variables involved, a range of from about 15% to 25% might be a more realistic
estimate. No specific economic return was calculated for such components as
water supply, education and some feeder roads, which would have significant,
but not readily quantifiable, benefits. The cost stream used in estimating
the rate of return included the cost of productive investment directly benefit-
ing the target population, and all recurrent costs needed to operate the
project. The incremental production of the direct beneficiaries which consti-
tutes the benefit stream used in computing the rate of return would not
account for all benefits. Production would increase also on other farms, due
to improved research, extension and marketing services. Road construction
would stimulate economic activity both within and outside the project area.
Social investment would be reflected in better living conditions for virtually
all inhabitants of the project area. A sensitivity analysis indicates that
for the project as a whole, benefits would have to decrease by 25% to 30%, or
costs would have to increase by 35% to 40% before the overall rate of return
fell below 12%.
79.       The cost of project investment per benefiting family is US$5,800
per family without irrigation, about US$11,900 with irrigation, and US$4,400



- 25 -
for small owners who would benefit from project demarcation and titling
services. Cost for landless farmers not directly involved in project land
activities would be considerably less, about US$2,900. Present government
policies do not call for low-income families to pay for the cost of produc-
tion-related services or infrastructure. The cost of road construction under
the project would be recoverable through various taxes and road user fees.
Other project costs, such as land clearing and on-farm investment, may be
partially recovered through the credit system. However, the extent of cost
recovery in real terms would depend on the rate of inflation in Brazil and on
the evolution of the government's policy of subsidizing credit for the rural
poor. About 20% to 25% of land acquisition and redistribution costs would be
recovered (para. 50) and irrigation charges are expected to cover 30% to 35%
of investment costs (para. 57).
80.       Upon completion of the project, the state and federal governments
would have to bear additional recurrent costs of about US$2.6 million per
annum. These costs would be primarily the expenses of the extension service,
but would also include some expenses on administration, education, water
distribution and road maintenance. However, the recurrent costs should be
fully offset by additional revenue of some US$4 million equivalent per annum
from the land tax, the product circulation tax and the tax earmarked for the
Rural Workers Assistance Fund; the two latter taxes would apply to transac-
tions involving incremental farm output resulting from the project.
Risks
81.       Coordination of the executing entities will call for unrelenting
attention and effort on the part of POLONORDESTE State Management Council and
the Project Management Unit. Work programs and expenditure budgets of these
entities would be prepared and approved on an annual basis, and would reflect
lessons learned from experience. The project small-scale irrigation component
may be delayed by slow progress in bringing about the required strengthening
of the state institutional capability in this field. Careful monitoring of
the progress of all project components should diminish these risks to accept-
able levels.
82.       The timely execution of the project is predicated on the smooth
progress of the land tehure component. Project land activities may encounter
social, political and technical obstacles. The support lent to the project
by federal, state and local authorities suggests that these potential
difficulties would be faced squarely and dealt with effectively.
83.       The federal contribution to the cost of the project will be chan-
nelled through the Government's POLONORDESTE program which has often in the
past suffered from inadequate financial resources and from delays in the
allocation of funds. However, recent contacts between the federal Government
and the Bank have brought about a better understanding of the importance that
prompt and adequate appropriation of funds from the federal budget has for the
success of all Bank-assisted POLONORDESTE projects, and have resulted in a
commitment to speed up and increase the availability of these funds.



- 26 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Piaui and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
85.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would
be the signing of agreements satisfactory to the Bank between the state and
INTERPI and INCRA respectively (para. 66).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
87.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 28, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-27 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1
BRAZIL - SOCIAL IIIDICAIORS DA-A SNEET
BRAZIL                         RE'ERENCE CPOI PS (!FCl(ITFD AV%fFS
LAND AREA (TFOUSAND SQ. CM. )                                                       -If_ -;K_jFfCr:T ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            8512.0
AGRICULTURAL    2067.2                                   MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDlE ItCOMF
1960  /b    1970 Lf ESTItATE         LATIN AMERICA 6 CAEIHBFAN           EUROPE
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   320.0       570.0    1690.0                     1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSTUKTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      332.0        474.0      794.0                   1055.9                     1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLICNS)      71.5         95.2      119.5
URBAN POPLLATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 46.1          55.9       63.3                     63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        201.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          345.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPL'LATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.0         11.0       14.0                     28.1                       77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      44.0         49.0       58.0                     61.7                      129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.6         42.6       41.7                     41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                          53.8         54.3       54.9                     54.7                       61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6         3.1        3.4                       3.9                       8.2
POPULATION CRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0         2.9        2.8                      2. 7                       1. 6
URBAN                                5.5         4.8        4.5                      4. 1                       3. 3
CR1DE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       40.0        38.0       36.0                     34.8                       22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       11.0         9.0        9.0                      S.9                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.6         2.6        2.4                       2.5                       1. 5
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       111.0      203.6
USERS (PERCENI OF HARRIED WO!ET)    ..           1.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
*NDEX OF FOOD PRODUCIION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0      112.0                    106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   101.0        104.0      107.2                    107.4                      125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           61.0         62.0       62.7                     63.6                       91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        34.0         34.0       35. 1                    33. 7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       13.0        10. 0       9. 0                      8.4                       43
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0          61.0       62.0                     63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..          ..         ..                     66.5                       55. 9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        56.3       77.1                     65.9
URRAN                                 *-        77.7       88.8                     80.4
RURAL                                ..         29.0       56.8                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        59.9       64.8                     62.3
URBAN                                ..         86.1       83.7                     79. 4
RURAL                                *-         26.5       31. 7                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            3600.0      1910.0    1700.0                    1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      3220.0         ..                   1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             309.0        262.0      253.0                    480.3                      289.7
URAAN                                ..           ..
RCRAL-                                ..          ..         .
ADMilSSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED            ..         18.0        ..                        ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
T0TAL                                5.1         4.8        4.9
URBAN                                ..          4.6        4. 7
RURAL                                *-          5.2        5.3
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         1.1
URBAN                                 ..          1.0
RL'RAL                                ..         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               38.7        47.6       63.0
URBAN                                 '         75.6       84.9
RURAL                                 ..          8.4      19.2



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAHS
- MOST RECEb'T ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOHE            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJL'STED ENRCLIHEIT RATIOS
PRIMARY.     TOTAL                  95. 0       125.0      90. 0c                    99.7                      105.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0       89. Oc                  101.0                      109.3
FE?HALE               93.0        125.0       90. O/                   99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         26.0      24.0/c                    34.4                       64.0
KALE                  11. 0        26.0      22.O0c                    33.5                       71. 1
FEMALE                10.0         26.0      26. 0c                    34. 7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0      47.0jc                    38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0        28.0       22.0                      30.5                       29. 4
SECONDARY                           13.0         13. 0     11. 0                     14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.2       75. 7                    76.3
CONSUM'PTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        25.0       52.4                      43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.0        124.0     155.0                     245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIt'ERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17. 0       64.0       93.0                      84.2                      118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         37.0      39.0                      63.3                       93.0
CINEMA AhUlAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1. 9      2.8 56
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22872.9       30057.3   37704. 7
FEMALE (PERCE;T)                    17.5        20.4       22.0                      22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51. 9        45.6      41. 0                     37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8         18. 3     22. 0                     23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6       31.5                     31.5                       40.9
MALE                                  52.7         50.3       49.5                     48.9                       55.9
F.MALE                                11. 2        12.8       13.6                     14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 4         1. 4       1.4                       1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCQIE
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0           63.5      62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3. 8           3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10. 8           9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AESOLU1E POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .            ..
RURAL                                 .            ..     150.0                     190.8I
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                 .            ..     465.0                     474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      332.0                     332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POFLLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCCME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                         ..                  .
RURAL                                              ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averages for each Indicator are population-velghted arlthmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the idlc.Lt-rs depends on avai:abflity of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless other.ine noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for MH< t Recent Fsti-at,, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc   Besinning 1973 prtrary and secod.dry educations coveer age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
In earlier years; therefore aost recent estinates are not comparable vith earlier data.
Maost recent estimate of CSP per capita ts for 1979. all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 29 -                                                                     ANNEX I
DEFINTOfIONS Ct SOCIALd INIIC.6200
bones   h-gbycu h.Ot d-t r  dea  tfot .-.r.. gaeb-lly judged oh. aeoeacoittvadtial.in  -vud .!ar b. tond that they may -to  ha Ltnt-
nantocalic coparabla . of  h. Lack of ena-daedi:ad d.fl.icon  an d .o.c...            bI          I.dy  ife n outisO  colctn th. data.  Thu datano.mue
c:s.uEafu1c  dascibe ord-r  of asagitude, icdi j .    Iroa.d    ch.   ina.c  ceat  naivr dOitar--c   henc.eo tunie..
Th, r-i:no ......        ar   l  h   a.cutry groP of th.  -ujcncutr  Sod  2) a  outy   rccith b-ah.t high.n  -vr.g. InIo. tha- th. conr   ...aV
socco-tulturn. aflnttlae).  to oh  raferanOa groupd-n   b   veaa   r  popul-2.oe oethn.O arihoti  tet   o   uh idicato  ad ahon  onlyro.
least half  f nh.oouvtte. ba  grop h.. dana for that  dier.SJ_Pmo. navergof  -ounnia` ang  h.a ;cdlcmnoe;a deod  On the .avilaIIny of
dano aId It von uol"r.-  ca-ion  -te  be sar-i .d to  l rlaiia avar..a.. of 00* tndicato  noeinr   The..  arg.8   ar   oy usful In ceePa_ig tha v-lu
of ton ibdlctno  at a nie. aeotg Oh. conryed -f-esncc  groopa.
L-C.t AcId (,ho.....o                                                                       e ...touano   ottvcca  litltln t"IaYOYnnr  0   ataiag ph0,-
Tonl -lotl erO ceare  copriloglad are  ac  ild ll.  eae" ttn    ulfe   to      oit.ahda  otiu' tylv
Egiutrl-ctIoc   farhotrlat.Pn asoaiyo  praeiy                                      oaain  a  uer  Parca- opiat   diVided hy atnbr  f re_utoin
top croPs, Pua.o       ura  nd       -tthangrdn  ortoI. tllvn-; 197, daa                 eala ar  tanala g            .d.n ..., Poactic.lr_araa  and aaaanoae
Ponlalonea  fep   Baled - toal aha. ad rual - Ppnia  (toatl.
19P Pt CaITa  If 0  -GlP par coping aegluettee  at gatost "macbItpole,cl                 ea,an   ua)dvddb  th.i  Mlee  apber et heapital be".
ouLatan hr sat  oo.a..u " esthod a. W.tldIashbilg   j17?-P8 hasg    ila.                     nelabla is pbhit and piveg  sensei and evegl.lised beop&t&ealad Os-
1971, at  19Pbd.ta.                                                                         ah4ilitanios ea   "re     sopinesa at. aaeahlialoante psas~a.eesiy staffad
thid  C9SI0T104  Eg  APIA -nanal  enaannas  f cesenia  enrgy(orl       y an least on. phYaiagan.  Zegebli.1aRReo. prenhdiea p Cioupal IT    nodial
PER____T.'________-.._y I_                                                           ara a. nt teoudod.  loaral hesit.le.t hseve. inniud. bhalh an  ed
an   lnt  - arlm  naualgs -       yda. o-erad    nhr- -le-                        tesre no   arastly  -nffad by a pbyeinln  (but by a sadieltl "eauet
tlicity) Ln kcil.greta   f co-I    ivlntpP. opn;1960, 1970.nd197a,                          nue.n        psf .ec)eih   te   optin    ooain  e   rnd
dana.                                                              Seine~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d r fna  of . ne i ha     ffiit.. i" or tenani-sirn. peopea  aeda"slid i
tale ittld. W1H0. prtincpal genarl and apeiellead brapital. and e-
POPLMTIOiIN 0AND VIT714L STATISTICS                                                           hacOtol.e lord or   -1ra  hoapital. and sadir.l and ea.toly getar
T-tI prlato.Od-erlillion...    A. of Jaly 1; 1960. 1970, and 1978                         ndi..1...n o- H ...it.l ted - To..al otabar ofVasaan    ou  dianbarg
data,                                                                                     tro  heepinlel divided by the . rah. o. ...a.
Urban-  vltn  )rcoof tota) - latin of urban Y te  tloultin
dIP(aen   dniiio f urban area    y affect onnp-beiliny of data                     H0OUSING
aer-  ennin:1060, 1970. an  1978 data.                                                   vra Io.  op-2    otshld  preaorh...ah.ld) -_ .totl.  tbab. and sta-
Perilatios Pro)sctiooa                                               * Ot~~AhIausabi  ceistn f Oagrop of inditiunla eh. ahar  living qosat...
PorulanlrnIn year lOS - Curret pplgo  prjono          r  b ...d on100            ad thisireao teal., A ho..rdor or lodgur ay er eap at ha failude4 is
total populatien by a. ade    a     ersralley and fmeility rats..                 lbs hna.. hld f9 antaitIta   upee
Poetion Pan refnr  rr-litny ratas OOaPlisaefieelvlaum                             AV.,... ousb-ro   ean a  mo-tn                l,uban,  n  rura  - brerga stas-
ita lifP s npet-y an bthiriinesn    ithcutysputcpt  intone                             bhe  of persee par por  I  all urban. an  rural u..caPled ceermetea
lr-1, and fee1l  lit... .e.p ..a.y  tiiinai 77.5 ya5   Th. Par-                        doeLitn,  -epentivaly.  D-Ielinge saclode... san-nee         t argea   n
netera~~~~~~t1..-   . toh-ollyrters   aaue   Ilevls  _aahin  decline it            -orupied Pae.-
teriliy acodIng no mo-   l.oel and Part fae.ly pissina porf-rsnc.                   non... in El.          -ictylo rtt of dellins ..   ton.al. upha.. and rurl
tach a-utoy is than aaaigd   aofte  nacebairof  sraiy                                   C-aeniomldelig  0m           "aotrtty In livin   quarter- eprat
and4 feotilaty trnds_for rrujaatien ptlparp...                                           ofttl ra. ad rural d-1aL.ng   _seoegivlp.y
Snai-mtv   oultin-   agatoaJ-y  papulatie  there ia no srtnth si.c.
th   irth tate is eual nothe dartb rate, and alan lbs ass siruc... 0-              EDCTO
mace -ounnut.  This It. ahieved esly aftnet fertility vane. dacline te               ddWets  IrE-les-   nanioe
th. l.plarens  leve  of u-Jn sea r-pruargtn loate   hen .ach genraiOn                  Prtnr achol- t-tl. nab  andt 1al  - Grna  tonal    -ead teals
of hun  elc. itel  aartl.  Tb.-eni-esy peptalai  sinwatnlnn  001 al  sasa  te isary leve  as p-rtasra ef respueive
eanlauna  an nba  aaia ofthe prj..e  ihnarstupietice of th   ouais                 prisdry FhoOI-amo pepolatien; ussealy inrndaa OhIlda  aseed a-il.
in the yeso Z005, and the Yeas  of declIne ef feonily rats in nala...                     plan  bun adjusted fur differen  laitha of prttaoytednrtiba; fat
eeoc level.                                                                                -touni.e .5th             ad ..an   edcaion anrlleet any sense  109 perasn
Y-   -taIro...   nuultinis ranhed - Ths ysa  Iba  ..tantamay p.p.l.tion                     snen.puisrehlsoabvteoff iOiashe1                               ae
aire h.. hmo  -eahnd                                                                    Sec....   er4heel   Oral.sol  and fasat  - CosPutnd as aba.; .e-s.-"y
Poruloti_ Usenity                                                                             education  -e9uita  an   . Iet fea.  ae-     fapue  ehsyOaocIa
Per so. he. -  id-yeer pnpulaties Per- s        kulra  losnr10  bernOOf                                                p~peba   aea.vctoe.o    aca   riigtetais     5p
total.    -CWt                                   b     .               1rsa                u=ullp ef 12 t  17 Iene of a. -e-rrraonden    r- rs  are gesarlly
6A yea.)  and eair   2S ysraad over  a   eoatge   f lid-you  POPi-                          dently or as d.parnet. of sucundar  ibatituttes.
laiotn; .i90.ll1970. and 1979 lata.       - A-1tao  e  atih-oniaur  nd eaco"dae    T.otal eatodnte  -.rIl.d I
Pulnn  rth laet  (oe"ten) -tnl-  nnlsoet  aa  v   oaE id                               rer  and  areary ..e.    dlidad by  aaao   snasI  h
year populaniona for1950-60. 19070. and 197 D-79.                                      oreodnglends
Penalunon leori pata  pargen   -upb,n- a  1u grS -h roter of urban popo-          Odl  iaer  rte )ron  -Lit.lrat  adult. lable to rad an  -rite)
latios  oe  951-1 1965-72,90  an S90 .                                                  as a peIrnenoagaf atnut1 adult popalatie. aged 15 yeaav  sod ove.
ppitn;1960, 1970. ad1979 data. llbih.-  hu.df dya                              CONSUMPcTION
Crud  D.anh Rua- (Par th-uad) - danul dnahe Per- thagead nf sid-y-a                        aosu  Car.      nrtoanY.elta)-Cuase   aeohlSa
GPnpulatieas 1990. 197 0. and 1979 datu.                                                   ca.e..agla  theno ihnpeana  ancladn   asblaasa h.apsr.asa e
le. n              Rod ia utn-h...aS  -taba  of daughte.  atascllha .        n             slinaylvrhiuls
tar  nrt a  oaps doinpnn   faeauiaa    reutaaeei  tfe                                    ai  aeo         (per thraun ..  npnulatior) - All type. uf raoei trs far -ndJ
niliny  raae; ueually    Isve-ysalleageeniain190   97.ad  97.                      h dia... ogss-a  pullc pa  nPtoa and:. at  "uIti-n; eartad. nl-1
Fanulo PanI= g-Accaoter.  Annua               .4.uata  - Annual ntabr of ...c..tura         uasdreevr  a  cubide  an   nysashaeiarten                              ei   e
of  tnn-contrl ,daca a.d.   aupiao              ..t.na ptanily pinnig ptO5P's.          oat it effact; data for r-cn  Y.-r  sap ton be  apa l  site. seen
aneo n  cild-bearin  as. g 15.44 yena)  ho u.n birth-...tr-1 d.Vi...sta             TVteiva (oarthouad..u io)-Ctrrivaa Ore brsedraet to
almrid'ato  In eaS  ass group.                                                             _Jnra  pbi. pe  th .... d PoPalatien  anclden alin-sed Ty osreiv...
FOOD OD NUTRITION                                                      L.~~~~~~~~~~~~I -onraad in yeare nh.srgitete    f TP rate  o-  L. at fan.
Inaco oO Pod Pr,,udutlnn rerCaat  )96-11:00) - lodan at p-r naping aa.n                     no   f   al    enrlntataaPapr   eta   sa                           dnlpb
preuoi-   of.d   yallnd b aia dit C-iee.  Pndtlot eaci       d. 40.4  ndted  n            licatin  devond pli-teily so re...oding  .-n-ra  Ieee.  It La tesdared
as on. caena  your0 -hai.h    Caaitetunity  edela.elbtu                                   no ha "dnily" it it aps nlattu   ia    aakee.
loeea  ofeuar  ohchareedbl  and nanain nutrient. (e.g.fcof to  ad              Cites  canusi Attendaneoa   artY        reYea-Rad            thn  cben a
tad are .ulu.d)d.  Agg-ean  pr_duutinn  f eac h c--tr  ie basd  tnibtesldBdas teyu,  nldigas edis udiv-naea
unoiroal ererage prtducst price ne~ighta; 1961-65, 1970, and 1979 data,          andbnileui.
Pat caIta  "P, ap10  trlrn   areto   tarsne   Computed Ore.                                             i
sargysqulvalano  o~fbtea food aupIIerilnl   in onanor  par capita             IaFt ORCE
pen day. Avulable aupplise  -nptiaa duentic Produotia. Inoorn  les                   Ttllbr oc   toaed)-tuoualyatv_eeoe   nld
ston.adohne in atck.  Nat aupplies aroluda animl ted.tede.                         aadteeenunplydhtendngh..eite   nda.eo
uriteud10fodI     p.... ing. and I..a.. in dibtautit   tqia-                    ltnltn     -0 oari-u ronties, areta  cetabln'; 160. 190ad
oaoc  an e eo hetedby PAO based on phy.ialogionl.. osd. far  -aIa anti-           1978 dan.t.S
"iY  n  helh ucoedaning  avrraglteepnatnra  boynegt . age                            Peal  (nerCent) -  E-aIe lahnr toeca a.  a  ..cnog tsof total lbor frt.
and esdlniuno f  -popultion, and ullonins Id peren  fa   nn  a                         al ture(eont     aorPai  faning. fr                    -ty.hu tingand
boueehol  leSal;  961-65.19,70. and 1977 data.                                  fAshino as  fevnaea  total labhof .... ; 1960. 1970 aed 1878 data.
Par ca  ma  ,al  of rE aoin (-ra Pa n   day) - Ctottcset  fpecrt              a i.du ttv           eon)- labor totei ant L=Ltooten  ss,tant eie
von e        fp   a  fond per day.  Nat supply o4f ted Is definedaa ahbr.: 00-          andt elaonirinp  voter an    Paaa  pItst.         f-toa  labo  fca  1960
qo=stanefoeal  cenon:friu  setabliuh.d by USDA proide fo  UIt:a 97   n  1979 data.
alOaOl  0ae    fttl:  prat.he pan day an  20 gese nft aael and               partoi,.ntien  Rat  -rreni-ttaYel.   n  fsa.    aioipaiom  or
p-I.. poenof  hnitA  I0S are   eeuld ho ani-a  peutein.  Thu.. ean-                    atvt   an   r   optd as tnnl 7la, andfaal,laor  un   a.
arde cre lone  than oth...o  75gae          Ioa  poosein and 23 'Ient opnenasof soa.sl   n   eaopplOe   falae   epoiey
Entlpoana   naoa   o   h   nl.pooe   yPdi   h   hr                                   1960. 1970, and 1975 da.-.  rh... are tWa,  parttniPatin   rates  llnti
dol_  Pond Sa. p I   91-5  19751 sad 19777 dais.bt..
rlved trot animals and pulase in geeaatse day; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 dat.    trountin leoun'eE-n latin  - PanIntL  population.u dan.15 sad 65 aed ove
Child (anre 1-4) Nortalit, t.ta (,mr Ohecad) -  -n-uI danthe Par- nheued in-                 o the taaL. Ithe  forc.
ag -gou  1-A years  no. tchldrnb in thie nsa snoop; f.. Intdolpi"ncn
tra   dn  deriond fl. eonlfe tables; 1960  1970 and 197dta.                      lNOcef DlSyolIBUTON
Patontas o  Prrun  bone  both in oash sad kindI - Paraived by niahe.s
Lit1 5 Epec,t-ncy an   rth (year.)    uvnge nube  ofyeaee of life raeaming                   f pe.e..  rihs   0plvn.puea   0prnt   n   oran6   nnm
atbrn  1961. 1970 ad1978  aa                                                           fhe.hls
Intfnt M.-nlitv  mt.n  (a  ih-u d) -Aunual deetha of infnne. and-r              year    POVERYo  TARGET G190005
oPao  e  thousan  lIv- birthe.                                                      Itetdualn    ost   naeIse  07$oectt)ubnadevl
cocsatoOa eWaer  patat  f oulaaen  -noni oban  ad  url    Paholuspoury10a   levet.L, ne  lotS bPI a  boIt.    blich                             -.
Ouohe a  peole  tota, uban  andtotlS  ont  anssahiarnaantafa       tufltitaiIly adnonta dint PI.. seeotia1 en-feed raqntrasebt. i. out
anaeply(nlde. trea.ted auefnoenats_ or u_ tnndht  lnotai ed                     atodba
eaereah a h. ca  tro  protecod Ib.r.helen, apling. aed at aynl    as                 tnatd.ble-no    oet   en.tvL UtS   n  nst)- abe  ai                          WAr. 
perceeagee 0  thei  raae _i_s P.ulatle_e   1. euba   rap litcRalrlai1   povety inoot  luvsl l  on-hr9o% rg  Pa  cait
tucotao or eandyot locted ant Inra than 200 Inter  feal         hue  n  be           perseou  incoe  of ths  -taor.  Inhbn leval is derived fee  the rurL
cvedec_da  baing Vithinraonl  era   POe  h.....  .nrud                        ..e          1-1a uithadjuetnenf nbns rona  lvn   in  na  aoe
rural  h- Ome  of p.ood  d(tonapl.  eho   Pand eul  eayne  bye.rf
diepoa ... 1 P--vtSn  of nhnirre-p-ri-e ppu                     ..i.. Orcoc  di.-                                          tnE.-. and Serial Data Siitalon
p-a  na  Include tus collaition and diapo..al. 0mb  t eithentr.         mer.tEnumic Oaslpeis ead Prej ... r.- tepueselat
ofh-ana   ntn   n  n-nosorb   s-born  ayens  or the use If                                                                             lOttbun 1990



- 30 -
ECOXfOMIC INDICATORS                                                              ANNEX I
Page 4
Population:      122.9       (mId-1979)
cGP Per Capita: US$1,687   (1979)
Aaount                          Avera4e Annual Increase (%)                              S..re of GDP at Market Prices (X)
Indicator                                          (c,illion US$ current)                    (at :mOstant 1970 prices)                                      (at current prices)
1971                    1965-70      1970-75      1975-80      1980-85            1970      1975      1979      1980b/      1985
National Accounts
Gross do-etic prod.ctAR/                                24467.7                                 10.6          6.9           5.4             100.0    100.u    100,0    100.0         100.0
Agricu?ture204,476          ?71.9        5.7          4.7          4.2                8.2      8.7       9.4       9.9         9.4
Agrdiuotere                                            196314                     9.2         11.6          7.6          5.S               29.1      32.6     31.8      31.6        31.8
ISd-stry                                               65,084                     8.0         18.7          6.8          5.5               43.0     41.3      42.5      42.6        42.5
S.rvings                                               86,970
Consunption                                             163,334                      7.7         9.8          5.7           4.9              76.9      78.6     79,8      79.0        76.3
Gross inv-.tmn.t                                         46,136                     9.4         14.6           5.2          5.4              23.5      25.4     22.6      22.6        22.9
Exports of goods and NPS                                 16,714                     8.2         11.2          7.3         10.1                6.6      7.4       8.2       7.8         9.7
Imports of goods and WNS                                 21,748                    14.5         17.2          2.8          4.9                7.0      11.4     10.6       9.4         0.9
COens domestic savings                                   41,142                      7.9         12.9          6.1          6.2              23.1      21.4     20.2       21.0        23.7
Anonin t-                       Avera. e Annual Increase (1)                    Co.pos tio, o f M-r. lhaodi sn Trade
(ejillon US  current)                    (at  onscatt 1970 prions)                             (.t corre-t prices)
1980                          1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                   1966      1970      19?5      19805'
Merch-ndiun Trade
Merch-adise exparts                                    20,132                             7.8          11.9         5.8                   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Prinary                                               9,412                            7.3           8.3         1.1                     82.9      75.1    (,1.8      46.8
Man..a. t-.es                                        10,720                            7-9          28.2        18.2                      17.1     24.9      38.2      53.2
Merc-andie imports                                    22,961                           10.0           17.6       -1.4                     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                  1,239                           -3.8          -6.7        17.5                     11.5       4.5       3.0       5.4
Pe-rolaun                                           10,210                             9-3           7.6         4.3                     14.7      11.2      24.;     44,5
Machinery and eqoipmant                               4.392                           22.1          15.2        -7.5                     15.2      21.2      14.0      19.1
Other                                                 7.120                            8.3          28.4        -1.9                     58.6      63.1      S0.S      31.0
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979      1980-/
Price- and Te-s of Trade
GDP deflator (1970.100)                                 289.6      410.9      584.2      809.2   1,229.6    2,469.5
Exchange care (Cr5/UsS)                                   8.1       10.6       14.1       18.1      26.9        53.5
Export price index (1970=100)                           176        192        226       228        266         290
Isport price index (1970=100)                           242        255        286       317        389         431
Tersu  of trade indax (1970-100)                         72         75         79         72        68          67
As X of GDP
(at curreet prices)
1970      1975       1979-
Public Finance (Cestral Goverpment)
C-.Ce0t revenue                                                    16.6       19.8      20.8
C-erest expenditure                                                14.4       15.8      17.6
S-rpl.e (+1 or dcfinit (-5                                          2.2        4.0       3.2
Capital expenditure                                                 2.6        3.8       3.7
Financing (net)                                                    -0.4      +0.2       -0.5
1965-70     1970-75      1975-79
Other ITdinatora
GRP growth rate (7)                                                             7.7         10.7          5.8
GNP per capita gro-ch rote (%)                                                  4.6          7.7          3.0
Energy consn=ptian grovth rate 1%)                                              7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOR                                                                            2.9          3.0          3.9
Margisal savings rate                                                          20.5         25.7         22.7
Ixport elasticity                                                               2.2          1.6          0.3
a/ At market prices; components are net donestic preducts expressed at factor cost and
will set add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect taxes less suabidies.
b/ Estimate
S/ Prelitin-rv
April 23, 1981



- 31 -
ANN NI, AI1AFA,   01 $lAIN  ILANNA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ NN2 
-AIX   -LAN             .A1,INF          -092SF          -,A              -<A             -NA                 -AA             -N11             -11,531           -11,802
-2l II l                                           -4.U,41 uren    r-e
(ApBll3esN ,IIAEN  ANNENFAF 2NNNAENFFI                (-AN((        (-1.418)         )-X.ANN)         (-7,101)         A- A,FNAF        (-4.1041        AN,NO3              (-ONA            (-8,173         A-1N.1N1         (-4AN-
-(,NNA  -1.-                         -A,,(A          -N,2XA               -NAAA            -N1NAN           -N,2NA           -2,16
FF1 AFAF1AANA                 ((                N                                                                 A'             ANN                  AN                FE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  4   AN  NA
LIAANAF       AlA            F ANN           -X,OIN           -A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71        -I  NA1        -A,A17A             -NANA4           -NINNI            -NAZ.             -A'.N4
M7E1   1N,7ANN, 317NNN1h                                                                                                                               1X,AIN 7 3EIN
Eglnnce ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~2S1 ot fa  rnW
Amt S N8oANNNNII ,;o.s                                    (FAN,          Al SNNb ,70'    -b ,013          AA--H(          -AX A             (9    .         (2-11,21            (-11 .72.)      _3,11 .421       A-9INN ,9AN2F5
ANIOAFF o2l A0d                                                       NO            ,N9 (X7D   1. AAI3   (IF]2)     (1A AIFA         (OFZANA         (A.A7A)            A2A,62F0          219.4A31          NANNA            42A,244
Impores cf ponds                         S ~~A,57        (L21210)         ,.1,827         11 .023 ANNA     'AN)             -(1,(A((        1N-,0EXA             2b.032N          28,570          (-N.iN7            33I,6N34
AFINrt rAc   Ineo=e ,A,A,A  -X,7]3 ANAl)                                    A2A -sa  _A                                                      -AI TbX           NAN              -lANA            -1.442          .IS-,1            -2,121
NNI.2EXA2NNA   N-F  N,                    ((A            ( 211~~~~~~~~~~I.  2,N2N           -l                                 -14          A4N                  -- 
-N  (AN            -IAN           N3N A(A                              99AI              -.7              -NI              -NA7-IN
A)f                                                               12A4 3 (4-                                         I 9,1FN         1,91                27-           ( ,141                 1921       (1149a
-f9e74e nA                                       N N 1.803                                                                               AN9N            12, 72
52121r ONIF AA2F         ( FAA/                               92.UN N         8N9F         XNO             NNAA               I    N          A1.20N           NO311          Fl  1.796              1,967            2.22             2,513
2,11-1lA  PIT,AA)AFFFF                                                     A,            1381            A,1                0,4114          (NNA             (l
M672 AAA1N2In NA(L3                                                       3,6NI            N23N            . a,3           (2 A,NNA          N, I3AN           1,2 87)          19i               3                030,7
7FF)nsI                                                                 AINNAe         (A,0NA          (A.N((z5s )       (A,11(N          ( 1,,12 IXI.O   (9,57)            (5bA)NN(7s                         (559)            (3A4
Ars_ii n '.X1Rsabro0  snn               I -b2 1        {2 i  )          {. , A   IONA   ((7l AN  (N-5 A561E                 (N,51 AN))       AA,ANA-(.42                                            _            (       4
oel,er capital n.e 1.   >                 248            1,295            _,h 7              5                                                ,4 ..  ,
7A1 A4                   1121976                 AINIl            NA9F78              199N
NANeF1E 6     FEN  (3,1(12d  NB N 0n ib   hb1,57244                                        73ANA           AEON4             N4,'N           10.2110           5029b XlN
NNN182n1                                                                  (a73)2FAA   AN  NN3NNANOA  1,   ,?17)A(, A,?A(                   NIn222           AN,ANN
A eheA                                                             (?>4AN}          N2.81N)           (13,176             NA              171 A37eNA
2FFN 8X8NNN-1NIN.,INAO d1 on(yl                                          2,113            3.161           6,bA7             3,N (9732                         0, 12 421
(XII)                            (1,370'          11,0281         (0.2011           A,INNl          )A,13).N          00.~~~~~~~~~~~~12104  AE6O4
NIjAFIANI 183,2  El IININ  A EON                       AN-I             AN.X            A,A.X~~~~~~~~~3   41.0             10.2             62,7           1-
EI9AFNAFNIA  A AN (NA                                       ~~~~             ~~~~          ~~        ~ ~       ~~3.1  (.8  3< .A  I. .,                         A.)
Toaauo,lFlI,NlFAAFN1,IAN 1 f LSiN0nANl2 954F 6X.                                               91.2         s                       2,3             1.1 74IA.?s
...El                                  7..                .        .         !,144                                                            9 7. 651.32
A.)           l.A               3) A.)                             2.4             21.)
32D eANN AIAFL AN2   A?., 5xports A EYb                                        33.0             37.6             A-N.0 4. 4.2                                        A.7 
AIE               -fA-A        -   --A.AN-V  O.                                  1.1             0.1             0.7               3.0             1.0               2.0
19ED ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~A                                        A  INI  24,1.1,INAN
I3E0AN,INA)                                                                                           NIbreP /oal2 9dsuszenh!       .  .)   .            .
OA1INE2F3 2811                                                                                               D.
N1NAFIIdebtAANrNADEItta Neb Ne  te(81'1... . 273 . .
NA    ur E,bN1   0861  wiFN n 101   NI, NIN



I



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As April 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty two loans fully disbursed                                 1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0          10.5
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          19.9
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5          11.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways           175.0           9.0
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads              110.0          22.6
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0          26.4
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          30.1
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0           7.4
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0          17.2
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            8.8
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0          37.9
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture         40.0          20.9
1300   1976  Eletrobras                        Power               50.0           7.9
1302   1976  Brazil                            Nutrition           19.0          12.7
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply        40.0           7.0
1317   1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       83.0          79.2
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                         Power               82.0          24.7
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development  42.0           14.7
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer          64.0          37.5
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer          55.0           2.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                            Education           32.0          24.3
1488   1977  Brazil                            Rural Development  17.0           12.9
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage           110.0          94.4
1537   1978  Brazil                            Rural Development  24.0           20.7
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power              130.0         101.1
1557   1978  Brazil                            Roads              114.0          96.3
1562   1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals      85.0          34.2
1563   1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport    88.0           61.3
1568   1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension  100.0           87.4






- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of April 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0            31.3
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              81.8
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0              96.6
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum              98.0          51.7
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   26.0            24.7
1720    1979  Brazil                          Urban Development   70.0            69.6
1721    1979  COPEL                           Power                109.0         104.1
1728    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   40.0            37.9
1729    1979  Brazil                          Irrigation            28.0          24.3
1730    1979  Brazil                          Roads                110.0         109.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                 Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CBEE                            Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport    159.0           159.0
1850 /1 1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           139.0         139.0
1867 /2 1980  Brazil                          Education             32.0          32.0
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   63.0            62.9
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                       Power                125.0         125.0
1924 /1 1981  Brazil                          Rural Development   56.0            56.0
1939 /1 1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                 54.0          54.0
1965 /3 1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970 /1 1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           180.0         180.0
Total                                              5,656.6 /4
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 736.0
Total now outstanding                              4,920.6
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            44.7             1.1
Total now held by Bank                             4,919.5
Total undisbursed                                                2,772.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Became effective on May 12, 1981.
/3   Not yet signed.
/4   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, a loan of US$250
million for an Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project was approved
on May 12, 1981.



ANNEX II
_ 34    -                                                       Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTIMENTS (as of April 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                 Obligor                                        Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Y'ear                                                                                                         Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Basil Cia. de Eletricidade                         Electrical Ecuip-est         2.00       _         2,00
1958               Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                             Pulp and Paper               1.20                 1 1.20
1958               D. L. R. Plasti-os do Brasil, S. A.                           Automotive Parts             0.45       -         0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A.                              Motor Vehicles               2.45                 2.45
Industria e Comercio
1959               Coupanhia Mineira de Cimenta Portland, S. A.                  Cem.ent                      1.20       -         1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S. A.                                      Pulp                         4.00       -         4.00
1966/1968/1972    Acos Villares, S. A.                                           8tc1                        8.00      1.93       9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S. A.                           Pulp and Paper               3.78      3.41       7.19
1957/1972          Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                     Fertilizers                  8.22      3.03      11.25
de Fertilizantes
1969               Petroquainca Uniao, S. A.                                     Petrochemicals               5.50      2.88       8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S. A. Industria e Comercio                      Petrochemicals               5.5Q      2.88       8.38
1971               Ositeno, S. A. Indastria e Conercio                           Petrochemicals               4.60      1.44       6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                     Prlp                         4.90       -         4.90
1972/1975          Campanhia de Cimente   Nacional de Minas                      Cement                      29.14      3.2D      32.34
1973/1974/         Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                  Steel                       76.97     11.2?      88.19
1973               Capital Market Development Fund -FUMCAP                       Capital Market               5.00       -         5.00
Develop:nent
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Re-ursos                        Nickel Mtining and          85.00      8.34      93.34
Itinerais - CODEMIN, p. A.                                   Refining
1974               Induatrias Villares, S. A.                                    Elevators and                6.00       -         6.00
Industrial Equipment
1974               Fahbica de Teoid-s Tatuape, S. A.                             Te-tiles                    31.00       -        31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                              Carbon Black                 6.18      1.19       7.37
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                       Petrochemicals              10.00       -        10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                Textiles                     6.45      1.00       7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                Textiles                    16.20       -        16.20
1977               FME S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                              Iron and Aluminum           20.00       -        20.00
Cast ings
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                  Mining                      15.00       -        15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                      Iroa  and Steel              7.0      3.0        10.0
197'               Volvo  do Brasil Mto-ie  e Vei-uic S. A.                     M.'oLo VCehlt .Is            60.00    5.00        65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                             Ready-made Garments          2.00      -          2.00
1980               Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,                    Palm-Oil                     3.50    1.00         4.50
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                    Iron and Steel               5.00      -          5.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropilene                   Chemicals and                 .00    2.00          .00
Petrochemicals
1980               Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                     Chemicals and                 -       0.25        0.25
Petrochemicals
1980               Sotave Amazonia Quimica e Mineral S/A                         Fertilizers                 16.00    4.00        20.00
1980               Poliul Petroquimica                                          Chemicals and               15.00    5.00        20.00
Petrochemicals
1981               Bra iilpar                                                    Mlos,ey asd Copit al
Marl.ets                            1.50        1.50
1981               Cumpanhia Brasileira de Agropecuaria-COBRAPE                  Food and Food Processing  5.50    3.00            8.50
Total Gross Commitments                                                                 515.74   65.27       581.01
Coons Cascoilotimos, Toermisatioss, Repayments asnd Sales                               363.00   11.57       374.57
Total C-ommitnents Now Hld by IFC                                                       152.74   53.70       206.44
1otal Undisbursed                                                                       100.78   15.87       116.65



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of April 30, 1981, there were 45 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the generating units is
expected to be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due
to geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 39% over
the appraisal cost estimate, due mainly to a substantial increase in
the size of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of
civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Proposals for
some changes in project components and a postponement of the closing
date are being reformulated by the Government.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved significantly, further
improvement is necessary for it to be able to attain the targets
established in the loan documents.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 72 weighing stations
(Phase I) has suffered delays because of financial constraints
imposed by the federal government. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981, and is
likely to slip another year.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Despite operating performance at nominal capacity
levels, CSN's profitability has been constrained by inadequate
prices and high interest costs caused by excessive reliance on
short-term borrowing, both to cover operational needs and Stage III
capital expenditures, and inadequate equity contributions from
SIDERBRAS. Although the pricing situation appears somewhat brighter
for 1981 (price increases granted in December 1980 and February 1981
enabled CSN to register a moderate profit in the first quarter of
1981), the preliminary 1981 budget for CSN indicates continuing
funds short-falls and little, if any, improvement in its financial
ratios. As a result, the implementation of the ongoing Stage III
Expansion will suffer additional delays and the financial situation
of the Company is unlikely to improve. The Bank has requested the
Government to develop a plan of action prior to July 31, 1981, to
bring CSN into compliance with the financial and project implemen-
tation covenants of the Loan Agreement.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Despite operating performance above nominal
capacity levels, the Company suffered a loss in 1980. This was the
result of inadequate prices, and high interest costs caused by
excessive reliance on short-term borrowings and inadequate equity
contributions from SIDERBRAS. Although the pricing situation
appears somewhat brighter for 1981 (price increases in December 1980
and February 1981 enabled COSIPA to register a moderate profit in
the first quarter of 1981), the preliminary 1981 budget for COSIPA
indicates continuing funds shortfalls and little, if any, improvement



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
in its financial ratios.  The substantial cuts made to COSIPA's
capital expenditure budget (about 40% below 1980 levels in real
terms) will cause further delays in the implementation of the Stage
III Expansion (one year or more), increase the overall capital costs
as a result of increased escalation, suppliers' and contractors'
penalities, and further aggravate COSIPA's financial position and
cash flow by delaying future production increases and increasing the
financing requirements to levels beyond what would be required if
the projects were completed as scheduled. The Bank has requested
the Government to develop a plan of action prior to July 31, 1981 to
bririg COSIPA into compliance with financial and project implementation
covenants of the Loan Agreement.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. A series of contract amendments recently
signed by CODEVASF should result in a more rapid progress of
civil works and in accelerated disbursements. The Bank has
agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to replace works previously
planned for certain areas with the rehabilitation of works in
several flood plain areas which suffered heavily from floods in
1979. Land acquisition has been carried out in all flood plains
but one, which is to be expropriated in 1981. CODEVASF is taking
steps to improve the maintenance of the channels and pumping
stations in the irrigation system.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA);  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. The project, as redefined to take into account FEPASA's weak
financial position in 1976-78, is nearing completion. FEPASA's
operations continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic
increased 25% in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced
its operating cost by 12% in real terms in the past year due to
reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land and inland fisheries have recently
shown good progress.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Fifteen sub-loans involving twelve different
states have been approved, committing the full amount of the loan.
Construction has been completed in two states, Goias and Bahia.
Construction is underway in five additional states, Minas Gerais,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraiba, Alagoas and Santa Catarina. Twenty-
five percent of the physical work foreseen under the project, about
1,600 kms, is now completed. Sub-loans are fixed in ORTN terms
(Indexed Accounting System), but the ORTN lost about 40% of its
purchasing power in 1980, and the sub-borrowers (states) are having
to finance all cost overruns. This is causing serious difficulties
to the states. The Bank is reviewing with Government the financial
participation of the involved agencies in order to ease the financial
burden on the states and to maintain the implementation schedule.
Project completion will be delayed by at least two years.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Several restrictions placed on hiring of new
staff, including local consultants, import restrictions and reduc-
tions in the number of staff participating in either long- or
short-term training programs constrained project implementation in
1980. The controls were instituted as part of the Government's
economic stabilization program and adversely affected the implementa-
tion of this project. However, the restrictions were recently largely
waived for this project, allowing implementation to resume satisfac-
torily.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for con-
nection of low income households have been widely exceeded. Sub-
stantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project should respond better to the Government's
institutional priorities; its progress would be assessed in the
field in late Spring 1981.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete. The Closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981) commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. However,
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and
Government's policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated to
the actual inflation rate temporarily rendered the balance of this
loan unusable on the conditions set out in the Loan Agreement.
However, the Government has recently indicated its intention to
follow a revised monetary correction system under which the level
of indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation and which
is more in line with the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrange-
ments for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction have
recently been agreed with the Government. Accordingly, new commit-
ments under this loan are now being approved, and disbursements
began in April 1981.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by about 18 months may be necessary to allow full
completion of all key components.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
fourteen months. Commercial production is now expected to begin
in March 1982. The estimated cost to complete the project is still
in line with the budget estimate. The closing date for this loan
was postponed to May 31, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been physically completed, and
the facilities are being tested and commissioned. The Closing
Date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 to allow for completion
of trial runs before final payments are made on certain equipment
and service contracts.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of most training centers is proceeding well.
The delay in the acquisition of suitable sites for hotel schools in
Brasilia and Rio de Janeiro, has compelled the Government to request
substitution of a new hotel school, and of several industrial and
commercial training centers, for these two hotel schools. The
requisite amendments to the loan documents have been formalized
and signed by both the Government and the Bank.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and land purchase has now started for a first
small group of farmers. Agricultural credit has suffered from
shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infrastructure
is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties in
administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is well advanced; however, because of financial constraints
the pace of executior. is slow for those project components not
financed by the Bank. Project completion is expected to be delayed
by about two years.



-41 _
ANNEX II
Page 10
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra-
tion. Several components, such as land, non-farm rural enterprises,
and agricultural credit, show encouraging progress. However, the
pace of execution of other project components, most notably, marketing,
is still slow.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEMIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEMIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remunerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcasao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980. However, since then works have been
suspended because of financial constraints imposed by the federal
government. Rescheduling of the works is being discussed with the
Government. The maintenance program in the state of Parana is
progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station program
will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR) has been
completed and the effects monitored. Project completion could be
delayed by one year.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 60%. Commencement of commercial operations is now
expected in October 1982, about 10 months behind schedule, reflecting
the slow start of some of the downstream projects. The anticipated
cost to complete the project is presently running about 2% above the
original estimate.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project imple-
mentation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been sharply reduced. Extension and land titling
services have been improved. At this time, lack of land purchase
credit is the main difficulty in achieving balanced progress
of the project. The quality of feeder road construction has been
uneven, but supervision of construction is being strengthened. The
health component is proceeding smoothly; however, the education and
water supply components are far behind schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets seem to have been overcome in at least two of the
three states involved. The National Housing Bank is preparing a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in the housing improvement loans component.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. However, because
of initial difficulties, the project may be completed with about a
one-year delay.



_ 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding without major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very close
to first year targets and are exceeding second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to continuing delays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and calls for close supervision. The agency
responsible for the village water supply component has not performed
adequately and is being replaced by another entity. The recommenda-
tions of the land tenure study are still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. An acceleration of disbursements should result
from contracts signed for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks in three flood plain areas. The new CODEVASF
regional directorate has rapidly and competently taken charge of
protection, irrigation and drainage works. There is a continuing
need, however, to strengthen CODEVASF's capacity to supervise
assistance provided by various state and federal agencies, and
to follow-up on the implementation of the rice drying, storage
and processing component.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
1730       Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. Five sub-projects committing about twenty
percent of the loan have been approved which will benefit the states
of Pernambuco, Ceara, Espiritu Santo, Acre, and Sergipe. Seventeen
other sub-project applications have been received by the National
Development Bank (BNDE). The feasibility studies for eight of these
sub-projects are at an advanced stage of preparation. As for Loan
1207-BR, the implementation of this project will depend on suitable
measures being adopted to ease the financial burden on the sub-
borrowers (states) considering loss of purchasing power of the ORTN
especially in 1980.
1822       Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, but the first subprojects should reach the Bank shortly.
1823       Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. The project has experienced initial
delays, but all subprojects have now been declared eligible for
disbursement and project execution is now underway.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date:  July 15, 1980; Closing Date:  September 30,
1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1839       Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895       ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    Two years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    Piaui State Planning Commission
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   October 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:  January 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   September 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           May 15, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    October 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) State Government to take all necessary steps to acquire a minimum
of 100,000 ha of suitable agricultural lands by the end of the
project's first year and at least 50,000 ha during each of the
following two years (para. 49);
(b) the state government shall take all action necessary to confer to
project fishermen appropriate long-term tenure rights to publicly
owned coastal lands required for the progress of the project (para.
49);
(c) a program satisfactory to the Bank for executing the project's
land tenure regularization and titling component to be submitted
no later than October 1, 1981. State government to ensure appoint-
ment no later than April 1, 1982 under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank of three qualified lawyers to provide legal
assistance to small farmers involved in regularization/titling
process (para. 51);
(d) initial marketing study to be carried out under terms satisfactory
to the Bank. The results of this and other consultants' studies,
a program satisfactory to the Bank for rice collection and
marketing and for the operation of COBAL's wholesale supply system
for basic food items to be furnished to the Bank (para. 56);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) local water users' associations to be set up prior to the con-
struction of each small-scale irrigation scheme, and a system
of water charges satisfactory to the Bank to be established.
A state water commission to be established no later than October 1,
1981. Feasibility studies for proposed irrigation schemes to be
submitted to Bank for approval prior to completion of detailed
design and construction of schemes (para. 57);
(f) prior to initiating the municipal roadworks provided for under
the project, DER-PI to enter into contractual arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank with each of the municipalities concerned,
for purposes of defining the responsibilities of such municipalities
with respect to the maintenance of roads under their jurisdiction,
the preparation and carrying out by the municipalities of annual
municipal road maintenance programs, and to establish the munici-
palities' responsibility to rehabilitate with DER-PI mechanized
assistance, municipal roads in the Project Area not financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan (para. 59);
(g) preinvestment studies for water supply to be carried out according
to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Agreements between
FSESP, CIDAPI and the municipalities involved on maintenance and
operation responsibilities and funding to be entered into prior
to initiation of water supply works. CIDAPI to establish a new
water supply division for the purpose of the project (para. 60);
(h) a project coordination unit to be established and a project
coordinator with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to be employed (para. 64);
(i) project annual operating plans prepared by the state government
to be furnished to the Bank by October 1 each year in terms
satisfactory to the Bank. The federal government to afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on any proposed material
modifications to annual operating plans submitted by the state
(para. 65);
(j) operating agreements between state government and executing
agencies and among executing agencies to be entered into in terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 66);
(k)  quarterly consolidated monitoring reports prepared by PMU to be
provided the Bank (para. 68);
(1) results of all evaluation studies to be sent to the Bank for
review promptly upon their completion. Evaluation studies
requiring more than six staff-months subject to prior Bank
approval. Mid-term evaluation report to be provided the
Bank no later than October 1, 1984 (para. 68); and



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
(m)  the federal government to provide counterpart funds as well
as facilities, services and other resources required for
project purposes in the timely manner (para. 70).
A special condition of effectiveness would be the signing of agreements
satisfactory to the Bank between the state and INTERPI and INCRA respectively
(para. 66).






43'                                           4'2                                                  :                                                   3 ! au .G,W* g 4S 
T   Ped                    .           dc  Sol                                                Ocean,
3,                                               3 \. \ -   _*,sChovol   -vC  /<    f t   A   m3  
Buriti dos Ly,eU                                                      //                               /         " 1
B R A  Z  I L
8 O   S  /t:   >    .  -.9                   <                      @          o                  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RASftIA t    
0                                                                                                                               BRat$<' - g4iiw iW   J   /  <.   )  w0 : 9~+, ?>  ,-   j  wX>.
,     Reportic5o
5S~~                      --INTRREqAT~~~~IONAL  30'
PortRIA _LES
-4-      \'J         .--} >/                              -:      -;-Xi---::.  :::                                                 B R A  Z I L
A~~~~~BAI
R0f gv >;,kF : > ( ti99 -                                                             =          Ns /   PIAUf RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VALE DO PARNAIBA
-v  ,   :    .-.       ./NPopulation Density
v ivi-4v: <                                              . tCW6 /,.,, OVER 100(HABITANTS/K.?)
EZZ    20-S5O
0 : - 5-1
Am it     L \     $   l c m io_ PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
FEPDERAL ROADS
STATE ROADS
t                        ~~~~~~~MUNICIPAL ROADS
RAILROADS
A<EDS                                                                                               S >   > <   /   V  <  STATE CAPITAL
S. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,oN''RIVERS                                                                                                         S
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
TERES~~~~~~~~~~~~~N1A                                      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
-r.190,                             <                                    > )        /0 20  40  60  80      IC0 Km
I WpF.' E: 1S ' ............ ..........                                                                            -,/d 'T  s
s! l  M           . ,. .- .  A,    jo p jo           U      .U.~~~~SMni,e d ,o  bod&,sbo Ihs map h  fnpeadob reorld d,,p5  stp,rfr f cuWoAfmdw Bank e a,
Id   g              MARANHAO    /
-6 f. S i [ 4 ............      ...      ..   .......     .   .   .......         -   jIv9..........\    11|g!
Arnor>ercifia T c; | 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n   o0t
A~~~~~~~~~~~~/~~~~~~~~~~~~a~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~0                                                    100 K
Fasoncoco                                                                                   -\                           k~~~~~~~~~~lwa
Amorantes  ~
Flo:i.   . . :                                        ...                                      )ATE   OF ,0A
A$ - nSiti ( || ft ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIAUi |
/5/
,'-2',,..,...S '.'""',.   "'" N'"''.....



