Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3398-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 22, 1981
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          -     Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$ 1.00               -      Cr$ 56.00 (Sept. 1, 1980)
Cr$ 1.00               -     US$  0.017857
Cr$ 1 million          -     US$ 17,857
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
(see next pages)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AGEPISA             Xgua e Esg^tos do Piaui Sociedade Anonima
(Piaui Water and Sewer Company)
BEP                 Banco do Estado do Piaui
(State Bank of Piaui)
BNB                 Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast)
BNCC                Banco Nacional de Credito as Cooperativas
(National Bank for Credit to Cooperatives)
BNDE                Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
(National Development Bank)
CEASA               Centrais de Abastecimento do Piaui
(State Food Supply Company)
CEPA-PI             Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agrlcola - Piaui
(State Agricultural Planning Commission - Piaui)
CEPRO               Comissao Estadual de Planejamento
(State Planning Commission)
CIBRAZEM            Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento
(Brazilian Storage Company)
CIDAPI              Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario do Piaui
(Piaui Agricultural Development Company)
COBAL               Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Federal Food Company)
CODERPI             Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario do Piaui
(State Company for Road Development)
COMDEPI             Companhia para o Desenvolvimento do Piaui
(State Development Company)
COPELCO             Cooperativa Mista Regional da Pesca de Luis Correia
(Luis Correia Regional Fishing Cooperative)
CPATSA              Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria para Tropico Semi-Arido
(Regional Agricultural Research Center for Semi-Arid Tropic)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DER-PI               Departamento de Estradas e Rodagem - Piaui
(State Highway Department - Piaui)
DNOCS                Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra a Seca
(National Department for Works Against the Drought)
EMATER-PI            Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural - Piaui
(Piaui Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA              Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER             Empresa Brasileira de Assist^ncia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
FSESP                Fundagao Servi.o Especial de Saude Publica
(Foundation for Special Public Health Services)
ICM                  Imposto Sabre Circulacao de Mercadorias
(Tax on Product Circulation)
INAN                 Instituto Nacional de Alimentagao e Nutri,cao
(National Institute for Food and Nutrition)
INCRA                Instituto Nacional de Colonizagao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INTERPI              Instituto da Terra  do Piaui
(State Land Institute - Piaui)
MVR                  Maior Valor de Referencia
(Maximum Reference Value)
OCEPI                Organizaqao das Cooperativas do Estado do Piaui
(State Organization of Cooperatives)
POLONORDESTE         Programa de Desenvolvimento de Xreas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
PROTERRA             Programa de Redistribuic,ao de Terras e de Est;mulo a
Agro-Industria do Norte e do Nordeste
(Program for Redistribution of Land and Stimulation of
Agro-Industry in the North and Northeast)
SEPLAN               Secretaria de Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SESMA               Secretaria de Saude
(State Secretariat of Health)
SIMA                Serviqo de Informaqao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing Information Service)



SUDENE               Superintend^ncia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Economic Development Superintendency)
SUDEPE               Superintend^ncia para o Desenvolvimento Pesqueiro
(Fishing Development Superintendency)
'UFP                Universidade Federal do Piaui
(Federal University of Piaui)
UT                   Unidade Tecnica do POLONORDESTE
(Technical Unit of POLONORDESTE)






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
C'hapter                                                                     Page
I.   INTRODUCTION ...............................................    1
II.   LAND IN NORTHEAST BRAZIL ...................................    I
A.  Background .............................................    1
B.  Land Tenure Issues .....................................    2
C.  Land Policies and Institutions .........................    3
D.  Bank Involvement in Land Activities ....................    4
III.   THE STATE OF PIAUI AND THE PROJECT AREA ....................    4
A. The State.                                                           4
Location and Natural Features ........................    4
Social and Economic Conditions .......................    4
Agricultural Production and Land Tenure ....         ..........    5
Rural Development ....................................    5
B.  The Project Area .......................................    5
Location .............................................    5
Natural Features and Climate .........................    6
Socio-Economic Conditions ............................    6
Land Tenure and Land Use .............................    6
Present Agricultural Technology and Production .......    7
Agricultural Services ................................    8
Fisheries ............................................    9
Physical and Social Infrastructure ....          ...............    9
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD appraisal mission in September 1980,
composed of Messrs. F. Falloux, A. Sfeir-Younis, S. Kowalski, Ms. M. Koch-Weser,
Ms. P. Pomerantz, Ms. D.M. Dowsett (Bank), and Messrs. R. Morel, P. Maury,
U. Dekel (Consultants), and a subsequent post-appraisal mission in February
1981, composed of Messrs. F. Falloux, J. Olivares, S. Kowalski, Ms. P. Pomerantz,
Ms. C. Hamann, Ms. D.M. Dowsett (Bank), and Mr. D. Braga (Consultant).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Chapter                                                                                           Page
IV.    THE PROJECT  ................................                                             10
A.   General Description  ............................. ...                             10
Origin  ................................                                        10
Objectives  .........                 .......................                   11
Project Strategy .................................  11
Project Design .................................  12
Beneficiaries  .............                  ...................               13
Project Activities  ................................                            14
B.   Detailed Description  ................................                             14
Land ..                                                                         14
Agricultural Development ............................                           17
Fisheries Development  ............                    .............            22
Physical  and Social  Infrastructure  ......                  .............    23
Project Administration  . ..............................    25
Credit Provision  .....................................    25
V.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  ........                    .........................    26
Project  Cost  ...............................................                          26
Financing  ..................................................    28
Procurement  ................................................    28
Disbursements  ..............................................                           29
VI.    PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ..........                  ...........................    29
Organization and Management  ........                    ........................    29
Beneficiary Participation  ........                   ..........................    30
Annual Planning .............................................  30
Monitoring  .................................................    31
Evaluation  .................................................                           31
Operating Agreements  ............                 ...........................    31
Accounts  and Auditing  ...........                ...........................    32
VII.    PRODUCTION,  DEMAND,  MARKETING,  AND PRICES  .....                      .............    32
Production  .................................                                           32
Demand, Marketing, and Prices  ..............                                           33
VIII.      FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ............                .............................    35
Production Models . ..........................................  35
Producer  Incomes  .           ..........................................    37



Table of Contents (Continued)
'hapter                                                            Page
IX.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........................  37
Economic Rate of Return ......    ..............................  37
Sensitivity Analysis        .......................................  39
Employment       .................................................  39
Fiscal  Impact      ..............................................  40
Environmental Impact .......    ................................  41
Nutritional Impact .......    ..................................  41
Impact  on  Women  ............................................  41
Project  Risks     ..............................................  41
X.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....  43
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  Land
ANNEX 2:  Agricultural Development
ANNEX 3:  Project Costs
ANNEX 4:  Illustrative Farm and Boat Models
ANNEX 5:  Economic Analysis
ANNEX 6:  Convenios Required
ANNEX 7:  List of Executing Agencies
ANNEX 8:  Structure of Marketing Component
ANTNEX 9:  Project Organization and Management Chart
ANNEX 10:  Monitoring and Evaluation
AiNEX 11:  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
ANNEX 12:  Related Documents Available in Project File
MAPS
Map 1:    Population Density - No. 15479
Map 2:    Elevations and Rainfall - No. 15507
SUPPLEMENTARY STAFF WORKING PAPERS
1.,  Project Background, Strategy, Objectives, and Composition
2.  Land
3.  Agricultural Development
4.  Applied Research
5.  Irrigation
6.  Fisheries
7.  Extension
8.  Water Supply
9.  Marketing
1C0. Roads
11.  Monitoring and Evaluation






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil continues to devote considerable attention
to rural development in Northeast Brazil. The POLONORDESTE program of
multi-sectoral development, initiated in 1974, now finances activities in
some 46 priority areas throughout the Northeast. The Bank has partici-
pated in the financing of seven POLONORDESTE rural development projects in
six different states. Experiences from these projects have shown that it
is possible to improve incomes and living standards of the rural poor by
increasing access to appropriate production technologies and supporting
services such as credit and extension. Nonetheless, major constraints on
extending the benefits of the POLONORDESTE program to the poorest segments of
the rural population have been insecurity of land tenure and lack of access
to land. These constraints have severely limited the majority of small
farmers' response to, and receipt of benefits from, improvements in produc-
tion technology and the delivery of services.
1.02      The proposed project, while building on previous integrated rural
development strategies and experiences in Northeast Brazil, would constitute
the first comprehensive attempt to address the land constraints facing
small farmers. A major contribution of the project would be the development,
application, and refinement of replicable mechanisms and procedures to
increase tenure security and access to land in an area where nearly eighty
percent of all farmers are landless. Because of the pioneering nature of the
project, detailed annual planning and continuous monitoring are central
features. These aspects of the project could have a substantial impact on
future rural development efforts throughout Northeast Brazil.
II. LAND IN NORTHEAST BRAZIL
A. Background
2.01      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about
35 million (1980), about one half of whom live in rural areas. The population
has been growing at a net rate of about 2.2% per year between 1970 and 1980.
Much of the region has a semi-arid climate with periodic serious droughts,
and there are extensive areas of poor soils. Nonetheless, the Northeast
is a significant agricultural region, with about 45% of Brazil's agriculturally
employed population and a major share of the national production of cocoa,
cotton, manioc, beans, and sugar. In 1980, about 30% of the area harvested
in Brazil was in the Northeast. Although some crops such as sugarcane are
grown predominantly on large farms, basic food crops are produced mainly
by small farmers, employing rudimentary technology and obtaining low yields.



Small farmer agricultural development has been hampered by limited access
to working capital and investment credit, rural extension services,
improved seeds and other inputs; market isolation and weak linkages within
the regional economy; and, in some areas, a relatively unfavorable physical
environment. Insecurity of land tenure and lack of access to land have
compounded these difficulties and, in many areas, constitute the basic
constraint on increasing production and productivity among small farmers.
B. Land Tenure Issues
2.02      The pattern of land ownership is highly uneven in Northeast Brazil.
According to the 1975 Census, farms larger than 500 ha (1% of farm establish-
ments) account for more than 40% of all farm area. Some 70% of farms are
under 10 ha and occupy less than 6% of the total farm area. Of the total rural
labor force, only 28% represent landowners and their working family members.
While a small portion of the labor force is comprised of permanent wage
earners on large, modern estates, the vast majority are sharecroppers,
tenants, or illegal occupants on both public and private lands.
2.03      Among sharecroppers and tenants, serious problems exist.  In some
Northeast areas, livestock and sugarcane expansion has severely limited the
quantity of land available for small farmer use.  Rental and sharecropping
arrangements are generally verbal and limited to one crop cycle, contrary to
provisions of Brazilian land law (Estatuto da Terra). Landlords in most areas
require tenants to clear and crop a different area each year, thus receiving a
free labor input for pasture establishment. Land clearing and fencing, in
order to protect crops from free-roaming cattle, occupy a significant portion
of family labor time, restricting opportunities for alternative employment
during the non-agricultural season. Rental fees, while varying from area to
area, are generally 25 to 50% of total annual production. Frequently, they
are paid in kind, and landlords may require full or partial payment before
harvest, when prices are at the highest annual level. Obligatory unpaid
service (sujeicao) to landowners still persists on many of the larger,
traditional estates. Large landowners in many areas control the marketing
and informal credit channels as well. Tenants and sharecroppers are eligible
for official subsidized seasonal credit only after obtaining express written
consent from landowners.
2.04      Small owners in the Northeast are also confronted by a variety
of problems. In most states, land ownership records are incomplete, and
a significant proportion of small owners do not possess proper legal titles
and are thus barred from the official credit system. Frequently, properties
are not of a sufficient size to guarantee family subsistence. As is the
case for sharecroppers and tenants, small owners have virtually no
opportunity to purchase additional lands. This is due not only to the
limited availability of land purchase credit, but also because large owners
are reluctant to sell off their properties in small lots. Land concentration
has increased markedly during the past twenty years in the Northeast.



2.0)5     Large estates in the Northeast demonstrate lower levels of produc-
tivity and land and labor use than do small farms. The smallest farms
employ about 50% of total area in crops, while only 10% is cultivated on the
largest farms. Small farms throughout the Northeast absorb as much as 45
times more labor per hectare than large farms. Farms exceeding 500 ha control
42% of total agricultural area, but contribute only 31% of crop production
and 34% of livestock production. Farms under 10 ha control about 6% of
the land, while contributing 8% to total crop production and 7% to total
livestock production.
C. Land Policies and Institutions
2.06      Although land tenure problems and the comparative inefficiency
of large farms have been acknowledged for many years, Government policy
to date has had a negligible impact on the Northeast land tenure situation.
Limited enforcement of the Brazilian land law (Estatuto da Terra) and the
lack of a specialized judicial system for land matters have impeded progress
toward improving land tenure security for small farmers. Neither large-
scale colonization schemes nor the creation and funding of a number of
rural poverty programs, such as POLONORDESTE, have succeeded in reaching
a substantial number of landless farmers. Recently, however, this situation
has begun to evolve. Limited land-related activities have been included in a
number of POLONORDESTE rural development projects (para 2.07), and systematic
consideration of land tenure issues and possible solutions were incorporated
into the 1981 planning exercises for all 46 POLONORDESTE projects. While
these pilot efforts have experienced implementation delays because of limited
technical and institutional capabilities, they have succeeded in providing
individual states with valuable land-related experience. Land institutes have
now been created in several Northeast states, including Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao,
and most recently, Piaui. In addition, INCRA (National Institute of Colonization
and Agrarian Reform), the federal agency most directly involved in land
matters, has begun to play a more active role in the Northeast. In 1980, a
progressive federal land taxation law was approved. Under the law, tax rates
increase with property size and degree of non-utilization or inefficient
exploitation. As a first step toward universal enforcement of the law, INCRA
has executed land discrimination campaigns in several areas of the Northeast.l/
A regional land discrimination and titling project is currently under
preparation by INCRA. INCRA has also declared parts of the Northeast as
.,priority areas for agrarian reform," and several huge, underutilized estates
have been identified in each state for possible expropriation. Nonetheless,
expropriation is still exceptional, requiring presidential approval, and
Government land policy appears to be focused on land discrimination, purchasing,
and redistribution programs, such as those proposed under the project.
1/ The detailed determination of current land claims, and the identification
and demarcation of lands not legally claimed by private parties which
could be subsequently redistributed.



-4-
D. Bank Involvement In Land Activities
2.07      Some land activities have been included in a number of Bank-
assisted rural development projects in Northeast Brazil. The Bahia Rural
Development Project (Paraguacu) includes a significant land titling component
(some 2,300 titles already granted and some 3,700 in process with a target of
15,000) and a small land purchase component to be executed by a newly created
state land institute. The first Ceara Rural Development Project (Serra da
Ibiapaba) provided for a small land purchase scheme which has thus far benefited
a small number of sharecroppers. The Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba and Sergipe
Rural Development Projects all have modest land purchase and/or titling
activities currently under implementation. The recently approved second Ceara
Rural Development Project provides support for land discrimination, titling,
and a new state land institute. Additional rural development projects which
would include significant land activities (Maranhao, Rio Grande do Norte II)
are under consideration for possible future Bank financing.
III.  THE STATE OF PIAUI AND THE PROJECT AREA
A. The State
Location and Natural Features
3.01      Piaui has a total area of 250,934 km  and is the third largest state
in Northeast Brazil. It is bordered on the north by the Atlantic Ocean, on the
south by the states of Goias and Bahia, on the west by the states of Maranhao
and Bahia, and on the east by Ceara and Pernambuco. Much of the state (about
83%) is characterized by low-lying, semi-arid plains and tablelands and is
highly sensitive to drought. The state's major waterways are comprised by the
1,485 km Parnaiba River and its numerous tributaries. Average annual rainfall
is highly variable and ranges from 700 to 1,600 mm in the Parnaiba River
valley and from 500 to 1,000 mm in the central and western areas of the state.
Average annual temperature varies between 2OoC and 28oC.
Social and Economic Conditions
3.02      Piaui has a total population of about 2.1 million (1980), of which
about 60% is estimated to be rural. Average population density is 8/km2, the
lowest of any Northeastern state. Teresina, located within the proposed
project area, is the state capital and largest city with a population of about
300,000. Agriculture is the predominant economic activity, employing an
estimated 70% of the economically active population and contributing over 40%
of the total state GDP (1977). Average per capita income for the state as a
whole is about US$300. Income distribution is highly skewed, with the bottom
forty percent receiving about seven percent of total income, while the top



- 5 -
five percent accounts for more than sixty percent of the total. Similar
to other areas of Northeast Brazil, malnutrition and illiteracy rates are
high, particularly in the rural areas.
Agricultural Production and Land Tenure
3.03      Although agriculture continues to be the state's most important
economic sector, its relative importance has been declining in recent years.
Principal products include livestock, babacu nuts, carnauba wax, beans, rice,
cotton, corn, and manioc. With the exception of manioc, total production and
average yields for the state's main crops dropped significantly from 1977 to
1979. While recurring drought conditions are a major contributing factor,
poor soil and water management, coupled with low technology levels, continue
to hamper the state's agricultural development. The most important constraint
to increasing agricultural production and productivity, particularly among
small farmers, has been the state's land tenure situation. According to the
INCRA cadaster, some 88% of the state's farmers, mainly tenants and sharecroppers,
own no land and have no tenure security. Some 72% (151,000) of farms are
under 10 ha and account for only 3% of the state's privately held lands. At
the same time, less than 1% (1,350) of farms exceed 1,000 ha and occupy 42% of
the state's total agricultural area.
Rural Development
3.04      The POLONORDESTE program represents the largest single source
of federal funds for the state, and POLONORDESTE funds account for over 60%
of all public resources going to rural areas. There are currently six ongoing
POLONORDESTE projects in Piaui, including the Delta do Parnaiba project
which would be absorbed by the proposed project. Partially as a result of the
limited impact of these ongoing activities, state government policy has
recognized that improvements in land tenure security and small farmer access
to land, coupled with the development and dissemination of improved technical
packages, are prerequisites for increasing rural incomes and agricultural
production. The proposed project would constitute the first comprehensive
attempt to address land-related issues as part of the state's overall rural
deveLopment effort.
B. The Project Area
Location
3.05      The proposed project area, located in the western portion of the
state along the middle and lower Parnaiba River, has a total area of some
24,300 km2 or about 10% of total state area. While the project area cur-
rent:Ly encompasses 26 municipalities, its limits should be regarded as
provisional. Land acquisition prospects may warrant expansion or the sub-
stitution of some municipalities by adjacent municipalities. Three distinct
subareas, with varying ecological conditions, can be identified within the
project area. The Delta do Parnaiba, currently with ten project municipali-
ties covering 44% of the area, is located in the north and contains all of



- 6 -
Piaui's 66 km coastline. The Teresina subarea, with six project municipali-
ties covering 31% of the area, is centrally located and includes the state's
capital and largest city. The Medio Parnaiba, containing the ten southernmost
project municipalities, occupies some 257 of the area.
Matural Features and Climate
3.06      The project area forms part of the Parnaiba sedimentary basin,
characterized by low-lying tablelands (chapadas) periodically cut by the broad
valleys of the Parnaiba river system. Chapada soils are generally shallow,
sandy latosols, with low to medium productivity, while soils on the slopes
are, for the most part, stony and unsuitable for agriculture. Valley soils,
usually sandy loams with a relatively higher clay content, are the best soils
in the project area. Potential yields of up to two tons of rice per hectare
can be reached in these soils, while about 1.5 tons per hectare is the upper
limit for the chapada soils. Pespite these differences, project area soils are
commonly affected by a low natural chemical fertility and a low water
permeability and moisture retention capacity. Erosion is an increasingly
serious problem. While surface and underground water resources are fairly
abundant, surface water flows are subject to wide seasonal fluctuations, and
groundwater accessibility, in terms of depth and yields, is variable. Average
temperatures range from 26oC to 3OoC with average relative humidity varying
from 40% to 70%. Although total annual rainfall averages more than 1,100 mm,
it is highly concentrated during the rainy season (December to June), with a
three-month peak period from January to March and some variation in its
distribution. Because of this variation, combined with the low moisture
retention capacity of the soils, agricultural production in the project area
is periodically affected by severe drought conditions (Annex 2).
Socio-Economic Conditions
3.07      The project area includes the state's two largest cities, Tere-
sina and Parnaiba. Project area population is about 770,000 (1975), of
which just under 50% is rural. Average rural population density is about
14/km2. Urban population is growing at a much faster rate than rural popu-
lation, largely as a result of increased rural-urban migration. Average
family size is about five persons, similar to that found in other rural
areas in Northeast Brazil.
3.08      Agriculture is the chief economic activity of the area, although
fishing is an important activity along the coast. Average annual rural
per capita income, subject to wide interyearly fluctuations, is about US$200,
well below the relative rural poverty level in Brazil (US$330). Illiteracy,
high infant mortality rates, intestinal diseases, and malnutrition are
widespread.
Land Tenure and Land ITse
3.09      Land ownership in the project area is extremely concentrated.  Of
the 57,700 farmers in the project area, about 22%7 are ownxers. Some 707 ot
the owners, many of whom lack proper titles, are small farmers with holdings
of less than 100 ha. This group controls only 18% of all agricultural lands,



- 7 -
while owners with more than 100 ha control 82% of the land. While the exact
situation is not known, it appears that a considerable amount of public land
has been incorporated illegally into the estates of large holders.
3.10      Landless farmers, estimated at 78% of all project area farmers, are
mainly tenants cultivating small plots (3 ha average) on the larger estates.
Rental contracts, contrary to provisions in federal land laws, are usually
verbal, one-year arrangements, and tenants seldom cultivate the same piece of
land for more than one year. Landlords usually offer for rent lands in need
of clearing, which will be used for cattle-raising after the cropping season.
Rental fees are excessively high in relation to total production (25-50%) and
the average price of land (100-200%). Tenants are not compensated for the
labor they provide for land clearing. Rental fee payment, generally in kind,
may be required before the harvest.
3.11      While the project area possesses considerable agricultural poten-
tial, the land tenure situation has adversely affected agricultural produc-
tion. Despite the relatively low cost of land (average of US$35/ha) compared
to other areas of the Northeast, small owners and tenants have little
opportunity to acquire land because of the limited availability of land
purchase credit and the reluctance of large landowners to sell off small plots.
Tenants, lacking secure access to land, are unwilling and unable to adopt new
technologies, even those which require relatively small amounts of investment.
Small owners, lacking an adequate amount of land for an appropriate fallow
rotation system, are forced to over-utilize their land, resulting in the
progressive deterioration of lands under cultivation.
3.12      At the same time, huge tracts of cultivable land remain idle.
While an estimated 70% (1.7 million ha) of the total project area is suitable
for agriculture, only about 20% to 30% of this land is under cultivation, with
10% (180,000 ha) annually cropped. Land use varies in direct relation to farm
size. Small owners with less than 10 ha usually crop about 80% of their
property; this proportion regularly decreases as farm size increases. Less
than 14% of total area is generally cultivated on properties over 100 ha, and
there are several large properties in the project area where cropped land
accounts for under 5% of total cultivable area.
Present Agricultural Technology and Production
3.13      Low levels of technology and agricultural practices inadequately
adapted to agroclimatic conditions are characteristic of the project area.
Common features include: (a) utilization of the slash and burn system,
with long fallow periods (up to eight years); (b) low labor productivity,
largely the result of high labor coefficients for clearing and fencing and
all-manual cultivation practices; (c) planting of local seed varieties,
with no application of organic or chemical fertilizers or pesticides; and
(d) traditional cropping practices (e.g. use of medium- and long-cycle
varieties; late planting; non-contour cropping) which are not based on sound
water and soil management techniques. There are, however, a few technic-
ally advanced small farmers who have adopted improved techniques, mainly
through the use of animal traction and other forms of mechanization which
improve labor productivity.



- 8 -
3.14      Of the 180,000 ha annually cropped, most of the area is covered
by various forms of intercropping (about 88%) with upland rice, the pre-
dominant crop, accompanied by corn, beans and manioc. Single croppings,
mostly of rice, account for about 12% of the cultivated area. While landless
farmers generally do not have cattle, small husbandry activities (pigs and
poultry) are fairly common. In addition, small owners normally keep small
(three or four head) cattle herds.
3.15      Average yields for the predominant crops under the various forms
of intercropping are very low: about .7 tons/ha for rice; .3 tons/ba for
corn; .2 tons/ha for beans and 4.0 tons/ha for manioc. In addition, present
cropping practices combined with interyearly climatic swings, result in
highly variable yields. In 1979, when severe drought conditions prevailed,
total estimated rice production in the project area was 64,500 tons, only
387 of the estimated quantity which would have been produced under normal
circumstances.
Agricultural Services
3.16      In the past, agricultural services in the project area have been
oriented mainly toward medium and large farmers. This situation has partially
changed in recent years due to the implementation of POLONORDESTE and INAN
(National Food and Nutrition Institute) projects which have a specific small
farmer focus 1/. Agricultural research in Piaui is the responsibility of
EMBPAPA, the Federal Agricultural Research Enterprise, which maintains a
central experimental station in Teresina. Currently, 18 EMATER-PI (the State
Rural Technical Assistance and Fxtension Company) local offices, with a total
of 49 agricultural extension agents and 17 social extensionists, serve the
project area. Agricultural credit is channeled principally through the
agencies of the Government-owned banks. Thirteen project municipalities have
local bank branches. In addition to private agricultural input retailers
located in the larger project municipalities, CIDAPI (the State Agricultural
Development Company) maintains five input supply posts in the project area.
There are eight additional posts operated by the six existing agricultural
cooperatives. The state has recently established a new seed production and
distribution network which should be operational within the next 12 months.
SIMA (the National Agricultural Market Information System) collects project
area price information through its Teresina and Parnaiba agencies. Public
storage facilities, with a total static capacity of 32,000 tons, are located
in six project municipalities. Despite the existence of these services, to
date most institutions have not succeeded in providing effective assistance to
small farmers because of budgetary limitations, the insecure tenure arrange-
ments of most small farmers, and the continued orientation of some institutions
towards the needs of larger farmers.
1/ The activities of the current Delta do Parnaiba POLONORDFSTE project
located within the project area would be absorbed by the proposed
project, with some modifications to ensure overall project consistency.



-9-
Fisheries
3.17      Some 2,500 fishermen exploit the marine resources off Piaui's
66 km coastline. Approximately one half of these fishermen are engaged in
.Eishing as a full-time occupation. Fishermen organizations include various
l:ypes of informal groups and one cooperative. At present, the cooperative has
105 members and limited financial resources.
3.18      In 1978, the state produced about 4,250 tons of fish and shell-
fish. Principal species include mangrove crabs, red snapper, mackerel,
sea bass, and tarpon. Average catch per fisherman (843 kg/year) is
very low and, consequently, annual average income from fishing activities
(US$100 per capita) is very low. These low levels are largely due to the
use of rudimentary technology and inadequate equipment. Although extension
and technical assistance have been offered by EMATER-PI since 1976, very
few fishermen have been reached by this service. Both official banks and
non-institutional sources of credit exist. Non-institutional sources are
tied to marketing which is carried out by private middlemen.
3.19      Auxiliary services attached to the fishing industry are important in
the coastal areas. There are eight boatbuilders, employing mostly hand tools.
Retail outlets in Parnaiba supply engines and mechanical assistance. Ice-
production capacity is insufficient, although a small ice factory to be
operated by the cooperative is presently being constructed with POLONORDESTE
resources. Fish processing and artisan crafts carried out at the household
and village levels represent important additional sources of income and
employment for area residents.
Physical and Social Infrastructure
3.20      Water Development.  Little utilization has been made of the project
area's relatively abundant water resources for agricultural development.
Irrigation is presently limited to a small number of farmers who have
installed their own small irrigation schemes and a DNOCS (National Department
of Works Against the Drought) pilot project of 500 ha benefiting 200 farmers.
Pre-feasibility studies for another 16,000 ha along the Parnaiba River are
currently under way. Although part of the project area would be suitable for
further irrigation development, the state currently does not possess the
institutional capacity to assist in that development.
3.21      The present situation is little better with respect to water
for human and animal consumption. Although in 25 of the 26 proiect
municipalities the urban population is served by adequate water supply
facilities constructed and operated by AGEPISA (The Piaui Water and Sewer
Company), there are almost no adequate water supply systems functioning
in the rural areas. Some wells, reservoirs, and man-made ponds exist,
but most of them lie idle due to lack of maintenance and repair services.
Although rural residents generally have year-round access to water, deficient
water quality is a serious problem. At present, there is no one institu-
tion responsible for rural water supply in the project area, although



- 10 -
CIDAPI (well-drilling), the State Secretariat of Health (wells and sani-
tation), EMATER-PI (technical assistance and training in proper water use)
and FSESP (Special Service Foundation for Health--construction and opera-
tion of water supply systems) have done some work in rural areas elsewhere
in the state.
3.22      Roads.  The federal and state road system is reasonably well
developed within the project area. Feeding into this system is a network
of some 6,540 km of municipal roads (15% of the state's total). Preliminary
information indicates that existing traffic on these roads is at a fairly
low level and seasonally concentrated. Municipal roads, the majority
unpaved, are constructed by private contractors under the supervision and
design specifications of CODERPI (The Piaui Road Development Company).
Primary responsibility for municipal road improvement and maintenance rests
with the municipalities. Due to technical and financial constraints, many of
the roads are poorly maintained.
3.23      Social Services.  Education and health facilities are generally
deficient in the project-s rural areas, although recent steps could bring
significant improvements. Fifteen of the project municipalities are included
in the Bank-financed Northeast Basic Education Project. Health activities,
about one-half financed by federal funds, are carried out by a variety of
agencies under the planning and coordination of the State Secretariat of
Health (SESMA). In the past, SESMA has not provided effective administration
for the rural health sector. In late 1979 a State Coordinating Health Committee
was created to review state health activities, and there are some tentative
plans for the reorganization of SESMA at the state and regional levels.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Origin
4.01      The state first requested Bank assistance in preparing and imple-
menting a rural development project in October 1977. During the initial
stages of project preparation, it became evident that a major constraint to
improving rural incomes was the lack of secure access to land faced by the
majority of small farmers. Previous Bank experience in other parts of the
Northeast had demonstrated that this constraint could severely limit the
response to, and the benefits derived from, improvements in technology and
the delivery of agricultural services. Consequently, measures to improve
land tenure security and access to land gradually evolved into the principal
focus of the project. The project, in its current form, was prepared during
late 1979 and 1980 by the State Planning Commission (CEPRO) linked to the
Secretariat of Planning, in close cooperation with the Bank and the
executing agencies.



- 11 -
Objectives
4.02      The proposed project would represent the initial phase of a long-
term development strategy and investment program elaborated in accordance with
a specific set of development objectives for the project area. These objectives
include: (a) increasing income and employment opportunities for the rural
poor; (b) improving socio-economic conditions, thereby diminishing the rate
of rural-urban migration; and (c) ensuring an adequate food supply to urban
populations. A significant factor in meeting these objectives would be the
emergence of a strong sector of small-scale agricultural entrepreneurs
specialized in labor-intensive food production. This sector s progressive
utilization of modern technology, including irrigation where possible, would
contribute toward the development of the area's agricultural potential.
In a similar fashion, small fishermen, utilizing improved technology, would
take advantage of the coastal area's considerable marine resources, consequently
increasing fish production and fishing incomes.
4.03       Within the general framework for the POLONORDESTE rural develop-
ment program, the specific objectives of the proposed project would be:
(a) to improve the standard of living and socio-economic conditions, including
certain nutritional aspects, of a target group of low-income, small farmers
and fishermen; and (b) to increase the capacity of state and local institutions
to provide adequate services, particularly those which are production-related,
to the rural population. A special objective of the project would be the
development of a simple, relatively low-cost, participatory, and technically
sotnd approach to land redistribution and other land-related actions. This
aspect could have important consequences for rural development efforts
throughout Northeast Brazil.
Project Strategy
4.04      General.  In line with these objectives, project strategy during
the five-year investment period would focus on the elimination of specific
development constraints. The central element would be the improvement of
small farmer access to land and security of tenure, chiefly through a land
acquisition and redistribution program. This would be accompanied by a range
of activities aimed at increasing agricultural production and productivity and
providing certain basic physical and social infrastructure works. At the same
time, similar actions would take place involving low-income fishermen in the
project's coastal areas.
4.05      In order to reach intended beneficiaries, the project would also
focus upon increasing local and state institutional capabilities for rural
development. This institution-building strategy implies: (a) the creation of
new capabilities where none presently exist; (b) the strengthening of existing
capabilities with their specific channeling toward low-income farmers and
fishermen; (c) the promotion of new mechanisms for inter-institutional
coordination and program compatibility; and (d) the necessary involvement of
organized groups of beneficiaries in project planning and implementation.



- 12 -
4.06      Land-related Strategy.  While based on previous experiences, the
proposed project would be the first in Northeast Brazil to deal with land-
related issues in a comprehensive manner and on a significant scale. The
basic elements of the land-related strategy include:
(a)  The implementation of a diverse set of activities, including
land redistribution, discrimination 1/, and titling, to
increase small farmer access to land;
(b)  the utilization of a variety of methods, including purchase,
grants and expropriation, to acquire public and private lands
for subsequent redistribution;
(c)  the close linkage of land-related activities to agricultural
development activities and services; and
(d)  the establishment of a State Land Institute to deal effectively
with a range of land-related matters.
Additional principles guiding the project's land strategy, and land
redistribution in particular, include:
(e)  The minimization of population relocation; and
(f)  the adaptation of the land allotment process and land repayment
schemes to specific local conditions and beneficiary needs.
Project Design
4.07      As a result of the Government priority attached to the project,
land-related activities are already in early implementation stages. The
new state land institute (INTERPI) was legally created in December 1980, and
50,000 ha of land for redistribution under the project have already been
acquired by the Project Management Unit. Pre-allotment studies of this land
are currently under way. Since the project would be the first Bank-financed
rural development project in the state of Piaui and the first comprehensive
land project in Northeast Brazil, Bank financing and technical assistance
during the early stages of implementation could have an important impact
on project success. Consequently, project design and appraisal have placed
considerable emphasis on start-up mechanisms and procedures which would
be further refined as implementation proceeds.
1/ See footnote 1, page 3.



- 13 -
4.08      Due to the project's central focus on land-related activities,
efforts were also made to incorporate several special features into project
design. In order to ensure that complementary project actions remain
compatible with the scope and timing of land activities, a considerable
flexibility has been included in project design. While objectives, strategy,
general criteria and procedures, and detailed first-year implementation plans
have been elaborated for each project activity, detailed programming in each
subsequent year would be the result of an extensive annual planning exercise.
It is also expected that this type of project flexibility would allow for a
greater degree of effective beneficiary participation, particularly during the
planning stages. Annual planning, project flexibility, and the nature of the
land and agricultural development strategies increase the need for a strong
monitoring system capable of providing accurate and timely information to
project management.  Such a system has received special attention during
project preparation, and its effective functioning would be emphasized during
implementation.  The same is true for project evaluation.  Evaluation of
project impact would be necessary to re-orient and/or replicate project
design, particularly with respect to the project's principal objectives.  This
is especially important in view of the structural changes in land tenure which
are expected to occur.
Beneficiaries
4.09      Project activities would be directed to specific target groups
of low-income farmers and fishermen, including landless farmers (about 40,000
families), small owner-operators (about 8,000 families) with less than 100 ha,
and coastal fishermen (about 2,500 families). Of this total target population,
22%, or some 11,300 families, are expected to directly benefit from the
productive investments over the project's five-year investment period. This
includes (a) 5,000 farmers, the majority landless, to benefit from land
redistribution; (b) 3,000 small owner-operators; (c) 1,500 landless farmers
not involved in the initial land distribution program; and (d) 1,800 fishermen.
It is possible, however, that project land redistribution would benefit
a significantly larger number of beneficiaries due to the availability of
additional public land generated by discrimination activities. Similarly,
improved marketing and cooperative services, rural road improvements, and
water supply are expected to directly benefit a much larger percentage of
the target group population and of the rural population as a whole. Indirect
project benefits, derived from potential agricultural research results,
fishing and agricultural extension demonstration effects, and the staff
training and institution-building aspects of the project, could reach a
significant portion of the state's rural population. In addition, should the
project succeed in its objective of developing a simple, low-cost, technically
sound approach to land redistribution, experiences drawn from the project
could have an important impact on low-income farmers throughout Northeast
Brazil.



- 14 -
Project Activities
4.10      The project would include the following activities:
(a) Land-related activities, including acquisition of public
and private lands through a state-level land fund; land
redistribution; land discrimination; land titling services;
and assistance for the newly created State Land Institute.
(b) Agricultural development, including applied research, extension,
seed production, marketing, and small-scale irrigation.
(c) Fisheries development, including provision of equipment,
marketing facilities, and infrastructure; research; technical
assistance; and training.
(d) Physical and social infrastructure, including rehabilitation
and upgrading of existing rural roads, construction of new
rural access roads and tracks to properties, provision of water
supply facilities for selected communities, and improvements in
educational services and facilities.
(e) Project administration, including management, monitoring and
evaluation.
4.11      In support of project activities, credit for working capital
and investment credit for agricultural and fisheries development would be
provided by the Government (para 4.40-4.41). The project could also be
expected to encourage the channeling of public funds for other activities
into the project area. During project formulation, efforts were made to
avoid the substitution of POLONORDESTE financing for other available
sources of funds. Consequently, activities related to health are not
included in the project, and educational activities are limited to
extending coverage of the Bank-financed Northeast Basic Education Project
to the eleven project area municipalities currently not included in that
project.
B. Detailed Description
Land
4.12      Land-related activities form the core of the proposed project.
Implementation of most other project activities would be paced according
to the progress achieved in removing land constraints currently faced by
small farmers. During the five-year implementation period, the project
would: (a) acquire about 200,000 ha of public and private lands to be
redistributed to about 5,000 beneficiaries; (b) provide land discrimination
for abouft 9V,0OO ha; (c) develop titling services, benefiting about
1,500 small owners; and (d) assist in the establishment of a new state land



- 15 -
institute (INTERPI). In addition, assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the State Government would take all necessary actions to provide
the fishing communities with long-term tenure rights on federal coastal
lands. Implementation of land activities would be the responsibility of the
newly created INTERPI. The Land Unit (LU) within the project preparation
unit, which initiated project land activities, would be transferred to INTERPI.
INC'RA would provide technical assistance for all of the project's land
activities and particularly, for land discrimination. Other institutions,
such as EMATER-PI and FETAG (the State Federation of Agricultural Workers),
and local organizations would also be actively involved in the implementation
of project land activities. In addition, some 110 months of consultancy
services, employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would
be financed by the project to provide technical assistance for land activities
(Annex 1) .
4.13      Land Acquisition.  Land would be acquired for subsequent redistribu-
tion through a variety of channels. Suitable public lands identified within
the project area would be transferred to INTERPI. Private lands would
be purchased at market prices through a project-specific land fund (FUNVALE).
In addition, other properties could be acquired for project use through
expropriation by INCRA. Various procedures prior to final acquisition,
incLuding agronomic evaluation and INCRA approval, would ensure that lands
were of a sufficient quality for small farmer agriculture and that purchase
prices would accurately reflect current market values (Annex 2). Some 50,000
ha have already been acquired for project use, and an additional 10,000 ha
have been identified for purchase. Thus far purchases have not stimulated
land price increases in the project area, and no significant land speculation
is anticipated (Annex 2). Developments in the land market would be closely
mon:itored throughout project execution (Annex 10). It is expected that by the
end of the project's first year, a cumulative total of at least 100,000 ha
would have been acquired, with at least 50,000 additional ha acquired during
each of the following two years. Since the pace of project implementation
as a whole would depend on the timely acquisition of land, assurances
were otained during negotiations that the State Government would take all
necessary steps to ensure that these minimum acquisition targets were met.
Although FUNVALE costs are included in total project costs, no disbursements
would be made against fund expenditures for land purchase.
4.14      Land Redistribution.  Subsequent to land acquisition, the
project would finance the costs of transitory management, feasibility
studies and other planning procedures for allotment, and demarcation and
titling costs. At least one year would be required from the date of acquisition
to the actual redistribution of the lands to project beneficiaries.
During this transitory period, various analyses of the property would be
carried out, including photo interpretation, selective soil and water
resources surveys, topographical studies, an infrastructure needs
assessment, and socio-economic surveys leading to a preliminary beneficiary
selection. Concurrently, teams of EMATER-PI extensionists would be
working among potential beneficiaries explaining project objectives and



- 16 -
land allotment and repayment schemes. Following this stage, a first allotment
plan would be drawn up by INTERPI, with the assistance of consultants and
other project staff. This would then be discussed with beneficiaries, and
once a final allotment plan had been agreed upon, it would be presented to
INCRA for approval. Demarcation and preliminary titling procedures could
follow. Each beneficiary would receive a plot ranging in size from about 35 ha
to 50 ha, defined in accordance with INCRA module size and local conditions.
It is expected that some 450 beneficiaries would have received land by the end
of the first project year.
4.15      Beneficiaries would be required to pay for the land received under
the project. Because of the limited availability of land purchase credit, a
simple Direct Repayment Plan, well suited to local traditions, has been
established. Under the plan, beneficiaries would pay for their land in rice
or an equivalent sum in cash in four annual installments. The total amount of
rice to be paid would be based on the land value, taking into account production
potential, infrastructure and access, determined during the allotment period.
Each annual installment would be equal to or less than the amount of rent
currently paid by area tenants. The rice would be collected in the field by
area cooperatives, processed and subsequently transferred to COBAL, which
would pay INTERPI. Where cooperatives do not exist, COBAL would carry out the
direct field collection (para 4.25-4.27). In the case of unfavorable climatic
conditions, repayments would be rescheduled, with no resulting loss to the
project, given the existing parity between inflation rates and increases in
the market price for rice.   Under the Direct Repayment Plan, it is expected
that 20 to 25 percent of real land acquisition and redistribution costs would
be recovered. Certain conditions, such as the acceptance of technical assistance
by EMATER-PI and the agreement not to sell, sublet, or allow sharecroppers on
any portion of the land, would be placed on beneficiary usage of the land
during the repayment period.
4.16      Land Discrimination and Titling.  In order to generate land for
subsequent redistribution and assist small owners in securing legal titles
to their land, the project would finance the discrimination of about one
third of the total project area during the second, third, and fourth project
years. The areas to be discriminated are currently being selected and would
be fully identified during the first project year. In each selected municipality,
all legal land claims would be identified, with public lands distinguished
from private holdings. Subsequently, suitable public lands would be turned
over to INTERPI for redistribution while privately owned lands would be
demarcated and titled as required.l/ The costs of these services, which vary
with property size, would be fully recovered, in accordance with INCRA
1/ The exact amount of public lands available for redistribution would be
known only after discrimination had taken place. A reasonable estimate,
based on experiences in other Northeast areas, would be about 90,000 ha
or ten percent of the discriminated area.



- 17 -
regulations. In the case of project beneficiaries, these services would be
initially supported by the project which would provide the necessary personnel,
equipment and facilities, with full cost recovery also in accordance with INCRA
regulations. The project would also support special legal assistance for small
owners involved in land discrimination. Three lawyers belonging to an independent
organization satisfactory to the Bank would be contracted beginning in the
second project year to work with INTERPI and assist small farmers in preparing
legal documents. About 1,500 small owners would benefit from these project
services, while the discrimination process as a whole would benefit much larger
numbers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) by October 1,
1981, a complete program for land discrimination activities, including the
identification of the areas to be discriminated, would be forwarded to the Bank
for review and approval; and (b) by April 1, 1982, the lawyers to provide legal
assistance to smallholders would be contracted under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition to eliminating land tenure insecurity,
it is expected that land discrimination would lead to a significant increase in
land tax revenues since, within each affected municipality, all owners and the
exact size of their properties would be registered. Furthermore, because of the
progressive nature of the tax with respect to size of holding and degree of
non-utilization, large owners would be provided with an incentive to either
sell part of their property to the project or to better utilize their land
resources.
4.17      State Land Institute.  In order to implement project activities
and increase state institutional capabilities in land-related matters, the
project would assist in the establishment of INTERPI. The project Land Unit,
which is currently being transferred to INTERPI, would constitute the core
staff of this new institute. Equipment, staff and other operational costs
directly related to project activities, including the establishment of
effective titling and cadastral services, would be financed under the project.
The project would also provide technical assistance for the establishment of
INTERPI by financing four senior consultants in the following areas:, technical
services; projects and operations; administration and finances; and recruitment
and training.   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
consultants would be employed, promptly as needed, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 3, Table 2).
Agricultural Development
4.18      The project's agricultural development activities would be closely
linked to land-related activities and would be focused upon land beneficiaries,
other small owners with secure tenure, and some landless farmers. Adoption
rates have been estimated conservatively; it is expected that about 18% of the
total target group would apply some of the proposed recommendations. At the
same time that the land constraint to small farmer development would be
eliminated, applied research efforts would focus upon the adaptation of
technically sound recommendations to improve current farming practices.
Initial recommendations would be based on practices currently employed by more
advanced farmers in the project area. These practices, appropriate for a
large majority of the target group, are mainly related to increases in cropped
area and labor productivity through mechanization with animal traction.
Other possible improvements would include: (a) reductions in crop failure
due to drought conditions through increased soil permeability and water



- 18 -
storage capabilities; (b) increases in crop productivity through improved
planting materials, fertilizer and pesticide use, and timely planting; and
(c) diversification of crop alternatives, including improved intercropping
systems. The new techniques would be diffused by area extension agents, who
would already be well known to farmers through their participation in project
land activities. Improved seed production and distribution would ensure the
availability of suitable planting materials. Project marketing services
would guarantee small farmers necessary inputs and production outlets at
reasonable prices, while at the same time providing facilities for land
repayment. Finally, in order to develop the area's water resources for
agricultural purposes, the project would assist in designing and implementing
small-scale irrigation schemes for about 1,500 project beneficiaries.
4.19      Applied Research.  The applied research program, to be implemented
by EMBRAPA, would complement expected activities included in the proposed
national Agricultural Research II Project and would focus upon: (a) the
adaptation of improved seed varieties, chemical and organic fertilizers, plant
protection measures, and pasture improvements for target group farmers;
(b) the improvement and adaptation of farm implements and animal traction
equipment to local conditions; (c) the testing of new crop alternatives
(vegetables, sorghum, soybeans, groundnuts, etc.), new intercropping systems,
and new technical packages for irrigated lands; (d) the testing of various
alternatives for appropriate soil and water management; and (e) the setting up
of a permanent mechanism for continuous technology transfer from applied
research to extension. The research team would be comprised of a coordinator
and ten assistants, the majority of whom would be senior agriculturalists with
research and extension experience. In the area of small mechanization and
animal traction, the project research team would receive support from
specialists at the EMBRAPA regional experimental station (CPATSA -
Agricultural Research Center for the Semi-Arid Tropics) in the neighboring
state of Pernambuco. Each year, a research council, composed of farmers'
representatives, and representatives from EMATER-PI, EMBRAPA, CEPA-PI, and the
Project Management Unit would review the past year's research results, decide
upon the techniques ready for wider dissemination by extension, and approve the
research program for the following year.
4.20      During the five-year project investment period, a full program
of applied research would be carried out, with equipment, staff, and other
incremental operating costs financed by the project. Trials would be
conducted at four levels: (a) the central experimental station at Teresina;
(b) complementary sub-stations, to permit first adaptations to the Delta
do Parnaiba and Medio Parnaiba sub-areas; (c) farm level experimentation,
conducted with farmers' participation; and (d) demonstration fields cultivated
by the farmers themselves under EMATER-PI supervision. New techniques would
be thoroughly tested at these levels before release for mass diffusion
(Annex 3, Table 3).
4.21      Rural Extension.  Rural extension would be closely coordinated
with project land and applied research activities. Under the project, it
is expected that some 9,500 farm families would be assisted.  Both agricul-
cultural extension and social extension, with a primary empThasis on improved



- 19 -
nutrition, would be provided. In the areas of land redistribution, the
extension service would also play a key role in ensuring community partici-
pation both prior to and during the land redistribution process. To accom-
plish these goals, the institutional capacity of EMATER-PI, the executing
agency, would be considerably strengthened. This would include the construc-
tion and equipping of local offices in municipalities where offices currently
do not exist; improved training and equipment for local extensionists; and
additional staff at state, regional, and local levels. Farmer training
courses, equipment and materials for demonstration plots, including those
using animal traction, vehicles, and costs associated with extension through
the mass media would also be financed under the project.
4.22      During the first year of the project, about 2,000 small farmers
and their families would be attended by the extension service. This
includes 1,460 families previously assisted under the POLONORDESTE Delta
do Parnaiba project, 450 land beneficiaries and 90 small owners and
their families who would be assisted for the first time. Annual planning
for extension activities in subsequent years would take place in accordance
with the project's land activities. Extension methodology would emphasize
small group formation, mass media techniques and demonstration fields.
Agricultural and social extensionists would work in teams. Their tasks,
particularly among land beneficiaries, would include: (a) assisting in
socio-economic surveys of potential beneficiaries in areas where land has
been acquired by the project; (b) providing information, particularly on
land redistribution and repayment procedures and land discrimination, to
potential beneficiaries; (c) assisting in the selection of land beneficiaries
and in the subsequent allotment process; (d) providing training and technical
assistance for the utilization of improved agricultural practices, fertilizer,
pesticides, improved seeds, animal traction, adequate soil and water management,
marketing and farm management; (e) assisting farmers in obtaining official
bank credit, emphasizing group credit applications where possible; and (f)
providing social extension, particularly in the areas of improved nutrition
and hygiene, community organization, and cottage industries. Because of this
large task diversification, extension agents within each team would be
partially specialized and would concentrate on specific topics, such as
irrigation, animal traction, and land-related matters.
4.23      In order to enable EMATER-PI to carry out its work program under
the project, a project coordinator within EMATER-PI at the state level
would be appointed. The coordinator would be assisted by production and
social advisers. In addition, a number of specialists, including an account-
ing assistant, a training adviser, a marketing and cooperative specialist,
and an animal traction and small equipment expert, would be employed or
assigned to project activities. Additional staff, including marketing
specialists, would also be provided for the three regional EMATER-PI offices
in the project area. Terms of reference for key EMATER-PI project personnel
have been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. By Year 4 of the
project, 79 additional agricultural extensionists and 51 additional social
extensionists would be employed by the project. While extension coverage
ratios would be initially high due to the added tasks associated with land
redistribution, ratios would be gradually decreased beginning in the fifth
year of the project until reaching a level of one agricultural extensionist
per 400 farmers and one social extensionist for every 600 farm families at
full development (Annex 3, Table 4).



- 20 -
4.24      Seed Production.  An improved state-wide seed production and
distribution system has been recently established. In addition to a 240
ha physical base for the production of basic seeds, Piaui now possesses
various seed processing facilities, three of which are located in the project
area, and a seed analysis laboratory located in Teresina. The project would
complement this newly created system to ensure adequate seed supply to project
beneficiaries. EMATER-PI, in conjunction with three area cooperatives, would
select a group of project area small farmers to multiply basic seeds under
close supervision. The cooperatives, utilizing advance contracts, would
purchase the seeds, which would be treated and stored in three project-
financed 1,000-ton seed storage facilities to be located on the cooperatives.
The cooperatives, through their input supply network (paras 4.25-4.27), would
also be responsible for the sale of the certified seeds to project farmers.
In order to encourage the use of the improved seeds, one of the major
recommendations proposed for improving crop technology, farmers would be
charged only about two thirds of market price for the seeds during the first
year of diffusion. The price would be progressively increased so that by the
end of the project execution period, all farmers would be paying full market
price for the improved seeds (Annex 3, Table 5).
4.25      Marketing.  Project marketing activities would increase small
farmer marketing options by strengthening and integrating public, private,
and cooperative actions and directing them towards the small farmer. Project
marketing activities include: (a) the provision of marketing information
through a preliminary study by CEPA-PI of the current marketing situation in
the project area and the expansion and strengthening of SIMA's marketing
information system; (b) the improvement and extension of CIDAPI-s and the
cooperatives' input sales network, including the opening of about eight
new input supply stores; (c) the collection, processing, and marketing of
small farmers' agricultural production, including the rice for land repayment,
to be undertaken by the cooperatives and COBAL; (d) the participation of local
retailers and cooperatives in COBAL's wholesale supply system (rede SOMAR) for
basic food items; and (e) the expansion of EMATER-PI and OCEPI technical
assistance and training programs in small farmer marketing and cooperative
development. In order to strengthen the involved institutions- planning and
implementation capacities, the project would provide for thirty months of
consultancy services in the first project year for CEPA-PI, SIMA, CIDAPI and
OCEPI. A project marketing coordinator within CEPA-PI would coordinate and
monitor all project marketing activities and ensure that the marketing needs
of land beneficiaries were being adequately met (Annex 8).
4.26      During the first year, CEPA-PI would complete the marketing study
which would guide project actions in subsequent years. SIMA would open a
new information agency in Sao Pedro de Piaui and would strengthen its
Teresina and Parnaiba agencies. Consultants would plan for the opening
of new CIDAPI input supply stores. On-farm collection of rice by coopera-
tives, with COBAL technical assistance, for land repayment would provide
the starting point for the collection, processing, and marketing of



- 21 -
beneficiary agricultural production in subsequent project years. COBAL,
during the first project year, would plan for implementation of the SOMAR
network and for its participation in project area rice marketing, including
the collection of rice for land repayment in those municipalities where
cooperatives do not presently exist. OCEPI, with a consultant's assistance,
would set up a centralized accounting system, and fiscal-legal and economic
planning advisory services for the five cooperatives participating in project
activities. Finally, three EMATER regional subject matter specialists in
storage and marketing would be financed and trained under the project. These
specialists would subsequently train extensionists in on-farm storage techniques
ancl small farmer and cooperative marketing.
4.27      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:  (a) the detailed
out:line of the marketing study would be sent to the Bank for review prior to
the initiation of field work and the final version of the study would be
presented to the Bank by April 1, 1982; (b) the SIMA, CIDAPI, and OCEPI
consultants' final reports and other written material would be sent to
the Bank for review by October 1, 1981; (c) COBAL's first year feasibility
study and detailed plans for rice collection and marketing and the SOMAR
supply network would be sent to the Bank for review and approval by October 1,
1981; (d) a full-time EMATER-PI technician would be maintained in each of the
cooperatives participating in the project; (e) consultants would be employed
promptly as needed, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
and (f) installation and operating plans for cooperative and CIDAPI input
supply stores and the improved input distribution network would be sent to the
Bank for review and approval prior to installation (Annex 3, Table 6).
4.28      Small-Scale Irrigation.  The project would assist in the development
of suitable, relatively low-cost approaches and the strengthening of state
institutional capacity for the implementation of small-scale irrigation
schemes. About 1,500 ha of irrigated lands for about 1,500 land redistribution
beneficiaries would be developed by private firms contracted and supervised
by INTFRPI. A State Water Commission, comprised of representatives from the
Secretariat of Agriculture, EMATER, DNOCS, and INTERPI would be set up to
establish water charges and review feasibility studies and designs. Local
water users associations would be responsible for the collection of user
charges and operation and maintenance of the systems.
4.29      Irrigation schemes would be chosen according to a set of technical,
economic, and social criteria, including water availability, soil quality,
profitability, and population density (Annex 2). In the floodplains along the
Parnaiba River, the schemes would mainly consist of protective dikes and small
pumping stations. In a limited number of cases, irrigation would also be
developed inland through tubewells and pumps for underground water. Irrigation
potential on properties already acquired by INTERPI is currently being assessed.
4.30      Feasibility studies carried out by consultants would be sent tco the
Bank for approval prior to the completion of detailed designs and construction
of the schemes. Assurances on this matter were obtained during negotiations.
Assurances were also obtained that: (a) consultants would be employed under



- 22 -
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the State Water Commission
would be legally established no later than October 1, 1981; (c) a water users
association would be set up prior to the construction of each scheme; and
(d) before the completion of the works for each irrigation scheme, the State
Water Commission would establish a water charge scheme, satisfactory to the
Bank, providing for the full recovery of operating and maintenance costs and
the recovery of investments in infrastructure and equipment, taking into
account the beneficiaries' repayment capacity. It is expected that investment
cost per hectare would not exceed US$5,000 and that charges, while based on
federal guidelines, would reflect the rate of inflation and farmers' ability
to pay. Estimated investment cost recovery would average about 30% to 35%
(Annex 2; Annex 3, Table 7).
Fisheries Development
4.31      The project's coastal fisheries development activities would seek
to remove production, marketing and organizational constraints currently
facing small fishermen. The proposed intervention, the first of its kind to
be supported by the Bank in Northeast Brazil, would strengthen the artisanal
fishing sector by increasing the availability of known technology already
employed to a limited extent within the project area, and by improving
existing institutional arrangements. The project would provide funds for:
(a) extension, technical assistance and training to be implemented by EMATER-PI
and OCEPI; (b) experimentation and research to be carried out by SUDEPE; and
(c) coordination of project activities to be carried out by SUDEPE with the
assistance of outside consultants. In addition, not financed by the Bank, but
essential to the success of project fishing activities, the official banking
system, utilizing standard POLONORDESTE credit procedures, would provide:
(a) credit to fishermen for fishing vessels, including an estimated 40 canoes,
30 traditional sailboats, 110 improved sailboats, and 50 motorized sailboats;
(b) credit to fishermen for engines, safety equipment, and fishing gear; c)
credit to merchants and shrimp and mangrove crab processors, for tools,
equipment, and working capital; and (d) credit to boatbuilders for equipment
and working capital. It is expected that these activities would benefit about
1,800 fishermen over the five-year investment period.
4.32      Extension and technical assistance would focus on the transfer of
technologies related to the income-generating activities of the fishing
family. In addition to introducing new fishing techniques, the training
of family members in net making and repair, fish conservation, nutrition,
and the production of food and artisanal items would take place. A small
revolving fund would be set up by EMATER-PI to finance such activities by
small groups. It is expected that about 345 fishermen and 80 families would
be assisted by EMATER-PI's fishing technicians and social extensionists during
the first year. Technical assistance would also be provided to the Luis
Correia cooperative. Administrative and technical personnel currently
financed by the Delta do Parnaiba POLONORDESTE project would continue under
the proposed project. In addition, OCEPI would provide technical assistance
for administration, auditing, accounting, marketing and legal matters (paras
4.25-4.26).
4.33      Experimentation and research under the project would test new
types of fishing gear and equipment, as well as different types of fishing
systems. Existing knowledge about the area's marine resources would be
improved. For these purposes, personnel and equipment, including a small



- 23 -
vessel and the operating costs of the SUDENE research ship, would be financed
by the project. In addition, consultancy services would be provided for
experiments with different types of fishing gear, a fish stock assessment,
marketing studies, shipbuilding and for improving the evaluation system of
extension and training. Fifteen man-months of consultancies would be financed
during the first year of the project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that consultants would be employed promptly as needed under terms
and conditions satisfactory to be Bank. In order to coordinate the actions of
the various institutions involved in project fishing activities, a project
fishing coordinator would be appointed to SUDEPE (Annex 3, Table 8).
Physical and Social Infrastructure
4.34      Rural Roads.  Proposed road improvements under the project include:
(a) the design and construction of about 400 km of new access roads, including
rural tracks within properties to be redistributed; and (b) minimum road
improvements for about 1,350 km of existing roads. To carry out this program
and ensure the adequate maintenance of the municipal road system, the project
would also include: (a) consultant services for the preparation of engineer-
ing designs and bidding documents, and for the supervision of civil works;
(b) equipment, spare parts, and hand tools for municipal road maintenance;
(c) a small soils laboratory to support monitoring of road construction
quality; (d) training for municipal foremen in the implementation of basic
road maintenance; and (e) personnel to assist municipal foremen in the
design and execution of municipal road maintenance. An infrastructure sub-
coordinator within the Project Management Unit would coordinate and monitor
road activities under the project. The coordinator would be assisted by an
engineer who would review and approve design work, bidding documents, and
bidding evaluations. CODERPI, mainly through the use of consultants and
contractors, would be responsible for road construction and improvements.
DFEE-PI, by providing maintenance equipment, training, and technical personnel,
wotld assist the municipalities in adequately maintaining project roads.
4.35      During the first project year, some 258 km of roads would be improved
within the municipalities of Batalha, Regeneracao, Palmerais, and Luis Correia.
Based upon the progress achieved and the requirements of the project's land
activities, annual work programs, including lists of roads to be upgraded or
constructed during each subsequent year, would be presented to the Bank for
review and comments no later than October 1. Assurances were obtained on this
matter during negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that: (a) CODERPI
would prepare engineering designs and bidding documents, award construction
contracts, and supervise construction, all in accordance with POLONORDESTE
standards previously agreed upon with the Bank; (b) CODERPI would provide to
the Bank for review and comment the list of consultants engaged for road
design and CODERPI supervision staffing plans by October 1 of each year;
(c) consultants would be employed whose qualifications and experience were
satisfactory to the Bank; (d) DER-PI would provide mechanized maintenance
assistance to municipalities in the project area in accordance with appropriate
engineering and mechanical standards; (e) a convenio would be established
between each municipality and DER-PI, outlining respective responsibilities
for road rehabilitation and maintenance, prior to the initiation of civil



- 24 -
works, and an annual work program would be jointly prepared and carried out
for road maintenance of previously improved municipal roads; (f) DER-PI would
provide adequate workshop support to operate and maintain equipment purchased
under the project; and (g) all equipment procured under the project would be
used solely for the maintenance of state and municipal roads in the project
area (Annex 3, Table 9).
4.36      Water Supply.  Under the project, some 200 low-cost water supply
systems, including public laundries, would be constructed and some 11,300
water filters distributed, benefiting a total population of some 65,000
persons. FSESP would be responsible for all preinvestment and special studies,
planning and design of the systems, construction supervision, and quarterly
water analyses once systems were operational. CIDAPI would drill all necessary
wells, construct or contract the construction of the systems and laundries,
train local operators, and carry out maintenance backstopping. EMATER-PI
would distribute water filters and instruct villagers on proper water use. The
municipalities would be responsible for operating costs and the collection of
water charges.
4.37      During the first year of the project, institutional capacity
would be strengthened and twenty water supply systems would be built in
municipalities where project land and fisheries activities would be taking
place. Each system would be composed of: a water source; a hand or motor-
driven pump, depending on community size and availability of electricity;
a pump house; an elevated storage tank; public hydrants; and connections
to existing schools and health posts. Prior to construction of each system
and accompanying laundry, a pre-investment study would be carried out and a
convenio would be concluded among FSESP, CIDAPI, and the municipalities.
Feasibility and pre-investment studies would be carried out in accordance with
satisfactory federal guidelines established for the PIASS program (Program for
Hlealth and Sanitation in Rural Areas). In order to ensure proper operation
and maintenance of the systems, a new water supply division would be created
in CIDAPI. Assurances were obtained on these matters during negotiations.
During the project investment period, user charges would cover only local
operating costs, but would be gradually raised from the sixth year on to cover
all system operating costs (Annex 3, Table 10).
4.38      Education.  The project would extend the educational activities
included in the Northeast Basic Education Project 1/ to the eleven project
municipalities which were not included in that project. The State Secretariat
of Fducation would be the executing agency. In addition to curriculum reform,
provision of educational materials and teacher training, schools would be
built or renovated and equipped in those muncipalities where project land
redistribution and fishing activities were taking place. During the first
project year, no new educational activities would begin; however, personnel
and ongoing primary school construction previously provided for under the
POLONORDESTE Delta do Parnaiba project would be financed under the proposed
project (Annex 3, Table 11).
l/ See Brazil, Northeast Basic Education Project, Stati ,      taiae  Wesot
No. 2815-BR, dated April 28, 1980.



- 25 -
Project Administration
4.39      The project would be one of six ongoing rural development projects
coordinated by the State POLONORDESTE Technical Unit (TU) which is linked
to the State Secretariat of Planning. A separate Project Management Unit
(PMU) would be set up within the Technical Unit to coordinate project activities.
At the central level, the PMU would consist of a Project Coordinator; three
technical sub-coordinators for land, agricultural development, and physical
and social infrastructure; two full-time staff for financial control and
reporting; a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Unit with three full-time
professionals; and appropriate support staff. In addition, three regional
field coordinators, one for each of the project's sub-areas, would be responsible
for daily project coordination at the sub-area and local levels. The project
would finance equipment and vehicles, PMU staff salaries at competitive
levels, travel expenses, consultant fees for monitoring and evaluation, and
other incremental operating costs for project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation within the TU. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that: (a) the PMU would be established and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the qualifications and experience and terms and
conditions of employment of the Project Coordinator would be satisfactory to
the Bank; and (c) the terms and conditions of employment for consultants to
be contracted for evaluation studies would be satisfactory to the Bank (paras
6.01-6.08; Annex 3, Table 12).
Credit Provision
4.40      Due to the continuation of highly negative real interest rates for
rural credit in Brazil, credit would not be included in Bank financing for
the proposed project. Credit provision, however, would be an essential
complement to project activities. The various types of credit to be provided
include:
(a) Seasonal Short-Term Agricultural Credit to finance inputs
and other costs associated with the production of short
cycle crops; the establishment of semi-permanent crops; and
the maintenance and improvement of established permanent
crops. 1/
(b) Medium and Long-Term Agricultural Credit for land clearing,
livestock, storage facilities, small irrigation schemes,
animal traction, farm tools and equipment, and other on-farm
development costs.
(c) Medium and Long-Term Fisheries Credit for vessels, gear,
and equipment for fishermen, merchants, processors, ship-
builders, and the fishing cooperative.
(d) Short-Term Credit for working capital for the fishing
cooperative.
1/   Under present credit regulations, up to seventy-five percent of total
production costs, including labor, can be financed through credit
obtained from the official banks.



- 26 -
Incremental credit requirements for the five year project execution period are
estimated at about US$23.3 million equivalent, of which 35% would be incremental
short-term agricultural credit, 50% incremental medium and long-term agricultural
credit, and 15% investment and working capital credit for fishing activities.
Some short-term marketing credit and some investment and working capital
credit for agricultural cooperatives would also be made available through
existing credit lines.
4.41      Credit for project-related activities would be provided by the
Federal Government under its current POLONORDESTE credit line or through
its "normal" rural credit program for Northeast Brazil. Participating
official banks include: the Banco do Brasil (BB), the Banco do Nordeste
do Brasil (BNB), the Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo (BNCC), and the
State bank, the Banco do Estado de Piaui (BEP). In order to improve the
access of project beneficiaries to the official banking system, additional
credit posts required to adequately serve the project area would be identified
during the annual planning process (para 6.04). During negotiations,
assurances would be sought from the Government that it would take all necessary
steps to ensure the availability of adequate credit, as defined during the
annual planning exercise, for project participants.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Cost
5.01      Total project costs over the five-year project investment period
(mid-1981 to mid-1986) are estimated at US$84.4 million, including a foreign
exchange cost of US$16.3 million or about 19% and taxes of about US$1.7
million. Baseline costs were estimated at appraisal (September 1980) prices.
Physical contingencies total 6% of baseline costs, and price contingencies
are equivalent to 27% of baseline costs. Physical contingencies were added to
baseline costs at 20% for irrigation and water supply construction, 15% for
other construction, and 5% for all equipment, vehicles, and vehicle operation
and maintenance. Price contingencies were calculated in US dollar terms,
based on international inflation rates estimated at 12.5% for 1980, 9.0% for
1981, 8.5% for 1982, 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, and 7.0% thereafter.
Project costs are summarized below and annual phasing of investments is shown
in Annex 3, Table 1.



TABLE 5.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL         % OF FOREIGN       % OF TOTAL
---Cr$ million---           ---UV'$ million---              EXCHANGE    BASELINE COSTS
LAND                                     850        87       937       15.2       1.5       16.7            9                27
Land Purchasing                     258        -       258         4.6        -         4.6            -                7
Land Demarcation and Titling        238        40      278         4.3       0,7        5.0           14                8
. Land Institute                      354       47       401         6.3       0.8        7.1           12               12
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT               1,085       273    1,358        19.4       4.8       24.2           20                38
. Applied Research                    112        22      134         2.0       0.4        2.4           17                4
. Extension                           489        61      550         8.7       1.1        9.8           11               15
. Seed Production                      42        12       54         0.8       0.2        1.0           24                2
. Marketing                           150        36      186         2.7       0.6        3.3           19                5
Small-scale Irrigation              292       142      434         5.2       2.5        7.7           33               12
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT                    134        21       155        2.4       0.4        2.8           14                 4
SOCIAL AND PHYSICAL  INFRASTRUCTURE    668         282      950        11.9       5.0       17.0           30                27
. Rural Roads                         337      167       504         6.0       3.0        9.0           33               14
Water Supply                        262        93      355         4.7       1.7        6.4           26               10
Education                            69        22       91         1.2       0.4        1.6           24                3
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                   125        15       140        2.2       0.3        2.5           11                 4
BASELINE COSTS                         2.862       678    3,540        51.1      12.1       63.2           19               100
Physical Contingencies                   171        50      221.4       3.0       0.9        3.9           23                 6
Price Contingencies                      784       184      968        14.0       3.3       17.3           19               27
TOTAL COSTS                            3,817       912    4,729        68.1      16.3       84.4           19              134



- 28 -
Financing
5.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$29 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil would finance 35% of total project costs net of taxes. This would
include the total foreign exchange component of the project plus about US$13
million equivalent of local costs. The loan would be for 15 years, including
3 years of grace. The balance of project financing would be provided by the
Federal Government through the POLONORDESTE program. In addition, the Federal
and State Governments would finance agricultural and fisheries credit (about
US$23 million) and essential complementary items, such as teacher salaries
and additional roads, not included in project costs financed by the Bank.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the State and Federal
Governments that adequate counterpart funding would be available for the
effective and timely execution of the project and that project facilities and
services would be adequately operated and maintained. Assurances were also
obtained from the State that it would arrange for the timely acquisition
and necessary financing of additional land or rights-of-way required for
project works.
5.03      To ensure timely and effective project implementation, various
start-up activities, including those related to land acquisition, staffing,
and employment of consultants, have already been initiated or would be
initiated during the first half of 1981. Retroactive financing of up to
US$2,000,000 equivalent is proposed to help cover eligible expenditures made
after October 1, 1980, but before loan signature.
Procurement
5.04      Most of the equipment, materials and vehicles required by the
project are locally produced and readily available. Such items would be
procured in accordance with local procurement procedures which are acceptable.
Civil works and consultancy services (totalling US$7.1 million) for rural road
improvement and construction would be procured following state competitive
bidding procedures. Although these procedures do not exclude foreign firms,
construction lots would be sized to allow bids from small and medium
contractors, and it is expected that all civil work and consultancy contracts
for roads would be awarded to local firms. Road maintenance equipment would
be acquired in two lots on the basis of local competitive bidding with national
advertising. Hand tools would be procured through local suppliers in accordance
with state competitive bidding procedures. Most civil works for water supply
systems, small-scale irrigation, marketing, and other project construction
(about US$8.3 million) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, although a small portion of these works (mainly for water
supply) could be carried out by force account. Brazil has a competitive local
construction industry which is capable of carrying out project works. Since
the individual construction works are relatively small and quite dispersed,
foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, although they would not
be excluded from bidding. About 233 months of short-term consultancy services,
to provide technical assistance and training in new activities related to
lana, fise-t es, irrirgation, marketing, extension, monitoring ana evaluation,
would be mainly procured locally, at an average cost of about US$5,000 per
month.



- 29 -
Disbursements
5.05      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed on the basis of
an overall rate of 35% financing of total project cost net of taxes during
the project investment period. This would result in a 36% rate of disburse-
ment for each project component excluding the land fund. Disbursements would
be made to the Central Bank of Brazil against withdrawal applications covering
statements of expenditures initiated by the various implementing agencies and
certified by the PMU. In order to reduce the interval during which the
Government would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own
resources, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of up to US$2,000,000. The Government may request the Bank to
make advance payments in dollars from the loan account into this Special
Account. Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the account would be made on the basis
of the statements of expenditures forwarded to the Central Bank. Conversion
from dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed
on the date the expenditures were made. The Central Bank would send the
statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.
Supporting documentation for salaries, administrative expenses and minor
construction under force account would not be submitted to the Bank, but would
be retained by the PMU and made available for inspection by the Bank during
project supervision missions. Standard documentation covering civil works,
vehicles, equipment, and technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank.
Disbursements are expected to occur over about five years. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 11.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
6.01      The proposed project would be part of the POLONORDESTE program
and organizational framework within the state of Piaui. A POLONORDESTE
State Management Council, chaired by the Governor and comprised of the heads
of all state secretariats and official banks and representatives from the
state rural trade union, the state university, and the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture, meets regularly to decide policy issues and give overall guidance
to the state's rural development activities. Important operational issues
involving POLONORDESTE projects are dealt with by an Implementation Committee,
comprised of executive staff from all of the implementing agencies. This
committee, which meets monthly, is chaired by the coordinator of the State
POLONORDESTE Technical Unit (TU). The TU, administratively part of the
planning foundation (CEPRO) linked to the Secretariat of Planning, is
responsible for the daily coordination, administration, monitoring, and
evaluation of all state POLONORDESTE projects. The TU would be reinforced
under the proposed project, chiefly through the creation of a special Project
Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate project activities. To facilitate project
communication, one senior staff member would be designated within each
executing agency to serve as a link with the PMU (Annex 9).  A list of
executing agencies and respective implementation responsibilities under the
project is shown in Annex 7.



- 30 -
6.02      The PMU, headed by a Project Coordinator, would be responsible
for the overall coordination, monitoring, and evaluation of project activities.
It would be comprised of: (a) three sub-coordinators to coordinate and
monitor project land, agriculture development, and infrastructure activities;
(b) a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Unit, with three full-time
professionals, to keep up-to-date records on physical implementation progress,
conduct short-term studies on specific implementation problems, contract
and supervise major evaluation studies, consolidate annual work programs and
budgets, and generally manage the project's monitoring and evaluation systems
(paras 6.05-6.06); (c) Administrative and Financial Sub-Units, with two
full-time professionals and appropriate support staff; and (d) three regional
field coordinators to supervise and coordinate activities at the sub-area and
local levels. The PMU would be assisted in its coordinating task by a project
marketing sub-coordinator within CEPA-PI and a project fisheries sub-coordinator
within SUDEPE, both of whom would have direct access to the Project Coordinator.
The sub-coordinators within the PMU, CEPA-PI and SUDEPE would make regular
field visits and maintain daily contact with the executing agencies. They
would keep the Project Coordinator informed about implementation progress and
potential and actual problems or delays. The Project Coordinator would work
with the heads of the executing agencies to resolve any major difficulties.
Additional technical support for project activities would be available from
existing specialists within the TU (Annex 9).
Beneficiary Participation
6.03      The regional field coordinators, in conjunction with area extension
staff, would organize monthly meetings at the local and regional levels.
Participants would include project beneficiaries or their representatives,
executing agencies' field staff, local rural union representatives, and
PMU or other state-level staff as required. The meetings would serve several
purposes. They would: (a) provide beneficiaries with information on project
strategy, objectives, and activities; (b) provide feedback to field staff
and project management on beneficiary response to implementation; (c) provide
a forum for beneficiary and staff participation in decisions related to
property allotment and annual project planning; and (d) provide a formal
structure through which beneficiaries and local staff could discuss and
agree upon their respective responsibilities under the project. Meetings
would be scheduled to allow for maximum attendance, and whenever possible,
problems would be solved at the local level.
Annual Planning
6.04      Comprehensive annual planning would be essential to project success.
Early in each fiscal year, the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Unit
within the PMU would begin preliminary planning, including cost estimates, for
the following year's activities. From about June 15 to September 1, each
participating agency, with assistance from the PMU, would prepare an annual
plan detailing its proposed activities and expected project expenditures
during the next POLONORDESTE fiscal year. The PMU's Planning, Monitoring, and
Evaluation Sub-\nlt vould the'n consolidate thae planas and -istee thear overall
consistency. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the proposed
annual operating plans would be submitted by the PMU to the Bank no later than
October 1 of each year for review. These annual plans would be satisfactory
to the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that the Bank would be given a
reasonable opportunity to comment on any substantial modifications in those
plans as a result of their subsequent review by POLONORDESTE management and
the Federal Government.



- 31 -
Monitoring
6.05      The project monitoring system, to be managed by the Planning, Monitoring,
and Evaluation Sub-Unit within the PMU, would produce the information required
by management for decision-making and annual planning (para 6.04). The basic
information for monitoring would be provided by PMIU staff, the executing
agencies, and project beneficiaries. The five technical sub-coordinators and
the three regional field coordinators would continuously monitor implementation
progress for each component and advise the Project Coordinator on achievements
as well as shortfalls in project execution. Standardized forms would be
completed quarterly by the executing agencies, forwarded to the PMU, checked
with other available information, and consolidated into quarterly project
reports. These reports would be distributed to PMU and TU management and
project staff, the executing agencies, the POLONORDESTE State Management
Council, and Begional and Federal officials. The reports would give details
on project implementation progress and expenditures, including comparisons of
actual performance with targets, estimated costs, and key indicators. In
addition, information on a limited number of key indicators would be collected
monthly from a very small sample of beneficiaries in order to quantitatively
assess beneficiary response to project services and recommendations. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that: (a) The PMU would complete ongoing
work with the executing agencies on standardized information requirements and
reporting formats; establish data analysis procedures; and provide a report
outlining these procedures to the Bank for review prior to their implementation,
but no later than October 1, 1981; and (b) the quarterly monitoring reports
would be provided to the Bank promptly upon their completion, but no later
than three months after the close of each POLONORDESTE fiscal quarter (Annex 10).
Evaluation
6.06      To complement monitoring activities, evaluation would aim to provide
project management and the State with the necessary information to adequately
plan project activities and to adjust, when necessary, project strategy and
land and rural development policies. Evaluation would be comprised of the
following activities: (a) ongoing evaluation; (b) a mid-term evaluation;
and (c) a post-project evaluation. Ongoing evaluation, carried out by the
Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Sub-Unit in the PMU, would consist of
short-term studies of specific project activities and implementation problems.
These studies would complement monitoring information and would be useful for
project management and annual planning. An in-depth mid-term evaluation would
be conducted during the third year to provide project management with information
on emerging development trends within the project area and preliminary assessments
of project impact both on beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries. Although the
PMU's Planning, Monitoring, and Fvaluation Sub-Unit would participate, the
mid-term study, as well as the ex-post evaluation, would be contracted externally
to consulting firms and/or academic institutions. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that: (a) short-term studies would be sent to the Bank promptly
upon their completion, and those requiring more than six staff-months would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank; and (b) the project mid-term evaluation
report would be provided to the Bank no later than October 1, 1984 (Annex 10).
Operating Agreements
6.07      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil and to help
ensure effective inter-institutional coordination, a series of written
agreements (convenios) would be entered into. Three types of agreements
would be concluded: (a) convenios between the State Government through



- 32 -
SEPLAN and any executing agency which is: (i) not directly part of, or
responsible to, the State Government; (ii) largely autonomous; or
(iii) encharged with special responsibilities or the carrying out of new
procedures under the project; (b) convenios among executing agencies, with
the participation of the PMU, when more than one agency is involved in
executing a project activity (e.g. marketing, fisheries) or when two or more
project activities require particularly close coordination (e.g. research and
extension); and (c) convenios between executing agencies and involved munici-
palities or farmer groups prior to the construction of civil works. All of
these agreements would specify each party's obligations and responsibilities
under the project. Draft convenios involving the State Government and the
executing agencies and samples of convenios between agencies and local
entities would be reviewed during negotiations. Assurances were obtained
from the State Government that it would enter into and maintain all such
agreements during the project implementation period. A list of inter-agency
convenios which would be entered into is shown in Annex 6. Because of the
importance of project land activities, the receipt by the Bank of satisfactory
signed convenios between the State Government and INTERPI and between the
State Government and INCRA would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Accounts and Auditing
6.08      Each of the participating agencies, including the PMU, would
maintain accounts of its project expenditures, which would be annually
audited by Government auditors according to satisfactory standard procedures
for POLONORDESTE projects. The PMU would retain all project statements of
expenditures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that copies of
the audited statements of the various agencies' project accounts would be
provided to the Bank through the PMIU within six months of the end of the
POLONORDESTE fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained that these reports
would contain a specific reference as to the adequacy of the procedures used
for the verification and preparation of statements of expenditure for dis-
bursement requests.
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING, AND PRICES
Production
7.01      Production increases expected under the project would be achieved
through improvements in both agricultural and fisheries production systems.
In agriculture, increases in cultivated area and land and labor productivity
would be brought about by improved tenure security and small farmer access to
land, accompanied by the use of animal traction, some irrigation, and better
agricultural and managerial practices. This would be supported by a greater
access to credit, improved seeds and other inputs; an intensification of
research and extension efforts; and an improved marketing system. Increases
in fish production would come about as a result of a series of interventions
to improve catch levels, decrease losses, and increase the number of fishing



- 33 -
days. Improved practices and technology for fishing and fish processing would
be supported by the increased availability of credit; stronger research,
training, and extension; and expanded market opportunities. Estimated at
September 1980 farmgate and dock prices, the annual incremental value of
production at full development (Year 10) would total about US$34.3 million:
US$27.1 million for crops, US$4.9 million for livestock, and US$2.3 million
for fish (Table 7.1).
7.02      Cropping patterns are expected to remain relatively stable under
the project, and the traditional crops of rice, corn, beans, and manioc
would continue to predominate. Some changes, however, are expected to occur.
Livestock raising would be considerably expanded, particularly among currently
landless farmers who would be encouraged to incorporate pastureland into an
improved crop rotation fallow system (Annex 2). Some small-scale irrigation
beneficiaries would experiment with new crops, including fruits and vegetables,
and a few technically advanced farmers would be expected to progressively move
toward rice specialization. Yield increases have been conservatively estimated
on the basis of yields already obtained by more advanced small farmers, and
take into account annual variations. These variations are expected to
decline under the project, however, through the introduction of effective
water and soil management techniques.
7.03      The types and varieties of fish caught by project fishermen would
not undergo significant changes. Extension emphasis, however, would, be
placed on those species which could be readily processed and marketed. It
is expected that boatowners and fishermen, depending on their level of
technology adoption, would progressively catch greater quantities of higher
qual:ity fish. As in agriculture, yield estimates are relatively conservative
and do not exceed those currently obtained by the most progressive fishermen
in the project area. Actual production increases achieved would depend,
however, on the rate of increase in boat ownership and technology adoption,
and on fishermen's willingness to fish an increased number of days per year.
Estimates of these factors have been made taking into account the existing
socio-cultural environment and the expected improved quality of extension
efforts under the project.
Demand, Marketing, and Prices
7.04      Incremental project production would not be subject to demand
constraints. It is expected that all of the incremental bean and corn
production would be consumed locally, in most cases by the farm families
themselves. The state of Piaui in recent years has been a net exporter of
manioc flour and rice, two of the project's principal crops. The incremental
production of these products would be readily absorbed by the regional market,
either through traditional marketing channels or the COBAL distribution
network. Incremental livestock production would partially meet the existin6
state deficit for meat and dairy products. Recent surveys indicate that fish
consumption is rapidly increasing throughout the Northeast. While it is
expected that much of the project-s incremental fish production would be
used to satisfy demand in Teresina and the rest of the project area, some
production, particularly in processed form, would be exported to neighboring
states. A first-year marketing study would identify more precisely current
product flows, potential demand trends, and advantageous marketing
opportunities (paras 4.25-4.27).



TABLE 7.1.: Project Production
TOTAL     PADDY
FARM      RICE            CORN            BEANS             MANIOC       BEEF     FISH       TOTAL
WITHOUiT PROJECT                                - - - - - - -   Intercroppings - - - - - - - - ->
(Rainfed Agriculture)
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)   35.4         35.4            26.5             3.7              23.7
yield (t)                      _           0.7            0.3             0.2               4.0
Production ('000t)            -         24.8             7.9             0.8              94.8         0.4      1.0
Value of Production
(US$ million)                     5.3            1.4             0.6               5.1         0.4      0.7        13.5
WITH PROJECT
(At full development)
I. Rainfed Agriculture
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)   70.1         70.1           35.6             5.3               27.2
yield (t)                      -       1 to 1.5      0.4 to 0.6      0.3 to 0.6          7.0 to 15.0
Production ('000 t)            -         89.4           16.1              2.0             264           5
II. Irrigated land
Cultivated Area ('000,ha)    1.5/a        1.5            -               _                  _
Yield (t)                      -      2.5 to 3.5         -
Production ('000 t)            -          9.0            -
TOTAL PRODUCTION ('000 t)         71.6       98.4           16.1              2.0             264           5        5.8
VALUE OF PRODUCTION (US$ million)            21.1             2.9             1.4              14.1         5.3      3.0        47.8
INCREMENTAL
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)   36.2         36.2            9.1             1.6               15.2
Production (',000 t)          -          73.6            8.2             1.2              169.2         4.6     4.8
Value of Production
(US$ million)                     15.8            1.5             0.8               9.0         4.9      2.3        34.3
/a . Double-cropping on 1,500 ha.



- 35 -
7.05      Project actions were designed to improve small farmer and fishermen
marketing opportunities, allowing them to maintain or increase their share
of the final demand price. Improvements in the road system (para 4.34),
rural extension (para 4.21), cooperative and public marketing capabilities
(para 4.25), and marketing information systems (para 4.25) would increase
small producers' bargaining power and ensure a competitive climate and adequate
marketing outlets for the project-s principal products. While currently
producers- share of retail price varies from about 45% (manioc) to 75% (beans),
some increases in this share could be expected to occur as a result of project
marketing activities. No modifications are expected in the existing consumer
price structure, however.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Production Models
8.01      Based on differences in tenure situation, level of technology
adoption, use of irrigation, and degree of mechanization, ten farm models and
three boat models were analyzed. These models should be considered purely as
illustrations of possible agricultural and fisheries development, rather than
as firm estimates or guides for project activities. It is expected that by
full development in year ten, most farmers would be using some combination of
manual labor and animal traction, with an increased and more efficient use of
inputs and improved managerial practices. Similarly, for fisheries, most
fishermen would be utilizing intermediate levels of technology--improved
sailboats and fishing gear--with greater skill. The agricultural development
strategy is described in detail in Annex 2, and a brief summary of the agricul-
tural models by type of beneficiary is shown in Table 8.1. A detailed
analysis of selected farm and boat models and a summary of the boat models are
presented in Annex 4.
8.02      To illustrate on-farm and fishing operations, financial analysis
projections were estimated for all models. Prices of inputs, labor, and
production were assumed to be those prevailing in September 1980 at the
farmgate and beach-landing points. In general, for land beneficiaries the
financial rates of return of the models are high, averaging from about 80% to
85%. This mainly reflects farmers increased use of credit and technical
assistance once barriers imposed by insecure land tenure and lack of access to
land are removed. Both the integration of livestock production into the mixed
cropping/ livestock production system and the use of improved water retention
and soil management practices would help to stabilize the currently high
annual output and income variations induced by climatic conditions. In
fisheries, the financial rates of return reflect the relatively rapid and
substantial impact that simple technology improvements, increased boat
ownership, and better information and skills could have on target group
fishermen.



TABLE 8:1: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Land Beneficiaries              Small Owner      Landless
Without IrriSation      With Irrigation       Operators      Farmers         TOTAL
Number                                         3,500                1,500               3,000        1,500           9,500
BEFORE PROJECT
. Average Farm Size (ha)                                                              50           -
. Average Cultivated Area (ha)              3                    3                     5.3         3
. Average Farm Income (Cr$'000)            50                   50                   100          50
(US$'000)            0.9                  0.9                   1.8         0.9
AT FULL DVOPMENT
* Average Farm Size (ha)                   40                   40                    50         -
. Average Cultivated Area
1 .,Rainfed Agriculture (ha)        6 to 11.5            6 to 11.5            7  to 12           3
2 . Ir(igation (ha)                                            1                    -           -
 Average Farm Income (Cr$'000)    120 to 300           140 to 330           130 to 310          70
(US$o000)    2.1 to 5,2           2.5 to 5.9           2.3 to 5.5           1.25
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN                 82 to 84%           79 to 86%             32 to 56%        200



- 37 -
Producer Incomes
8.03      Agriculture.  Substantial income gains are expected to accrue to
project beneficiaries. These benefits would mainly result from: (a) secure
access to land in adequate quantities; (b) labor and crop productivity
increases; (c) a reduction in crop losses due to drought conditions; and
(d) improved marketing opportunities. Without the project, the family incomes
derived from agricultural activities of a typical landless farmer and small
owner have been estimated to average about US$900 and US$1,800, respectively.
Under the project, it is expected that average family income for new landowners
would increase to approximately US$3,750 at full development (Year 10). For
those new landowners with a small plot of irrigated land, average family
income would be about 10% higher while total plot size would be 25% smaller.
Average family incomes of current small owners would increase to about US$3,900
and those of landless farmers to about US$1,250. The expected development of
family farm income is summarized in Table 8.2.
8.04      Fisheries.  Major income benefits would be received by project
fishing families. It is expected that these benefits would mainly be derived
from: (a) a substantial increase in the number of effective fishing days;
(b) increased ownership and use of improved boats and gear; (c) better
information and fishing practices; (d) increased family and locally based
processing activities; and (e) improved marketing channels. Without the
project, average income per fishing family has been estimated at US$600 per
annum. It is expected that as a result of the project, average annual family
income would rise to approximately US$3,000. This average would be subject to
considerable variation among individual fishermen; smaller income increases
would be achieved by those fishing families who would not own boats (Annex 4).
IX.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS ATD JUSTIFICATION
Economic Rate of Return
9.01      The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects
of the project has been estimated at about 20% (para 9.02). However, given
the number of variables involved, a range from about 15% to 25% might be a
more realistic estimate. For various aspects of the project, such as water
supply, education, and some rural roads, which would have significant benefits
not readily quantifiable, no specific economic rate of return was calculated.
Details of the cost and benefit streams used in the economic analysis are
given in Annex 5. Other details of the analysis are available in the project
file.
9.02      The economic prices of traded outputs and inputs were derived
from the IBRD projected world market prices expressed in 1980 US dollar
values, with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling, and processing.
The projected economic prices for non-traded items were derived by applying
conversion factors used in similar Bank projects in Northeastern Brazil to the
financial prices. A second set of economic prices was also obtained utilizing
project-specific conversion factors based on recent recalculations by AGREP.
rJnder those assumptions, the project's estimated economic rate of return would
rise to 26%. The financial prices of various commodities were projected on
the basis of historical price trends (Annex 5, Table 1).



TABLE 8.2: ESTIMATED FARM INCOME DEVELOPMENT
With Project
Without Project                  At Full Development
Cr $'000    US$ 000                 Cr$ 000      US$ 000
LAND BENEFICIARIES
Rainfed Agriculture
- Intermediate Technology/Manual Cropping    50,000          890                   120,000        2,140
- Intermediate Technology/Animal Traction    50,000          890                   200,000        3,750
-      High    Technology/Animal Traction    50,000          890                   300,000        5,160
Rainfed + Irrigation
- Intermediate Technology/Manual Cropping    50,000          890                   140,000        2,500
- Intermediate Technology/Animal Traction    50,000          890                   220,000        3,930
_     - High    Technology/Animal Traction    50,000         890                   330,000        5,890
SMALL OWNERS/RAINFED AGRICULTURE
- Intermediate Technology/Manual Cropping   100,000        1,780                   130,000        2,320         m
- Intermediate Technology/Animal Traction   100,000        1,780                   220,000        3,930
-      High    Technology/Animal Traction   100,000        1,780                   310,000        5,540
LANDLESS FARMERS/RAINFED AGRICULTURE
- Intermediate Technology/Manual Cropping    50,000          890                    70,000        1,250



- 39 -
9.03      The cost stream used in estimating the economic rate of return
included all productive investment costs directly benefiting the project
target group, some non-productive investment costs, and incremental operating
costs. This included: 100% of project costs (Bank and non-Bank-financed
baseline costs plus physical contingencies) for land activities excluding
discrimination, extension, small-scale irrigation, fisheries, and project
administration, monitoring, and evaluation; 80% of project costs for rural
roads; 70% of project costs for water supply; and 50% of project costs for
research, seed production, marketing, and education. All recurrent costs
needed to maintain project activities have been included for the full life
of the project.
9.04      Not all project benefits can be accounted for by the incremental
production of the 9,500 farmers and 1,800 fishermen directly assisted.
Increases would also be achieved by other rural producers as a result of
strengthened research and seed production efforts and the demonstration
effect of extension activities. Improved marketing services could provide
increased production incentives for many of the area's farmers. In addition,
investments in rural roads would have a positive effect on other economic
activities both within and outside of the project area. Social investments,
such as water supply systems and education, would improve living conditions
not only for project beneficiaries, but for virtually all residents of the
involved municipalities.
Sensitivity Analysis
9.05      Given the nature of the project and consequent uncertainties,
particular attention was paid to the calculation of switching values for
the most important parameters associated with the benefit and cost streams.
The results of this sensitivity analysis indicate that expected production
increases in rainfed rice, the project's principal crop, could be cut almost
in half before the project's estimated rate of return fell below an estimated
12% opportunity cost of capital. The fisheries component displays an even
lower degree of sensitivity to substantial decreases in expected fish
production. For the project as a whole, benefits would have to decrease by
25% to 30% or costs would have to increase by 35% to 40% before the overall
rate of return fell below a 12% opportunity cost of capital. A one-year delay
in all project benefits would cause the estimated rate of return to fall to
about 16%. Coupled with this delay, incremental benefits would have to
decrease by about 15% to 20% before the economic rate of return fell below the
opportunity cost of capital (Annex 5).
Employment
9.06      Project-induced changes in tenure, technology, and production
practices are expected to have a significant impact on employment. As is the
case in most other Northeast states, there is a substantial flow of both
temporary and permanent migration from rural to urban areas located within the
state, in neighboring states, and in the south of Brazil. Low on-farm labor
requirements because of land scarcity and insecurity of tenure for small
farmers have undoubtedly been a contributing factor to the migration flow.
Proposed project land and agricultural development activities would substan-
tially increase on-farm employment opportunities by about 20,650 worker-years
in Year Ten (full development). About 68% of these additional labor requirements



- 40 -
would be met by family labor. Similarly, project fisheries activities would
generate about 840 worker-years of additional employment for fishermen.
Ancillary activities, particularly production processing and marketing and
ship-building, repair and maintenance, would also provide additional permanent
employment opportunities.
Fiscal Impact
9.07      The costs of project investment per benefiting family would vary
according to the type of beneficiary. Costs for land distribution benefi-
ciaries would amount to about US$5,800 per family for the 3,500 families
without irrigation and about US$11,900 for the 1,500 families with irrigation.
Costs for the 1,500 current small owners who would benefit from project
demarcation and titling services would be about US$4,400 per family. Costs
for the 1,500 landless farmers not directly involved in project land activities
would be considerably less, about US$2,900. Finally, cost per existing small
owner with secure land tenure (1,500 total) and fishing family (1,800 total)
benefited would amount to about US$3,600 (Annex 3, Table 13).
9.08      Existing Government policies do not call for low-income families
or fishermen to pay for the costs of production support services or rural
infrastructure, although municipalities and villages often do contribute
to the maintenance of such facilities. The costs of roads would be recovered
indirectly through various taxes and license fees on road users. Many of the
production costs associated with the project would be partially recovered
through the credit system. The extent to which these costs would be recovered
in real terms is difficult to estimate because of the current inflationary
environment in Brazil and the Government s policy of providing heavily sub-
sidized rural credit. Assuming continuing inflation, real recovery of on-farm
and fisheries costs related to the project could well be low. Higher real
cost recovery is expected for the project's land and irrigation activities.
In line with federal policies, cost recovery for project irrigation
construction would average about 30% to 35%, which is acceptable in light of
the current and expected income levels of beneficiaries (Annex 2). The
proportion of land-related costs which would be recovered would depend on
the amount of public lands sold to small farmers and the amount of
incremental revenues derived from land taxation (Annex 1).
9.09      Following the project disbursement period, project activities
would give rise to additional recurrent costs to the Government of about
US$2.6 million per annum. These expenses would be incurred principally
for extension, but would also include some residual project administration,
road maintenance, education, and water supply costs. The additional
expenditures are expected, however, to be totally offset by additional
revenues of roughly US$4.0 million annually generated by the ICM (Tax on
Product Circulation) and FUNRURAL (the Assistance Fund for Rural Workers)
taxes which would be applied to most incremental project production, and by
additional revenues from the ITR (Land Tax).



- 41 -
Environmental Impact
9.10      The project would have a beneficial, although limited, environmental
impact. While the area under crop cultivation would roughly double, better
soil and water management practices would be emphasized, and soil depletion
and erosion are expected to decline significantly, particularly in the case of
land beneficiaries. In fisheries, the relatively small scale of project
activities is not expected to alter the existing ecological balance. Fishing
activities were explicitly formulated so as to maintain an equilibrium between
the size and quality of the fishing fleet and the known existing marine
resources, thereby protecting the self-perpetuation of these resources.
Nutritional Impact
9.11      Important nutritional benefits would mainly result from increases in
basic food production, but would also occur as a result of the promotion of
home gardens and the provision of nutrition education by the social extension
service. Project fishing activities would increase the availability within
the project area of a relatively low-cost, high-quality source of protein. In
addition, the improvement of marketing services, and particularly the extension
of COBAL-s SOMAR distribution system to the project area, would increase the
availability to rural consumers of basic food staples at reasonable prices and
help ensure a more equitable intra-regional food distribution.
Impact on Women
9.12      The proposed project has the objective of improving rural family
income, and the entire family is considered as the basic productive unit.
In addition to providing additional on-farm employment opportunities for
women, the project, mainly through social extension activities, would emphasize
the income-generating potential of, and provide assistance for, activities
commonly undertaken by women, such as fish processing and the production of
sweets. The project-s social infrastructure investments in education and
water supply would particularly contribute to improvements in the quality of
life for women. A significant number of women were actively involved in the
preparation of the project, and during implementation, attention would be
given to ensuring the continued participation of women in the Project Manage-
ment Unit, on the staff of the executing agencies, and most importantly, at
the local level, as project beneficiaries.
Project Risks
9.13      Various risks are associated with the proposed project. Given the
nature of project land activities which could produce important structural
changes within the project area, social, political, and technical difficulties
may arise. Potential problems and possible solutions were identified and
carefully analysed during project preparation and appraisal. On the technical



- 42 -
side, provisions have been made to ensure the availability of expert advice
and adequate training for project staff. The strong support demonstrated for
the project at the federal, state, and local levels of government would
contribute to the effective handling of difficulties should they arise. In
addition, beneficiary participation in project planning would considerably
lessen potential impediments to project success. Other risks are associated
with the need for close inter-institutional coordination. These risks would
be reduced by the establishment of a special project management unit and the
designation of a project coordinator within each executing agency; the
regular scheduling of inter-institutional project meetings at the state,
regional, and local levels; the implementation of a comprehensive and continuous
monitoring system of key indicators; ongoing evaluation; and detailed annual
planning based on local participation and information received from the
monitoring and evaluation efforts. All of these elements to strengthen
effective inter-institutional coordination would also allow for project
flexibility and the continuous refinement of the technical recommendations
proposed for agricultural and fisheries development, thereby reducing the
risks associated with the adaptation and dissemination of improved technology
and managerial practices. The uncertain availability of public and private
lands for project use and the emergence of land speculation also represent
potential project risks.  Initial results of the land acquisition program have
been encouraging, because of both the number of properties offered for sale
and the lack of significant price increases as a result. It is expected that
the land redistribution program could continue with public lands should land
prices rise too sharply. The monitoring system would keep project management
well informed about land-related developments in the project area (Annex 1).
Finally, an institutional problem which may contribute to delays in project
implementation is the present situation of the POLONORDESTE program through
which project funds would be channeled. In the past, this program has suffered
from a number of funding delays and administrative weaknesses, particularly at
the regional and federal levels. Although key officials have committed
themselves to improving the program's management, the speed and thoroughness
with which necessary measures are adopted will affect the quality and rate of
implementation of all POLONORDESTE-financed projects, including the proposed
project. Changes in POLONORDESTE management and procedures would be closely
monitored throughout project implementation.
9.14      Overall, the risks associated with the proposed project are accept-
able in view of the expected benefits which would accrue to the low-income
rural residents of the project area. In addition, the important institution-
building aspects of the project and its comprehensive focus on activities
related to land tenure improvements could positively influence future rural
development efforts in Piaui and throughout Northeast Brazil.



- 43 -
X. AGREENIENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Federal
Government that:
(a) all necessary steps would be taken to ensure the availability
of adequate fisheries and agricultural credit, as defined
during the annual planning process, for project participants
(para 4.41);
(b) adequate counterpart funding would be available for the
effective and timely execution of the project, and project
facilities and services would be adequately operated and
maintained (para 5.02);
(c) the Bank would be given a reasonable opportunity to comment
on any substantial modifications in the project's annual
operating plans after their review by POLONORDESTE management
(para 6.04);
(d) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank promptly
upon their completion (para 6.05), and copies of the audited
statements of project accounts, including references to the
adequacy of procedures used, would be provided to the Bank by
October 1 of each year (para 6.08);
10.02     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the State
of Piaui that:
(a) it would take all necessary steps to ensure that land
acquisition targets were met (para 4.13); by October 1, 1981,
a complete program for land discrimination would be presented
to the Bank for approval; and by April 1, 1982, legal
assistance for small holders involved in discrimination would
be contracted under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.16);
(b) the detailed outline of the marketing study would be sent
to the Bank for review prior to the initiation of fieldwork
and the final version of the study would be presented to
the Bank by April 1, 1982; the marketing consultants' final
reports and other written material would be sent to the Bank
by October 1, 1981 for review; COBAL's first year feasibility



- 44 -
study and detailed plans for rice collection and marketing and
the SOMAR supply network would be sent to the Bank by
October 1, 1981 for review and approval; and installation and
operating plans for input stores and the input distribution
network would be sent to the Bank prior to installation
(para 4.27);
(c) a full-time EMATER-PI technician would be maintained in each
of the cooperatives participating in the project (para 4.27);
(d) feasibility studies for small-scale irrigation schemes would
be sent to the Bank for approval prior to completion of
detailed designs and construction; the State Water Commission
would be legally established by October 1, 1981; a water users
association would be set up prior to the construction of each
scheme; before the completion of the works in each of the
irrigation schemes, the State Water Commission would establish
a water charge scheme, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for
the full recovery of operating and maintenance costs and the
partial recovery of investment costs (para 4.30);
(e) annual work programs for the road 'component, including lists of
roads to be upgraded or constructed during each subsequent year,
would be presented to the Bank for review and comments by
October 1 of each year (para 4.35);
(f) CODERPI would prepare engineering designs and bidding documents,
award construction contracts, and supervise construction, all
in accordance with POLONORDESTE standards; and provide to the
Bank for review and comment the list of the road design
consultants and CODERPI supervision staffing plans by October 1
of each year (para 4.35);
(g) all road equipment procured under the project would be used
solely for the maintenance of state and municipal roads in the
project area; DER-PI would provide adequate workshop support to
operate and maintain such equipment; and DER and the munici-
palities would jointly prepare and carry out an annual program
for road maintenance of previously improved municipal roads
(para 4.35);
(h) DER-PI would provide the mechanized maintenance assistance to
municipalities in the project area, in accordance with
BNDE/DNER/IBRD technical standards (para 4.35);



- 45 -
(i) prior to construction of each water supply system, a written
agreement would be concluded among FSESP, CIDAPI, and the
municipality, and a pre-investment study would be carried out
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank (para
4.37);
(j) a new Water Supply Division to support project activities would
be created within CIDAPI (para 4.37);
(k) the PM4U would be established and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and the Project Coordinator's
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.39);
(1) adequate counterpart funding would be available for the
effective and timely execution of the project; project
facilities and services would be adequately operated and
maintained; and the timely acquisition and necessary financing
of additional land or rights-of-way required for project works
would be provided for (para 5.02);
(m)  proposed annual operating plans would be submitted to the
Bank no later than October 1 of each year in terms satisfactory
to the Bank (para 6.04);
(n)  the PMU would standardize information requirements and
reporting formats for monitoring; establish data analysis
procedures; and provide a report on these procedures for Bank
review prior to their implementation, but no later than
October 1, 1981 (para 6.05);
(o) short-term evaluation studies would be provided to the Bank
promptly upon completion, with those requiring more than six
staff-months previously approved by the Bank; and the mid-term
evaluation report would be provided to the Bank no later than
October 1, 1984 (para 6.06);
(p) the State Government would enter into and maintain all
necessary inter-agency operating agreements (convenios) during
the project implementation period (para. 6.07).
(q) consultants would be employed promptly as needed, under terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (paras
4.17; 4.27; 4.30; 4.33; 4.35; 4.39);
(r) the State Government would take all necessary actions to
provide the fishing communities with long-term tenure rights
on corresponding Federal coastal lands; and, prior to initiating
any public works in those lands, the State Government would
furnish to the Bank evidence of those long-term tenure rights
conferred to those fishing communities (para 4.12);



- 46 -
10.03     No disbursements would be made against project expenditures prior to
the date of the Loan Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of US$2,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before such date, but after October 1, 1980
(para 5.03).
10.04     A condition of loan effectiveness would be the receipt by the Bank
of satisfactory signed written agreements between the State Government and
INTERPI and between the State Government and INCRA (para 6.07).
10.05     With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$29 million equivalent with a term of 15 years,
including a three-year grace period.



- 47 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE LAND COMPONENT
I. BACKGROUND DATA
1.        This annex supplements the information given in Chapter III of the
report on the state of Piaui and on the project area.   It includes additional
information on farm distribution and the land tenure situation, the land
market, land titling, registration, taxation, and institutional aspects,
focusing particularly on the recent development of state institutions as
a consequence of project preparation.
A. Land Tenure in the State of Piaui and the Project Area
2.        The state of Piaui features one of the highest concentrations of
land ownership in the Northeast, being surpassed only by the neighboring
state of Maranhao. Some 65% of the state's total population of about 1.5
million is rural, and 88% of all rural producers are landless. With an
area of approximately 25 million ha, only 10.3 million ha (41.2%) are offi-
cially owned by private parties (on the basis of INCRA cadastral records), the
balance being unregistered private holdings and public lands. Registered
private land is held by a total of 210,000 owners, among whom 151,000 (72%)
have less than 10 ha each and occupy only 3% of the privately held areas. At
the other extreme, 1,352 owners (less than 1%) have more than 1,000 ha each
and hold 44% of the area.
3.        The Vale do Parnaiba project area, with the highest population
density in the State, comprises 2.43 million hectares, of which about 1.7
million ha (70%) are suitable for agriculture. Only about one tenth of
the cultivable land is actually cropped, with the remaining 90% under forest,
bush fallow and extensive pasture (Annex 2, Table 6). The land tenure
situation is fairly homogeneous throughout the project area, although there is
a somewhat higher concentration of large estates in the Delta do Parnaiba
region. The majority of farmers in the project area (about 78%) are landless,
mainly renters. Among the 12,500 owners, some 30% with holdings above 100 ha
control 82% of the land, while 50% with holdings under 50 ha control only
about 8%.
4.        The majority of landless farmers in the project area are still
able to find rental lands, since livestock expansion, which has proved to be
a severe limiting factor elsewhere in the Northeast, is still modest (although
noticeable). Rental contracts are generally verbal and made for only one
crop cycle. The amount of leased land averages about 3 ha per family and
seldom exceeds 4 to 5 ha. Tenants usually clear and crop a different area



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                            Page 2
each year.  This system implies high labor use for both land clearing and
fencing in order to keep out the owner's freely roaming large and small
livestock . Rental fees are high (US$25 to US$50/ha annually), compared
with the average market price of land (about US$35/ha) and with the gross
value of average annual production/ha (about US$200). 1/ Rent must be paid in
kind (usually rice and/or babacu nuts). In fact, rent is often increased
because owners require a partial payment prior to the planting season,
in which case the renter must purchase rice at the highest annual price
level to make his payment. In addition to rental payments, obligatory uncom-
pensated services to the landlord persist under the traditional "sujeicao"
system still prevalent on some of the larger farms. Finally, land owners tend
to control the marketing channels in the project area for both rice and
babacu.
5.        Landlessness locks the poorest farmers into a system of small-scale,
low technology, annually shifting cultivation. Investment in modern inputs
or upgraded technology is practically impossible, and should profits accrue,
these are frequently offset by corresponding increases in rental obliga-
tions. While the landless are thus faced with very adverse arrangements,
paternalistic "benefits", traditionally associated with latifundia systems,
are being phased out. For example, only a small-minority of the landless live
on the farms they work and, due to the high incidence of absentee landlords,
support to families of landless workers in cases of illness or other emergencies
has become unreliable.
6.        With regard to the 8,800 owner-operators with farms under 100 ha
(representing 70% of project area landowners and accounting for 18% of privately
held land), declining soil fertility is a frequent problem, resulting from
overutilization of land as increasing population pressure has led to a reduction
of fallow periods (traditionally up to 8 years). Smallholders share some of
the problems of the landless, since they are partially dependent on rental
lands. In addition, insecurity of tenure due to inadequate documentation is a
serious problem throughout the project area.
B. The Land Market
7.        The land market in Piaui and in the project area is mainly limited
to medium and large landlords and a few private companies with little parti-
cipation by smallholders. Smallholders and especially landless farmers have
limited access to the land market because of the generally large size of
properties for sale combined with the limited availability of suitable land-
purchase credit. The land market is characterized by a low level of transactions
(annually less than 1% of farmland in the project area) and a particularly
low average land price (about US$35/ha). Over the past five to ten years, the
rate of increase in land prices has consistently been below the prevailing
rate of inflation, resulting in a decline in the real price of land. Land prices
vary from US$20 for uncleared forest to about US$70 to US$80 for good pasture
land. These price variations are usually related to the quality of land clearing
and the potential ioTr cattle taisiig.  SoiA gia:iUt  axLi, particularly, potential
1/   Annual output/ha is affected by high fluctuations due to climatic
conditions, i.e. renting fees can exceed 50% of the total value of
output in drought-affected years.



- 49 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 3
for water development, are not usually considered in price establishment.
For the majority of traditional families, land is valued principally as
a source of social prestige, although it is considered a good protection
against inflation. Land is, therefore, still not regarded generally as a
market commodity. This traditional concept might change if an increased
demand for land by private agricultural companies were to occur. Such an
increase in demand should result in a corresponding increase in land prices.
C. Land Titling, Registration and Taxation
8.        In the project area and in the state of Piaui in general, only
about 70% of the landowners have proper title. In addition, title records
are out of date; INCRA's records do not reflect the current situation; and
there is no reliable cadastre. The absence of proper titles negatively
affects the smallholders who cannot invest in their farms because of insecure
land tenure combined with a lack of access to credit. 1/ Titling services, up
to February 1981 the responsibility of COMDEPI 2/, have not always been
technically or legally reliable. Titling costs have generally been too
expensive for smallholders (US$20/ha, i.e. about 60% of the average price of
land 3/). These services have just been transferred to INTERPI (paras 10-13).
Title registering and recording within the state Department of Justice
(cartorio) is cumbersome. Titles are filed in books without modern recording
and retrieving systems. As a result, many titles have not been updated for
years. Frequently, even when properties are properly titled, they are not
well documented in the files. Therefore, existing cadastral maps are generally
unreliable. Given this situation, which is prevalent throughout Northeast
Brazil, INCRA, the federal land agency, has periodically conducted a cadastral
census based on the declaration of farmers for land taxation purposes.
According to this census, only 55% of the total geographic area is actually
declared. This is due to the underestimate and/or underdeclaration of private
land by landlords for tax evasion purposes combined with public lands which
are either underdeclared or not declared at all by the present occupants.
9.        Up until 1980, land taxation revenues in the state of Piaui were
insignificant 4/ due to an inefficient land taxation system combined with the
lack of a reliable data base. A new taxation system, including a new federal
land tax law, has recently been established to correct the past situation and
to stimulate better land use. Under this new system, land tax is progressive,
the tax rate varying directly with the size of the property and inversely
with the degree of efficiency and extent of exploitation. However, the
maximum taxation is only 3.5% of the actual land value, which may be updated
1/ Farm investment credit requires proper land documentation.
2/ Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Piaui (footnote 1, page 7).
3/ Includes demarcation, titling, and registering.
4/ Total 1979 land tax revenue in the project area was about Cr$930,000
(US$31,000) for 2.4 million ha, i.e. about US$0.01/ha.



ANNEX 1
- 50 -                           Page 4
periodically. Enforcing this new land taxation system presupposes a reliable
cadastre which presently does not exist for the project area, the state of
Piaui, or for the majority of the states in the Northeast. For this reason,
INCRA, which has already initiated the progressive establishment of a better
cadastre through land "discrimination" 1/ programs in limited areas outside of
the Northeast, is taking steps to dramatically increase these programs.
Since 1970, 50 million ha have been discriminated in the Northern and Central
Western regions of Brazil. A technical and legal approach has been developed
and, on that basis, new programs for land discrimination have been prepared
for areas in the Northeast with possible support from international development
institutions. 2/ Past land discrimination efforts, however, have not always
been supported by small farmers. Land discrimination has been considered by
them as a system to deprive them of their rights on the land they own and/or
occupy, even though the system was theoretically designed to protect the
rights of all holders and to recover illegally occupied public lands for
further redistribution. 3/ There may be some foundation for the lack of small
farmer support due to insufficient and inappropriate diffusion and explanation
campaigns where land discrimination has been initiated, combined with a lack
of legal assistance specific to small holders. Such defects would hopefully
be corrected in future programs, particularly under the project (para 28).
D. Institutional Aspects
10.       Up until 1979, the state of Piaui was not well equipped institution-
ally to deal with land issues in a rational and comprehensive manner. Land
services were not only insufficient, but scattered in different institutions
without a clear definition of land policy at the state level. COMDEPI 4/, a
multi-purpose state development company, was in charge of topographical
surveys and land development in the southern and southwestern parts of the
state. Its land operations, however, were mainly commercial, targeted towards
the installment of private companies and without a particular concern for
smallholders. In addition, COMDEPI's land-related technical capacity was
quite limited and generally of low quality. Titling services also within
COMDEPI were not effective (para 8). The state branch of INCRA was mainly
involved in carrying out cadastral surveys and some limited colonization
programs with DNOCS. A state office of the Federal Patrimony (Patrimonio da
Uniao), located in Parnaiba, was in charge of maintaining records for about
60,000 ha of federal land in the three northern coastal municipalities of the
project area. 5/
1/ The detailed determination of current land claims, and the identification
and demarcation of lands not legally claimed which could be subsequently
redistributed. The concept includes both topographical survey and title
search.
2/ A land discrimination program is currently under discussion with the IDB,
and the World Bank has also been approached on this matter.
3/ See World Bank report on the land tenure situation in Maranhao by J. Tendler,
December 1980.
4/  Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Piaui is in charge of mining, prospecting
and development, industrial development, and other matters in relation
to land.
5/ Luis Correia, Parnaiba and Buriti Dos Lopes.



- 51 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 5
11.       Since the end of 1979, largely due to the preparation of the Vale do
Parnaiba project, the state government has progressively established new
institutions to cope more efficiently with land issues. A land unit (LU) has
been created within CEPRO, a foundation linked to the State Secreteriat of
Planning, to prepare and initiate a land acquisition and redistribution
program within the proposed project area. Simultaneously, a state land-
purchasing fund (FUNVALE) was also established within CEPRO and funded with
Cr$100 million from POLONORDESTE for FY 1980/81. In addition, a State Land
Commission, made up of representatives from INCRA, EMATER, FETAG 1/ and the
local banks was created to review land purchase recommendations made by the LU
before final decision by the Secretary of Planning. With these new institutions,
the land acquisition program has been launched as a start-up activity before
actual project implementation. About 40,000 ha have already been acquired, of
which about 33,000 ha were privately owned.
12.       In addition, and in part because of these developments, the state
Government has moved to rationalize its land related institutional framework
in order to implement a consistent state land policy and avoid conflicts
of competency and orientation between agencies such as CEPRO, COMDEPI and
the State Secretariat of Agriculture. Accordingly, a State Land Institute
(Instituto da Terra do Piaui-INTERPI) was legally established in December
1980, to regroup all land-related activities within the same agency.
13.       According to the new law, INTERPI is a legally autonomous state
agency (autarquia) under the jurisdiction of the State Secretariat of
Agriculture.  INTERPI's main objectives are to:
(a)  participate in the establishment of state land policy;
(b) carry out settlement and/or colonization projects,
thereby promoting land distribution to landless farmers;
(c) represent the state in all land-related operations;
(d) define the State Land Patrimony, administer it, and
redistribute parts of it;
(e) attract funds for conducting colonization and other
land-related programs;
(f) handle titling services;
(g) organize the state rural cadastre;
(h) establish contracts with all agencies (public, private, national
and/or foreign) in relation to the financing, implementation,
technical assistance, and administration of land-related
projects;
IJ The State Federation of Rural Workers



- 52 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 6
(i) promote land expropriation, when necessary for public and/or
social reasons, and advise INCRA on that matter; and
(j) review the situation of "occupants" of public lands, giving
them preference in the acquisition of up to 100 ha.
In addition, INTERPI's land-related activities are to be integrated with a
comprehensive rural development program aimed at: (a) improving land distribu-
tion in the state of Piaui; (b) reducing the number of landless families;
(c) expanding land under cultivation by promoting better technologies and
providing farmers with technical assistance; and (d) fostering conservation of
natural resources and reforestation in appropriate areas. INTERPI's board of
directors is chaired by the State Secretary of Agriculture and made up of
representatives from the State Secretariats of Planning and Industry and
Commerce, INCRA, FETAG and the President of INTERPI. Land-related programs
previously conducted by other state agencies have already been legally
transferred, and would be progressively incorporated into INTERPI as this new
institution increases its operational capabilities (para 33).
II. THE LAND COMPONENT UNDER THE PROJECT
A. Long Term Objectives and Strategy
14.       On land matters, a long term development strategy for the state
of Piaui would aim to:
(a) offer small-scale farmers and rural workers increased access
to land in order to improve incomes and standards of living.
For the landless, this would mean the opportunity to purchase
land with appropriate repayment schemes, or to rent it under
fair contracts guaranteeing a rental period long enough to
allow profitable farm operations. For small owner operators
with farms too small to make a decent living, this would mean
the opportunity to increase farm size by purchasing or renting
complementary land;
(b) promote better land use in areas already cleared and under
crops and to incorporate new agricultural lands by establishing
rational colonization schemes accessible to landless farmers.
This would be carried out through the improvement of colonization
programs in the southern part of the state of Piaui and through
the systematic enforcement of land taxation. This would imply
the progressive establishment of a reliable cadastre with
complete and up-to-date ownership registration and titling
coupled with systematic soil surveys to determine agricultural
potential in relation to rainfall data and water resources; and
(c) simultaneously develop a corps of land specialists to manage
land-related programs at the state level.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
B. Objectives
15.       As the first step in a long-term strategy, the land component under
the project would aim to establish the operational basis for constructing a
sound land policy in the state of Piaui. This would be accomplished through
the implementation of a significant and comprehensive program of land activi-
ties in the project area over a five year investment period. In particular,
the land component would attempt to:
(a) develop low-cost, but technically sound, participatory
approaches for a range of land activities, including land
acquisition and redistribution, land discrimination, demarca-
tion, titling, and improvement of renting contracts; and
(b) build institutional capacity at the state level by providing
the newly created state land institute (INTERPI) with technical
assistance, staff training, equipment and adequate financing.
The five year program of land activities in the project area would primarily
include:
(a) the acquisition and redistribution of about 200,000 ha
to some 5,000 currently landless families; and
(b) the discrimination of about one third of the land in the
project area (about 900,000 ha) in order to progressively
establish a reliable cadastre with up-to-date and complete
ownership titling and registration; such a cadastre would
provide the basis for enforcing land taxation and for identifying
additional public land (Terras Devolutas) suitable for redistribu-
tion to small farmers.
The program would also include a set of actions to secure long-term tenure
rights over communal land for about 2,500 families in 8 coastal fishing
communities.
C. Strategy
16.       The strategy for implementing this program of land-related activities
would differ from that of past efforts involving schematic, costly, and
problem-ridden colonization projects. It would be based on the following
set of principles:
(a) a low-cost approach for land acquisition, including: (i)
the combination of various means of public and private land
acquisition (land purchasing on the market, expropriation,
donation from the federal and communal patrimony, and identi-
fication of public lands through land discrimination); (ii) the
concentration of land acquisition in areas where other properties
have been acquired; and (iii) the selection of good valley land
with Irrigation potential given the current lack of price
differential with other types of less productive land;



54                             ANNEX 1
Page 8
(b) flexibility in property allotment according to conditions
specific to each property acquired and beneficiary desires.
Beneficiaries would play a key role in the planning of their
allotment scheme and in the decision on final forms of tenure
(individual, communal, or some combination of both);
(c) a flexible system for land repayment adapted to existing
practices and conditions of beneficiaries;
(d) a minimization of population relocation. Preference would be
given to: (i) landless farmers already living on the properties
to be acquired; (ii) landless farmers cultivating parts of these
properties under rental arrangements; and (iii) other landless
farmers, and possibly small owner-operators, in the vicinity of
the properties;
(e) careful annual planning in relation to land actually acquired
for subsequent redistribution; social and economic infrastructure,
as well as the delivery of services, would be planned in support
of the properties acquired, focusing project activities on the
specific areas of land redistribution;
(f) continuous monitoring and evaluation directly associated
with annual planning;
(g) major support for the establishment and initial operations
of a State Land Institute (INTERPI), which would not only
carry out all land activities in the project area, but would
progressively implement land policy throughout the State of
Piaui; and
(h)  a strong linkage between land redistribution and agricul-
tural development with strong support from technical and support
services (applied research, extension, credit, marketing, seed
production, and input supply).
D. Land Activities
Description of Land Activities
Land Acquisition
17.       It is estimated that about 200,000 ha would be acquired and redis-
tributed to some 5,000 currently landless families over the 5-year project
investment period. This target has been defined on the basis of the progres-
sive establishment and strengthening of INTERPI's institutional absorption
capacity and the potential for purchasing private land on the market.
Estimates would be revised during the successive annual planning exercises.
It is ssible that the amount of land acquired and the number of benefi-
ciaries coula 'be 'nIgY\et &L'e to thae-  ieftton of mew   alc. and Prvate lands
for redistribution through the land discrimination process (para 26).



55 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 9
18.       The land acquisition program would be concentrated in the first
three years of the 5-year project investment period to allow for the subse-
quent allotment process and initial farm investment. The program has already
been initiated as a start-up activity, with about 50,000 ha already acquired.
It is expected that about 10,000 additional ha would have been identified for
possible acquisition prior to actual project implementation. The subsequent
acquisition rhythm has been estimated at an annual rate of about 50,000 ha for
the first three years of project implementation.
19.       The land to be acquired would originate from both private and
public sources and would be included in the public land available for
distribution by INTERPI. Private land would be purchased on the market
through FUNVALE, which would be annually replenished with federal POLONORDESTE
resources according to annual purchasing plans and actual repayment by land
beneficiaries. Private land could also be acquired through expropriation with
landowner compensation from FUNVALE. Expropriation, however, would remain
exceptional since it is politically difficult to implement and could create
considerable social tension. In addition, expropriation involves long and
cumbersome procedures with special intervention from INCRA headquarters and
authorization by the Federal Government. Public land would include municipal,
and possibly, federal public land (Patrimonio da Uniao), as well as newly
classified public lands (terras devolutas), which would become available as a
result of land discrimination. As far as possible, land purchasing would be
maintained at a constant and regular pace in order to avoid sudden fluctuations
in the land market; in the care of such unexpected fluctuations, land purchasing
would be temporarily slowed down or stopped while land redistribution would
continue on the basis of acquired public lands.
20.       It is presently difficult to estimate the amount of public land
that INTERPI could acquire and redistribute during the 5-year investment
period because of the lack of reliable data and experience in land discrimina-
tion in the state of Piaui. Accordingly, FUNVALE has been budgeted under the
assumption that the 200,000 ha would be private land either purchased on the
market or compensated in the case of expropriation. Public land would,
therefore, constitute a margin of security in case of difficulties in the
land market and/or in case of a higher beneficiary land requirement, which
could exceed 40 ha in some parts of the project area.
21.       The potential risks of the land acquisition program could be the
absence or the limited amount of private land for sale to the project, the
limited amount of public land actually available to INTERPI, and the emergence
of land speculation. With regard to the first risk, initial experiences with
land purchasing as a start-up activity before project implementation indicate
that the amount of land for sale is not only higher than expected (para 18),
but that the number of offers to the project is increasing. With regard to
the second risk, the state of Piaui is considered to have an abundance of
municipal public land. Initial experience in this respect is also encouraging,



- 56 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 10
with about 7,000 ha already donated for redistribution by two municipalities.
Since infrastructure such as water supply and feeder roads financed by the
project would be linked to land acquired in each municipality, such an
incentive is expected to stimulate offers of public land to INTERPI by the
municipalities. Careful selection would have to be made, however, given the
usual low to medium soil quality of public lands. Finally, with regard to
potential land speculation, the land market has thus far not shown excessive
increases in land price despite the initiation of the land acquisition program.
Accordingly, the annual replenishments for FUNVALE have been estimated on the
basis of a constant average price of land in real terms (US$35/ha, September
1980 price). Given this relatively low price compared to other areas in the
Northeast, slight increases could occur during the project life. These
increases, however, would probably be offset by the acquisition of free public
lands. In any case, the land market would be closely monitored over the
project disbursement period.
22.       The land acquisition program would be implemented by INTERPI,
through its acquisition unit (AU), with technical assistance from INCRA. AU
has already acquired experience during the 1980/81 land acquisition campaign
and has developed a suitable approach. This approach involves a sequence
of informative, administrative, legal and technical activities which can
be condensed into three main steps:
(a) Information, Promotion and Land Identification. Information
and promotional campaigns are held through meetings at the
municipal level with prefects and landlords, and through mass
communication. Such campaigns identify both private land for
sale and public land for donation.
(b) Land Evaluation. In the case of each estate for sale, this
step is initiated once an official offer (promessa de compra e
venda) is made by the landlord and transmitted to INTERPI.
Subsequently, a team from AU composed of an agriculturalist/soil
specialist, a sociologist and a lawyer conducts a field survey
and prepares the evaluation dossier. The agriculturalist/soil
specialist assesses land quality, agricultural potential,
and the existing infrastructure and farm investments. The
sociologist registers the landless families living on the
estate, analyzes the current renting and/or sharecropping
contracts, reviews the situation of close-by rural communities,
and identifies potential land beneficiaries. The lawyer
reviews the property records, including checks on the land
title, the tax situation, and any potential conflicts between
the property and neighboring estates. The team then establishes
the evaluation dossier, which is first reviewed by INCRA and then
presented to INTERPI management for final decision;
(c)  Land Purchasing.  Land to be purchased is selected according to
a set of criteria including the size of the estate, the percentage
of land suitable for agriculture, the quality of infrastructure,
the number of potential beneficiaries, and the proximity of
other estates already purchased. Once a positive decision is



57                             ANNEX 1
Page 11
reached, a topographical survey is conducted by a specialized
firm, in order to obtain reliable data on the exact size of the
estate and its topographical situation.  Simultaneously,
discussions between INTERPI management and the seller take
place to reach a price agreement on the basis of the initial
offer, the evaluation dossier, and the findings of the
topographical survey. Finally, the seller is paid with funds
from FUNVALE.
It is estimated that for each individual property to be purchased by INTERPI,
the whole process would take a maximum of three months. The time required
for each elementary operation has been estimated, and a critical path analysis
has been carried out on that basis. In the case of public land acquisition,
the elementary operations of the administrative process have also been identified.
The time required to carry out these has also been assessed and would be in
the same range as that for acquisition of private land.
Transitory Management
23.       As soon as an estate was acquired under the project, it would
come under a system of transitory management by a special unit of INTERPI, in
order to allow a participatory and technically sound redistribution process to
take place. INTERPI would establish a legal relationship with renters and/or
sharecroppers already farming on the purchased estate by confirming their new
status as land beneficiaries through a standard one-year contract whereby:
(i) beneficiaries would be authorized to continue cropping according to
previously practiced patterns; (ii) they would be able to obtain credit
through possession of required documents (carta de anuencia); and (iii) after
harvest, they would pay in rice to INTERPI a quantity equivalent to current
renting fees prevalent in the area, but which would be counted as an advance
payment for the lot each family would receive as a result of land
redistribution.
24.       It is estimated that the transitory management period would last
approximately one year, including only one agricultural campaign. During
this period, INTERPI would be assisted by EMATER field extensionists who would
be appointed to the new properties shortly after their purchase. A ratio of
about 200/250 potential beneficiaries per agent has been estimated for this
initial phase. 1/ Each agent would be in charge of conducting initial infor-
mation meetings to present the project to the beneficiaries and to explain
the system of transitory management and how beneficiaries are expected to
participate in the different steps of the redistribution process. Exten-
sionists would also assist INTERPI in carrying out complementary surveys to
prepare the allotment plan and in conducting meetings to present and discuss
proposed allotment schemes with beneficiaries (para 25). At the same time,
1/   This ratio of 1 extensionist for 200/250 beneficiaries would become 1 for
125 beneficiaries just after land distribution because of intensive tech-
nical assistance during the installment period. Some of the extension
staff appointed for transitory management would become local extension
managers because of their acquired experience. (See working paper no. 7
on rural extension, available in project file.)



- 58 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 12
technical training of beneficiaries would be initiated through a demon-
stration plot on the estate. Finally, extension agents would participate in
organizing the collection of the first land repayment in kind which is the
start-up activity for a crop purchase system. I/
Allotment Planning and Land Redistribution
25.       The allotment planning and land redistribution process would be
initiated just after land acquisition and carried out during the transitory
management period. This process would include four main phases:
(a) The preparatory phase would consist of the gathering of comple-
mentary data on which allotment would be based. On the
technical side, this phase would be initiated by the estab-
lishment of a topographical plan obtained by stereo-plotting
and photo-interpretation analysis of existing aerial photos 2/.
The main groups of soils and a first zoning for future allotment
would be defined. This first assessment made on the drawing
board would be refined by a deeper soil reconnaisance survey to
be conducted in the field according to USBR recommendations. 3/
Simultaneously, present land use would be reviewed with a
detailed evaluation of existing farm investments. Current and
potential water resources would also be carefully assessed. On
the sociological side, complementary surveys of potential
beneficiary families would be carried out. Particularly
careful attention would be paid to the selection of beneficiaries
who have not either rented or sharecropped a piece of land on
the property to be distributed. This selection would attempt
to minimize population movements and to avoid any disruptions
in close-by rural communities.
(b) The allotment phase would begin right after the preparatory
phase. It would involve participation by beneficiaries in the
planning of their future lots through an iterative process
between the drawing board at INTERPI headquarters and meetings
with beneficiaries in the field. A first allotment scheme
would be established on the basis of the data gathered during
phase I; this scheme would then be presented to, and discussed
with, the beneficiaries. This first scheme would then be
modified in accordance with the beneficiaries' recommendations
and once again presented for further discussions. It has been
assumed that, on average, the final allotment scheme for a
particular estate would be agreed upon after two runs.
1/ See working paper no. 9 on marketing available in project files.
2/ Aerial photos with 1/25,000 scale exist for the entire project area.
3/ Soil observation and sampling every 250 m; incteased saapling in case of
high soil heterogeneity.



- 59 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 13
(c)  The distribution phase would be carried out on the basis
of the final agreed allotment scheme. This phase would
include the actual demarcation of lots in the field, the
building of initial necessary infrastructure such as water
supply and feeder roads, and land titling. Land demarcation
would be carried out by specialized firms selected by national
competitive bidding. Infrastructure would be constructed
partly by state institutions and partly by specialized private
firms selected through state and national competitive bidding
procedures. Land titling would be carried out by INTERPI
with the assistance of INCRA. Each land beneficiary would be
established on the respective lot and would be committed
through a written contract to follow a set of specifications
for the development of a rational farming system (e.g. minimum
annual rhythm of land clearing, strip cropping on contour
lines, prohibition of subletting and sharecropping, selected
seed use) and to repay the land according to terms agreed upon.
Land titles would be withheld by INTERPI during the land
repayment period and then released to beneficiaries.
Allotment planning would be carried out by specialized teams, comprised of
photointerpreters/soil specialists, agriculturalists/allotment specialists,
civil engineers, water development specialists, sociologists, and lawyers, who
would be assisted by support staff, including topographers and designers. For
the three above-mentioned phases, the time required for each elementary
operation has been estimated as well as the amount of specialized staff
required. A critical path analysis has been carried out, as well as an
estimate of overall INTERPI operational staffing needs (para 38).
(d)  The land repayment plan.  Because financial resources
for land purchase credit are non-existent at present, a simple
Land Repayment Plan has been conceived in keeping with the
financial situation and the expected farm investment and
repayment capabilities of potential beneficiaries. The plan
would ensure about 25% to 30% recovery of average real land
purchase price and the costs of demarcation and titling. Under
this plan, beneficiaries would pay for their land in rice in
four installments. The total amount of rice to be paid would
be equivalent to the value of land assessed during the allotment
phase, taking into account soil quality and production potential,
existing infrastructure (i.e. irrigation, water supply, storage
and farm buildings) and accessibilty. Each annual installment,
to be collected in the fields by the cooperatives for INTERPI,
would be equal to or less than the amount of rent currently paid
by area tenants, i.e. about 235 kg of paddy rice per cultivated



-60-                              ANNEX 1
Page 14
hectare. As a first estimate, a 35 ha to 40 ha lot in dry
farming would cost about Cr$120,000 (US$2,150), including
acquisition, demarcation, and titling. A 25% repayment in real
terms would be equivalent to about 2 tons of paddy rice to be
repaid in 5 years (including the transitory period). In case
of unfavorable climatic conditions, debts would be easily
rescheduled in paddy rice terms, since the price of this
commodity has been almost indexed to inflation. Similarly, in
case of a good harvest, beneficiaries would have the possibility
of advancing their land repayment. Farmers who do not grow rice
would have the option of paying the equivalent amount in cash
instead of in paddy rice, the amount to be based on the current
market price at the local municipal level. During transitory
management, beneficiaries would pay rent in paddy rice to
INTERPI. The rice would be collected for INTERPI by area
cooperatives, processed, and subsequently transferred to COBAL,
which would pay INTERPI. INTERPI, in turn, would pay the
cooperatives special fees for rice collecting and processing.
In cases where no cooperative exists in the area, the rice
collection would be directly carried out by COBAL. Each
beneficiary would be credited in kind (number of kg of paddy
rice) for the rent paid. This credit would be deducted from
the total amount of rice to be paid once he receives his lot.
This Land Repayment Plan is already in effect for the properties
acquired during 1980/81. First reactions from beneficiaries are
favorable to the plan; they prefer a short repayment period in
kind rather than a long repayment in money as is the case with
traditional land purchase credit for which they are reluctant
to commit themselves, since they do not exactly measure the
impact of high inflation. For the Government, this formula is
also attractive since farmer would repay about 25% to 30% of
costs in real terms compared with less than 5% in the case of
land purchase credit.
Land Discrimination
26.       It is estimated that about one-third of the land in the project
area (about 900,000 ha) would be surveyed, demarcated, and properly titled
over the 5-year project investment period. Expected benefits from this land
discrimination program would be: (i) the identification of new public lands
(terras devolutas) for redistribution 1/; (ii) title review and regularization
for all owners and particularly for some 1,500 smallholders within the target
group who currently do not have proper titles and related tenure security.
This lack effectively bars them from obtaining farm investment credit; and
(iii) the establishment of a sound data base (complete cadastre and title
recording system) for enforcing the new land taxation system and for carrying
out further land action in the project area.
1/ "Generation" of new public lands through the land discrimination process
varies widely according to INCRA's first experiences and, therefore, is
particularly difficult to estimate ex ante. All suitable public lands
identified would be included in the land redistribution program.



- 61 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 15
27.       The land discrimination program would be concentrated during the
second, third and fourth years of the project investment period in order not
to overload INTERPI in its initial operations and simultaneously to allow
for subsequent demarcation, titling, and land redistribution in the case
of suitable newly identified public lands. The area to be discriminated is
currently being selected and would be fully identified during the first
year. Selection criteria include the ratio of INCRA-registered land to total
land in the area, the quality of soils and potential for water development,
the proximity to areas where the land redistribution program is taking place,
the existence of widespread land tenure uncertainty, and the number of
potential beneficiaries.
28.       The land discrimination program, including demarcation and titling,
would be carried out by INTERPI, with close cooperation and technical assistance
from INCRA. This program would involve a sequence of informative, administra-
tive, legal, and technical activities which are well described in the INCRA
operational manual (Sistematica de Discriminacao) (para 9). Under the project,
however, the implementation of land discrimination activities would be improved
through better information and a more effective protection of the rights of
smallholders. It would also be closely coordinated with the land acquisition
and redistribution program and with other land-related activities.
29.       Land discrimination activities would be grouped in five main
sequential phases:
(a) Phase I would be the initial survey of the area selected for
land discrimination. This survey would include a systematic
land title review in the files of the cadastre offices
(cartorio), complemented by field visits to check the actual
situation of each farmer and to transcribe this information on
a draft cadastral map established from aerial photos. Phase I
would be completed by the preparation of a report which would
be the technical and legal basis for further steps.
(b) Phase II would correspond to the actual discrimination between
private and public lands. This would be instituted with the
appointment by INCRA of a special commission, comprised of
a lawyer, an agriculturalist and an assistant who would be
responsible for land discrimination in a particular area.
Under the project, there would be three special commissions,
each working an area of about two municipalities. Staff
appointed to these commissions would receive special training,
including an overview of the entire project, its objectives and
the interrelationship between land discrimination and the other
land-related activities. The first action of the commission
would be to inform all the farmers about the discrimination
process and to request them to prepare their dossiers for
presentation to the commission. Mass diffusion, through
displays in official buildings, publication in newspapers,
and announcements on the radio, would be complemented by an



- 62 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 16
educational campaign through the EMATER network. The project
would also support special legal assistance to smallholders
in the form of three lawyers to help them prepare their documents.
These lawyers would work in liaison with the three commissions
of INTERPI, but would belong to a private non-profit organization
to be contracted at the beginning of Project Year 2. The actual
land discrimination would be carried out on the basis of the
Phase I report, the individual dossiers, and complementary
surveys, if requested. In the case of private land properly
titled and demarcated, ownership would be reconfirmed by the
commission. In other cases involving private lands (improper
titles, insufficient and/or erroneous demarcation, conflicting
claims between private parties), the situation would be regularized
according to the committee's decision. In the case of occupied
public land, the commission would propose adequate solutions to
the claimants (e.g. sale of the area under agriculture to
occupants, and devolution of any uncleared land to the state
patrimony) in line with Brazilian land law 1/. If claimants do
not accept commission proposals, the case would be turned over
to the judicial system.
(c) Phase III would correspond to the resulting land demarcation
and titling. Demarcation would be carried out by specialized
firms selected by national bidding. Titling would be carried
out by INTERPI, as one of its new functions. Costs related to
demarcation and titling would be fully paid by land owners,
with the exception of smallholders in the target group, who
would pay only 5% of these costs. The number of these
beneficiaries has been estimated at about 1,500, 50% of the
total number of smallholders in the areas selected for
discrimination.
(d) Phase IV would correspond to the redistribution of new public
lands identified through the land discrimination process; this
redistribution would be part of the land redistribution
program under the project.
(e) Phase V would complete the discrimination process by setting
up an improved cadastre with up-to-date cadastral maps and a
land data bank with a title-recording and retrieving system
within INTERPI. The project would assist in the financing of
related equipment and technical assistance for this purpose.
1/ Area limited to 3,000 ha according to the Federal Constitution of Brazil.
A particular occupant is entitled first to buy 100 ha of public land at
a symbolic value (usually Cr$1.00/ha); then he can buy up to 2,900 ha
at a '2aX'ac iatetcmlwea by TiCR& (a'bout Zt bWIYEa Am Rlani) 5is
by actual farm activities in the area.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 17
E. Organization and Management
30.       The overall program of land-related activities would be caried out
by INTERPI. The Land Unit (LU) as well as FUNVALE, currently within CEPRO,
are expected to be transferred to INTERPI in April/May 1981. The LU, a team of
10 professionals plus support staff, would be the initial core of INTERPI
staff; INTERPI will work almost exclusively for the project during initial
implementation. Later, INTERPI is expected to take on other land-related
projects and to become responsible eventually for implementing land policy in
the state of Piaui.
31.       With regard to the future organization of INTERPI, a temporary
working group has been appointed by the Secretariats of Agriculture and
Planning to prepare a document on the rules and regulations of the institution.
This working group, which includes a lawyer from INCRA, has already visited
similar institutions in other states of Brazil (Para, Ceara), and a first
draft of the document on rules and regulations has been presented. This
document is expected to be discussed and refined by both the State Government
and INCRA. The final draft would be presented to the Bank for comments prior
to negotiations.
32.       Since the organization and management of INTERPI has not been
finalized yet, staff requirements and related costs for the project have been
estimated on the basis of the system of organization proposed by the working
group for INTERPI. Under the proposed system, INTERPI would be organized into
four departments, three functional and one operational. The three functional
departments would include:
(a) a legal department (procuradoria juridica);
(b) a department for personnel, administration and finances; and
(c) a department of technical services, including mapping,
topography, photo-interpretation/soil surveying, cadastre,
titling services, and title recording.
33.       The operational department would be comprised of operational units
corresponding to on-going programs. In the case of the project, five units
would be created, one each for land acquisition, transitory management,
redistribution, discrimination, and the pilot scheme for rental contracts.
Each of these units would be fully responsible for the corresponding activity
and would receive support from the functional departments. In addition, this
department would have a monitoring and planning section.
34.       INCRA would play a key role in the implementation of the land
component, particularly in the early stages. As the leading federal agency in
land matters, INCRA would provide guidance, training and technical assistance
for the initial development of INTERPI. In addition, INCRA would directly
participate in operational matters, including: (i) land acquisition and



- 64 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 18
redistribution: INCRA would systematically review the evaluation of estates
before actual purchasing by INTERPI and would review allotment schemes prior
to land demarcation; and (ii) land discrimination: because of its experience,
INCRA would be responsible for training the INTERPI discrimination unit and
would second staff to INTERPI (one lawyer, three agriculturalists) for the
establishment of the three special commissions for land discrimination (para 28).
F. Staffing Requirements
35.       Staffing requirements for INTERPI have been estimated on the basis
of project requirements, although this institution would eventually require
additional staff as it takes on full responsibility for Piaui land-related
programs outside of the project area. Staff requirements for the project have
been calculated on the basis of a 50,000 ha annual rhythm for the land
acquisition and redistribution program, and a total of about 900,000 ha for
land discrimination. For each of these programs, the staff required has been
estimated on the basis of sequential tasks to be completed. The total number
of staff required has been checked through an aggregate critical path analysis.
These estimates were made on the assumption that work productivity would
progressively increase because of heavy training and experience gained during
the first years of implementation.
36.       By the third year of the project, INTERPI would require a total of
57 professionals plus support staff to carry out the land component; 23
professionals would be required for land discrimination alone. This total
includes seconded INCRA staff. INTERPI's professional staff would include
land-specialized lawyers, agriculturalists/land development specialists,
sociologists, photointerpreters/soil specialists, financial analysts, civil
engineers, accountant/procurement officers and communication experts. This
staff would be hired as needed by INTERPI, with the assistance of a consultant
during initial implementation.
37.       The project would exclusively finance the staff required for project
activities. The staff financed under the project would increase from Project
Year One (29 professionals) to Project Year Three (57 professionals); it would
then decrease to 12 profesionals in Project Year Five due to the concentration
of land acquisition and land discrimination during the first years of project
implementation. However, assuming satisfactory results, it is expected that
land acquisition and redistribution, as well as land discrimination, would
continue beyond years three and four in the project area. If these activities
were to continue at the same level after the project investment period, about
six additional years would be required for land discrimination to cover the
entire project area, and about 5 to 10 years would be needed for land
acquisition and redistribution. Such operations could be partially financed
through sales of public lands recovered by discrimination and through increased
land tax revenues.



- 65 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 19
G. Training and Technical Assistance
38.       Training programs and technical assistance would play a key role
in the development of project land-related activities and in the successful
establishment of INTERPI. The main objective would be to provide INTERPI
with both public and private expertise from INCRA headquarters in Brasilia,
state land institutions, and specialized consultants, with accumulated
experience in the Northeast as well as in Central and South Brazil. In
addition, INTERPI would not perform all the tasks related to land programs,
but rather would plan, organize, and control them.   It would rely heavily on
specialized private firms to carry out substantial parts of the projected
programs (e.g. technical surveys, demarcation, infrastructure).
39.       Training would be organized with the assistance of both INCRA
and specialized consulting firms, whose contracts with INTERPI would system-
atically include training responsibilities. Training programs would include:
(i) initial training before operations, including the presentation of the
project, its objectives and strategy, in relation to present conditions
and development constraints in the project area; (ii) on-the-job training
in the field to transfer practical expertise to new staff; and (iii) modular
training on specific technical matters, organized through short seminars.
Annual planning would also be considered a training exercise because it
includes the review of past operations and the definition and endorsement of
the new annual work program. Finally, visits to other land-related projects
in other states of Brazil would be organized.
40.       Total technical assistance has been estimated at 111 months of
consultants, excluding technical assistance provided by INCRA. Main areas
where technical assistance would be required are: (i) INTERPI's initial
establishment, including organization and management, recruitment and
training, finances, and planning (52 man-months); (ii) new technology on land
assessment, topography, aerial surveying and land development (33 man-months);
and (iii) new technology on title recording, cadastral mapping, and computing
activities (26 man-months). In legal matters, INCRA is expected to play a key
role in technical assistance. With regard to (i), four high-level consultants
would be contracted during initial implementation in the following areas:
(a) administration and finances; (b) personnel, recruitment, and training;
(c) organization of technical services; and (d) planning and operations.
These consultants would work full time during project year one to help INTERPI
management in its initial organization.
H. Liaison with the Other Project Components
41.       The entire project has been conceived around the land component
and particularly the land acquisition and redistribution program which would
constitute the basis for planning and organizing the implementation of the
other components (technical support and delivery services, social and physical
infrastructure). This implies a strong liaison between INTERPI, the project



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Page 20
unit, and the other executing agencies. Special attention would be paid to
the liaison between INTERPI and (i) the planning and monitoring group within
the Project Unit, given the project's annual planning exercise; (ii) EMATER,
given its key role in land-related activiites; and (iii) the executing agencies
involved in physical infrastructure (roads, water supply, irrigation) and in
marketing, due to the land repayment scheme (para 25).
I. Costs
42.       The total project cost of the land component has been estimated
at US$16.8 million 1/ (Cr$938.2 million in September 1980 prices). This
would include the costs related to: (i) land purchasing through FUNVALE,
US$4.6 million (27%); (ii) land development through the acquisition and
redistribution program, US$5.9 million (35%); (iii) land discrimination,
including titling and demarcation, US$5.3 million (32%); (iv) pilot renting
scheme, US$0.25 million (2%); and (v) special technical assistance for INTERPI
management, US$0.66 million (4%).
1/ With physical contingencies.



- 67 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
I. BACKGROUND DATA
1.       This annex supplements the information given on the project area
in Chapter 3 of the report. It includes additional information on physical
features (climate, soils and water resources), the present agricultural
situation (land use, cropping patterns, farm typology, and production), and
institutional aspects (extension, applied research and seed production).
Finally, the main issues and constraints for agricultural development are
summarized.
A. Physical Features
2.        The project area, covering about 24,000 km2 (one tenth of the
state total), contains 26 municipalities stretching about 400 km along the
middle and lower Parnaiba River. This area is part of the Parnaiba sedimentary
basin, which is characterized by a low plateau (chapada, less than 100 meters
above sea level), dissected by the broad valleys of the Parnaiba River system.
This area has good agricultural potential, with soils of medium fertility,
particularly in the river valleys; good rainfall during December-June (1,000 mm
to 1,600 mm yearly); a lower risk of drought than in many areas of the
Northeast; and substantial surface and underground water resources. The
project area can be divided into three ecologically different subareas: the
Delta do Parnaiba subarea, located in the north, covering 44% of the total
project area with 10 municipalities and 66 km of coastline;the Teresina
subarea, in the center, covering 31% with 6 municipalities, including Teresina,
the state capital; and the Medio Parnaiba subarea, in the south covering 25%
with 10 municipalities (Maps 1 and 2).
Climate and Rainfall
3.        The project area is characterized by a six to seven month rainy
season from December/January to May/June with an average temperature of about
26oC and average relative humidity between 70% and 85%; and a five to six month
dry season over the rest of the year with average temperatures of 27oC to 3OoC
(highest temperatures in October) and an average relative humidity ranging
between 41% and 70% (lowest humidity in September). Annual rainfall
variation is low to medium, with variation coefficients ranging from 16% to
45%. Rainfall is highly concentrated, with 95% to 97% of annual rainfall
occurring during the rainy season and about 60% occurring during a three-month
peak period from January to March (Table 1; Maps 1 and 2).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
- 68 -
Soils
4.        According to the project area's topography, soils have been classi-
fied in three main categories:
(a) Soils on the mesa (chapada): These soils are shallow to mod-
erate in depth, light brown to yellow sandy Latosols. Nat-
ural fertility and productivity are low to medium, yet under
good management, the soils are capable of producing accept-
able yields; however, shallow stony areas unsuitable for
cultivation occur in some parts.
(b) Soils on the valley side slopes: These soils are usually
rocky and generally unsuitable for agriculture; where finer
soil has accumulated however, non-mechanized cropping is
possible if good protection is provided against erosion; in
fact, farmers prefer the slopes to the flat plateau lands for
cultivation because of a lower drought risk due to the
combination of run-off, underground seepage water and rainfall.
(c) Soils in the valleys: These soils are white to light
grayish sandy loams to loamy fine sands; vegetation includes
the babacu palm, which is considered an indicator of relatively
good cropland for rice and other crops. These are generally
the best soils of the project area, with a relatively higher
clay percentage and better moisture retention.
5.        Despite these differences in soil characteristics, the soils
of the project area are commonly affected by the following problems:
(a) fertility is generally low;
(b) moisture retention is low because of a low organic
matter content (1% to 3%), as well as a low clay content
(about 10%); as a result, readily available moisture is only
about 10% of volume in the majority of cases;
(c) infiltration is abnormally low (below 7 cm/day) due to
capping during heavy rains from January to March, particularly
where soil surface remains uncovered with vegetation; soil
permeability is satisfactory, however (50 cm/day); and
(d) erosion is usually high as a result of heavy rains
coupled with the lack of structure in the surface soil.
6.        Extensive soil surveys related to potential irrigation projects
along the Parnaiba River and its tributaries have been carried out by DNOCS
in some parts of the project area. These surveys have been complemented
by general soil reconnaissance through the "Radam" project 1/.  Due to
these efforts, a general soil map covering the overall project area has
been established. In addition, preliminary soil evaluation for about 40,000 ha
has been conducted as part of the land acquisition program (Annex 1). All of
these surveys show that:



ANNEX 2
- 69 -                               Page 3
(a) about 60% to 70% of the project area is suitable for agriculture;
(b) the Medio Parnaiba subarea is characterized by a relatively
high percentage of plateau land (about 60% to 70%) and slopes
(5% to 10%); soils are potentially more productive;
(c) in the Delta do Parnaiba subarea, lowlands and valleys account
for 60% to 70% of total area, whereas plateau land and related
slopes represent only 30% to 40%. Sandy soils with relatively
low productivity are frequent; valley lands, however, are
normally more fertile with a substantial accumulation of finer
soil elements (clay content may reach 20% to 25%); and
(d) the Teresina subarea represents a transition zone containing
about 50% mesaland and slopes and 50% lowlands and valleys.
7.        With regard to the land already acquired (Table 2), the percentage
of land suitable for agricultural production (18% with medium fertility soil
and 36% with low fertility) appears to be below average for the project area.
This is due to the inclusion of low-quality public land and the absence of
valley land in the first properties that have been acquired. Properties now
being purchased present a higher fertility level and comprise more valley land
since the program of land acquisition has been reoriented towards properties
along the rivers with substantial irrigation potential (Tables 2-3).
Water Resources
8.        Surface and underground water resources are abundant throughout the
project area and go far beyond the demand from existing or anticipated irriga-
tion schemes. With regard to surface water, the Parnaiba River drains most of
the state-s waters with an average flow of about 650 m3/s and an annual volume
of about 20 billion m3 2/. The Parnaiba River has three main tributaries
(Caninde, Poti and Longa Rivers), which cross the project area and offer
excellent opportunities for irrigation. Many other smaller permanent rivers
also flow directly or indirectly into the Parnaiba River. The Delta do
Parriaiba sub-area presents the state-s highest potential for irrigation
development at a relatively low cost. At the river town of Porto, the Parnaiba
valley gradually begins to broaden out into flood plains (varzeas) which
increase in size and importance toward the river mouth. These flood plains
consist of low-lying basins and levies, formed when tributary rivers and
streams join the Parnaiba. The lower parts of the varzeas are flooded annually.
Surface water flows, however, are characterized by large fluctuations (variation
coefficient 62%) between dry and rainy seasons; in the case of the Parnaiba
1/   General soil reconnaissance of the large Amazon region, using radar
technique. Such a soil reconnaissance, however, does not provide a
sufficient basis for project planning because of imprecise differentiation
of fertility levels, and the absence of detection of Ph and aluminum-
toxicity-related problems.
2/   Average flow measured at Porto fluvial station, Delta do Parnaiba subarea.



ANNEX 2
- 70 -                                Page 4
River, the base flow amounts to only 51% of the average.  In addition, there
are daily flow fluctuations due to the operation of the Boa Esperanca
hydroelectric power station upstream.
9.       Groundwater is present throughout the project area, with re-
sources estimated at billions of cubic meters. Accessibility is variable in
terms of well yields and depths, however. While there is no major limitation
governing water supply schemes for rural communities, there are limitations
for irrigation, which requires a minimum yield (about 7L/sec) and a maximum
depth (about 100 m) for wells to keep the investment cost economically
acceptable. As a rough estimate, about half of the project area has a potential
for irrigation with underground water; this potential is highest in the Delta
do Parnaiba subarea.
B. Existing Agricultural Situation
Land Tenure and Farm Distribution
10.       About 70% (about 1.7 million ha) of the project area is suitable
for agriculture. Of this cultivable land, only about 10% is actually culti-
vated, with the remaining 90% being comprised of a combination of forest, bush
fallow and extensive pasture land. There are some 57,700 farmers in the
project area. About 22% (12,500) of these farmers are owners and about
78% (45,200) are landless, mainly renters. Details on land tenure and farm
distribution are given in Annex 1 and Table 6.
Land Use, Cultivated Area and Yields
11.       Land use has been roughly estimated on the basis of state sta-
tistical data crosschecked with additional survey data from 179 farmers
and with the evaluation of large properties within the ongoing land acqui-
sition program. About 180,000 ha (approximately 10% of the land suitable
for agriculture), are cropped annually, with annual fluctuations mostly due to
climatic hazards, particularly during the planting period. About 88% of the
cultivated area is intercropped, with upland rice as a dominant crop,
accompanied by corn, beans, and manioc. Single-crop plantings, mostly rice,
account for about 12% of the cropped area. Average yields are very low (about
0.7 t/ha for rice, 0.3 t/ha for corn, 0.2 t/ha for beans and 4.0 t/ha for
manioc) and fluctuate according to annual climatic conditions and type of
soils.
12.       The proportion of land used in relation to fallow/uncleared areas
varies in relation to farm size: owner operators with less than 10 ha usually
crop about 80% of their property with no possibility of a long fallow rotation
system. This percentage of cropped land in relation to total farm land
regularly decreases as farm size increases (33% for farms between 10 ha and 25
ha, 14% for farms between 25 ha and 100 ha, and about 7% for farms over 1,000
ha).  There are several cases of large pxopeTtties whe're Croea land accouints
for 5% or less of the total cultivable area (Tables 4-5).



ANNEX 2
- 71 -                               Page 5
Cropping Patterns and Technology
13.       The project area is characterized by a great homogeneity in cropping
patterns, with limited variations according to farm size, land tenure status,
and ecological subarea. Rainfed subsistence farming, with manual cultivation
and low technology under a shifting cultivation system, is generally practiced.
The small differences in cropped area between farms with comparable cultivable
areas are mainly related to differences in the existing labor force. On the
basis of data obtained from the farm survey, a worker clears between 1 ha
and 1.5 ha of forest or bush fallow annually, utilizing the slash and burn
system. He then plants about 70% to 75% of the area with upland rice inter-
cropped with corn and manioc; rice intercropped with beans and cotton accounts
for another 10% to 15% of the area. Clearing and fencing of the area take him
more than a month per hectare each year. He usually plants late (January/
February) to take advantage of high soil moisture, and harvests in April or
May., Rice harvesting is performed with a knife, and takes about one worker-month
per hectare. Local medium-to-long-cycle varieties (120 to 150 days for rice)
are traditionally used, with no application of organic or chemical fertilizers
or pesticides.
14.       According to the survey, the differences between landless farmers
and owner-operators are the following:
(a) On average, a landless farmer has a 2.8 worker labor force
and clears and crops about 3.2 ha of land annually (the fallow
duration is on average 6 to 8 years). Clearing and cropping
occupy about 55% of his available labor force (360 worker-days).
There are two peak periods: clearing and fencing (July to
November) and harvesting (April/May). The remaining unutilized
working capacity (290 worker days) is usually sold outside the
farm (100 worker days on average) and/or employed for other
non-farm activities when these opportunities exist. Landless
farmers traditionally do not have cattle, but small livestock
(pigs and poultry) activities do take place. Vegetable gardening
is fairly rare.
(b) An owner-operator with up to 100 ha has a 3.7-worker labor
force on average, of which 1.2 is hired labor 1/; about
5.3 ha of land is cropped. Labor productivity is slightly
higher than that shown for landless farmers (1.43 ha per active
worker compared with 1.14 ha), although this is probably due to
the hiring of outside labor at peak periods. The fallow
duration depends on the total area of the farm and varies from
1 to 8 years. Cropping patterns and technology levels are
usually the same as those for landless farmers. The owner-
operator has some cattle (3 to 4 head) and also small livestock.
1/   1.2 man-years combining permanent and temporary labor.



- 72 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 6
15.       A few farmers are already applying improved technologies.  These
include methods of increasing labor productivity, such as the use of animal
traction (about 7% of the owner-operators), tractor-renting (about 12%), and
even the use of full mechanization in very rare cases. With animal traction,
labor productivity increases sharply from 1.4 ha per active worker to about 2
ha. This increase could be much higher, however, if better implements,
combined with technical assistance and adequate credit schemes, were available.
Tractors are usually rented for soil preparation and allow for early planting;
on average, labor productivity with tractor-renting reaches 3 to 4 ha per
active worker. Chemical fertilization is extremely limited, but when properly
used, has shown financially viable results.
16.       Despite substantial surface and underground water resources,
irrigation is still an exception in the project area. DNOCS is operating
a pilot irrigation project of some 500 ha (200 farmers), with a possible
expansion up to 2,000 ha in the municipality of Luzilandia. DNOCS has
also contracted a consulting firm to prepare an irrigation development
plan for about 16,000 ha along the Parnaiba and Longa Rivers; feasibility
studies for parts of this plan have already been completed. In addition
to these projects, a few farmers have their own small irrigation systems
which permit double cropping by pumping, and some farmers secure their
rainfed crop by utilizing complementary irrigation.
C.  Supporting Services
17.       Extension in the rural areas of Piaui is the responsibility of
EMATER-PI, which is an autonomous state company administratively under the
Secretary of Agriculture, but with strong links to the federal extension
agency, EMIBRATER, mainly for funding and technical supervision. EMATER
is concerned with both agricultural and social extension. The greater
emphasis thus far has been on agricultural extension oriented towards me-
dium and large farmers, although EMATER's recent involvement in implement-
ing new POLONORDESTE and INAN projects has served to partially reorient
extension towards small farmers. In addition, social extensionists, all
of whom are females, work with the families of small producers. In the
project area, 49 agricultural field extension agents (22 agriculturalists
and 27 agricultural technicians) and 17 social extensionists are distribu-
ted over 18 local extension offices. Of this total staff working in the
project area, 23 agricultural field extension agents (13 agriculturalists
and 10 agricultural technicians) and 9 social extensionists are currently
paid under the Delta do Parnaiba POLONORDESTE project, which will be ab-
sorbed by the proposed Piaui Rural Development Project - Vale do Parnaiba.
18.       Agricultural research in Piaui is the responsibility of EMBRAPA-PI,
a branch of the Federal Enterprise for Agricultural Research, which
has a central experimental station in Teresina. Until recently, relatively
little effective research has focussed on technical problems specific
to small farmers in the project area.  Currently, the situation is chan-
ging with the implementation of the Delta do Parnaiba project, which includes



~ 73 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 7
an applied research component oriented towards small farmers. In addition,
there is increasing cooperation between applied research and extension staff.
19.       The state system for improved seed production was recently es-
tablished and equipped during 1980. This system includes:
(a)  a State Seed Commission under the responsibility of the Secretary
of Agriculture with the participation of CIDAPI, CEPA, EMBRAPA,
EMATER, SUDENE, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, DNOCS,
and the banks;
(b)  a production station (220 ha) with irrigation equipment for pro-
ducing basic seeds;
(c)  a seed laboratory in Teresina; and
(d)  five seed-processing units, including three in the project area.
This organization will be operational in 1981.
D. Issues and Main Constraints to Agricultural Development
Land Tenure and Use
20.       The large majority of farmers (about 78%) are landless.  They
have no land security.
21.       Large properties are usually characterized by a severe underuti-
lization of cultivable land with large sections remaining uncleared. These
properties are owned by traditional families generally lacking in the
agric:ultural entrepreneurship necessary to turn the farms into productive and
profitable businesses.
Technical Issues
22.       Labor productivity is on average very low, without substantial
differences between landless farmers and owner-operators (about 1 to 2 ha per
active worker). This is due to the traditional shifting cultivation system
combined with manual cropping. Newly cleared land is generally not destumped,
and thus any form of mechanization is unworkable. Under normal cultivation,
the two peak periods for labor, clearing and fencing (between 1 and 2 worker-
months per hectare) and harvesting (about 1 worker-month per hectare), limit
the size of the cropped area.
23.       Despite high rainfall, the risk of crop failure due to lack of
water is abnormally high. This situation results from a combination of
interrelated adverse factors, including:



- 74 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 8
(a) low infiltration, particularly at the opening of the
rainy season, coupled with increased run-off;
(b) low moisture-retention capacity of the soils;
(c) because of points (a) and (b), late planting time and a
long planting period; and
(d)  the wide use of varieties.which usually have a medium-to-
long vegetative cycle.
These factors discourage farmers from planting at the first good rains
because the encrusted soil does not allow for good moisture storage. Farmers
thus plant late (December/January) when rain frequency is higher, but lose the
benefits of early planting (soil nitrification, ashes, finer elements washed
away). In addition, because planting is slow when done manually, combined
with the low water-storage capacity of the soils, a farmer cannot plant his
area at once, but has to wait for successive rains. As a result, the risk of
crop failure increases with the lateness of planting, since crucial vegetative
phases, particularly maturation, take place when rain probability sharply
decreases at the end of the rainy season. This risk is even higher with the
long-cycle varieties currently in use.
24.       Erosion is much more damaging than commonly recognized in the
project area. There is no apparent gully erosion, except on the slopes,
but because of heavy rains combined with low surface soil permeability,
run-off is very high and all of the fine elements of soils are washed away.
As a result, fertility decreases dramatically when soil is not protected
either by crops or by mulching.
25.       Small owner-operators cannot follow the long bush fallow system
and soil fertility decreases under traditional technology. It is estima-
ted that under the usual shifting cultivation system, soils need about eight
years of bush fallow to recover natural fertility. A small-scale owner-
operator with less than 10 ha cannot afford to follow this fallow system, and
soil fertility is progressively lost under the traditional technology. This
situation is aggravated by the continued growth of the rural population.
26.        Crop productivity is usually low with large inter-yearly fluc-
tuations. This is mainly due to low soil fertility and a low level of crop
technology, which does not include soil management adapted to existing conditions,
improved seeds, organic or chemical fertilization, or pesticides.
27.       Implements for draft animals are not well adapted or diversified
to make the best use of animal traction. Unsuitable implements, coming
from Sao Paulo, are sold in Piaui; they are heavy and usually inadequate
for the specific conditions found in Piaui.



ANNEX 2
- 75 -                               Page 9
28.       Agricultural employment is mostly concentrated during the six to
seven-month rainy season since irrigation has not been significantly deve-
loped. Other non-farm job opportunities are limited.
29.       Crop opportunities are not diversified.  Traditional subsistence
production (rice, manioc, beans, corn) predominates. Gardening
and fruit cultivation are not widely practiced on small farms.
Institutional Issues
30.       Both agricultural extension and applied research have not suf-
ficiently focused their activities on small farmers to develop and diffuse
efficient technologies adapted to these farmers' conditions. Agricultural
research has been conducted thus far in experimental stations without suf-
ficiently addressing practical problems in the field, and agricultural ex-
tension has concentrated the majority of its activities on medium to large
farmers. In addition, extensionists have not been well trained in practic-
al applications.
II. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES
A. Long-Term Development Objectives and Strategy
31.       The Parnaiba valley, which comprises most of the project area, is
probably one of the least agriculturally developed valleys in the Northeast,
especially in relation to its potential. Only about 10% of the area suitable
for agriculture is cultivated, although about 1.5 million hectares of forest
and bush fallow could be developed and irrigation potential is estimated in
the tens of thousands of hectares. One of the principal reasons for the
area's slow development is that the large majority of farmers (about 80% or
about 45,000 families) are virtually barred from taking advantage of the
area's potential. They do not own land; rather, they rent, under unfavorable
contracts, limited areas (about 3 ha per family) for subsistence farming under
a shifting cultivation system.  Most land is held by a few families, who do
not espouse principles of modern entrepreneurship.l/ At the same time, urban
centers (mostly Teresina and Parnaiba) are growing rapidly due to increasing
rural-to-urban migration, despite high levels of urban unemployment. Much of
the food supply for these cities comes from outside the state of Piaui. These
trends may be aggravated in the future by the increasing presence of specialized,
capital-intensive agrobusinesses (sugarcane, manioc, cattle-raising), encouraged
by both the very low price of land in Piaui and available federal subsidies
from such programs as Proalcool.
32.       Within a 20-year time frame, a significant factor to offset these
trends of rural migration and large-scale cash-crop farming would be the
emergence of a growing population of small to medium agricultural entrepreneurs
specialized in labor-intensive food production with modern technology, including
1/ See Annex 1 for a complete discussion of land tenure issues.



ANNEX 2
-76 -                               Page 10
irrigation, where possible.  These farmers would supply food to the growing
urban population, provide increased rural employment and income opportunities,
and consequently, help diminish rural-urban migration. An equilibrium could
be established between these small rural enterprises and the specialized
agrobusinesses mentioned above. To reach this equilibrium, strong support for
the presently poor, small agricultural producers in the project area would be
necessary. This support implies, in the first instance, access to land at
reasonable prices, as well as the provision of new technologies, including
natural resource conservation, technical assistance, marketing, and other
supporting services.
B. Project Objectives
33.       As the first step of a long-term rural development strategy,
the project would aim to:
(a) increase agricultural income and employment levels of
about 18% of the total population of small-scale
producers by developing rice as a cash crop;
(b) increase productive potential through the introduction of
adequate rotation, intercropping systems, water and soil
conservation practices to inhibit soil depletion through
erosion and, when possible, to raise fertility levels; and
(c) improve rural family access to food by increasing subsistence
production (manioc, beans, home garden vegetables) and by
developing small-livestock husbandry and small-scale cattle-
raising.
34.       In order to accomplish these goals, the project would attempt to:
(a) develop a single, low-cost, participatory, technically sound
approach to agricultural development based on an initial land
redistribution program; and
(b) establish and/or increase the institutional capacity at the state
and local levels to support small farmers in the proposed agri-
cultural development program; special attention would be paid to
the linkage between agricultural extension, applied re-
search, and the activities of the new state land institute to be
established under the project.



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11
C. Project Strategy
35.       Over the five-year investment period, the agricultural develop-
ment strategy would center around the following aspects:
(a) improvement of subsistence farming practices by extending
technologies already applied by a small fraction of farmers,
including several interdependent components, such as:
(i) reduction and eventual disappearance of shifting cultivation;
(ii) expansion of cultivated area by increased productivity of
family labor through mechanization with animal traction;
(iii) adoption of mixed farming systems; and (iv) widespread
diffusion of selected seeds, timely agricultural practices and
improved weeding to increase crop productivity;
(b) improvement of existing technologies and the generation of
some crop diversification; new crop alternatives are expected
to be developed by the applied research component;
(c) reduction of risk of crop failure due to lack of water by
promoting appropriate soil and crop management, including such
aspects as: (i) increasing soil permeability before the rainy
season by minimum tillage techniques and stubble mulch;
(ii) ensuring efficient soil coverage through mulching and
appropriate intercropping systems compatible with draft-animal
implements to decrease soil encrusting; (iii) increasing
water-storage capacity of soils by returning crop residues and
using manure; (iv) recommending early planting with draft-animal
sowing-machines; and (v) diffusing improved short-cycle varieties;
(d) initiation of irrigation on a relatively small-scale basis to
prepare for future development of the project area's water
resources;
(e) initiation of a soil conservation program for beneficiaries of
the land component, to serve later as a demonstration program
for diffusion to non-land beneficiaries; and
(f) reinforcement and upgrading of the technical training of
extension staff with a special emphasis on practical matters;
such training would be further extended to farmers and,
particularly, to new land beneficiaries.
An important part of this strategy would be the initial focus of technical
assistance and supporting services on those areas where redistribution is
taking place. In this way the link between the land redistribution process
and the agricultural strategy outlined above would be reinforced.



- 78-                              ANNEX 2
Page 12
III. TARGET AND ADOPTER GROUPS, CORRESPONDING FARM MODELS
A. Target Group
36.       Interventions for agricultural development under the project would
be adapted for use by and directed towards a target group of about 54,000
small producers, including:
(a) about 8,800 owner-operators of farms between 0 and 100 ha; they
represent the majority of landowners (70%), but only control 18%
of the land in the project area; and
(b) about 45,200 landless producers who rent land, mainly contracted
from large owners outside the target group.
B. Adopter Group
37.       It is anticipated that about 9,500 producers (about 18% of the
target group) would be assisted by supporting services (credit, extension,
and marketing), and thus would constitute the direct beneficiary or adopter
group. This adopter group would progressively apply the proposed technologies
and would be made up of:
(a) some 5,000 farmers (essentially landless) who would benefit
from the land redistribution program and be closely assisted in
their agricultural development;
(b) some 3,000 small owner-operators (34% of target-group owners)
who would benefit from all support services; and
(c) some 1,500 landless producers living in the vicinity of
purchased properties, who, through improvement of their renting
contracts, would be in a position to apply proposed technologies.
Among the beneficiaries of the land component, it is expected that some 1,500
farmers would have an average of 1 ha of irrigated land. The number of
landless beneficiaries (6,500 including some 5,000 land beneficiaries and
1,500 others) is modest when compared to the total landless target group
(about 14%). However, project activities would have a far greater impact than
the numbers imply by allowing for the acquisition of experience and the
building of basic institutional capacity to promote agricultural development
associated with land redistribution.



- 79 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 13
38.       The project would also indirectly benefit:
(a) some farm workers through increased employment opportu-
nities;
(b) a large percentage of "non-adopter" producers of the target
group through some assistance from supporting services
(marketing, seed production and input supply);
(c) a large number of non-target group farmers who would bene-
fit from some of the results of agricultural research; and
(d) individuals living in the vicinity of roads or water-supply
systems built under the project, though not benefiting from
any other component.
Farm Models
39.       Farm models have been conceived on the basis of a survey carried
out with 179 small-scale producers, including 101 owner-operators and 78
landless producers within the target group. The survey shows that average
area cultivated is significantly larger for the former group (5.3 ha) compared
with that cultivated by tenant farmers (3.9 ha). There are limited variations
in yields between the two categories, however, since the large majority of
farmers currently employ the same traditional technology and cropping patterns.
In addition, fluctuations between the three project subareas are too limited
to justify the conception of specific subarea farm models. Based on this
evidence, two different situations can be defined:
(a) small-scale owner-operators with farms below 100 ha and a
cropped area of about 5.3 ha with a labor force of 3.7 active
workers; and
(b) landless producers with 3 ha of cropped area and a labor force
of 2.4.
40.       From this point of departure, three basic farm models have been
designed:  one for small-scale owners, the second for the new land bene-
ficiaries, and the third for the landless. For each of these three models,
variations have been introduced in accordance with two levels of mechanization
(manual cropping and animal traction), the existence or the absence of irrigated
land, and two levels of crop technology (Annex 4).



- 80 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 14
IV. TECHNOLOGY OF PRODUCTION
A. Stabilized Farming in Association with Soil Conservation
41.       Agricultural development under the project would be based on the
progressive elimination of shifting cultivation and its replacement by a
more productive, stabilized system in close association with water and soil
conservation practices. Such a system would be established through:
(a) progressive land clearing and selective destumping to create
permanent plots allowing for more efficient cropping with
mechanization; land clearing and destumping would continue to
be carried out manually, but with improved tools (e.g. hand
winch) and tree-poisoning techniques. Land clearing would be
limited to cultivable areas according to soil quality and land
declivity; 1/ forest and natural pastures would be maintained
and/or upgraded in areas not suitable for agriculture. 2/ It
is anticipated that land clearing, in the case of relatively
dense forest, would reach 1 to 2 ha per farm family per year
and would be spread out over about five years. Higher rates
of clearing are expected in the case of bush fallow and
lighter vegetation;
(b) permanent fencing of permanent plots with barbed wire
instead of temporary heavy wooden fences;
(c) contour farming with strip cropping. In the particular case of
land beneficiaries, plot layout would be established in
accordance with topography;
(d) soil management to limit erosion and to simul-
taneously improve structural stability; soil preparation
would be generally limited to minimum tillage techniques
to increase infiltration; and
(e) rotation of adapted intercropping systems with permanent
soil coverage. Traditional intercropping systems would be
maintained, but improved to allow for mechanization. The
cropping period would be spread over four years, the first
three with rice intercropped with beans and maize, and the
fourth with manioc. Then cropping would be replaced by
improved pasture for the following four years. Modifications
would be introduced progressively in practiced intercroppings
according to the results of the applied research component,
especially with respect to identification of new crops.
1/   Soil reconnaissance surveys would be carried out as a basis for land
clearing.
2/   Prohibition of use of these areas for agriculture would be stipulated in the
contracts signed by land beneficiaries.



- 81 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 15
B.   Improved Farm Implements and Small Mechanization
42.       Improved farm implements and small mechanization would be the key
elements of the project for increasing farm family incomes through expected
dramatic increases in labor productivity. Such a mechanization program
would be in line with the new orientation of the Federal Government of Brazil
which gives much greater support than in the past to small mechanization
with draft animals, largely because of increasing fuel costs and its perceived
suitability to small-scale farming. Accordingly, new applied research
programs on small mechanization have been promoted in the Northeast, particu-
larly at the EMBRAPA regional experimental station at Petrolina, Pernambuco,l/
with international support from ICRISAT and bilateral French aid. New farm
implements from West Africa, India and Pakistan have been introduced, combined
with local implements, and modified when necessary. As a result, a new
generation of better-adapted farm equipment is now being manufactured and
recommended for use in the different states of the Northeast.
43.       The new farm implements would complement the equipment already used
by a few farmers in the area. The main features of the project's mechanization
program would be:
(a) its adaptation to soil conditions specific to the
project area and to soil and crop management practices
recommended under the project;
(b) its flexibility, considering the expected gradual shift by
project beneficiaries from improved manual cropping to relatively
more sophisticated and more comprehensive farm mechanization; a
variety of farm implements would be proposed to farmers to fit
in with their specific farm conditions and respective levels of
technology; and
(c) the complementarity between the different proposed solutions;
manual cropping could be progressively complemented by small
mechanization with draft animals, which, in turn, could be
associated with tractor-renting in the case of heavy work (land
clearing, preparation for clay soils, restitution of crop
residues, harvesting).
44.       Farm implements proposed under the project would fall under
four categories, three corresponding to different sources of power,
and the last, to post-harvesting equipment:
1/   Centro de Pesquisa Agricola para o Tropico Semi-Arido (CPATSA), located
in the Sao Francisco Valley, Pernambuco, a neighboring state of Piaui.



- 82 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 16
(a) Manual Cropping. Proposed tools would include manual winches
for land clearing, manual sowing machines (matraca) for rice
and other crops and scythes to replace the traditional knife
for rice harvesting. As a result, expected increases in labor
productivity would range from 30% to 80%, with total cropped
area increasing from 1.4 ha per worker to 2 ha per worker.
(b) Mechanization with One Draft Animal (donkey, mule, ox).
Proposed equipment would include a small cultivator/grader
with adjustable tools (particularly chisels) for grading and
for weeding, and a sowing machine. Such light equipment would
be well adapted to cases where destumping is not completed.
The expected increase in labor productivity would range from
100% to 300%, with total cropped area reaching up to 3.5 ha per
active worker.
(c) Mechanization with One Pair of Oxen. Proposed equipment would
be a mobile frame with a tool bar to which different types
of tooling for soil preparation, sowing, weeding, and transport
could be added.l/ With this equipment, average labor productivity
would increase fourfold, i.e., 5 ha of cropped area per worker.
With a complement of tractor-renting for heavy works, labor
productivity could reach more than 6 ha per worker.
(d) Post-Harvesting Equipment. This would include manual threshers
and winnowers for maize and rice.
45.       It is expected that the acquisition of farm implements would be
progressive with a demonstration phase during initial implementation. At full
development, it is anticipated that about 70% of project beneficiaries would
use small mechanization with animal traction while 30% would use improved
manual cropping.
C. Progressive Improvements in Crop Productivity
46.       Progressive improvements in crop productivity would complement
expected gains in labor productivity. These improvements are expected to
increase farm-family incomes, and particularly, to reduce the risk of crop
failure and corresponding wide annual fluctuations of income currently
affecting farmers. The proposed crop technologies do not involve major
changes from those currently used by more advanced farmers. They are mainly
based on highly productive varieties, with different lengths of growing cycle
(100 to 130 days), selected to adjust for varying rainfall and to spread
harvesting over a longer period. Improvements would also include timely
1/   Tropicultor and Ariana, tested in Pakistan and West Africa.



-83 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 17
cultural practices, particularly early sowing, frequent weedings, and effective
plant control. Fertilizer recommendations would be prudent and proposed
only when the above techniques were well applied. Fertilizer formulae have
been defined on the basis of the best available data on soil fertility levels
and on "technical packages" defined jointly by EMATER and EMBRAPA, in con-
junction with some of the more advanced producers. During project implemen-
tation, recommendations would be improved and adapted on the basis of further
soil-fertility analyses and the results of adaptive research. Yield assumptions
are relatively conservative since they are currently realized and some-
times substantially exceeded by advanced farmers. These assumptions should
be interpreted as averages for various technical levels. Individual producers'
yields would be determined by expertise and actual investment possibilities.
It is expected that yields would increase steadily during the first ten years
before reaching a stable level in Year 11 (eleven) due to the land clearing
program which would be spread over the first five to six years. Research
activities supported under the project are expected to generate higher yields
both before and after Year 10, but no attempt has been made to quantify these
possible benefits because of the substantial uncertainty affecting both their
timing and level.
47.       Rice would be the main cash crop under the project; a substantial
increase is expected in rice productivity over the first ten years of the
project and would constitute one of the project's major outputs. Under
present conditions, yields are very low and highly variable (0.70 t/ha with
sparse intercropping of corn, beans and manioc). With selected, chemically-
treated seeds, early planting, and better technology, it is anticipated that
the average yield would reach about 1.5 t/ha with limited annual fluctuations
at full development.l/ Rice would continue to be cultivated in rainfed
conditions, although some plots, located in the valley bottom, would be
cultivated under semi-irrigated or irrigated conditions. Rice would continue
to be intercropped with corn, beans and maize, although the proportion of
secondary crops sown per hectare of rice would be reduced as cropped area is
increased, as long as subsistence needs for the farm family would be met.
Yearly input coefficients and yield assumptions are given in Table 7.
48.       Gardening and small-livestock husbandry for home consumption would
be promoted by EMATER under the project, and nutrition training would be promoted
by social extensionists. A nutrition program is already being successfully
implemented through current extension efforts and would be reinforced under the
project. Main crops would be tomatoes, onions, green peppers, sweet potatoes,
1/   1.5 t/ha of rice would be reached by farmers using animal traction with
adequate technology and a light intercropping of corn and beans. The
small additional production of corn and beans has not been considered in
the financial and economic analysis.



-84 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 18
and some fruit trees, for which existing technical packages have shown good
results. Production from vegetable gardens, fruit trees, and small livestock
has not been taken into account in the financial and economic analysis, even
though a small part of this production is likely to be marketed, particularly
by farmers in the vicinity of urban centers.
D. Mixed Farming
49.       The project would aim at developing small-scale cattle raising in
association with agricultural activities, for the following reasons:
(a) improved pastures would replace bush fallow in the proposed
rotation and provide forage resources;
(b) development of self-sustained animal traction would require the
development and maintenance of a small herd at the farm-level;
(c) cattle raising, widely considered a status activity by small
farmers, would substantially complement their income through
cattle sales and provide them with milk for home consumption;
and
(d) manure production would raise the level of organic matter in
the soils and improve soil structure.
50.       The proposed technology does not involve major changes from that
currently used by advanced small cattle-raisers. This technology would be
based on improving animal feed through temporary pastures with mineral
supplements, and improving animal health and cattle management through
systematic vaccinations and associated prophylactic means. Under present
conditions, average cattle-raising performances are very low (reproduction
rate of about 25%, 0.15 animal per hectare of bush fallow, daily average
weight increase of about 0.12 kg/animal). With improved technology it is
expected that the herd growth rate would increase up to 50%-60%, with 0.5 to
1.0 animals per hectare of improved pasture and a daily average weight
increase of 0.3 kg/animal.
E.   Agricultural Development for Land Beneficiaries
51.        The land redistribution process would be closely associated with
a detailed agricultural development program specific to the local conditions
of each estate being redistributed. Such a program would be implemented
through strong support from agricultural extension and other delivery services.



ANNEX 2
- 85 -                           Page 19
Each land beneficiary would receive a lot, sized in accordance with INCRA's
recommendations, and specifications for the development of the lot during
the first years.l/ Adoption of minimum levels of proposed technology would be
encouraged. The set of specifications would follow the general strategy of
agricultural development proposed under the project, but would be specific to
local conditions. Such specifications would be prepared during the allotment
process (Annex 1).
V. IRRIGATION
52.       Within the proposed long-term development strategy, irrigation is
likely to be one of the major investments in the project area because of
abundant surface and underground water resources. Under the project, the
irrigation component would represent an initial phase to develop low-cost
approaches for small-scale irrigation and to strengthen state-level insitutional
capacity in order to prepare for further water development expected in a
follow-up investment period. Irrigation sub-projects would be chosen according
to a set of technical, economic, and social criteria (para 55). Under the
project, it is expected that 1,500 ha of small-scale irrigation would be
developed in the properties to be acquired and redistributed for about 1,500
land beneficiaries (i.e. 30% of the total number of land beneficiaries).
Project targets are modestly sized in relation to the project area's irrigation
potential and expected developments in the land acquisition and redistribuiton
program. Nonetheless, these targets are relatively ambitious since small-scale
irrigation is a recent activity within the state and current insitutional
capacity is limited. During each annual planning exercise, both annual and
cumulative targets would be reviewed and appropriately adjusted in accordance
with past experience and the level of institutional development.
53.       It is expected that on average each beneficiary would receive a 20
to 30 ha lot with a 1 ha irrigated plot, although certain situations may not
conform to this model. The 1,500 ha of irrigated land would be planted mainly
in rice with progressive attainment of double-cropping at full development.
High-value crops, such as fruits and vegetables, could also be developed under
irrigation in a long-term perspective, but outside of home-gardening, they
would not be promoted during the project execution period because of the
technology required and limited local marketing outlets.
54.       Small-scale irrigation schemes under the project are likely to be
concentrated in the Delta do Parnaiba Sub-area, which presents the state's
highest irrigation potential, particularly in the varzeas, low-lying flood
plains (Annex 2, para 5). These schemes, for both irrigation and drainage,
would be developed with a low-cost technology consisting of protective dikes
1/ 35 to 40 ha in the project area; such an area is defined by its potential
capacity for annual income generation which corresponds to three minimum
salaries (about US$1,900).



- 86 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 20
and small pumping stations on the riverside. In a limited number of other
cases, irrigation would also be developed upland, by digging tube-wells,
and pumping underground water when easily and cheaply available. With
regard to land already acquired, a 10,000 ha estate along the Parnaiba river
presents adequate conditions for varzea-type irrigation development, and a
16,500 ha estate is presently being surveyed for the possible development of
irrigation by pumping underground water. In both cases, irrigation potential
is presently being assessed, and proposals for irrigation development would be
received during the project-s first year planning exercise.
A. Criteria for Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes
55.       The final decision to build a small-scale irrigation project on
an acquired property to be redistributed would depend on a set of physical,
technical, economic, and social criteria. Each case would be carefully
reviewed in light of existing surveys, additional data to be gathered during
the land acquisition and allotment phase (Annex 1, para 25), and supplementary
studies specific to irrigation. These criteria include:
(a)  Soil Quality.  In addition to general soil surveys, which
already exist or would be carried out for land allotment,
detailed topographic and soil surveys would be conducted
in those areas with good irrigation potential, which would
be initially defined on the basis of photo interpretation.
Particular attention would be paid to the clay content and
moisture retention capacity of the soils in relation to rice
cultivation.
(b)  Hydrological Aspects.  Hydrological aspects of the lower
Parnaiba have already been extensively studied by SUDENE
and DNOCS, with the help of consultants. Nevertheless,
complementary studies would be conducted when needed,
particularly in the gauging of secondary tributaries and
streams affecting selected varzeas.
(c)  Water Requirements.  The water requirements would be calculated
according to the Modified Penman Method following FAO guidelines.
For rice, land preparation requirements would include water
for saturation, evaporation, and percolation. During the
cultivation period, water requirements for percolation losses
would be provided. Overall irrigation efficiency is expected
to be about 50%.
(d)  Economic Criteria.  Each sub-project would be subjected to an
economic rate of return analysis, and no investment would be
made unless the ERR was at least 15%. This 15% floor has been
established considering rice cultivation with doubling cropping
at full development and yields between 2.5 and 3.5 t/ha per
cropping. lIt is expected that most schemes would not exceed
US$5,000 (September 19Vo prices) per 'nectare.  )gsicCa ccatiz-
gencies of 20% would be added to estimated construction costs.



ANNEX 2
- 87 -                          Page 21
(e) Population Density. In order to minimize population relocation
and once other criteria have been met, preference would be
given to irrigation sub-projects where the number of potential
beneficiaries for land redistribution is too high to provide
each family with an "INCRA module" under rainfed farming
conditions. Socio-economic surveys to be carried out for
land acquisition and distribution would provide the basis
for this criteria.
(f)  Beneficiary Participation.  INTERPI, with the assistance
of EMATER, would promote the creation of associations for
future water users. Prior to construction, a written agreement
(convenio) would be established, specifying management arrange-
ments and charges. These associations would be responsible
for collecting water charges and would also constitute an
appropriate channel for technical assistance. In most cases,
it is expected that these associations would carry out operation
and maintenance activities themselves. In cases where this
is not feasible, part of the water charges would be used
to contract private maintenance firms. EMATER-PI would keep
a list of such firms and provide technical assistance to
the associations in choosing appropriate contractors.
B. Organization and Management
56.       The irrigation component would be coordinated by INTERPI's technical
services department, Initial selection of irrigation sites would be carried
out by this department; subsequent feasibility and project studies would
be conducted by consultants selected by INTERPI on the national market.
Initial feasibility studies would be presented to the Bank for approval prior
to the completion of detailed designs and the commencement of construction.
Simultaneously, INTERPI would establish a State Water Commission (SWC) which
would eventually be responsible for reviewing these preliminary studies
and deciding on their adequacy before construction. Such a commission would
be made up of representatives from the State Secretariat of Agriculture,
EMATER, DNOCS, and chaired by the Director of Technical Services of INTERPI.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the commission would be
set up no later than October 1, 1981, and that, unless the Bank otherwise
agrees, feasibility studies for small-scale irrigation schemes would be sent
to the Bank for approval prior to the completion of detailed designs and
implementation of the schemes. Construction of irrigation schemes would be
awarded to private constructors selected on the national market under local
standard competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank.
Operation and maintenance would be the responsibility of a water users
association (para 54). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
these associations would be set up prior to construction. Both the associations
and individual farmers involved would receive technical assistance on proper
water use and management from existing specialized staff within EMATER-PI.



ANNEX 2
- 88 -                          Page 22
C. Irrigation and Water Development Charges
57.       Irrigation and water development charges have been defined according
to federal guidelines prepared by the Ministry of Interior. Under these
guidelines, water charges are the sum of two fees: the first aims to recover
investment capital in relation to farmers' repayment capacity; and the second
is based on operation and maintenance costs and the quantity of water used.
In the case of Piaui, it is expected that investment capital would average
US$3,000/ha and 0 and M about US$128/ha. Annual charges of US$86/ha for
capital recovery and US$128/ha for 0 and M would permit full recovery of the
irrigation component costs over a period of about 35 years at 0% interest with
a three-year grace period in the case of investment recovery. By discounting
both water charges and the development costs plus 0 and M cost over a 35-year
project life at a 12% rate, the ratio of present worth of the charges over the
present worth of costs indicates a cost recovery of about 37%. Assuming an
increase in investment cost up to US$5,000 without changing the above charges,
cost recovery would be about 27%. The rent recovery ratio has been calculated
on the basis of the three farm models with irrigation; it would range between
30% and 40% according to the various expected levels of technology in rice
cultivation. Annual development charges then would average US$86/ha for
recovery and US$128/ha for 0 and M, i.e, US$214/ha/year for irrigated land.
These charges would represent an average of 17% to 20% of the gross value
of rice production on irrigated land assuming a double-cropping and a yield
of 3 t/ha/cycle. These charges are acceptable considering the current and
expected levels of income of the potential beneficiaries, and are in line
with standard practices in irrigation projects in the Northeast (Annex 4).
Charges each year would be established according to the area, farmer's actual
repayment capacity, and the rate of inflation. Before the completion of the
works for each irrigation scheme, the State Water Commission would establish a
set of water charges which would be sent to the Bank for its review. During
negotiations, assurances to this effect were obtained. Charges related to cost
recovery of initial investment would be turned over by the associations to
INTERPI according to pre-established written agreement (para 55(f)).
VI. APPLIED RESEARCH PROGRAM
58.       The proposed applied research program would have six objectives:
(a) to refine, improve, and adapt to the target group existing
advanced technologies for the main existing crops and cattle-
raising, according to the relative importance of each in the
total output of the project. The crop program would particularly
focus on varieties, chemical and organic fertilization, and
plant protection, while the cattle-raising program would focus
on pasture development;
(b)  to monitor the small mechanization program, and improve
and adapt farm implements to local conditions;



ANNEX 2
- 89 -                          Page 23
(c) to test other crop alternatives (sorghum, groundnuts, annual
cotton, soybean) and new intercropping systems with animal
traction;
(d) to test vegetable cultivation (tomatoes, sweet potatoes,
onion, garlic) under irrigation and propose improved technical
packages for home gardening;
(e) to test different alternatives for soil management (minimum
tillage, harrowing, plowing, return of crop residues) and
propose adapted solutions; monitor the soil conservation
program, particularly in relation to land redistribution;
test weed control techniques; and,
(f) to set up a permanent mechanism for continuous transfer of
technology from applied research to extension, with farmers-
participation.
59.       This applied research program would be implemented at four levels:
(a) Experimental Station of Teresina.' This station is located
in the middle of the project area and is representative
of the ecological conditions most commonly found throughout.
Experiments conducted under strictly controlled conditions
would aim at sorting out new techniques for the project area
with a focus on new crops, new varieties, fertilization formulae
and plant protection;
(b) Complementary Sub-stations (Batalha and Sao Pedro de Piaui).
Experiments would permit a first adaptation to conditions
specific to the Delta do Parnaiba and Medio Parnaiba sub-areas.
(c) Experiments at the Farm Level. These experiments would be
conducted with the actual participation of farmers. They
would permit the testing of farmers reaction to, and the
appropriateness and benefits of, the new techniques coming
from the experimental station and sub-stations in order to
gauge any difficulties for possible further diffusion.
(d) Demonstration Fields. These fields would be cultivated by the
farmers themselves under EMATER supervision with the full
application of recommended technical packages. These fields,
although not experimental in the pure sense, would be the
ultimate checking points before mass diffusion.



-90                             ANNEX 2
Page 24
60.       The applied-research program would be coordinated and implemented
by EMBRAPA with the particular support of the regional EMBRAPA experi-
mental station of Petrolina in the area of small mechanization. The EMIBRAPA
research team would be made up of a coordinator and ten assistants, seven of
whom are highly trained agriculturists with research experience and extension
backgrounds. The research team would work very closely with EMATER and
farmers' representatives. Every year a research council, made up of farmers'
representatives, and representatives from EMATER, EMBRAPA, CEPA-PI and the
Project Unit, would meet together to review the results of the first research
campaign, to sort out techniques ready to be disseminated to farmers and to
decide on the research program for the following campaign. The total cost of
this experimentation program over the five-year project period (1981-1986) is
estimated at about Cr$ 134.3 million (US$2.4 million) as detailed in Annex 3.
VII.  FARM BUDGETS
61.       From the three basic farm models designed for owner-operators,
land beneficiaries, and landless farmers (para 39-40), ten cases have been
analyzed to test project recommendations. These cases were defined in relation
to levels of mechanization (manual cropping and animal traction), levels of
crop technology (intermediate and high) and the presence or absence of irrigated
land. The analyses were done under the assumption that the traditional
cropping system (rice, corn, beans, and manioc) would continue, but would
gradually improve through the introduction of a mixed farming system with
the complementary development of cattle raising. It is likely, however,
that some crop diversification would modify these traditional intercroppings
through the introduction of new crops as a result of the applied research
component. In each of the ten cases, the proposed land improvements, coupled
with simple technical packages to be extended under the project, were found
to be highly profitable for target farmers, even though the rate of adoption
and the time required to attain full development have been cautiously estimated
(limited expectation of crop increases during project's first years and about
10 years to reach full development). The most illustrative farm situations
among the ten are presented in Annex 4.
62.       Comparison of the with and without project situation for the
illustrative farm models shows the potential for income generation related
to project activities. For land beneficiaries, net farm family income would
rise from Cr$50,000 (US$900) to an average of Cr$210,000 (US$3,750) in rainfed
agriculture, and to an average of Cr$235,000 (US$4,200) with an additional
1 ha plot of irrigated land. For owner-operators, net farm family income
would rise from Cr$100,000 (US$1,800) to an average Cr$230,000 (US$4,100).
For the landless beneficiaries, the expected increase of family income is
substantially lower, from Cr$50,000 (US$900) to Cr$70,000 (US$1,250). This
limited increase is explained by their limited investment capacity and their
continued dependence on landlords; progress would result from the introduction
of some low-cost improved technology (improved seeds, early planting, and
better marketing).  Average results for the ten cases are presented i-n
Table 8.3 in the main text.



ANNEX 2
-91-                            Page 25
63.       Employment.  As a result of the developments proposed under the
project, primary agricultural employment is expected to increase substantially.
At full development, annual labor requirements on target farms would reach
about 56,000 man-years, an increase of about 20,650 man-years, or about
58% over present labor use. The extent to which these requirements could
be met by family labor would vary significantly according to season and
farm size. On average, some 70% would come from family labor, with the
remainder hired within the Vale do Parnaiba area. The main employment effect
of the project would be a fuller, more evenly distributed utilization of
current labor resources available in the project area.
VIII. PRODUCTION ESTIMATES
64.       Based on the farm survey carried out by the project preparation
team in the project area, the estimated pre-project value of production
for the target group in 1980 was about US$12.8 million, of which 41% came
from rice, 40% from manioc, 11% from corn, 5% from beans, and 3% from cattle-
raising. It is likely, in line with recent experience, that without the
project the total production of the target group would remain at roughly
the current level, since the implementation of possible improvements in
crop technologies would be severely limited by the present land tenure
situation and partially nullified by the current process of soil erosion and
depletion.
65.       Incremental production under the project has been estimated based
on the evolution of the ten farm models. Excluding small-animal husbandry
and vegetable production, the incremental annual output would be equivalent
to US$32 million, bringing the total value of production to about US$44.8
million annually at full development. This increase would result mainly
from an increase in cultivated area (more than 100%) and to a lesser extent
from improvements in crop technologies (about 80% for rainfed rice).
66.       Most of the value of incremental output is expected to come from
rice (49%), manioc (28%), and beef (15%), with the remaining 8% coming from
corn and beans. A summary of production targets and the incremental value
of production is presented in Table 7.1 of the main text.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUIJ RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - VALE DO PARNAIBA
Table 1 - Climatic Data
Subareas                             Delta do Parnaiba                   Teresina             Medlo Parnaiba
Municipalities                     Parnaiba        Batalha         Uniao         Teresina        Amarante
Average monthly tempe-   Max   27.1 (Sept.)   28.80(Oct.)   28.8 (Sept.)   29.2 (Oct.)   30.3 (Oct.)
rature (celsius)          Min   25.70(Mar.)    26.50(Mar.)   260  (Mar.)    26.10(Mar.)   26.9 0(Feb.)
Average monthly rela-    Max   75.7 (Apr.)    82.6 (Mar.)   85.3 (Mar.)    85.2 (Mar.)   82.1 (Feb.)
tive humidity (%)         Min   62.3 (Oct.)    63.3 (Nov.)   59.2 (Sept.)   56.3 (Sept.)  45.0 (Sept.)
Average annual rainfall (mm)  1,234             1,615          1,562           1,353          1,196
Variation coefficient (%)          48              34             40              27              16
ETo (MM)
Average annual              1,876           1,843          1,844           1,864          1,967
Average monthly       Max    126              125.1          115.6           118.3          125.4
Average monthly       Min    189.5            188.2          196.4           201.8          209.4
Average length gf usable
growing season  a (no. days)                      178                            160            192
/b
Probability Tor sowing
before:  Dec. 1                                 0.14                           0.27           0.68
Jan. 1                                0.57                           0.70            0.85
Feb. 1                                0.97                           1.00            0.98
/a ETo reference coop evapotranspiration calculated according to PENMAN's formula.
/b  Define as the period during which available stored water covers at least 50% of ETo.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - VALE DO PARNAIBA
Soil Data /a
Area of                                                      Suitability for Agriculture          Unsuitable
E-vaiated Propcrtcz                                               Good        Medium          Low
MUNICIPALITIES           (ha)                       Type of Soils                (ha)  (%)   (ha)  (%)    (ha)  (Z)    (ha)   (Z)
3,000          Brown fine loam sand                        -        1,000   34   1,000  33       1,000  33
(Medio Parnal-            150          White sandy soil                            -           50   33        30  20         70  47
ba Subarea)             2,400           Rocky soil                                  -                        900  38      1,500  62
900          Sandy yellowish latosols                    -          600   67        -            300  33
200          Rocky soil                                               - -         150  67          50  33
1,250          Brown sandy latosol                                      -           700  56         550  44
2,600          Brown sandy loam                            -        1,250   48   1,250  48          100   4
(Medio Parnai-          3,000           Red latosol                   (900 ha)     -           600   67      200  22        100  11
ba Subarea)                             Brown & red sandy soils   (2,100 ha)        -            -         1,400  67        700  33 U
1,050          Red latosol                    (400 ha)     -            -           350  87          50  13
Yellow sandy latosol          (650 ha)     -             -           300  46        350  54
90u          Red latosol                   (900 ha)      -            -           400  45         500  55
1,350          Brown sandy latosol                       100  7       500   37      400  30         350  26
Batalha (Delta         16,500           Light brown arenosol        (2,500 ha)      -            -         1,000  40      1,500  60
do Parnalba                             Reddish sandy latosol       (2,000 ha)      -        1,500   75      500  25
Subarea)                                Yellow sandy latosol        (1,000 ha)      -          500   50      500  50          -
White and gray arenosol  (11,000 ha)        -                     1,000  27       8,000  73
TOTAL                  33,300                                                     100  0.3  6,000   18  12,080  36.3  15,120  45.4
/a Source: P. Arens, FAO, Soil evaluation before acquisition.
t-II



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - VALE DO PARNAIBA
Soil Reconnaissance on Four Municipalities /a
BATALHA           PALMEIRAS        REGENERACAO          AMARANTE
(Delta do Parnafba  (Medio Parnaiba  (Medio Parnalba  (Medio Parnaiba    Total Four
Municipalities                  Subarea)            Subarea)          Subarea)           Subarea)      Municipalities
Total area (ha)   -          (ha)         173,100            151,600            178,600           115,000           618,300
Mesa land and                (ha)          57,100            101,600            134,000            80,500           373,200
slope land                 (%)               33                 67                 75                70                60
Suitable for agriculture (ha)           41,500              45,500            92,900             57,500          237,400
(%)               24                 30                 52                50                38
Unsuitable                 (ha)          15,600             56,100            41,100             23,000           135,800
(%)                9                 37                 23                20                22
Lowlands                     (ha)         116,000             50,000             44,600            34,500           245,100
(%)               67                 33                 25                30                40
Suitable for agriculture (ha)           31,200              36,400            26,800             23,000          117,400
(%)               18                 24                 15                20                19
Unsuitable        it       (ha)         84,800              13,600            17,800             11,500           127,700
(%)               49                  9                 10                10                21
Total area
Suitable for agriculture (ha)           72,700              81,900           119,700             80,500          354,8Q0
(%)               42                 54                 67                70                57
Unsuitable                 (ha)        100,400              69,700            58,900             34,500          263,500
(%)               58                 46                 23                30                43
La  Souc:  Soil map and estimate by R. Morel, World Bank consultant.
m1



-95-                               ANNEX 2
Table 4
NORTIEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - VALE DO PARNAIBA
MEDIO PARNAIEA SUBAREA
Present Land Use on Six Properties to be Acquired /a
Properties
A      B       C       D       E      F     Total
Properties' total area (ha)  2,400  1,350  3,000  1,150  1,050  2,600  11,550
Area under cropping    (ha)    330        95      45    100       50     20      640
(%)      14       7       1      9       5       1     5.5
Area under temporary   (ha)        30      -       -       -       -     20       50
pasture                  (%)        1      -       -       -       -      1      0.5
Area under forest        (ha)    480  1,120  2,340    230    370  2,340   6,880
(%)      20      83      78     20      35      90    59.5
Area under fallow (al- (ha)  1,440    135    600    805    630    210   3,820
ready cropped in past) (%)         60     10      20      70     60       8    33.0
Area cleared for next  (ha)    360        95      30    115       50     20      670
cropping season          (%)       15      7       1      10       5    0.8      5.8
Area suitable for        (ha)  1,600  1,000  2,000    .00    650  2,500   8,550
agriculture              (%)       67     74      67      70     62      96       74
Area unsuitable for    (ha)    800    350  1,000    350    400    100   3,000
agriculture              (%)       33     26      33      30      38      4       26
Area under cropping/
area suitable            (%)    20.6    9.5    2.2   12.5    7.6    0.8          7.4
Area cleared/area
suitable                 (%)    22.5    9.5    1.5   14.3    7.6    0.8          7.8
Number of families
(moradores)                       18       1       5      16     13       5       58
/a Source: Survey by the Project Preparation Unit.



- 96 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - VALE DO PARN'AIBA
Land Use Compared with Farm Size and Technology
(1980 Survey on 179 Farms)
Average
Total    Cropped Area    Cropped Area       Cropped Area/
Number     Per Farm    Per Active Worker   Total Area
Surveyed       (ha)             (ha)               (M)
Owner-Operators
Total area < 10 ha         17           5.36            1.23            About 80
10 ha < A < 25 ha          32           5.81            1.53               33
25 ha < A c 50 ha          22           5.26            1.96               14
50 ha  A < 100 ha         30          10.50            2.55               14
Large Landlords
A ) 1,000 ha                6         107                  -                 7.4
Owner-Operators
Manual cropping            69           5.75            1.48
Animal traction             4           5.65            1.46
Tractor renting            28          10.26            3.02
Landless
Manual cropping            68           2.98            1.08
Animal traction             3           4.64            1.55
Tractor renting             7           4.75            1.33
Total owner-operators    101            6.99            1.87
Total landless             78           3.20            1.12



- 97 -                       ANNEX 2
Table 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - VALE DO PARNAIBA
Target Group and Land Use
Subareas            Delta do Parnaiba  Teresina  Medio Parnalba   Total
Target Group La
Total number of farmers          23,080         19,250        11,640        53,970
Landless farmers                 19,640         16,590         8,950        45,180
Total owner-operators
(0-100 ha)                       3,440           2,660         2,690         8,790
0- 10 ha                         760            520           700         1,980
10- 25 ha                         890            630           680         2,200
25- 50 ha                         860            740           630         2,230
50-100 ha                         930            770           680         2,380
Total Large Landlords
Farms > 100 ha                    1,520          1,230           930         3,680
Land Use
Total area (ha'000)               1,065.3          753.1         614.7       2,433.1
Total area suitable for
agriculture (ha'000)/b            746            527           430         1,703
Total cropped area by
the target group
(ha'000)                           77.2           63.9          41.1         182.2
Rice (eithee pure or in
association - ha'000)              77.2           63.9          41.1         182.2
Corn                                 58.6           48.5          31.2         138.3
Manioc    Associated /c              54.7           45.2          29.1         129.0
Cotton    rice (ha'000)              11.3            9.4           6.0          26.7
Beans  /rc(hOO)8.7                                   7.2           4.6          20.5
% cropped land by target
group compared to
total area suitable/d
for agriculture                    10             12             9            10.6
/a  Source:  INCRA data 1977 reviewed by Prepa-:ation Unit.
/b  On the basis of 70% land suitable for agrirzulture.
Ic  Crop associations estimated on the basis of% crop frequency: rice (100%),
corn (75.9%), manioc (70.8%), cotton (14.7%), beans (11.3%). These
coefficients also come from the survey on 179 farmers.
/d  This estimate is likely to be close to the actual percentage of total
cropped land versus total area suitable for agriculture, given the
infrequency of direct cropping by large landlords.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED YIELDS AND YEARLY INPUT COEFFICIENTS
WITHOUT PROJECT                                  WITH    PROJECT
Low Technology      Medium Technology    High Technology
Unit                                     Manual Cultivation      Animal Traction       Animal Traction
YIELD                ton/ha
INTERCROPPING
. Rice            ton/ha             0.7                            1.0                   1.25                  1.5       0
. Corn                               0.3                            0.4                   0.5                   0.6       %
. Beans                              0.2                            0.3                   0.4                   0.6
. Manioc (2nd yr.)  "                4.0                            7.0                  11.0                  15.0
INPUTS
. Seeds            Kg          (30R +5C + 6B)                 (40R + 5C + 6B)      (40R + 5C + 6B)        (40R + 5C +6B)
. Cuttings         m3                3                              3                     3                     3
. Fertilizer       Kg
- Urea                                                         47                    70                   100
- S-Phospate                                                   27                    40                    60
- YCL                                                          20                    30                    40
. Insecticide      1.                                               1.5                   1.5                   1.5
I' >C



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                    ANNEX 3
Table 1
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
(CR$ Millions)/!a
PY 1             PY 2              PY 3           PY 4            PY 5            Total/b
Land                                  208.8              270.9             258.6          162.2          36.5              937.0
Land Purchasing                      93.0               85.0              80.0           -             -                258.0
Land Demarcation
& Titling                          37.8               80.9              80.9           75.6           2.5             277.7
Land Institute (INTERPI)             78.0              105.0              97.7           86.6          34.0             401.4
Agricultural Development              148.8              370.3             344.6          328.5         165.5           1,357.9
Applied Research                     26.9               28.5              27.7           26.4          24.6              134.3
Extension                            74.6              101.1             124.3          129.7         120.2             549.9
Seed Production                       4.2               28.9              16.9            3.5          -                 53.5
Marketing                            38.3               67.0              30.8           28.9          20.7              185.7
Small-Scale Irrigation                4.8              144.8             144.9          140.0                           434.5
Fisheries Development                  35.8               31.4              28.7           29.8          29.5              155.2
Social And Physical
Infrastructure                      117.6              271.3             198.7          213.2         148.8             949.7
Rural Roads                          76.3              190.3              96.3           99.7          40.9             503.5
Water Supply                         34.6               58.2              77.4           90.1          94.5              354.8
Education                             6.7               22.8              25.0           23.4          13.4               91.4
Project Administration                 25.9               24.6              32.0           25.6          32.0              140.1
(includes monitoring
& evaluation)
Total Baseline Costs                  536.9              98.5              862.6          759.3         412.3            3,540.0
Physical Contingencies                 18.9               65.4              59.0           58.1          20.0             221.4
Price Contingencies                    43.0              177.4             247.1          299.4         201.1             968.0
Total Costs                           598.8            1,211.3           1,168.8        1,116.8         633.4           4,729.1
/a September 1980 Prices
/t Discrepancy in totals due to rounding.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                        ANNEX 3
Table 2
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - LAND AGGREGATION
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(Cr$ '000)
(Sept. 1980 Prices)
PY 1      PY 2       PY 3      PY 4       PY 5       TOTAL       F.E.       %F.E.
Cost      Cost       Cost      Cost       Cost       Cost       (Sept. 80 Price)
I       Land Purchasing                        93,000      85,000    80,000       -          -       258,000       -          -
II      Photo Restitution and
Demarcation for Land Acquired          35,333.5   35'333.5  35,333    30,000                 136,000    16,320       12
III     Titling for Land Acquired               2,500       5,000     5,000      5,000    2,500        20,000     1,000        5
IV      Photo Restitution and
Demarcation for Land Discrimination       -       38,667    38,667    38,667         -       116,001    13,920        12
v       Titling for Land Discriminated            -         1,900      1,900     1,900       -          5,700       285        5
VI   . INTERPI
A. Capital                              5,747       3,685        50        -      5,793       15,275      5,041       33
B. Operating Costs                      1,435       1,953     1,953      1,953    1,953        9,247      1,457      16
C. Training and Technical
Assistance                          25,840     12,000      8,320      6,600    2,680       55,440     5,994       11
D. Staff                               44,956     87,406    87,406    78,075   23,592        321,435    34,767       11
Total Baseline Costs                          208,811.5  270,944.5 258,629   162,195   36,518        937,098    713,78         8
u.s. Equivalent (US$'000)                       3,728.8    4,838.3   4,618.4   2,896.3    652.1    16,733.9   t.046.9          8
Physical Contingencies                            336         259        77         75       364       1,111        314       28
TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS                         209,147.5  271,203.5 258,706   162,270   36,882        938,209    79,098        8
U. S. Equivalent (US$'000)                      3,734.8    4,842.9   4,619.7   2,897.7    658.6    16,753.7  1,412.5           8



(Cr7  '800)               SLOCt. ~~1980 PSs
00  1  CS        2              CA         3              CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   4  CS  0                untp..                                   AP
- LntsIOIItCss                         3~~~~    ~     ~            ~           ~~~~~,250  51SO  0,5,0      02       09450--001                                                                     363301213
1, VEhiClES                   1         000~~~~     ~     ~~~     ~~~~~,00  16  A,800,003  16  A,600,000      16      4,005,00            8     2,400,000           -                         5b     00,800,000           5,590            33
0, ToOt of onTo             OntO        ~~~~~~~         ~~~45,0  0 000      00        7       5500              7        35,O             1        0002             -        -AS                       ,8,00tE0
3. lanslI sgrSn.  eqolpoena  inn  10,000          04           OAO~~~~~~          ~ ~~~~~,000  A  A0,000  A      40,00           4          A0,000          -        -O                          t,O                  55
A. Auiooi-l snisnl                        In0.50                        0           41000                    2100                      9,2             1          0,0                   -0                          1t,95,00              510
5. Afti-aolnotlt                                       090                          356,500        7        33,O                       S,3                      305,401           -                         0       14040                  l             33
6.  o - Cnnn.in,015             ion~~~~~1.  A1,500             5          000,500        5        090,50           0        29,000           2         Ouon              -                       2          3,00073
01.  EOIHnOAL A-SITAILE &T5001118
* InAoAsl Etojotni           1         ~~~~~~~          ~    ~        ~~20,500  1  000,000  ON  t0,0OO       29        652,500           Al       LO50             4          0002O ,5,0
-Aioo   .rOO...  lO...                             70                0           0 1 .00..-                                    -           -                                 -           -              40         20'0'70
- APn..pSInI5NC  (00 45)  0         7,030             5           58,000        0         At300           2         oLon             2        OA,500                                      3A       001,7500
- NpotoIlnOInn(00 4.)  1 5,730       81           45,750       90        5A,750         125         141,70         1n        0t75            5           3,0            6014     3,EEO
AI-,ososlssLon04(110. La.               1            .0              2            2,0          3         AnASEl         l2t        40,               7       2000            8           9,0            1         ,5,0
n/ tool  ,1                                    -                         4149 SOE      -1      13 AAO 70       12          743             -        8.t0605          -       .7   0           -        no    5             1323             1
n . Onnooltont        nontb       290,000             5          OAO,E00        2        500,000          1        ono,oEO           A       281,000          1         000,000 I6    2,OAE,ES6O                       556905
-         40lsno  .nln        I00             00      00                 421000        E117,00                   7        6,10,02          21       .9.00           00        110,0              6       5,4n0
si IlsifliAs             OCT42~~~~.-   92800            40          3A0,000       90        700,000        10       -,0,000           it      0,40,000         OC       1,00,000           60       53A60,00
-, tL 1 nol 0,,4   0  2n8s0  0.                                                                                                                                                                                      00o0
Mo.  845,471   1          040.471        0        845~~~~ ~ ~          ~~~~~,4739NS47 5,0,471                          1        8A5,377         -         ,073500. 
* NobjIot 0.1. n2stlaAtnt  No.  778.469          4          5~~~~~~~~29-9,01/  4    60.10.75                 ,6,7                     5,1-3115174               5,413 ,07A                i3,7A.75A7            1,109
0. I       tnLsIITnoto
... ,Ea  dlssnsl                N.         567,444             0         061, 56470 0.           14,59,A           10     0,04,45            00        6,80932         14      7,44,0 71                 07,000               2,8
lotisi Assistant   No.        560,444             5        0,312. 78570    4~~~           ~ 0,10,774  5      0137,014           A4      .0.i                     5,2010                    13 70,4               ,4. 
- A83    OniossAntisl  Mn.  517,444  03  IS,1A1,99170    05    86, 196,817       05     14,106,007          26   06,Nl6,007          03    14,186,007           -      69,Eit,313 0D94:      0,01819.8
- at.  Otn   --nT              Ho.        37':41,3            1 9           I 9.520.6497    Ad    IS,4S,407      t      0000,10              O    200 0.51             3A   20N3,19 .                   00,015,50 4,00597-
TO Ao8oi-OI sAn.-                   N.          07511:04                  1  2601,33070       1       2:17,51211           1    217,002      1             0 17,312         0        71,12 7   4:    -        1036 378493,5
SttIS -(ton                    8.          11,1- 1N.1601.5,50                                                      1         5,70                      5,0 305,37n                              -5        1:721,88                1.
- As400. sdsAnlsot.     nn.        261,1~~     ~     ~~~41  0      0037                   785,00          2.        70518,0007                OS,9087         25   715,186    7                  19,S455                39.             9
O  atasC   7Minn                  o          2,S            560,00570 56911~                       11,111,57       12      14512              1       ,8,8              E       04002             -        0139550.9
toO 002111 A~~~1tsAsn0  No.         10,00              05        067,7/          0          5575           0       3,04,93            38    3,7,23             33      33063                       40790               1,321. 97
toNs 1-.1  2.0 SoI 15              -          7                 2         4,7 4.0         -       191   9 421019.                  69                94,2 0 31.9               77.179, 211 9             l9Xtl01-              3082.
0s1 ChanTs. (074 of Inlotoss)    -  .          -~~~~~~~~2  9174.010.64     2    11719,459           4      2087,037 4                00,73,88            6    1L,071.5261         -       70,66165 34           0,300.9           9
Innots  for Tan  lions & On tooo  0'.    -~~I             63          55,003550,2                             15        050,000         00      2.045.00         01         88500           -         365000                 399
O    lfo   loot -s                       On.         3 12,"       51,002  13       LOO,000              2  08 540,00      2 5 0   3060.079230600                               26 39n3023033                      3,00300 -                            0
P    ENnuNLARN,.                                           -             63           350,000       -5       000,00         15         480,000          Os    L.400000          21          400,000                  3 ,000,000            1290
Y~hkl   ~ ,1.    L18,17                                          36        714,15470       52 10  10,564684                 104,215,563         76  100uL4O,920                 13,50,9A20          .0     549,836,309          6,29In  4         i
E,o,-nslli-in5l0                                             13           0,350        18        21,80                     20,270           26            ,-         26           ,000          10        01,275                1.1           10
P4oAs LCEISiliT70                                     -             .            t4,00OO       .      14004,000          -         956 ,000          -       477,0200                  4.,00                    40,n0 00            1,34             90
EnTOnATOl 70101 00003                   -            .          7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.5340,729  -    00  130,4546  -    11330105           I .    137,55 _,47       _120 80,1401                 549.19 tOO           6t2,014.          11
4. 1.  Eqolos Iso,       -             .             .          0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~134513   1,82,09            ,4,1 22,330,408                                    0,13,30           .        0dO .80,012.8                        11
/83 . 1541 bodostlO  fot  oil  ~   Ears.,aa of ONtAnE osts24.0                             560                                                                           ,S,0               1),
7. ISOoTO,AondS4oNl.i, o.OooOIO           48l7,C.i   ~11   11-






ANNEX 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                                       Table 5
PTAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEED PRODUCTION - PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS AND COSTS
(Cr$'000)                      (September 80 Price)
Unit      PY I          PY 2          PY3           PY 4                          otal
____             No.  Cost   no.   Cost  No.   Cost   No.   Coat   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost                FE.        %F.E.
I.   Capital Costs
A. Construction
Seed Storage Facilities
Project Prep          600    1      600    1      600    1      600    -                            3    1800          600         33
*  Civil Works         11400    -        -    2   22800    1   11400    -          -    -        -    3   34200        11,399         33
B.  Equipment
IHumidity Conitrol     70    1       70    1       70    1       70    -        -    -        -    3      210           70         33
Seed Sampler            4    3       12    -        -    -        -    -        -    -        -    3       12            4         33
*  Dryer & Selector      600    -        -    2    1200    1       600                                 3    1800          60Q         33
Total Capital Costs:                        682        24670         12670                                      38022       12.673         33
I1. Seed Subsidies
Rice -         kms.         175   2404   280   2885   420   2885   701   2408   387           -         10582
*  Corn            kma.          87   1107   139   1326   209   1329   349   1110   492          -          4872
Total Subsidies:                          3511          4211          4214           3518             -         15454
Baseline Cost                             4193         28881         16884          3518              -         53476       12,673         24
US Equivalent                                74.975       515.7         301.5          62.8           -           954.9        226.3       24
Physical Contingencies-/                      5         3480          1740              -             -          5225        1,834         35
TOTAL COST:                            4198         32361         18624          3518              -        58701       14,507          25
US Equivalent:                           75.0         577.9         332.5          62.8                       1048.2        259.1       25
I/ Basis: difference between seed production cost and grain from-gate price Cr$13.74/Kg (December 1980).
PY 1/100% subsidy of this difference, PY 2/75%, PY 3/50%, PI 4/25%, PY 5/0%.
2/  Basis:  difference between seed production cost and grain frot-gate price Cr$12.72/Kg (December 1980).
PY 1/100% subsidy of this difference, PY 2/75%, PY 3 50%, PY 4/25%, PY 5/0%.
3/ 15% of IA and 5% of IB.



NORTREAST BRAZIL                                                                        ANNEX 3
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 Table 6
MARKETING-AGGREGATION
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(Sept, 1980 Prices)
PY I        PY 2        PY 3        PY 4        PY 5                Total
Cr$'000             US$'000       F.E.        %F.E.
A.  Prov1 ton of Marketing Information
- Prelifninary Study (CEPA)                 7,958            -                       -           -      7,958                142.1    1,057          13
- Maraeting Information System (SIM&)    2,900          3,937       3,561       3,562       3,561    17,521                  312.9    2,027          12
SUBTOTAL                               10,858       3,937       3,561       3,562       3,561    25,479                 455.0    3,084           12
B.  Provi31'n of Inptuts
- CIDAPT                                    3,360       8,000       4,425       4,425          425    20,635                 368.5    6,262          30
- cOOPeratives                                  -         425         850         850            -     2,185                  38.0       708         33
SUfTOTAL                                3,360       8,425       5,275       5,275         425    22,760                 406.5    6,970           31
C.  Marketing of Agricultural Production
- COBAl                                     2,000       7,360      11,668      14,976      12,924    48,928                 873.7
- C.operatives                              7370        3,250       3250             -           -    13,870                247.7
SUTO rAL                                9,370      10,610      14,918      14,976      12,924    62,798               1,121.4   10,130           17                 O
D.  Provi,aon of Basic Food Items (COBAL)                  35,000                        -           -    35,000                 625.0   11,550          33
E.  Tech,ieal Asaistance to Cooperatives
(OCEPt)                                    12,718       6,617       4,632       2,646       1,323    27,936                 498.8    2,768          10
F.  MarktLing Coordinatioo                      1,963       2,436       2,436       2,435       2,436    11,706                  209.0    1,234          11
Esacmated Baseline Costs:
TOTAL Cr$'000                          38,269     60,025      30,882       28,894      20,669   185,679               3,315.7   35,736          19
US$'000                             683.4    1,196.9       550-4        516.0       369.0   3,315.7                           638.4       19
Physical contingencies:                           628       3,957         552          392         103                                    1,521          27
ESTT14ATCD TOTAL COSTS:
Cr$'000                38,897     70.982      31.374       29,286      20,772   191,311                            2
US$'000                   694.6    10267,5        560,2       523.0       370.9   3,416.3                          665,3        19



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              ANNEX 3
IRRIGATION COMPONENT    -    ESTIMATED  COSTS
(C$000)                             (September 1980 Prices)
PY 1         PY 2          PY 3          PY 4          PY 5          Total
Unit   Unit   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost                F.E.         ZF.E.
Cost
I - Feasibili y         ha    9.66   500   4830   500    4830  500    4830                                1500  14490         2,174            15
Study 11
I1 - Civil Works2/      ha  280.0    -             500  140000  500  140000  500  140000  -        -      1500 420000       139,986            33
BME Line Costs                              4830         144830       144830        140000         -           434490       142,160            33
US Equivalent                               86.2         2586.3       2586.2        2500.0                     7758.7       2,538.6          33
Physical
Contingencies /                           -             28000        28000         28000         -            84000        27720             33    an
Total Costs:                                4830         172830        172830       168000         -           518490       169880             33
US Equivalent:                              86.2         3086.3        3086.2       3000.0       -             9258.7       3033.6           33
1/ 3.45% of Civil Works - Studies to be carried out by consultants.
2/ Basis: Varzea-type situation - US$3,000-4,000 with 22% for protection dikes, 44% for main canal network,
22% for distributories, and 12% for pumping stations.
Upland irrization with tubewells - US$3,000-4,000 with 30% for deep tubewells, 35% for main distributory
network, 23% for plot distributory, and 12% for pumping station.
3 20% of II



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                       ANNEX 3
-Table 8
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Total Costs
Fisheries-Aggregation
(Cr$ '000)
(Sept. 1980 Price)
PY  1       PY  2         PY  3         PY  4         PY  5         TOTAL         F.E.      %F.E.
I .xtension/ Technical
Assistance                14,028.4      21,749.9      22,545.3     24,094.6      23,772.6    106,190.8    14,867          14
II   gesearch/Experiment       11,522.7       5,856.8     3,351.0        3,351.0       3,351.0      27,432.5      4,115        15
III   Training Unit              2,000.0         -           -              -             -           2,000.0         120        6
IV . consulting                 5,376.0       2,508.8     1,433.6   -  1,075.2         1,075.2      11,468.8      1,835        16
V . Admsinistration            1,328.2       1,328.2     1,328.2        1,328.2       1,328.2       6,640.8        664        10
VI . Cooperative
Admainistration            1,509.3         -           -              -             -           1,509.3        151        10
Total Baseline Costs      35,764.6     31,443.6    28,658.1        29,849.0      29,527.0    155,242.3    21,752          14
Physical Contingencies       380.4          45.8        25.8           10.1           9.1         471.2         65        14
TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS    36,145.0      31,489.4    28,683.9        29,859.1      29,536.1    155  713.5    21,817         14



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
1INUF'X 3
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       Tabble 9
FEEDER ROADS
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS & COSTS (CrS '000)
Unit      Unit            P Y    I               P Y    2                P Y    3               P Y    4                P Y     5               T O T A L
Cost       No  Uit    Ct          No. Units -  Cost      So. Units -  Cost      No. Units -   Cost      No. Units - Cost        No. Units - Cost    F.E.          7T.E.
I CAPITAL COSTS
A. Construction
1. Road Construction         Km      400              66      26.4                    68.9                   77.8                    80.6                   37.0                 324.9       108.3        33
and Improvement          Emm      142             52.7      7.5
K.5    192             139.3    26.7
2. Design                    K.       21             408        8.6                   10.6                   10.1                    10.1                                          39.4       13.1        33
3. Supervision               E.       18.7           258       4.8                     7.3                    8.4                     9.0                    3.9                   33.4       11.1        33
Subtotal                                                          74.0                   86.8                   96.3                    99.7                   40.9                  397.7      132.6         33
S. Equipment
1. Tractor Dozers
75/100 hp                 1    3.365                                      3        10.1                                                                                                     3.4        33
2. Motorgraders
125 hp                    1    3,713                                      3       11.1                                                                                                      3.7        33
3. F.E. Loaders
100 hp                    1    3,577                                      3       10.7                                                                                                      3.6        33
4. Rollers
(Self-Prop.)              1    1,672                                     3         5.0                                                                                                      1.7        33
5. Water Trucks              1    1,050                                      3         3.2                                                                                                     1.1        33
6. FPol Trucks               1    1,000                                      2         2.0                                                                                                      .7        33
7. Dump Trucks               1    1,000                                     26        26.0                                                                                                     8.7        33
8. Flat-Bed Trucks           1    2,000                                      2         4.0                                                                                                     1.3        33
9. Lob. Units T.oed          1       700                                     3         2.1                                                                                                      .7        33
10. Pickups                   1       300                                     3          .9                                                                                                      ,3        33
11. Spores 30%                                                                         22.8                                                                                                     7.6        33
12. Hand Tools for
Road Maintenance          Lot      14.4                                  26          .4                                                                                                      .1        33
13. Soils Laboratory          I         1.0                                   1         1.0                                                                                                      .3        33
Subtotal                                                                                101.2                                                                                        101.2       33.7         33
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                                                     188.0                    9s.3                   99.7                     .9                  498.9      166 .3        33
II . TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
TRAINING   i
A. DER Supervisory
1. Engineer                  1    1,000               90         .90                    .90                                                                                                     .02       12
2. Driver                    1       600              90         .54                    .54                                                                                                     .01        9
3. Classroon Supplies        Lot                                 .32                    .32                                                                                                     .01       12
4. Training for Foremen    1          26.3            36         .683                   .683                                                                                                    .08        6
TOTAL TRAINING COSTS                                                .859                    .859                                                                                       1.6         .12         8
III . OPERATING COSTS
A. Salaries
Maintenance Tech.             1      279               3         .837                   .837                                                                                                    .15        9
B. Transportation                1      120               3         .360                    .360                                                                                                   .06        9
C. Labor for Field Demo.
of Maint. Operations         1                                   .45                    .45
D. Equipment for Dema.
and Operations Expenses                                          .240                   .240                                                                                                    .06        9
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                              1.5                    1.5                                                                                          3.0          .27        9
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                              76.3                  190.3                    96.3                   99.7                   40.9                  503.5      166.69       3'
Physical Contingencies /a                                         11.100                 18.080                 14.445                  14.995                  6.135                 64.715     22          34
ESTIMATED TOTAL COSTS                                             87.4                  208.4                  110.7                   114.7                    47.0                 566.2      188.69       33
U.S. Equivalent                                                    1.56                   3.72                   1.97                    2.04                     .839                10.1        3.37       33
/a 15T of I.A and 57. of I.B



Tablel IT
N E R T H E A R    T     B RA Z I L
P I A U I       R U R A L        D E V E L O P M E N T         P R O J E C T
W A T E R       S U P P L Y
P H Y S I C A L        R E Q U I R E    R E N T S      &       CO S T S         (CR S 000
PY I                         PY 2                         PY 3                            PY  4                       PT 5                   T O T A L
UNIT         UNIT COST      NO. UNITS    COST            NO. UNITS    COST            NO. UNITS       COST             NO, UNITS    COST           NO. UNITS   COST          NO. UNITS    COST             P.
I.  Capital Cost5
A. CeestPOctCRe
1. Rater RAPP'E 8yste=y
a   Undergfed.  S.t               System        751.5             if          13527           40           30060            35           26303              40          30060           40          30060          175         134000        44662            33
a.  Dder0"%.1am
Memo -0    -                               2               2               4.0
Srf                           Sstem         503                -              -             -                          50            15030              it)         15030           10          15030          30           45090        15020            33
c. V.rio                                                                                                                                   9-91090  2181  o  19D         212                         2182                        9544         3101            33
SUBTOTAL                                                                     1S617                         32241                         43242                          47272                      47272                       188644        62875            33
2.  L-05dfie-                     La-ndry       120               20           2400           40            4800           45             5400              50           6000           50           6000         205           24600         Dl-19           33
3. WEter CoEmeoEena               W.C.           50              20            1000           40            2000           45             2250              50           2f00           50           2500         205           10250         3416            33
TOTAL CoNETRUCTION                                                         22017                         39041                         50892                          55772                      55772                      223494         74491            33
TOTAL. ONSTRICITO0
B.  VeM61l"5                      P. Car        350                1            350             -              -             -               -               -               -           -              -            1            350           117           33
1   P. C5r                        Truck         750               2            1500            1             750            3             1500               3           3250            2           530           10            7590         _500            33
2.T&L   TrUICLS                                                                1f850                         750                          1500                           2250                        1500                       7DUD0         2616            33
TOTAL VEHRICLE,
1C RM E        m        tors                                                    204                          40S                           460                            510                         510                        2092          697            33
2:  l_11I TOlS                                                                   50                          125                          1123                            125                         125                         330          1R3            33
3.  FOREst5 TolsFilter                        725             1400            1015         2475            1794         2475             1794           2475            1794         2475           1794       1130             f19l        2730            33
4   FuMnWiur/EfElcs Equipenet                                                    60                           10            -              _                                -                        _                             7D                         33
4.TA  EumntiT                                                                    21329                        2337                          2379                            2429                       2429                       IDRO          3634
TOTAL CQEAPTALCOS                                                                 25,395196                    421S2                         54771                           60451                      59E71                      242247        00741             33
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                                            7                                                         9 
II.  Opetti-ttig cot
A.  Slari-
aI  RamfiflY Reolmeer             No.          650                1            650                          60              1              650               1            650            1           650                        3250           293             9
4.                                N.e1oor,  No.  585              -               -            I             58f            15                               155                         1            585                        2340          211             9
o,  Recre1gr'                     N..          182                1            182             1             182            1              182               1            182            1           182                          910           82             9
d.  Briver                        N..          130                             13              1             130            1              130               1            130            1           130                          650           59             9
Dri-r                                                   35C6).9                      573.9                         5739                            5739                       573.9                      2653           239          9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.  330  7.  33937.  62  3
e.  BerDie                                                                      94.6 1_?.                                                  1471.                          147.1                      147.1                        683           61             9
0. P   mc ~ DIE                                                               __                            _____                         ______ _
1413.5                       2268                          2268                           2268                       2268                        10486          944             9
SUBTOTAL
2,     ci'lli"                    N..          455                2            910             2            910             3            1365               4            1820            5          2275                        7280           655             9
6:  Aseti Thsidite                No.          195                2            390             3            585             5              975              8            1560           10          1950                        54ff           491             9
b. Astr   e                      No.           130                2            260             3            390             5             650               8            1040           10          1300                        3640           328             9
c., Driver                          ,                                          578.8                        699.4                        1109.3                          1639,8                     2049.8                      6077           547             9
e   BPer Lti                                                                   604.8                        781.2                        1260                            1915.2                     2394                        6955.2         626             9
e.  Per Io.                                                                                                ____
SLDTDBTAL                                                                     2743.6                       3365.6                        5359.3                          79'5.0                     9968.8                     294'2.2        2647             9
3.  Local                                       26              20             520            60           1560          105             2730             155           4030          205           5330                       14170          1275             9
a.     rNo                                      2                              192.9                        578.8                        1012.9                          1495.2                     1977.4                      5257.2         473             9
S BTOTAL.                                                                      712.9                       2138.8                        3742.9                         3323.2                      7307.4                     19427.2        1Z48             9
TOTALUSALARIES                                                                    4870                          7772.4                       11370                          15768                      19354                        59325         5339             9
b. VehiWls "'322                                                                                            534                           773                           1450                        17t3                        4842           823           17
C.  Ene4ClI d061teria                                                           60                          180                           316                            466                         617                        1639           148             9
D.  ConNume  I                                                            65                           145                           191                            241                        279                          921          111            12
1.  Water Sl'P                                                                  25                           30                            30                             30                          30                         145            17           12
3.  0Ef  Ifvi...                                                               750                         1257                          1832                           2529                        3124                        9492          1519           16
E.  Rented  .ly                                                                304                          822                          1281                           1658                        1866                        5931           890           15
F   Water ,,, Tr430P             Operator        11             20             220            40            440           45              495              50            550           50            550         205            2255           135             6
u :  150 i40 r90/S p erviOs e-                                               2202                         3904                          5089                           5577                       5577                        22349           3235          10
I.   Ore IDUmeet                                                               186                          322                           432                            473                        473                         1886          203            15
1. Pr.                                                    ~~~~                         ~~~~~~~~~~~372  043            ff5                            945                         943                        2772           566            iS
TOTA  OpIRAT00C                                                                 9270                        16051                         22614                          2607                        34768                      112237        .i2Q64            11
TOTAL OEII   COSTS                                                               34572                        58179                         726744                          901s                       94469                      354804         92807            26
PTTAI             Soles/a                                                         403                          7808                         10178                           11154                      11154                       44697         14750            33
EsT14ATED TOTAI,C0SS                                                             3897T                        65987                         87623                         101292                      105623                      399501        107557
/I 20% of IA *,d 5/2 ef IB, C and "IB
us Eqaf-aleet $                                                                    696                         1178                          1363                            1809                       1586                        7134          1921            27



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                      ANNEX 3
Table 11
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EDUCATION COMPONENT -    ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(Cr$ '000)
(Sept. 1980 Price)
PY  1         PY  2         PY  3         PY  4         PY  5          TOTAL        F.E.   %F.E.
A   School Construction
and Improvement             5,712.7        14,682.0       14,682.0    14,682.0          7,622.0       57,560.7   19,185       33
B   Curricula Development
and Evaluation              1,021             791.0          562.5        318.0            -           2,692.5       269      10
C   Teacher Training               -            2,991.4        5,912.6      5,329.1         2,692.4       16,925.5    1,016        6
D   School Supervision             -            3,125.0         2,714.0      2,208.0        2,229.0       10,276.0    1,028       19
E   Administration and
Technical Assistance           -            1,202.5          902.5        902.5           902.5        3,910.0       547      14
Baseline Costs              6,733.7        22,791.9       24,953.6    23,439.6        13,445.9        91,364.7   22,045       24
U.S. Equivalent (US$'000)   120.2             407.0          445.6        418.6           240.1        1,631.5       393.7   24
Physical Contingencies /a   856.9           2,202.3        2,229.3      2,202.3         1,143.3        8,364.1    2,878       34
TOTAL COSTS                 7t590.6        24,994.2-    11..2_2    25,641.9           14,589.2        12,99       24.923      25
U.S. Equivalent (US$'000)   135.5             446.3          485.4        457.9           260.5        1,785.7       445.1   25
/a . 15% of A.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                 - 110 -                                            ANNEX  3
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION & MANAGEMINT
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS & COSTS
(CR$00&3
PY 1              PY 2              PY 3               PY 4              PY 5
Unit  No.               No.                No.               No.                No.                Total
Unit  Cost  Units  Cost        Units  Cost        Units  Cost       Units  Cost        Units  Cost        Cost       F.E.            IF.E.
I. Capital Costs
Materials
& Equipment
1. Car           No.   420       5    2,000         1    - 420        -   -              -   -             -   -           2,520         832          33
2. Calculator   No.    21        4        84        -   -             -   -              _   _             _   _               84         28          33
3. Typewriter   No.    27        2        54        -   -             -   -             -   -              -   -               54         18          33
4. Cabinet       Lot      -      -        27        -                                     _ _ _ _ _ _                          27          9          33
Total Capital Costs:                       2,265.0              420               0                  0                 0        2,685        886          33
II, Operating Costs
A. Professionals
1. Polonordeste
Coordinator No.   455        1      455        1       455        1      455        1       455        1       455     2,275         205           8
2. Project
Manager      No. 1,170       1    1,170        1    1,170         1    1,170         1    1,170        1    1,170      5,850         702          12
3. Sub-aanagers
(Production,
Infrastructure,
Lanid)     No.   975        3    2,925        3    2,925         3    2,925        3    2,925         3    2,925    14,625       1,316            9
4. Monitoring,
Planning
& Evaluation
Professional No.   975        2    1,950        2    1,950         3   22,925         3    2,925        3    2,925    12,675        1,141           9
5. Accountant   No.   975        1       975        1      975        1       975        1      975        1       975      4,875        439           9
6. Accounting
Technician  No.   715        1       715       1       715        1       715       1       715        1       715     3,575        322            9
7. Regional
Coordinator No.   975        2    1,950        3    2,925         3    2,925        3    2,925         3    2,929    13,650       1,229            9
Subtotal:                         10,140             11,115            12,090             12,090             12,090    57,525      5,354            9
B. Support Staff
1. Secretary    No.   286        1       286        1      286        1    - 286         1      286        1       286      1,430        129           9
2. Typist        No.   156       2       312        2      312        2       312        2      312        2       312      1,560        140           9
3. Driver        No.   130       3       390        3      390        3       390        3      390        3       390      1,950        176           9
4. Service       No.   117       1       117        1      117        1       117        1      117        1       117        585         53           9
Subtotal:                          1,105              1,105             1,105              1,105              1,108     5,525        497            9
C. Social Charges/32%                     3,598             3,911              4,223             4,222              4,222    20,176       1,816           9
D. Per Diee                                 895                943             .1,040             1,040             1,040      4,958        446           9
E. Conferences -
Air Fare       Trip   15      12       180       12      180       12       180       12      180       12       180        900         81           9
F. Misc. Services                         1,140             1,140              1,140             1,140              1,140      5,700        513           9
G. Vehicle 0 & M  1000km  12    240    2,880         288    3,456      288    3,456       288    3,456      288    3,456    16,704        2,840          17
N. Office Supplies  Lot                     360                360               360                360               360      1,800        216          12
1. Contracting
Of Evaluation                          3,360             1.960              8.400             1,960              8,400    24,080       2.408          10
Total Operating Costs:                    23,658            24,170             31,994            25,533             31,933   137,368    14,171            10
Total Baseline Costs:                     25,923            24,590             31,994            25,553             31,993   140,053    15,057            11
Physical Contingencies /a                    257                194               173                173               173        970        186          19
Estimated Total Costs:                    26,180            24,784             32,167            25,726             32,166   141,023    15.243            11
/a 5% of I and II G
US Equivalent 9:                       467.5              442.6              574.4             459.4              574.4   2,518.3      272.2        11



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                       ANNEX 3
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                               TABLE 13
FISCAL COST PER BENEFICIARY
(Cr$ '000)         (Sept. 1980 Prices)
Land               Land          Small Owner-    Small          Landless                       Average
Beneficiaries    Beneficiaries       Operators        Owner-         Bene-         Fishermen      Cost Per
Number of                                    + Irrigation        + Title      Operatora      ficiaries                     Beneficiary
Beneficiaries               3.500                1,500           1.O /5-ah      1         _                       ,8t0
L A N D /a
,Land Purchasing                51.6              51.6                 -            -                             -
.Land Registration              66.0              66.0                                            -
.Titling                         -                 -                 42.4           -                             -
.INTERPI Management              6.4               6.4                6.4           -            6.4              _
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
.Applied Research /b             7.1               7.1                7.1          7.1            7.1             _
.Extension                      58.4              58.4               58.4         58.4          58.4              _
.Seed Production /c              3.1               3.1                3.1          3.1            3.1             _
.Marketing /d                    8.3               8.3                8.3          8.3            8.3            8.3
.Irrigation                      -               345.7                 -            -              _
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT               -                  -                  -             -             _            86.5
SOCIAL AND PHYSICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
.Rural Roads  /e                40.2              40.2               40.2         40.2          40.2            40.2
.Water Supply /f                24.7              24.7               24.7         24.7          24.7            24.7
.Education    /&                 4.4               4.4                4.4          4.4           4.4             4.4
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION             12.5               12.5              12.5          12.5          12.5           12.5
BOAT AND FARM
INVESTMENT /i                      40.7               40.7              40.7         40.7             -            27,2
COST
PER BEDFTCIARY (Cr$'000)          323.4              669.1              248.2        199.4         165.1          203.8           303
U.S. Equivalent (US$'000)            5.8              11.9                4.4          3.6           2.9             3.6            5.4
/a . Land discrimination is excluded since it is not directly related to project beneficiaries.
Lb . Only 50% of Applied Research cost is charged to project beneficiaries.
/c . Only 50% of Seed Production cost is charged to project beneficiaries.
/d .   "  50% of  Marketing cost
/e .   "  80% of  Rural Roads cost
/f .   "  70% of  Water Supply
50% of  Education                  "
Costs include demarcation and titling.
Xi . Estimated at 50% of investment credit, not included in project costs.



DPAZIL
PIAUI MRUL DEVELIPMENT PRWECT
FINMCIAL INFLOS AND OUTFLOUS
NEU OHNER ANINML TRACTION (INTERMEDIATE TECILOGY)
1     2       3      4      5      6      7      8       9     10     11      12     13  14-15     16      17     19     19      20
YIELD(TON/HA)
RAINFED RICE           0,70   0.79   0.80   0.9B   1.07   1.16   1.25   1.25   1.25   1,25   1.25   1.25   1.25   1.25   1.25   1.25   1.25   1.25   1.25
MAIZE                  0.30   0.33   0.37   0.40   0.43   0.47   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50
BEANS                  0.20   0,23   0.27   0.30   0.33   0.37   0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40   0.40   0,40   0.40   0.40   0.40
MANIOC                 4.00   5,17   6.33   7.50   8.67   9.84  11,00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00  11.00
CROPPING PATTERN(HA)
RAINFED RICE           3.00   4.00   5.50   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7,00   7.00   7.00   7,00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00
MAIZE                  2.28   3,02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4,02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4,02
BEANS                  0.34   0,43   0.60   0.60   0,60   0.60   0,60   0.60   0.60   0,60   0.60   0.60   0.60   0.60   0,60   0.60   0.60   0.60   0.60
1ANIOC                 2.13   2.70   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00,  3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00
PRODUCTION (TONS)
RAINFED RICE           2.10   3,16   4.04   6.86   7.49   8.12   8.75   8-75   8.75   8.75   0.75   8.75   8.75   8.75   8.75   8.75   8.75   8,75   8.75
MAIZE                  0.60   1,00   1.49   1.61   1.73   1.89   2.01   2,01   2.01   2.01   2.01   2.01   2,01   2.01   2,01   2.01   2.01   2.01   2,01
BEANS                  0.07   0.10   0.16   0.18   0.20   0.22   0.24   0.24   0.24   0,24   0.24   0.24   0.24   0.24   0.24   0.24   0.24   0.24   0.24
NANIOC                 0.52  13.96  18.99  22.50  26.01  29.52  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00  33.00
BEEF                     -      -       -      -      -      -      -   0,31   0.31   0,31   0.31   0.62   0,62   0.62   0,62   0.62   0,62   0.62   0.62
GROSS VALUE (CR$'000)
RAINFED RICE          25.20  37.92  50.08  82.32  89.88  97.44 105.00 105.00 105.00 105.00 105.00 105,00 105.00 105.00 105.00 105.00  105.00 105.00  105.00
MAIZE                  6.04   9.97  14.87  16.08  17,29  18.89  20,10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20,10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10  20.10
BEANS                  2.72   3.96   6.48   7.20   7.92   8.88   9.60   9.60   9.60   9.60   9.60   9,60   9.60   9.60   9.60   9.60   9.60   9.60   9.60
NANIOC                25.56  41.88  56.97  67.50  70.03  88.56  99,00  99.00  99.00  99.00  99.00  99,00  99.00  99.00  99.00  99.00  99.00  99.00  99.00
BEEF                     -      -       -      -      -      -      -  18.60  18.60  18.60  18.60  37.20  37.20  37.20  37,20  37.20  37.20  37.20  37.20
TOTAL BENEFITS          60.32  93.72 136,40 173.10 193.12 213.77 233,70 252.30 252.30 252.30 252,30 270,90 270,90 270.90 270.90 270.90 270.90 270.90k 270.90
OUTFLOW
FENCING               13.65   9,55   9.55   9.55   9.55   9.55   9.55   9.55   9.55  12,28       -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -
EQUIPMENT             21.08   0,97  35.80   8.95  16.62  33.92   8.95   1.12  16.62   8.95  33.92   1.12  28.08   1.12  44.88  28.00   1.12   9.08   1.12
DRAFT ANIAL              -       - 50.00       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -
LIVESTOCK                -       -      -      -  12.50  12.50      -      -  12.50  12.50       -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -
LAND REPAYNENT         8.40   4.20   4.20   4.20      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -
INVESTHENT COST         43.13  14,72  99.55  22.70  38,67  55.97  10.50  10.67  38067  33.73  33,92   1.12  28.00   1.12  44.88  28,08   1.12   9.08   1.12
FERTILIZER               -   2.50   3.90   8,00  14.80  17,40  27,60  32.10  32.00  32.00  32.80  32.80  32,80  32.80  32.80  32.80  32.80  32.80  32.80
SEED                   4.49   5,98   7.00  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10,32  10.32  10,32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32
LIVESTOCK                -       -      -      -   2.70   5.50   8.30   9.60  11.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00  12.00                  X >X
OPERATING COST           4.49   8.48  10.90  19.12  27.82  33.22  46,22  52.02  54.12  55.12  55,12  55.12  55,12  55.12  55,12  55,12  55.12  55.12  55.12
TOTAL COST              47.62  23.20 110,45  41.82  66.49  89.19  64,72  62.69  92.79  88.85  89.04  56.24  83.20  56.24 100.00  83.20  56.24  64.20  56.24
NET BENEFITS            12.70  70.52  25.95 131.28 126,63 124.58 168,98 189,61  159.51 163.45 163,26 214,66 187.70 214.66 170,90  187.70 214.66 206.70 214,66



BRAZIL
PIAUI RtURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL INFLOWS AND OUJTFLOWS
REV OliVER ANINAL TRACTION -- (ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY)
WITH IRRIGATION
1       2        3       4        5        6       7        B        9       10       it      12       13       14       15      16       17       18       19       20
YIELB(TIIN/HA)
RALWEDR RCE                 0,70    0.70    0,86    0.94    1.02    1.10    1.10    1.26    1.34    1.42    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.20
IRRIGATED RICE             2.00    2.10    2.30    2.50    2.70    2,90    3,10    3,30    3.40    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3,50
MA1ZE                      0.30    0.33    0,36    0.39    0.42    0.45    0,48    0.51    0.54    0.57    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60
REANS                       0.20    0,24    0,28    0~32    0.36    0.40    0.44    0,48         0.52    0.S6    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0,60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60
NANIOC                      4.00    5.10    6.20    1.30    8.40    9,50   10.60   11.70   12.00   13.90   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15,00   15.00   15,00   15.00
CROPPING PATTERN(HA)
RAINFEO RICE                3,00    4,00    5.50    6.50    7.00    7,50    8.50   10,00   11.50   11.50   11,20   11,50   11.50   11.50   11.50   11,50   11.50   11,50   11.50   11.50
IRRIGATED RICE              1.00    1.20    1.40    1.60    1,80    2,00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2,00    2.00    2.00    2,00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00
MAIZE                       2.28    3.02    4,02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02
BEAS                       0,34    0,43    0,60    0.60    0,60    0.60    0.60    0,60    0.60    0,60    0.60    0.60    0,60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60
0601CC                      2.13    2,70    3.00    3.00    3,00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00   .3.00    3.00    3.00    3,00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3,00
PRODIJTION (TONS)H
VAINFED RICE                2.10    3.12    4.73    6.11    7.14    8.25   10.03   12.60   15.41   16.33   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17,25   17.25   17.25   17.25 ,17.25
IRRIGATED RICE             2.00    2.52    3,22    4.00    4.06    5.80    6.20    6.60    6.80    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00
MAIZE                       0.60     1.00    1,45    1.57    1.69    1.81    1,93    2.05    2.17    2.29    2.41    2,41    2,41    2.41    2.41    2.41    2.41    2.41    2.41    2,41
DEANS                       0,07    0.10    0,17    0.19    0.22    0.24    0.26    0,29    0.31    0.34    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36
NANIOC                      8.52   13.77   18,60   21.90O  25.20   28.50   31.80   3S,10   38.40   41,70   45.00   45.00   45,00   42,00   45.00   45,00   45.00   45.00   45.00   45.00
DEEP                           -       -        -        -        -       -        -    0,33    0.33    0.33    0.66    0.66    0.66    0.99          0.99    0.99    0.99      0.99    0,99    0.99
GROSS 00101. (C0V'0001
0010W18 RICE               25.20   37.44   56,76   73.32   85.68   99.00  120.36  151,20  184.92  195.96  207.00  207.00  207.00  207.00  207.00  207.00  207.00  207.00  207.00  207.00
IRRIGATED RICE            24.00   30.24   38,64   48.00   58.32   69.60   74.40   79,20 -81.60   84.00   84.00   04.00   04.00   84.00   84.00   84.00   04.00   84,00   04.00   84.00
NAIZE                       6.84    9.97   14,47   15.68   16.88   18.09   19.30   20,50   21.71   22.91   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12
BEANS                      2.72    4.13    6,72    7.60    8.64    9,60   10.56   11,52   12.48   13.44   14,40   14.40   14.40   14.40   14.40   14.40   14.40   14.40   14.40   14.40
NANIOC                    25.56   41.31   55,80   65.70   75.60   85.50   95.40  105.30  115,20  125.10  135.00  135.00  132.00  135,00  135.00  135.00  135.00  135.00  135.00  135,00
BEEF                           -        -       -        -       -        -        -   19.00   19.80   19.80   39.60   39.60   39,60   59,40   S9.40   59.40   59.40   59.40   59.40   59,40                  ~ 
TOTAL BENEFITS               04.32  123.08  172.39  210.30  245.12  281.79  320.02  387,52  435.71  461.21  504.12  504.12  504.12  S23.92  523.92  523.92  223.92  523.92  523.92  523,92
FECINCO                    13.65    8.07    0.87    8.87    0.87    8.87    8.07    0,87    8.07    0.07    8.87    8.87    0.87   10.92                 -        -        -        -        -       -
EQUIPMENT                  21.08    0,97   3S.80    8.9S   16.62   33.92    8.95    1,12   16.62    8.95   33.92    1.12   28.08    1.12    1.12   44.88   28.08    1.12    9.00    1.12
DRAFT ANIMAL                   -       - 50.00           -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
LIVESTOCK                      -        -       -        -   12.50   12.50         -        -   12.50   12.50   12.50          -        -       -        -        -        -        -        - 
LAND REPAYMENET             8.40    4.20    4.20    4.20         -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
INVSTHENT COST               43.13   14.04   98.87   22.02   37.99   55.29   17.82    9.99   37,99   30.32   55.29    9.99   36.95   12.04    1.12   44.88   20.08    1.12    9.08    1.12
HIRED LA801                 7.50    9.00   10,50   12.00   13.50   15.00   15.30   17.40   19,05   19.05   19,05   19.05   39.02   19.05   19.02   19,05   19.02   l9O0S    1.05   29.05
FERTILIZER                 11.00   15.70   20,70   27.90   34.60   41.20   65.50   77,40   88.40   92.SO   97.30   97.30   97,30   97,30   97.30   97.30   97.30   97.30   97.30   97.30
SE1DS                       5.49    7.18    9,10   11.22   12.12   13.02   14.42   16.52   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62   18.62
WATER                       6.00    7,20    8,40    9.60   10.80   12.00   12.00   12,00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00
LIVF.STOCK                     -        -       -        -    2.70    5.50    9.50   13.40   14.00   16.60   30.50   21.20   22.90   22.00   22.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00
OPERATING COST               29.99   39.08   48,70   60.72   73.72   86.72  116.72  136,72  1S2,87  158.77  165.47  168,17  169,87  171,97  171.97  171.97  171,97  171,97  171.97  171.97
TOTAL COST                   73.12   53.12  147,57   82,74  111.71  142.01  134.54  146.71  190,86  189.09  220.76  (78.16  206.82  184.01  173.09  216.85  200.05  173.09  181.05  173.09
MET BENEFITS                 11.20   69,96   24,82  127.64  133.41  139.78  185,48  240.81  244.85' 272.12  283.36  325.96  297.30  339,91  350.03  307.07  323.87  350.83  342.87  350.83



tRAZIL
PIAUI M. DCXRLOW(EXIO GOCT
FV CIM.AL IHFLNSS AO OUTFILOS
EXISTIN  S'AL  YhE7R ANIML TRACTIOA lAOlAED TEDN0oLGY)
1       2       3       4       5                                      t 7  6  9  o 1 t1  02    13 14-13        1       l7       18      1t      20
TIfl?CTOX/OIAO
RA1NFED RICE              0.70    078   0o86    0 V4    1 02    1.10    1.18    1.24    1.34    1.42    1.50    2.50    1.50    1.50    0.50    1.50    1.50    1.50    1.50
MIZE                      0.30    0.33     0.36    0:39    o 42   0.45    0.48    0.51    0.54    0.57    0.60   0.60    0.60    a.to    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60
BIrES                     0.20    0.24    0.28    0.32    0.36    0.40    0.44    0.48    0.52    0.56    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60
PA41IX                    4.00    5.10    6.20    7.30    8.40    9.50   10.60   11.70   12.80   13.90   15.00   IS.00   05.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00   15.00
UdWPING PATTERN(216
RAIOTED RICE              5.30    6.50   8.50   10.00   12.50   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   17.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00
M;IZE                     4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    J.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02    4.02
K;ARS                     0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    040    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.00    0.60
M.Nix                     3.76    3.74    3.70    3.04    3.54    3.10    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00
P9OtIXT1   (TONSI
FA?NFED RICE              3.71    5.07    7.30    9.40   11.73   03.20   14.16  05.02   16.08   27.04   28.00   28.00   18.00   00.00   18.00   08.00   28.00   08.00   10.00
MIZ7E                     1.21    1.33    0.45    1.57    1.69    1.82    0.93    2.05    2.17    2.29    2.41    2.41    2.41    2.41    2.41    2.41   2.40    2.41    2.41
BEzE4S                    0.12    0.14    0.17    0.29    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.29    0.32    0.34    0.34    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36                                .ls
M.I3C                    15.04   09.07   22.94   26.57   29.74   29.45   31.80   35.10   38.40   40.70   45.00   43.00   45.00   45.00   45.00   45.00   45.00   45.00   45.00
EF                       o0.04    0.07    0.20    0.23    0.26   0.20    0.32    0.66    0.66    0.66    0.64    o.9       o.9    o.9      O.99    0.91    o.9   0.?       o.9                                I
GOOlSS VALUE I (CRVO)
FAINrFE RICE             44.52   60.04   87.72  112.80  140.76  158.40  169.92  102.44  192.96  204.40  216.00  226.00  214.00  206.00  216.00  226.00  216.00  216.00  224.00
MAIZE                    12.04   13.27   04.47   05.68   16.88   08.09   09.30   20.50   20.71   22.91  24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.12   24.22   24.12
EE4Ns                     4.00   5.76    6.72    7.68    6.64    9.60   00.56   22.52   12.48   13.44   14.00   14.40   14.40   14.40   24.40   14.40   14.40-  04.40   14.40
MAN1OC                  45.12   57.22   68.02   79.72   89.22  68.35   ". 40  105.30  025.20  125.10  235.00  235.00  135.00  135.00  035.00  135.00  135.00  135.00  135.00
IEEE                      8.40   10.20   02.00   13.80   15.60   16.00   29.20   39.60   39.40   39.60   39.60   59.40   59.40   59.40   59.40   5t.40   59.40,  59.40   59.40
TOTAL 8E(EFITI            124.90  147.29  119.73  29n.47  271.09  291.24  324.30  38.3B6  302.95  405.53  429.2  440.92  440.92  448.92  44B.92  440.92  440.92  448.92  448.92
rEECING                  17.06    9.55    I.-S    9,55    9.55    9.55    9.55 5 9.55    9.55    9.55    9,55    9.55   21.60          -       -       -       -       -        -
ENlF E[T                 22.00   35.80   0.9?    8.75   16.62   33.92    0.95    1.02   26.62    8.95   33.92    0.22   28.00    0.02   44.68   28.00    1.12    .08    2.12>
DFAFlMIih                    -   50.00                 ' -                            -                               -       -       -                -       -       -        -
LlESTOCC                     -       -       -       -   22.50   12.50       - S          12.0   12.50        - -         -       -        -           -       -       -        -                       0   t
IN)ES1NI9E   COST          38.14   95. 35   10.52   10.50   38.67   55.97   00.50   20.67   38.6t  31.00   4.47   10.67   39.68    1.12   44.8e  29.08    1.22    9.08    1.12                             W  .
HIFED LAOR                2.28    2.78    7.28    2.28    2.20    2.28    2.20    2.20    2.20    2.20    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.26    2.28    2.28    2.78
FERTILIZER                   -    4.10    6.20   15.00   24.10   29.CO   59.00 ao  .40   70.40   74.70  7n.70   79.70 7n.70   79.70   79.70   79.70  7n.70   n.70   21.70
SEED        *             7.94     .62   12.42   24.52   26.62   17.32   17.32   07.32   17.32   17.32   17.32   27.3?   17.32   17.32   27.32   27.32   17.32   17.32   17.32
LIVESTOCK                 2.50    2.70    2.80    3.20    6.40   12.00   14.00   26.60   22.50   21.20   22.90   25.0   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~. .... ..... - - - -_-- -*- _-*- ^-^- -   - ,-  - -- - _- -  - -~-- _- - - - - *-      ,,_              _  _  __
C ElATING COST             12.72   18.70   25.70   35.00   49.40   59.60   94.20  102.60  200.50  115.50  022.20  1274.30  124.30  024.:0  124JO  124.30  124.30  124.30  124.30
.  ...     ....--       - ^..  ... .    .. . .   .             ----..... ............................. .. ..   ... ..  ........... .........................   _ ..............   ... ..   .......   .......    ... ..   . ....-    --
tOAL COSt                 50.86  114.05   36.22   54,30   88.07  115.57  022.70  113.27  247.27  144.50  106.67  134.9?  163.8  125.42  169.16  052.38  125.42  133.38  125.42
fE KJEFI1S                 64.04   33.24  053.5   1i75.37  18.02  175.U7  202."  245.09  234.78  259.03  243.45  123.95  214.14  323.50  279.74  294.54  323.50  325.54  323.50
**flt   4..       *a" s***s*  *M**  **s         * se* ss        ...        ................                                        .n...d. a  *.sa1s 04 ,, ,,,... . .,s,,,  a... wl's



PRooIL
PIAUI RURAL OEVELOFMENT rROJECT
FINANCIAL INFLOWS AND OUTFLOWS
- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
TENANT FARMER MANUAL CULTIVATION (INTERMEDIATE TECHNOLOGY)
1      2       3       4       5       6        7       .       9      1o      11      12      13 14-15         16 17-18        19      20
YIELI(TOMM)
RAI!FED RICE              0,70    0.76    0.82    0.68    0,94    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
MAIZE                    0.30    0.32    0.34    0.36   '0.38    0.40    0.40    0.40    0,40    0.40    0.40    0,40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40
FEANS                    0.20    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.28    0.30    0,30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30
MN;OC                    4.00    4.50    5.00    5.50    6.00    6.50    7.00    7.00    7o00    7.00    7.00    7o00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00
CR0FPIPG PATTERNIHA)
FAII'TED RICE             3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00
MAIZE                    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.20    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2,28    2.28    2.28    2.28    2.28
PEAOS                    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0:34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0,34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0,34    0.44   0,34
MA410C                   2.13    2.13    2.13   2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13    2.13
PROZLCTIGM (TONS)
RAIATED RICE             2.10    2.28    2.46    2.64    2.92    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00
MIZE                     0.68    0.73    0.78    0.62   0.67    0-91    0-91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91
1EOAS                    0.07    0.07    0.08    0.09    0-10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.00    0.S0   010    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10
ANIXC                     9.52    9.59   10.65   11.72   12-78   13.B5   14.91   14%91   14.91   14.91   14.91   14.91   14.91   14.91   14.91   14.91   14.91   14.91
GROSS VALUE (1W000)
RAINTtD RICE            25.20   27.36   29.52   31.68   33.84   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.00   36.0    36-00
MAIZE                     6.84    7.30    7.75    8.21    8.66    Y.12    9.12    9.12    9.12    9.12    9.12    9.12    9-12    9.12    9.12    9.12    9.12    9.12
EEVMS                    2.72    2.99    3.26    3.54   3.81    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4.08    4,08    4.08
MANIOC                  25.56   28.76   31,95   35.15   38.34   41.54   44.73   44,73   44,73   44.73   44,73   44.73   44.73   44,73   44.73   44.73   44.73   44.73
TOTAL BEHEFITS            60.32   66.40   72.49   78.57   84.65   90.74   93.93   93,93   93.93   93.93   93.93   93.93   93,93   93.93   93.93   93.93   93.93   93.93
OUTFLOW
3 >
E0'JIFENT                1.06    0.15    0.15    5.06    0.15    0.15    1.06    4.15    0.15    1-06    0.15    4.15    1.06    0.15    5.06    0.15    1.06    4.15                a  Z
I\WESTKENT COST             1.06    0.15    0.15    5.06    0.15    0.15    1.06    4.15    0.15    1.06    0.15    4.15    1.06    0.15    5.06    0.15    1.06    4.15                   4 >
FERIILIZER                  -    2.22    2.70    3.51    4.36    5.52    7.05    9.20   11.22   11.22   11.22   11.22   11.22   11.22   11.22   11.22   11.22   11.22
RENHT                     .40    8.40    8.40    8.40    8.40    6.40    8.40    B,40    8.40    8.40    6.40    8.40    8,40    8.40    6.40    B.40    8.40    8.40
SEE                      4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4-49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49    4.49
OPERATING COST             12.89   15.11   15.59   16.40   17.27   18.41   19.94   22,09   24.11   24.11   24.11   24.11   24.11   24.11   24.11   24.11   24.11   24.11
TOTAL COST                 13.95   15.26   15.74   21.46   17,42   18.56   21.00   26.24   24,26   25.17   24.26   28.26   25.17   24.26   29.17   24.26   25.17   28.26
MET  UITS                 46.37   51.14   56.75   57.11   67.23   72.18   72.93   67.69   69.67   68.76   69.67   65.67   68.76   69.67   64.76   69.67   68.76   6547
_ _ _           w as . _um         -  am            m _ 



- 116-                              ANNEX 4
BRAZIL:PIAUI nUnAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                Table 5
--------------------------------------
FISHERIES DEVELOPMEtlT COMPONENT
_______________________________
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS FOn IM-PROVED SAILEOAT(V2)
--------------------------------------------
WITH PROJECT1200 DAYS)
1            2             3            4          5-10
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-----
NO. OF PONTAS                      60.0          60.0          60.0        .60.0          60.0
NPP(KG/DAY)                         2.6           3.0           3.3          3.5           3.7
TOTAL PRODUCTION(KG)            31200.0       36000.0      39600.0       4200U.0      44400.0
% HARVEST LOSS                      5.0           4.0           3.0          2.0           2.0
GROSS PROOUCTIOrI(KG]           29640.0       34560.0      38412.0       41160.0      43512.0
DAILY SUDSISTENCEM)G)               3.0           3.0           3.0          3.0           3.0
TOTAL SUBSISTENCE(KGl             600.0         600.0        600.0         600.0         600.0
NET PRODUCTIDNIKG)              29040.0       33960.0      37812.0       40560.0      42912.0
CLASS 1 FISH (%)                   25.0          25.0          25.0         25.0          25.0
CLASS 2 FISH   1%)                 15.0          15.0          15.0         15.0          15.0
CLASS 3 FISH  I%)                  60.0          60.0          60.0         60.0          60.0
CLASS 1 FISH (KG)                7260.0        8490.0       9453.0       10140.0       10728.0
CLASS 2 FISH  (KG)               4356.0        5094.0       56,1.8   -  E084.0         6436.8
CLASS S FISH [KG)               17424.0       20376.0      22687.2       24336.0      25747.2
CLASS I FISH  (CR3/KG)             65.0          65.0          65.0         65.0          65.0
CLASS 2 FISH (CRS/KG]              35.0          35.0          35.0         35.0          35.0
CLASS 3 FISH (CRS/KG)              20.0          20.0          20.0         20.0          20.0
VALUE OF CLASS I (CRS)         471900.0    551850.0    614445.0    659100.0    697320.0
VALUE OF CLASS 2 tCFfS)        152460.D    178290.0    198513.0    212940.0    225288.0
VALUE OF CLASS 3 (CRZ)"-       348480.0     407520.0    453744.0    486720.0    514944.0
TOTAL NET PRODUCT.ICR5l        972840.0   1137660.0   1266702.0   1358760.0   1437552.0
INVESTMENT COSTS(CRS)          230250.0       59625.0      59625.0       59625.0      59625.0
VESSEL                         120000.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
SAIL                             9000.0        9000.0       9000.0        9000.0       9000.0
GEAR                           101250.0       50625.0      50625.0       50625.0      50625.0
OPN AND MAINT COSTS(CRS)    669210.0    740680.0    817600.0    872250.0    919460.0
VESSEL                          14400.0       14400.0      14400.0       14400.0      14400.0
GEAR                            12150.0       12150.0      12150.D       12150.0      12150.0
FOOD                            16000.0       16000.0      16000.0       16000.0      16000.0
ICE                             37440.0       43200.0      47520.0       50400.0      53280.0
OTHER                           15000.0       15000.0      15000.0       15000.0      15000.0
FISHERMEN WAGE                 574220.0    639930.0    712530.0    764300.0    808630.0
TOTAL COST(CR$)                899460.0    800305.0    877225.Q        TaIR7%.a    S7TaS%.a
NET BENEFIT (CRs)               73380.0    337355.0    389477.0    426885.0    458467.0
                                                                        



ANNEX 4                                    FISHERIES DEVEtOPMENT: ESTIMATED FAMILY INCOME  112/
Table 6                                               (Sept. 1980 Prices / US$)
Without Project                                  Vith Project
No. of              Average                     No. of              Average
Families             Income                     Families              Incorme
I . FULL-TIME FISHERMEN (Ti)
A. Motorized Boats (MI)
Owners                             24                 9,120                        71                 9,120
Crew (w/o gear)                    96                 2,340                       284                  2,340
B. Traditional Sailboats (Vl)
Owners                             56                 2,270                        87                  3,200
Crew (w/ gear)                    473                   375                       261                 1,720
Crew (w/o gear)                   263                   215                        -
C. Improved Sailboats (V2)
Owners                             -                    -                         114                  6,795
Crew (w/ gear)                     -                    -                         342                  2,780
II . PART-TIME FISHERMEN (TP)
A. Traditional Sailboats (VI)
Owners                             18                 1,990                        18                  1,990
Crew (w/  gear)                   454                   135                       357                  2,460
Crew (w/o gear)                   150                   155                                                                                               1.-
III   AVERAGE INCOME
All Fishermen                   .534                    600                     1.534                  3,050
Boat Owners                        98                 3,900                       290                 5,990
Crew Ml (TI)                       96                 2,340                       284                 2,340
Crew Vl/2 (TI)                    736                   320                       603                 2,320
Crew VI/2 (TP)                    604                   140                       357                  2,460
IV . INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Gini Coefficient                           0.488                                            0.241
INCRDSENTAL FISH PRODUCTION
('000 tons)
Type of Vessel                       Year 1             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Year 5
Traditional Sailboats (VI)                  445                 522                581                624                 660
Improved Sailboats (V2)                      87                  74              1,550              2,698               3,974
Motorized Boats (MI)                          85                201                385                639                 962
TOTAL                                       617               1,464              2,524              3,961               5,596
1/ This table considers changes in family Income anticipated as a result of expanded boat/gear ownership; part-tlme fishermen
becoming full-time fishermen; availability of improved sailboats (V2); an expanded number of fishing days per yenr , and
higher yields.
2/ Excludlng 266 mangrove crab and castnet fishermen.



B8AZIL
PiAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                5
Table  I
INCREMENTAL COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CR IlLLIONS)
1      2       3       4       5        6       7       8       9      10      11      12      13       14      15      16      17       18      19      20
INCREDENTAL BENEFITS
RAPITED RICE                   -   28.92   93.73  204.02  347.84  484.65  598.57  670,84  750.42  013.25  859.72  891.36  905.72  913.65  914.67  914,67  914.67  914.67  914.67  914.67
IRRIGATED RICE              3-42   16.32   30.40   49.60   61.23   75.14   90.20  103.49  113081  119.95  124.20  126.42  127.44  127.44  127,44  127,44  127,44  127,44  127.44  127.44
MIZE                           -    6.30   23.98   52.34   85.31  115.05  133.07  149.03  160.85  168,63  173.58  177.24  179.74  181.12  181,30  181.30  181.30  181.30  181.30  181.30
BEAN                           -    2.57    7.35   15.38   24.94   34.27   40.73   45.95   50.13   53.04   55.06   56,59   57,63   58.21   58.28   58.28   58,28   58.28   58,28   58.28
MANIOC                         -   17.69   56.28  125.68  218.37  304.58  383.29  443.22  487,47  519.88  541.42  557.13  567.89  573.83  574.58  574,58  574.58  574.58  574,58  574.58
BEEF                           -    1.98    4.62    8.25   12.70   17.12   21.71   50,08   87.53  122.16  161.58  184.16  207.78  233.45  258.72  266.88  274.80  274.80  274.80  274.80
TOTAL FARM BENEFITS         3.42   73.78  216.36  455.28  750.39 1030.82 1268.36 1470.62 1650.21 1796.91 1915.58 1992.90 2046.21 2087.70 2114.98 2123.14 2131.06 2131.06 2131.06 2131.06
FIShERIES EENEFITS         -0.02    0.01    0.06    0.12    0.20    0.22    0.23    0.24    0.25    0.25       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
TOTAL INC. BENEFITS         3.40   73.79  216.41  455.40  750.58 1031.03 1268.60 1470.86 1650.46 1797.16 1915.58 1992.90 2046.21 2087,70 2114.98 2123,14 2131.06 2131,06 2131.06 2131.06
FARM COSTS
19.'ESTMENT COSTS          58.73  171.23  168.77  293.92  278,27  348.64  247.25  238.15  221.65  178.02  195.54  194.84  172.56  141,31  108.91  126.64  127.56  137.32  133.77   81,04
GfERATING COSTS             9.63   18.82   35.79   60.94   95.26  126.56  169.01  201.79  231.15  257.67  275.75  284.58  289.00  291.60  292.82  293.22  293.44  293.44  293.44  293.44
TOTAL FARM COSTS           69.35  193.74  210.60  363.65  382.40  484.07  425.12  448.81  461.66  444.55  480.16  488.29  470.43  441.78  410.60  428.73  429.87  439.63  436.07  383.34
PROJECT COSTS
L.A4                      209.57  271.37  259.01  162.00   37.00       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
RCGLS                      75.52  181.44   96,50   99.98   40.87   20.80   20.80   20.80   20,80   20.80   20.80   20.80   20.80   20.80   20.80   20,80   20.80   20.80   20.80   20.80
A.'INISTRATION            26.23   25.04   32.00  216.00   32.00   10,00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10,00   10,00   10.00   10.00   10,00   10.00   10,00   10.00   10.00
RLSE.FcH                   13.78   14.80   14,29   13.75   12,67   12.50   12.50   12.50   12.50   12.50   12.50   12.50   12.50   12.58   12,50   12,50   12.50   12.50   12.50   12.50
EXTENSION                  75.75  102.80  126.85  131.36  121,00  101.00   81.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00   61.00
SEED FRGDUCTION             2.04   17,24   10.14    2.00       -       -       -       -       -       -       -   17.24   10.14        -       -       -        -       -       -       -
K4R&ETING                  19.98   25,44   24,77   14.77   10.52   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.58   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.50   10.58   1050
IRRIGATION                  5.00  180.00  180.00  175.00       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
WATER SUPFLY               28.36   47.75   63.34   73.54   76.28   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25,20   25.20   25.20   25.20   25.20
EPUCATION                   4.29   13.24   14.24   13.74    7.88    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    S.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50    5.50
FISHERIES                   0.04    0,05    0.07    0.10    0.14    0.12    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
TOTAL FROJECT COSTS       460.55  879,15  821,19  712.22  338.36  185.62  165.63  145.63  145.63  145.63  145.50  162.74  155.64  145.50  145,50  145.50  145.50  145.50  145.50  145.50
TOTAL INC. COSTS          529.91 1072.90 1031.79 1075.87  720.76  669.69  590.75  594.44  607.30  590.19  625.66  651.03  626.06  587.28  556.10  574.23  575.37  585.13  581.57  528.84
II4RENAL NEP BENEFITS -526.50 -999.10 -815.38 -620.47   29.83  361.34  677.84  876.42 1043.16 1206.97 1289.92 1341.87 1420.14 1500.42 1558.88 1548.91 1555.69 1545.93 1549.48 1602.21
ax-ts sags    a         ans -sane  an-a  Saga  ata_   _aa   _aa   _a_n   __a                        Sa   a_na S                    ag
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0% * 2042901,
IMTER1AL RATE OF *IJNa   20.0%



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1) ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                  IRR /a                IRR /b
. Agricultural Development               19.6                   26.2
. Fisheries Development                  35.4                   35.4
. Aggregation                            20.0                   26.5
2) SWITCHING VALUES (OCC=12%)/a
- Benefits
. Incremental Benefits - 26.2%
. Rainfed Rice         - 45%
- Costs
T Total Costs         -  + 35.5%
. Social and Physical
Infrastructure -  + 72.9%
. Land                -  +287%
. Farm Investments    -  +144%
F Fertilizers + Seeds - +200%
3) ONE-YEAR LAG IN PROJECT INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
IRR /a = 15.7%
Incremental Benefits Switching Value: -15.9%
/a .With conversion factors - rice (1.18)    corn (1.91)
/b . With conversion factors recalculated by AGREP - rice (1.92)   corn (1.80)



ANNEX 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                  Table 3
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL/ECONOMIC PRICES
Financial Prices                   Economic Prices                Conversion Factor
(Cr$)                               (Cr$)
COMMODITIES
Fish
class 1                       65.0                                78.0                              1.20
class 2                       35.0                                42.0                              1.20
class 3                       20.0                                24.0                              1.20
Rice                           12.0                                14.2/a (23.0/b)                   1.18/a (1.92/b)
Corn                           10.0                                19.1/a (18.0/b)                   1.91/a (1.80/b)
Beans                          40.0                                40.0                              1.0
Manioc                           3.0                                3.0                              1.0
Meat                           60.0                                60.0                              1.0
INPUTS
Labor (Man-Day)               150                                 105                                0.7
Farm EquiPPent                                                                                       1.1
Boats
Gasoline                       -                                                                     0.75
Fertilizer - N                 37                                  9.6                               0.26
P                 32                                  9.6                               0.26
K                 27                                  4.3                               0.26
/a   Conversion factors used in the economic analysis of the second Ceara Rural Development Project-Brazil.
/b .Recent recalculation by AGREP.



- 121 -                     ANNEX 6
LIST OF REQUIRED
INTER-AGENCY AGREEMENTS - CONVENIOS
COMPONENT                                   INTER-AGENCY CONVENIOS REQUIRED
. Larnd                                     - SEPLAN/INTERPI
- SEPLAN/INCRA
- PMU/INTERPI/Cooperatives
- PMU/INTERPI/COBAL
-PMU/INTERPI/EMATER-PI
, Agricultural Research                     - SEPLAN/EMBRAPA
. Agricultural Extension                    - PMU/EMATER-PI/EMBRAPA-PI
. Seed Supply                               - SEPLAN/State Seed Commission/Cooperatives
. Marketing                                 - SEPLAN/CEPA-PI
- CEPA-PI/CEASA (SIMA)/EMATER-PI/CIDAPI
COBAL/OCEPI/Cooperatives (General Convenio)
- SEPLAN/OCEPI/Cooperatives
- SEPLAN/COBAL/Cooperatives
- CEPA-PI/CEASA (SIMA)/EMATER-PI
- CEPA-PI/CIDAPI/Cooperatives
- CEPA-PI/OCEPI/EMATER-PI
. Small-Scale Irrigation                    - None
. Fisheries                                 - SEPLAN/SUDEPE
- SUDEPE/EMATER-PI
- SUDEPE/OCEPI
- SUDEPE/Cooperative
- SUDEPE/SUDENE



- 122 -
. Roads                                    - SEPLAN/DER-PI
- SEPLAN/CODERPI
. Water Supply                             - SEPLAN/FSESP
- SEPLAN/CIDAPI
. Education                                - SEPLAN/Secretariat of Education
. Administration                           - None



- 123 -
AGENCIES INVOLVED IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION      ANNEX 7
o   -W
.-4  0
o    U)o ;                      S c
*,1  CJ)            UU          U)   s    U)
U)        0         o~    C    U   a    0  ~ 
P.  '0              0 0.   d    4 a  w         U    .
o    U)   U)   4z          JI   i                   4I)
p  P4  o    *,-  IV-w   to   co4  U)   -I   P. 
a)  ,-   o)         0  0   0    .-  .w     )   U)   0
P.   .   JJ    U    U' -H  U4)       U)   P4   En 
C)   P.       cn    U)C    U)                  U 
<             H    C H       tU a)     S4   co
a~~e va                                     w s  r S X     
A   State Agencies
INTERPI               (x)                             (x)        x
EMATER-PI              x        (x)         x     x    x    x         x
EMBRAPA-PI                 (x)
BEP                                   x
CEPA-PI                                          (x)
CIDAPI                                      x                        (x)
CEASA                                             x
OCEPI                                             x         x
CODERPI                                                         (x)
DER-PI                                                           x
FSESP                                                                 x
Municipalities                                                   x    x
Secretariat
of Education                                                            (x)
B . Regional Agencies
CPATSA                      x
BNB                                   x
SUDENE                                                      x   x
C . Federal Agencies
INCRA                  x
COBAL                  x                          x
BB                                    x
BNCC                                  x
SUDEPE                                                      (x)
D . Private Organizations
FETAG                  x
Cooperatives           x                    (x)    x         x
SYMBOLS: (x) Main, leading implementing agency.
x Other agencies having a role in component implementation.



124 -
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                       ANNEX 8
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE MARKETING COMPONENT
Primary                Collaborating                                           Year   of
General Objectives       Specific Objective         Executing Agency               Agency                Project Activities             Execution
I . Improve marketing  A . Basic data                                                                One-year study of current
information.             collection and              CEPA                All marketing          marketing situation  and               I
analysis.                                      agencies                future opportunities for
project area small farmers.
B . Establishment of            CEASA
a Permanent Market          (SIMA)                                     Provision of continuous
Infornation System.                              ENATER-PI             information on prices, qa-           1 -5
tities and product flows
for project's principal products.
C . Extension for             EMATER-PI            CEASA (SIMA);           Provision of marketing
Small Farmers                                 Cooperatives             information to project's small   2 - 5
farmers.
CE. Improve agricul-   A . Seed Production                                                           Production, multiplication,
toral inputs and         and Supply                Cooperatives         EMATER-PI; State        sod distribution of improved           -5
local availability.                                                     Seed Commission         seeds.
B . Input Supply              CIDAPI;
Cooperatives                 -               Establishmoet of  about 8            2 - 5
new input supply stores.
Improvement of supply network
for input stores.                   2 - 3
III.Improve small        A . On-farm and local         Cooperatives;                -                On-farm collection and
farmer's local           collection  and           COBAL                                        purchasing by cooperatives.          1 - 5/a
agricultural sales       purchasing of                                                          Establishment of CORAL
opportunities,           agricultural production.                                                "purchase pole' in mniB i-
palities where cooperatives         2 - 5/b
do not amiOt.
IV. Improve availability
of low-cost basic
food items.         A . Formation of local
network of private         COBAL -            Private retailers;    Construction, equipping, and
retailers selling                             Cooperatives             operation of COBAL wholesale         2 - 5
items at low-cost.                                                     warehouse (Rural Service Center);
operation of COBAL's "Redo SOMAR"
wholesale distribution network
and program for small retailers.
V . Improve local and
state marketing
institutions'       A   Technical Assistance                            EMOATER;                Establishment of centralioed
effectiveness and-
program coordination   t  Cooperatives               OCEPI              COBAL                   accounting system and economic
planning and legal-fiscal           I -5
advisory services for area
cooperatives; periodic training
courses for cooperative leadership.
B . Consultancies
and Training               EMATER-PI;
CEPA; SIMA;               -                Out-of-state intensive marketing
OCEPI; CIDAPI/c                            and on-farm storage training for
4 EMATER-PI regional and state-
-level specialists: marketing and
on-farm storage training courses         I
conducted by these specialists
for a11 project area emtension staff;
hiring of consultants (30 man-months)
to work with and train state staff in
activities IA-B, IIB, and VA.
C . Marketing
Coordination                CEPA              All marketing
agencies; PMU           Coordination and monitoring of all
project marketing activities.    I -
/a . Only land repayment collection in Year 1.
/b   Contingent on location of land activities and Bank approval of construction and operating plans.
Ic . Recipient agencies.



- 125 -
BRAZIL                             ANNEX 9
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                        Chart 1
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State Administrative Structure for Polonordeste Projects
Policy issues and                       State Management Council                      l   
overall guidance:                       Chairman: The Governor
o I
0
Important                                                                                H
operational issues:                     Implementation Committee
rt 
Chairman: Coordinator of TU                    )  t
rt I-.
oI
Daily coordination,                     State POLONORDESTE
administration, monitoring
and evaluation:                         Technical Unit (TU)
0
Units in charge of         Project Management            Technical
other POLONORDESTE        Unit (in charge of             tecnia
projects in Piaui          the Bank-supported          Support Unit
project)



BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
2rganization Chart of the Project Management Unit
CEPA                                                    Project Coordinator    |UDEP
Administrative  |
Support Unit   |
Planning,
M&E Sub-Unit
Financial
Support Unit
Sub-Coordinationl                               Sub-Coordinatio                Sub-CoordinatioM n      Sub-CoordSinatn          Sub-Coordination
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Financial                                                                Dev
Marketing and                                Agricultural Dev.              Land Activities             Infrastructure         Fisheries Dev.
Cooperative Dev.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Regional Coord.                         Regional Coord.                         Regional Coord.
Medio                                       Tearnaia                            Delta Parnaiba
Administrative Dependency
 - - _- - - - -  Technical Dependency



- 127 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELPOMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Monitoring
1.        Project activities would be monitored through a three-pronged
system: (i) regular sub-coordinator action; (ii) reporting by implementing
agencies, and (iii) information obtained from project beneficiaries. Each of
these sub-systems would complement each other, obtaining information through
different approaches and scopes. They would give the Project Coordinator a
satisfactory view of project implementation, alerting him both to problems
which might require immediate action (by the executing agencies, by himself,
or by the Secretaries), as well as those which might develop over time.
2.        The monitoring system was devised taking into consideration several
constraints which, by their very nature, are somewhat divergent or even
conflicting: (i) the monitoring system should be sufficiently large and
comprehensive to give project management enough information to adequately
oversee project implementation; (ii) it should be simple enough to be easy
and relatively inexpensive to administer, to deliver results with minimal
delays, and to prevent flooding management with a volume of information
too large to be easily understood; (iii) it should take into full account
and incorporate as far as possible existing information flows, and
particularly, information already required by POLONORDESTE as part of its own
monitoring and disbursement system; and (iv) it should be flexible, properly
responding to changing management needs or field conditions.
Monitoring by Sub-Coordinators
3.        The five technical sub-coordinators and the three regional field
coordinators would continuously be in contact with both the executing agencies
and the beneficiaries. Institutional reports, interviews, participation
in meetings and personal observation in the field would allow them to obtain
a continuous flow of information. Although they basically would check the
same set of indicators on which the implementing agencies would periodically
report (para 4), the sub-coordinators' monitoring would have three advantages:
(i) it would be continuous; (ii) it would be able to review qualitative
variables which cannot be efficiently handled by the reporting system;
and (iii) it would have a minimal feedback time. Also, sub-coordinators would
be required to go to the field or to contact some of the executing agencies
whenever problems were detected in order to identify causes and suggest
appropriate actions. These special searches by the sub-coordinators would
parallel the special evaluation studies referred to below (para 21) and might
then be called "special monitoring studies".



- 128 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 2
Reporting by Implementing Agencies
4.        The executing agencies would periodically report on a set of key
indicators to the relevant coordinators. These indicators cover all relevant
fields and are expected to leave no major blind spots. If any blind spot is
discovered during implementation, the list would be reviewed and amended. The
key indicators cover most components with approximately the same density; a
more intensive coverage, however, is provided for those aspects considered
crucial for proper project implementation or where major project risks have
been identified (e.g. evolution of land markets and prices; technical change
and fishing effort in the fishing communities; technical support to
cooperatives).
5.        An effort was made to define the indicators so that indicators:
(i) measure a single variable; no composite indicators are included; (ii) are
as representative as possible, i.e. changes or trends in these variables
should reflect what is actually happening over as wide a range of project
activities as possible; and (iii) are as predictive as possible, i.e. changes
in them would foretell forthcoming problems as far in advance as possible.
Most of the indicators selected are already a part of the regular information
flows of the agencies concerned; only a minimum of new or additional variables
were included. The set of indicators to be monitored under the project is
fully compatible with the set of variables regularly monitored by POLONORDESTE.
6.        The set of variables to be monitored, the description of each one,
the presentation format, and the periodicity of reporting were discussed with
most of the agencies involved. The agencies found the variables appropriate
and feasible to report on. Required changes were introduced into the original
proposals, and the agencies committed themselves to provide the necessary
information.
7.        Table 1 includes a list of the variables to be monitored and indicates:
(a)  whether this information is already required by the POLONORDESTE
system; if not, whether it is already collected for internal
institutional purposes or whether it is new or additional.
In some cases, it may seem that the list of new or additional
variables is too long, but such cases usually refer to new
activities to be initiated under the project;
(b)  the frequency with which this information should be provided
and the agency responsible for providing this information. An
effort was made to standardize the frequency of reporting; in
most cases, variables would be reported on a quarterly basis.
Other variables, generally those reflecting activities which
develop over a longer term (i.e. research) would be reported
annually or semi-annually. Some highly sensitive variables,
those essential to project implementation or for which immediate
corrective action is possible (e.g. input supply or marketing),
are to be reported on a monthly basis throughout the critical
period;



- 129 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 3
(c) the agency responsible for providing the information; and
(d) the information to be passed on to the Project Coordinator.
8.        Information would be sent by the agencies to the Planning, Monitoring,
and Evaluation Sub-Unit in the PMU. It would be checked, analyzed, consolidated,
and subsequently passed on to the technical sub-coordinators. The sub-coordinators
would be responsible for reacting to any danger signals requiring feedback
or corrective actions. Only those pieces of information which give an overview
of project activities, and those which reflect the most crucial project
activities, would be passed on to the Project Coordinator (as indicated in the
last column of Table 1). The anticipated monitoring information flow is shown
in Chart 1. A copy of the quarterly reports provided to the Project Coordinator
wou:Ld be sent to the Bank for information. This monitoring sub-system would
start functioning on April 1, 1981. The deadlines for the implementing agencies
to deliver information to the PMU would be the same as those established by
POLONORDESTE.
Beneficiary Sounding
9.        The institutional reporting sub-system would give the Project
Coordinator an overview of how project activities are being performed, but it
would not give him any feeling as to whether project activities are being
perceived or received by project beneficiaries, or whether beneficiaries are
reacting in the way the project anticipates. To compensate for this, a third
monitoring sub-system would be introduced. Information would be collected
monthly on ten or twelve key indicators, from a random sample of beneficiaries.
Sample size would be extremely small: five beneficiaries in each of the three
project areas per month. Results would not be statistically significant, but
the objective of the sub-system would be to detect whether the services
provided by the project agencies are being received by project beneficiaries
and whether they are adopting the main technological changes proposed by the
project. No attempt would be made to measure the magnitude of the change,
only to detect whether the change is occurring or not. Actual measurements of
the magnitude of the changes induced by the project would be attempted through
the mid-term and ex-post evaluation exercises (para 18).
10.       Questions to be asked of land beneficiaries would be kept to a bare
minimum to ensure practicality. Longer questionnaires would require more
interviewing time and place a heavier burden on both respondents and interviewers.
More questions would require a longer data processing and analysis time,
detracting from the intended simplicity.  The questions would be extremely
simple, usually requiring a yes/no answer. Only in a few cases would figures
on area be required in order to determine whether a certain practice is being
adopted by farmers. These monthly interviews would be carried out by the
three regional field coordinators; the answers would be recorded on a pre-
addressed postcard.1/ This type of procedure would serve a double purpose. On
the one hand, it would make transfer of the answered forms to the PM&E Sub-Unit
1/ This system was successfully tested under the Philippines Third Education
Project, Loan 1224 T/PH.



ANNEX 10
- 130 -                           Page 4
much faster, because the cards would be delivered directly by mail, instead
of going all the way up and down the hierarchical structure. Delays and
data alteration would be minimized. On the other hand, it would help to keep
the number of questions short because of the sheer reduced space for answers
that such a card provides.
11.       The information system for land beneficiaries would be started
in the Delta do Parnaiba and Medio Parnaiba sub-areas on September 1, 1981.
In the Teresina sub-area, it would start when at least 120 beneficiaries
have been settled. The list of questions is presented in Table 2. The
monthly and annual tabulation sheets kept by the PM&E Sub-Unit would be the
only "output" of this monitoring sub-system. They would be passed on to the
technical and regional coordinators and the Project Coordinator, and copied to
the Bank for information. The list of questions for fishermen beneficiaries
is currently being prepared. Five fishermen would be interviewed each month.
It is currently anticipated that the questionnaire would be administered by
the fisheries sub-coordinator; therefore, no pre-addressed answering card is
required.
Overview
12.       In brief, this three-pronged monitoring system would produce all
the information project management is expected to require for daily decision-
making, as well as for the annual planning exercise. It would provide manage-
ment with news on important developments on very short notice through the
coordinators. It would permit handling both quantitative and qualitative
information, and it would obtain information from the farmers themselves on
how they are receiving and reacting to project activities. Throughout project
implementation, the monitoring system would remain flexible, open to modific-
ation whenever justified by changing management needs or field circumstances.
The Project Coordinator would discuss with the State Secretaries of Planning
and Agriculture the information that they would like to periodically receive
in order to remain abreast of project developments.
B. Evaluation
13.       Project effects and impact would be evaluated through three different
instruments: (i) two major evaluation exercises; (ii) several special evaluation
short studies; and (iii) a model-based annual desk evaluation for the fisheries
component. Each of these would assess project results from a different
perspective. The first implies a global approach to the whole spectrum of
project effects and impact. The second focuses on particular implementation
problems and--should they appear--puzzling or unanticipated effects. The
third, based on the fishermen income model developed at appraisal, would keep
track of changes in income levels and distribution utilizing data gathered by
the monitoring system.
14.       Evaluation activities try to reach a proper balance between costs
and benefits. The evaluation scheme is comprehensive, but commensurate with
the size of the project. Many other variables could have been selected for
analysis. Nevertheless, a conscious effort--fully shared by Bank and project
staff--was made to keep evaluation aims at a more modest level. Current



- 131 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 5
design is comprehensive enough to cover developments concerning the most
important variables that project activities would be expected to affect:
land, technology, production, and income. Even in these central aspects, only
some---usually simple--variables were chosen, which would become gross indicators
of main developments under the project. For instance, only the most obvious
indicators of technological change would be assessed. No attempt would be
made to directly measure variables such as yields or income. Some indication
of the former would be obtained basically through farmer recollection (for
fishermen, information on fish landings and processing would be available on a
continuous basis), while the latter would be approached through the proxies of
volume of production and major expenditure indicators.
15.       Limited attempts would be made to assess other variables which,
although vitally important, are not the primary project goals, e.g. literacy,
and some indicators of living conditions such as housing, water supply, and
main household belongings. However, no attempt is envisaged to measure
standard of living on a broader scope, health conditions (except for some
rudimentary indications of morbidity and mortality)l/ or nutritional status.
16.       The level of statistical significance to be utilized for project
evaluation activities is rather at the lower end of commonly accepted significance
levels. This level is estimated to be sufficient for the major purposes
sought (improved annual programming; preparation of similar or follow-up
projects; accountability of funds spent; and assessment of project design) and
would result in considerable saving in sample size and thus, in data processing
and analysis.
17.       In keeping evaluation exercises relatively simple, the "costs"
considered were not only financial costs, but organizational, processing,
and staffing requirements as well. Even though the major evaluations would be
contracted out, larger, more comprehensive exercises would call for more
experts in the PM&E Sub-Unit to draft terms of reference and bidding invitations,
to prequalify bidders and evaluate proposals, and to supervise the entire
process. Interviews with beneficiaries and project staff would be longer,
implying a more tiresome process for both interviewers and interviewees and a
lower quality control, thus resulting in lower quality data. More interviews
and more questions would result in higher costs, especially for data coding,
punching, processing, and analyzing. Results would be obtained much later,
and perhaps even too late for use by project management.2/
1/ This "neglect" is not without a reason. No disease occurrence or spread
is anticipated as a consequence of project activities. Malaria has been
eradicated in the project area. Irrigation works would be quite minor and
would, if anything, improve sanitary conditions in the area.
2/ This is particularly true of the mid-term evaluation exercise, which is
the most crucial for direct project purposes since it would permit the
introduction of changes in project design, improvements in annual programming,
and modifications in the monitoring system. Early results are also a crucial
feature of the special implementation studies.



ANNEX 10
-132-                              Page 6
Major Evaluation Exercises
18.       Currently, potential project beneficiaries are at very low
technological levels. It is anticipated that it would take at least two
or three years of intensive extension and credit efforts for them to start
adopting some of the practices promoted by the project. Therefore, there
is no need to evaluate project effects and impact too early or too often.
Only two major evaluation exercises would be carried out: (i) a mid-term
evaluation, to be initiated during project year 3, which would cover develop-
ments up to project year 3 inclusive; and (ii) an ex-post evaluation after
project completion (anticipated for March 1986), which would be carried out
immediately thereafter (April-December 1986). These evaluations would involve
a thorough review of all information already collected through the monitoring
system, as well as detailed visits to the project agencies and interviews with
current and former executives and staff. Information on project effects and
impact on beneficiaries would be collected through statistically significant
surveys, covering some 50 fishermen and 210 land beneficiaries (about 30
interviews in each of the two main ecological zones--chapadas and lowlands--in
each of the three sub-areas, and 30 interviews in areas benefiting from
small-scale irrigation). A "control group" of some 30 fishermen and 100
farmers would also be interviewed. Both evaluations would aim at measuring
changes in the technology utilized by fishermen and farmers, as well as levels
of capitalization, production, income, and living standards.
19.       These major evaluations would require baseline data representing
the pre-project situation. For land beneficiaries, baseline data would be
collected as they are being registered as potential candidates for land
allocation under the project. For this purpose, a special form has been
prepared which would be attached to the registration cards already in use.
The form contains questions about current production, technology, marketing,
assets, income, and standard of living. This method of data collection
through registration (an activity which would extend over several years), is
made possible by the fact that project activities would be fairly concentrated
in space; therefore, they would most certainly produce no immediate noticeable
effects on farmers who were not direct beneficiaries--at least in the short
run. The case of fishermen, however, is different. They live concentrated in
small villages. Therefore, project activities would, to some extent, affect
most of them; baseline data on the same variables listed above would have to
be collected before project activities start in a significant way. Accordingly,
a baseline survey would be conducted by extension agents between April and
August 1981 in each of the ten fishing communities. Both for farmers and
fishermen, baseline data would be collected for some 10% of the beneficiary
population (about 500 farmers; about 200 fishermen).
20.       Both evaluations would be contracted out to entities external
to the project (consulting firms, universities). Terms of reference and
bidding invitations would be prepared by the PM&E Sub-Unit in the PMU and sent
to the Bank for approval. Contracts would require the delivery of two or
tWtzee i      tet-im  'epwts (e.g. on t'ne po'cpose& sample and    so6naiTe; &xitg
the sampling; and after a preliminary analysis of the information collected
from all sources). These would allow monitoring of the evaluation exercise by
the PM&E Sub-Unit, to prevent surprises at a later stage on the aims, approach,
design, scope, or methods of the evaluation.



-  133                            ANNEX 10
Page 7
Special Evaluation Studies
21.       The project would provide funds each year for one or two special
evaluation studies. These would be short studies on specific problems
affecting project implementation. The need for such evaluations would be
identified by the Project Coordinator and technical sub-coordinators. The
former would decide on the execution of studies involving up to six staff-
months of PMU personnel. Studies involving more than six staff-months would
require the previous approval of the Bank. The final report would be sent to
the Bank.
22.       The first of this series of short studies has already been identified.
Land discrimination would be started under the project in year 2. In order
to prepare INTERPI for this task and obtain information on the main parameters
required for programming (e.g. number and type of staff required; area which
a discrimination team could cover per year; cost per hectare or per property;
percentage of the total area improperly occupied by private farms), the
project would recruit and finance consultants to review and assess the
experiences from two or three discrimination schemes carried out by INCRA
elsewhere in Brazil. This study would be conducted during the second half of
1981; results would be available early in project year 2.
23.       It is anticipated that most of the short studies would be conducted
by PMU staff (usually, staff of the PM&E Sub-Unit).  However, in some cases,
such as that mentioned in para 22, consultants would be utilized.
Annual Desk Evaluation of Fishermen Income Levels and Distribution
24.       An annual desk evaluation of changes in income and income distri-
bution would be carried out for the fisheries component. On the basis of the
data collected through the monitoring system (number of fishing days, number
of owners with different kinds of crafts and gear, volume of fish landed, and
prices), the income level/distribution model prepared at appraisal would be
updated each year, permitting an overview of sector development.



- 134 -                                 ANNEX 10
Table 1
Table 1:  Variables to be Reported by the Agencies             Page 1
INFORMATION                    Frequency of Agency        Information
'Already re- 'Already col- New or       reporting    responsibleito be trans-
VARIABLES                                                                 repnif ere tras
Vquired by    lected by    additional                             |ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                               Ithe project
manager
A. LAND ACTIVITIES
1. PRIMARY DATA
a) Farms offered to
INTERPI (number,
area, price-total                                   X           T         INTERPI          X
and per acre, num-
ber of residents).
b) Farms bought by
INTERPI (idem).                                     X           T         INTERPI          X
c) Properties alloca-
ted to beneficiar-
ies (idem, plus no.                                 X           T         INTERPI          '
of beneficiaries).
d) Land repayments
collected (amount,
no. of beneficiar-
ies, average time
delay in collection).
- total                                        X           T         INTERPI
-Coop./COBAL                                   X           T         Coop/COBAL
2. SECONDARY INFORMATION
e) Average price paid for
land excluding installa-
tions (in the last
quarter at current prices;                           x          T         INTERPI          X
total over the last four
quarters and since 1980,
in constant Dec. '80
prices).
f) Map indicating farms
offered, bought and                                  X          T         INTERPI          X
allocated.
g) Average time span
(in months):
- between offer and
actual buyta% (Irn the-                                                 IMTER?           x
quarter, average over
the last four quarters).



- 135 -
ANNEX 10
Table1
Page 2
INFORMATION                   Frequency of Agency       Informiation
Already re-  Already col- New or      reporting    responsible to be trans-
VARIABLES          quired by    lected by   ladditional                             ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                             the project
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ j manager
-between buying
and actual distri-                                X          T        INTERPI          X
bution to benefi-
ciaries (idem).
-for INCRA's appro-                                X          T        INTERPI         X
val (idem).
3. LAND MARKETS (infor-
mation to be collec-
ted on properties of
1000 ha and above,
only for bare land -
without installations -
per municipio.)
h) Minimum value set
by INCRA for                        X                         E        INTERPI         X
land.
i) Minimum value for
land transfers for
land sales tax
purposes.                           X                         A        INTERPI         X
j) Declared value of
land transactions
registered during                                 X           S        INTERPI
the last semester
(information to
be obtained from
the cadaster).
k) Declared value of
farms mortgaged
with the official                                  x          s        INTERPI
banks during the
semester (ob-
tained from the
official banks).
1) Land value as
estimated bv
regional ofr,^ ices
of EMATER-PI, per                                  X          T        EMATER-PI
kind of land (for
annual crops, for
pastures).



- 136 -
ANNEX 10
Table 1
page 3
INFORMATION                    Frequency of Agency         Information
VARIABLES           Already re-  Already col- New or         reporting    responsible to be trans-
quired by    lected by    additional                                ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                                 the project
manager
B. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
1. RESEARCH
a) Number of experi-
ments/tests which
are of interest to
the project.
-on experimental           X                                      A        EMBRAPA-PI        X
stations
-in the field             X                                       A        EMBRAPA-PI        X
b) Number of reports on
results which are of
interest to the project. X                                        A        EMBRAPA-PI
c) Number of researchers
per functional category
(EMBRAPA) working under
the project.
-total                     X                                      A        EMBRAPA-PI
-full time/part time                                  X           A        EMBRAPA-PI
d) Budget spent.              X                                      A         EMBRAPA-PI
e) Number of field days
devoted to project
beneficiaries.                                        X           A        EMBRAPA-PI
2. EXTENSION AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
a) Number of extension
agents (technical,
social) working for the
project, per munici-                                              T        EMATER-PI         X
pality.XTEMERP
b) Ratio technical agent/
beneficiary.                                         X           T         MONITOR
c) Technical field: no. of:
-Demonstration units in
project area.            X                                      T         EMATER-PI
-Demonstration meetings;
participant benefi-
ciaries.                             X                          T         EMATER-PI



- 137-                            ANNEX 10
Table 1
page 4
INFORMATION                   Frequency of Agency      Information
quired by    lected by    additional                            ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                             the project
l_____________________   ,__________ I  manager
-Visits to bene-
ficiaries.                         X                         T        EMATER-PI
-Courses, campaigns,
etc. carried out.       X                                    T        EMATER-PI
-Small irrigation
projects prepared.                 X                         T        EMATER-PI       X
-Training courses for
EMATER staff.                      X                        A         EMATER-PI
-Number of benefi-
ciaries who adopted
animal traction;
cumulative area
cropped by them.                   X                         T        EMATER-PI
d) Social field: no. of:
-Groups of wives and of
young people functioning;
participants.                      X                         T        EMATER-PI
-Cottage industries
installed.                         X                        T         EMATER-PI
-Orchards and vegetable
gardens set up.                    X                        T         EMATER-PI
-Small livestock opera-
tions started.                     X                        T         EMATER-PI
3. RURAL CREDIT
a) Credit applications
-prepared.                          X                         T        EMATER-PI
-approved by the banks.             X                         T        EMATER-PI       X
b) Investment and opera-
tica credit approved
(amounts):
-Total.                  X                                    T        EMATER-PI
-Per size of operation:
0-50 MVR; 50-100 MVR.  X                                     T        EMATER-PI
-Per bank (BB; BNB; BNCC;
BEP).                                            X           T        EMATER-PI
-Credit applications
rejected.                                        X           T        EMATER-PI       X
-Amounts of funds trans-
ferred by PQLONORDESTE to
the official banks.                              X          A         SEPLAN
-Recoveries, operations
ini arrears.                                     X           A        BANKS



- 138 -                                ANNEX 10
Table 1.
page 5
INFORMATION:  ___               Frequency of Agency       [Information
VARIABLES           Already re-  Already col- New or        reporting    responsible to be trans
quired by    lected by    additional                               ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                                the project
4. INPUT SUPPLY
a) Number of posts
functioning
regularly:
-CIDAPI posts                         X                          T         CIDAPI
-Cooperative posts                    X                          T         COOP.
b) Volume and amount
of inputs sold
(CIDAIPI, COOP.):                                                 1/      CDAIPI/COOP.
-Total                    T           X                           1/
-Per post                             X                                    CIDAPI/COOP.
5. SEED PRODUCTION
a) Production in farmers'
fields:
-No. of farmers selec-                    2-
ted.                                                X           MF       COOP.            X
-Delivery of basic seed
from EMBRAPA to the                                              3/
cooperatives.                                       X           E-       EMBRAPA          X
-No. of fields assis-                                             2/
ted by extension.                                   X           M-       EMATER-PI
b) Production in the
coops' own fields.        X                                      T        COOP.
c) Volume of seeds sold:                                             I/
-Seeds, in general.       T                          X           MN-       CIDAPI/COOP.
-Rice, per varieties.                                X           N-        CIDAPI/COOP.    X
-Beans, maize, manioc.                               X                    CIDAPI/COOP.
d) No. of beneficiaries
adopting improved seeds.                             X           T        EMATER-PI        X
-Area planted by them
with improved seeds.                                X           T        EMATER-PI        X
C. MARKETING
a) No. of municiDalities
where SIMA obtains weekly
marketing information.                X                          T        CEASA            X



139-                                ANNEX 10
Table 1
page 6
INFORMATION                    Frequency of Agency        Information
VARIABLES           Already re-  Already col- New or        reporting    responsible to be trans
quired by    lected by    additional                               ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                                manaeprojc
j_____________manager
b) Volume of commodi-
ties bought by the
cooperatives and by
pre-cooperative
groups: rice, beans,
corn, manioc:
-Total                    A           X                          T41      COOP.            X
-Per cooperative                      X                          M4-      COOP.
c) No. of beneficiaries
who sell their pro-
ducts to the coopera-
tives:
-Total                                X                          T        COOP.
-Per cooperative                      X                          14-      COOP.
d) Cooperative average
prices for:
-Buying from project
beneficiaries                        X                          T        COOP.            X
-Selling to COBAL or
others.                              X                          T        COOP.
e) Ratio between prices
paid by the cooperatives
to project beneficiaries
and market prices as
detected by SIMA (%).                                X            /       MONITOR          X
. SUPPLIES
a) No. of stores partici-
pating in the SOMAR
network:
-Private                              X                          T        COBAL
-Cooperative                          X                          T        COBAL
b) Volume of groceries
sold by COBAL to SOMAR's
stores.                                                          T        COBAL            X
c) Frequency of visits by
the mobile unit.                      x                          T        COBAL
E. COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMEN'T
a) Activities by OCEPI
-No. of visits to each
cooperative.                         X                          M        OCEPI            T



140 -                                ANNEX 10
Table I
page 7
IN'FOMATION                    Frequency of Agency        Information
VARIABLES           quired by    lected by    additional                                ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                                the project
manager
- No. of courses for
cooperative leaders                    X                        T          OCEPI
- No. of partici-
pants in courses                       X                        T          OCEPI         x
b) Activities of EMATER-
PI:
- No. of extension
agents assigned to
cooperatives                X                                   T         EMATER-PI
- No. of courses on
marketing for ex-
tension agents                         X                        T         EMATER-PI
- No. of partici-
pants in courses
on marketing                           X                        T         EMATER-PI
c) Activities of Co-
operatives:
- No.of members, total;
below 100 ha                           X                        T          COOP.         X
- No.of active members                   X                        T          COOP.         X
- Volume and amount of
products bought by
the cooperatives from
project beneficiaries
(see C.b,c,d above)
- Volume of operations,
total assets, current
liabilities, total in-
come, net profit,
profit distributed to
members, per cooperative               X                        A         COOP.
F. WATER SUPPLY
a) No. of filters distributed               X                        S          EMATER-PI    X
b) No.of wells sunk; No. of meters
drilled                                  X                        S          CIDAPI
c) No. of systems completed and
in operation                             X                        S         CIDAPI
d) No. of people covered by the
completed systems                        X                        S         CIDA2



141 -                              ANNEX 10
Table 1
page 8
INFORMATION                   Frequency of Agency        Information
VARIABLES           Already re-  Already col- New or       reporting    responsible to be trans
quired by    lected by    additional                             ferred to
_ ==  _          ~~POLONORDESTE agency                                             th  pr.oanaect
manager
G. RURAL ROADS
a) No. of km of roads:
- identified                                         X          T          CODERPI      X
- tendered, contracted                  X                       T          CODERPI      X
- under construction                    X                       T          CODERPI      X
- open to traffic             X                                 T          CODERPI      X -
b) Average cost per
km of road
- contracted                                         X          T          CODERPI      X
- completed                                          X          T          CODERPI      x
c) Equipment for road
maintenance
- tendered                                           X          T          DER
- bought                                             X          T          DER
- received and in
operation                                         X          T         DER
H. FISH DEVELOPMENT
1. PROJECT-SUPPLIED GOODS:
a) No. of vessels per kind:
- contracted                                        X          T          EMATER-PI     X
- built                      X                                 T          EMATER-PI     X
- total fleet operating                             X          T          PDP           x
b) No. of fishermen who:
- acquired their first vessel                       X          T          EMATER-PI
- acquired a vessel similar
to the previous one they
had                                               X          T          EMATER-PI
- acquired a vessel of a
higher standard than their
previous one                                      X          T          EMATER-PI
c) Average cost per vessel
finalized during last quarter
per kind of vessel                                  X          T          ZiATER-PI
d) No. of fishing gear per kind
financed under the project      X                              T          EMATER-PI     X



-142 -                                  ANNEX 10
Table L1
page 9
INFORMATION              X       Frequency of Agency      |Informatio
VARIABLES           Already re-  Already col- New or        reporting    responsible to be t..ai.
VARIABLES  quired by    lected by    additional                    ferred mo
POLONORDESTE agency                                                the projec
e) No. of fishermen who:
- acquired their
first gear                                           X           T          EMATER-PI
- acquired gear similar
to previous gear                                     X           T          EMATER-PI
- acquired gear diff-
erent from previous
gear                                                 X           T          EMATER-PI
- acquired improved
gear                                                 X           T          EMATER-PI
f) Volume of ice demanded
and supplied (ton)              T                                  M          COPELCO
2. RESEARCH:
a) No. and kind of experi-
ments and research
carried out under the
project                        T                                  A          PDP
b) No. of:
- times the research
vessel went to sea                                  X           T          SUDENE
- biostatistical samples
taken                                               X           T          PDP
- researchers                  X                                  A          PDP
c) No. of fishing days per
kind of vessel for the
whole fleet per quarter        X                                  A          SUDENE
3. EXTENSION AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE:
a) No. of extension agents:
- working in the fisheries
component                   X                                   T          EMATER-PI
- trained under the project/
field of specialization                X                        T          EMATER-PI
b) Ratio technical agent/
beneficiary                                           X           T          MONITOR



- 143 -
ANNEX 10
Table 1
Page 10
INFORMATION                   Frequency of Agency       Informatic
VARI.ABLES    ~ Aready re-  Already col- New or      reporting    responsible to be tran
VARIABLES     quired by    lected by    additional                             ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                             the projec
___________________________   ___________               j            ~manager
c) Technical field:
No. of:
- groups of fisher-
men formed               X                                 T         EMATER-PI
- courses given to
fishermen                          x                       T         EMATER-PI
- participants in
these courses                      x                       T         EMATER-PI
- credit applica-
tions prepared                     X                       T         EMATER-PI
- demonstration
sessions in the
training vessel
per month                                       X          T         EMATER-PI
- fishermen partici-
pating in these
demonstrations                                  X          T         EMATER-PI
- families assisted by
extension service                  X                       T         EMATER-PI
- shipbuilders assisted                                         '
and trained                                    X           T         EMATER-PI
- fish processors
assisted and trained                            X          T         EMATER-PI
- fishermen assisted                             X           T         EMATER-PI
d) Social assistance:
No. of:
- groups of wives and
young people function-
ing                      X                                 T         EMATER-PI
- courses given to them    X                                 T         EMATER-PI
- participants in
groups and courses                 X                       T         EMATER-PI
4. CREDIT
a) No. and amount of invest-
ment and operation credit
approved for:
- fishermen                           X                       T         EMATER-PI     X
- small processors                                 X          T         EMATER-PI     X
- shipbuilders                                     X          T         EMATER-PI     X
- COPELCO                                          X          T         COPELCO



- 144 -
ANNEX 10
Table I
Page 11
INFORIATION                   Frequency of Agency        Informatic
VARIABLES          Already re-  Already col- New or       reporting    responsible to be trar.
quired by    lected by    additional                             ferred to
POLONORDESTE agency                                              the projec
____________________________    {~~~~~uired                            manager
b) Repayment and arrears                              X           A         BANKS          x
c) Amount of money
passed by POLO-
NORDESTE to the
official banks                                     X           A         SEPLAN         x
5. TECHNICAL DIPROVEMENT
a) No. of fishermen who
adopted at least one
practice of:
- catch                                X                       T         EMATER-PI
- navigation                           X                       T         EMATER-PI
- in-boat fish
preservation                         X                       T         EMATER-PI
b)NNo. of shipbuilders who
adopted new building
techniques or new vessel
designs                                            X           T         EMATER-PI
c) No. of families who
adopted at least one
practice of fish
processing                                         X           T         EMATER-PI
6. PRODUCTION
a) Volume of fish landed:
- total                                X                       M         PDP            X
- per species                          X                       M         PDP
- per kind of vessel                               X           M         PDP
- per fishing village                  X                       M         PDP
- per quantity and kind
of fishing gear                                  X          M          PDP
7. PROCESSING
a) COPELCO's processing
and marketing infra-
structure: No. of:
- units acquired                      X                      T          COPELCO       X
- units operating                     X                      T          COPELCO       X
- amount invested          X                                 T          COPELCO       X



- 145 -
ANNEX 10
Table 1
Page 12
INFORMATION                   Frequency of Agency        Informatic
VAB.IABLES          Already re-  Already col- New or       reporting    responsible to be trar.
quired by    lected by    additional                              ferred -
POLONORDESTE agency                                               the projec
manager
b) Infrastructure for
cot:tage fish process-
ing and marketing
(slirimp and mangrove
crabs), No. of:
- tnits planned                                    X           T         EMATER-PI
- units in operation                               X           T         EMATER-PI
- amount invested                                              T         EMATER-PI
c) Volume of fish pro-
cessed per kind
(salted, smoked,
chilled, turned
into fish meal)
by COPELCO                                         X           M         COPELCO
d) Productivity of
COPELCO's pro-
cessing equipment
(tons per day)                                     X          M          COPELCO
8. MARKETING
a) Volume of fish mar-
keted by COPELCO
per kind per:
- fresh fish                                       X           M         COPELCO        X
- processed fish                                   X           M         COPELCO        X
b) Volume of fish sold
by COPELCO:
- to public sector (COBAL)                         X           T         COPELCO
- resold in rural areas                          X           T         COBAL
- resold in urban areas
in state                                    X          T          COBAL
out of state                                X          T          COBAL
- to private sector
- cooperatives                                   X           T         COPELCO
- in state wholesalers                           X           T         COPELCO
- out of state wholesalers                       X           T         COPELCO
c) Price per species                                  X           M         PDP            X
d) No. of members of COPELCO
- total                                X                       T         COPELCO        X
- active                               X                       T         COPELCO        X



-146-                             ANNEX 10
Table 1
Page 13
INFORMATION                   Frequency of Agency        Information
VARIABLES           Already re-  Already col- New or       reporting    responsible to be trans-
quired by    lected by    additional                              ferred to
IPOLONORDESTE agency                                              the project
manager
e) Total operations,
total assets, current
liabilities, total
income, net profit,
profit distributed
to members of COPELCO                                X          A          COPELCO        X
SYMBOLS
E  =  To be reported whenever the event occurs
M  =  Monthly
T =  Quarterly
S =  Semi-annual
A  =  Annual
FOOTNOTES
1/ = October to February only
2/ = November to May only
3/ = Critical date: October 31
4i = April to June only



INTE RPI                                  l                                                                  B  -COORD
A._ '                                  (2 -;3--                          FC   LASCOD    J                      --l                         ANNEX 10
1~~~~~~~           -   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAND                                                                                      Charc 
I EMRRAFA                 B 11 1;5&                                                                                                               , -  MONITORIMC:  INFOSMATSOS  FLO','f
s-COOaD
_--  rt _iRICULTURAL-                                                      -
k54 :.b;R5c                                                                            ELOPHENT
|CDP|-  _  __ _
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --  k kb,1
F  CODERPI   |             (G&,b        )  -                     -f \_ _I
'   D E R  t - - - - - - -  (   G   c )                 -   t         -_                                    S - C O O R D                                 P R O J E C T
D ER _   !             s    -    .w                                         _                  -    D        IN FRA s -                 .    _        -P  cOOR G INA TOt-
-                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRUCTURE                      ORfME
A            3   4  ,1      
IEMATER-Pl -\
F___    __                                ______                      ,                                         S-COORD
1 ~~~~~~~~~                     L/S-COD
|   K E b    '_                                                      _    -__ D__AR_ EIING A
PIERATIEt
i2    B   ,  , lS#                            __                                            _ _ _                     |
oo -- b,    tCOOPSD  CbJ4                                                                             is
-  --- -   \ ( Cb, c, d; E c                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~DEV ELOPHsE
-~~~~~ Ufle;7ac# ),C_S
( A I d
__ __ ' -________
rCOBAL
< (  E B  b
F  C-E ASA -       (           Ca*b
_           _--             53{   b 1 b   )
SEPLAN4-PI
t   SUDENE   -              T
poDp                 b1;2,6,se



- 148 -              ANNEX 10
Table 2
Table 2: Information to be Obtained from Beneficiary
1.  What area did you clean, crop, destump last year?
2.  Did you fence off with wire?
3.  Did you adopt any soil conservation practices?
4.  Do you have any permanent pasture (artificial/natural)?
5.  Do you have draft animals:
(a) (zero/one/two or more)
(b) (more than/similar to/less than you had last year)
6.  Do you have livestock:
(a) (zero/one/two or more)
(b) (more than/similar to/less than last year)
7.  Do you use any of the following tools:
(a) hand winch
(b) "matraca" (manual sawing machine)
(c) scythe
(d) cultivator
(e) other seeding machines
(f) multi-cultor/poly-cultor
(g) manual threshers and winnowers
8.  Did you adopt:
(a) non-associated rice culture
(b) small irrigation
(c) improved rice seeds
(d) other improved seeds
(e) new cropping practices
(f) fertilizers
(g) mineral nutrients for livestock
9.  During the last six months:
(a) were you visited by a technical extension agent
(b) by a social extension agent
(c) did you participate in any demonstration visits
(d) did you participate in any courses
(e) did you participate in any groups
10. Did you understand what the extension agent said (well/fairly/poorly)?
11. Did you already eply for Bank credit
(a) (yes/no)
{bN (it was aproved1reiected)
Are .,cu a member of the cooperative
(a) (yes/no)
(b) did you buy inputs from the cooperative
(c) did you sell your produce to the cooperative



- 149 -                      ANNEX 11
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF BANK DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
CALENDAR      QUARTER         DISBURSED              CUMULATIVE AMOUNT       BALANCE
YEAR          ENDING           DURING QUARTER         DISBURSED              OF LOAN
1981          June  30             0.0                     0.0                 28.0
Sept  30            0.0                     0.0                 28.0
Dec   31            1.4                     1.4                 26.6
1982          March 31             1.2                     2.6                 25.4
June  30            2.3                     4.9                 23.1
Sept  30            2.4                     7.3                 20.7
Dec   31            2.5                     9.8                 18.2
1983          March 31             2.5                     12.3                15.7
June  30            2.5                     14.8                13.2
Sept  30            2.5                     17.3                10.7
Dec   31            2.4                     19.7                 8.3
1984          March 31             1.2                     20.9                 7.1
June  30            1.2                     22.1                 5.9
Sept  30            1.0                     23.1                 4.9
Dec   31            1.0                     24.1                 3.9
1985          March 31             1.0                     25.1                 2.9
June  30            1.0                     26.1                 1.9
Sept  30            0.8                     26.9                 1.4
Dec   31            0.8                     27.7                 0.9
1986          March 31             0.7                     28.4                 0.4
June  30            0.6                     29.0                 0.0



-150 -                       ANNEX 12
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RELATED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1   Soil Study - Vale do Parnalba
2   Projeto Fazenda Mudubim (Producao de Sementes Basicas)
3   Componente Agricola (Initial Report by R. Morel, W.B. Consultant)
4 . Projeto Fundiario Medio Sao Francisco - INCRA
Programaqao Operacional 1980
5 . Projeto Regularizaqao e Redistribuigao Fundiaria
no Nordeste Brasileiro - INCRA/IDB
6 . Mission Report on Land Issues - Piaui
by J. Tendler, W.B. Consultant
7   Piaui Ontem e Hoje - by Governor D. Arcoverde
8 . Preliminary Identification of Sociological Factors Affecting
Project Implementation - by J.C. Reverdy, W.B. Consultant
9 . Mission Report - by A. Bendit, W.B. Consultant
10 . A Development Proposal for Coastal Fisheries in Piaui -
by P. Wadsworth, W.B. Consultant
11   Aspectos Demograficos do Estado do Piaui
12 . Estudo Sociologico Geral do Vale do Parnaiba/
Sub-Area do Medio do Parnaiba
13 . Instru4ao no. 20 - Diretrizes para Execuqao de Serviqos Topograficos - INCRA
14 . Sistematica de Discriminac,ao de Terras Devolutas da Uniao - INCRA
15 . Saneamento Basico - Preparation Team
16 . Norma DFT / F / lb - INCRA
17 . Estatuto da Terra - INCRA



- 151 -
18 . Regulamento Geral - INCRA
19 . Regimento Interno - INCRA
20 . Instrugoes - INCRA
21 . Programa de Educario de Comunidades - Univ. Federal do Piaui
22 ., Programa de Desenvolvimento Rural - Piaui - Univ. Federal do Piaui
23 . Patrimonio Imobiliario do Estado do Piaui






43'                                 42?
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P :edrodo do   , P
g  os Correio,-.Yc                                               MARANHAI         
FOr,oj$                                                                                  T L  TESINA 
0         oosCoupin                                 5/
4 Mluet \ t l>cs 41 B  A ZI                                          L~
1 __/ -               $4  i-       *t,X     STATE  OF
L7rd;o                  Fie                     -> /v4iti.o                      '    U      /         (      >     Fl  SA TE I0NARe
u 'c_19 ~ ~  ~        ~        ~       ~ ~ PAI UA  DVLOMN PROJEC
ReporticJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eevtos n aifl
V    ynAs IAT  been prELEvATIONS Ito  si
Y                                                                                                     ff  ::0:ede:0-20
ANNUAL RAINNALAVRAENAIFALALLrn.
TAT ROADSI 
PIAUi RURAL~~~ DEVEBOA   MET ROEC
VATE DOAPIARNIB
SRJET AIREAUNDAB ARS
000<    \  ~~~                                                                             0     20      EV4TIO0 (II       DUt- S
CS   - 80
or,            AredoPio                                                                                    N-0






43'                                          42-                                                     -                                             kcO
43- \                                                                                                                       4 ,' / / r .n u / X O z e a     ' I r  7  !,  c I
Luis Correio                                                                                          |
Burti dos La/e  e_
g    ds  <    - - ff    .};p   >   2  ,)  <AIteAlegre  \  }    |      ,              ~~~~~~B R A  Z I L
,to>IA11LA M-                                                 ~                                                    B                     / ,R
.  . Alvs  X  Bora    e '   >2                    2  )  Oho dc,Auox  t                              ALE   DO.ARNAIB
Lucnrsi -<                                                                                                                                  /        203 /  <,       l  o-2
-z-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'i
Rep -,o           IV7   - Ca.p    ao                                                                              t  \     TT   OD
TREp\IRc             1 ,0, / | -STATE BOUNDARIES
Port  'Espefantin    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ -                                       -INTERNATIONAL
,R -uS  ensedrtos                                                                                                   B,RAZILerw f-\  0
A ves                orsQIO                                                                 PIAUI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Borr/           Ol,o dAgu0                              VALE DO  PARNAIBA
Population Density
-6l (t==4\jiA2 F39$-3 ci.        PdroU       -     '                                   OVER IO (HABITANTS/K  : 
50-100
20-50
10 - 20
5 - ID
A   .   \  ;  X  A  \  l  : ) > r a >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0- 5 
FreiTos                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
F EDERAL ROADS
campo, Maio                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE ROADS
MUNICIPAL ROADS
RAILROADS
Altos   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~STATE CAPITAL
A                                                                       C)   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUNICIPALITIES
-5-                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
TERESIN                                                                                                                                        ARE
z  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~          ~    4        0       8,0    1001K-
Be odit,nos          de SPrr                             /40'
Monsenhor/
AIcoIr5Li       Btro Duro~                                                                                          MARANHAO
S. Pedro do P>r-Srsn 
\    me,rs                                                                                           7 ug 
A6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Amorone            eeeoo                                                      iners
Ftoeono~sd,s       Vlernco do Piaui                                                                 IU
Arr [Soool
Florrn apPrllBA
Pto                    B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



