Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20256-PH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(27040; 33600; 3360A; 22770)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$158 MILLION
AND A CREDIT
OF SDR 50 MILLION (US$66 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 30, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Peso (PHP)
I PHP = US$ 0.0245
US$ 1.00 = 40.85
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANR             Access to Natural Resources
CAs             Community Associations
CADC            Certificate of Ancestral Domain Claim
CADC/CALC    Ancestral Domains/Lands Claims
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CBFM            Community Based Forest Management
CBFMA           Community-Based Forest Management Agreement
CBFMP           Community Based Forest Management Programme
CCFS            Community Certificate of Forest Stewardship
CPPAP           Conservation of Priority Protected Areas Programme
CRD             Community Resources Development
CRF             Community Revolving Fund
CSC             Certificate of Stewardship Contract
DA              Department of Agriculture
DBM             Department of Budget and Management
DENR            Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DLO             Development of Livelihood Options
ENR-SECAL       Environment and Natural Resources-Sector Adjustment Programme
ff ARM          Forestry, Fisheries and Agricultural Resource Management
FLMA            Forest Land Management Agreement
FMB             Forest Management Bureau
FSMS            Forest Stocks Monitoring System
GAA             General Appropriations Act
GEF             Global Environment Fund
GOP             Government of the Philippines
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager/Director:    Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron, EACPF



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
IEC             Information and Education Campaign
IFD             Infrastructure and Facility Development
IPAS            Integrated Protected Areas System
IRA             Internal Revenue Allotment
IS             Institutional Strengthening
LCMS           Log Control Monitoring System
LGC             Local Government Code
LGUs            Local Government Units
LSD             Local Social Development
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MEC             Monitoring and Enforcement Component
MFPCs           Multi-Sectoral Forest Protection Committees
MOAs            Memoranda of Agreement
MTR             Mid-Term Review
NGOs            Non-Government Organizations
NBI             National Bureau of Investigation
NIPAS           National Integrated Protected Areas System
NTWG            National Technical Working Group
OSG             Office of the Solicitor General
PAMB            Protected Area Management Board
PEENRA          Philippine Economic Environmental and Natural Resources Accounting
PMO            Project Management Office
RRMP            Regional Resource Management Projects
SAP             Sector Adjustment Programme
SOEs            Statements of Expenditures
SWC             Soil and Water Conservation
This document ha; a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                11
6. Sustainability                                                                    13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                35
Annex 8. Status of Agreed Policy Actions (Tables 1 and 2)                            36
Annex 9. Executive Summary of the Borrower's Evaluation of the Project               45






Project ID: P004558                                        Project Name: ENV. & NAT. RES. MGT
Team Leader: Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron                    TL Unit: EACPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: May 30, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ENV. & NAT. RES. MGT                            L/C/TFNumber: 27040; 33600; 3360A;
22770
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: AT - Forestry; VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/23/89                                 Effective:  10/10/91           10/10/91
Appraisal:  05/10/90                                   MTR: 05/10/95              06/19/95
Approval:  06/25/91                                 Closing: 12/31/98             12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT. OF PHILS./DENR
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                         Attila Karaosmaaoglu
Country Manager:      Vinay Bhargava                             Gautam Kaji
Sector Manager:       Geoffrey B. Fox                            Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader at ICR:   Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron                 Thomas Wiens
ICR Primary Author:   Raffaele Suppa; FAO
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UJN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
For the adjustment program, the objectives were to preserve the biological diversity of the Philippines, to
re-establish natural resources that had been degraded or destroyed and to introduce sustainable land use
practices. For the investment project, the objectives were to develop an effective protected areas system,
improve enforcement of logging regulations, provide secure tenure rights to users in return for sustainable
resource use, offer extension service to upland dwellers and develop mechanisms to support small-scale
community-based resource management and livelihood projects in upland areas.
The objectives of the sector adjustment program were clear, realistic, and were a priority at the time when
the Government of the Philippines (GOP) was pursuing the stabilization and deepening of its economic
programs to achieve sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. The project objectives were consistent
with the sector structural reforms that the Bank/IDA were actively support,ing at the time and continue to
support until now. They were also in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which
aimed at providing assistance for macroeconomic policy reforms and supjporting lasting sectoral reform
programs. The ENR-SECAL was designed as a reflection of the CAS, taking explicit account of other
ongoing complementary development activities affecting the environment and natural resources
management. For example, the ADB program loan for fisheries and a project for replacing mangroves,
specifically dealt with these aspects which were consequently excluded from the ENR-SECAL. The Bank's
concern with rural environmental degradation in the Philippines dates frorn the late 1 970s when it financed
a Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project (Ln. 1890-PHI), and worked closely with DENR on
a strategy for improved management of natural resources througlh the Forestry, Fisheries and Agricultural
Resource Management (ff ARM) study. The Bank's support for the ENR.-SECAL was therefore justified
as a response to the GOP's commitment and prioritized development efforts to reduce ecological
degradation, protect the natural resources and thus contribute to rural growth, employment generation and
poverty alleviation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were maintained throughout the life of the project. The Mid-Term Review
(MTR) mission (June/July 1995), confirmed the validity of the original project objectives noting that there
was a need to pursue them more vigorously so as to ensure the wiider application of the program by DENR
offices and personnel in the field.
3.3 Original Components:
The ENR-SECAL, designed as a hybrid operation, consisted of: (i) a sector adjustment component aimed
at implementing major reforms governing the management of the country's natural resources; and (ii) an
investment component which would strengthen the local public institutions charged with monitoring and
managing these resources. The adjustrnent program was designed to be a q[uick disbursing operation with
disbursement to take place in two tranches: the first to be disbursed at loan/credit effectiveness and the
second about eight months later, conditional on completion of actions requiring more preparation time and
studies, as well as on the maintenance of a satisfactory macro-economic framework.
The investment component was implemented through three subcomponents:
(i) Monitoring and Enforcement (MEC) subcomponent: focused on development of capabilities of DENR
and civil society to monitor logging operations and to enforce forestry regulations;
(ii) Regional Resources Management Projects (RRMP) subcomponent: co.ncerned with the development of
capabilities of LGUs, government line agencies and local communities in implementing community-based
-2 -



management activities involving watershed, forest and land resources; and
(iii) Conservation of Priority Protected Areas in the Philippines (CPPAP): supports the management of ten
priority protected areas under the Integrated Protected Area System (IPAS) through a grant from the
Global Environment Facility (GEF). Since the grant was only declared effective on October 14, 1994,
almost three years later than the original target date, the CPPAP is still under implementation and its
activities are expected to be completed in December 2001. Its final assessment is therefore not included in
this ICR. CPPAP implementation was treated as a separate project (although still linked within the over-all
ENR-SECAL program framework) in order to better consolidate efforts in implementing a project with
such a widely dispersed geographical spread.
While MEC was to be generally and universally adopted, RRMP activities remained to be implemented in
the six regions as originally designed, as part of the regular activities of DENR field offices. The technical
assistance package, as provided under the project, was reasonably targeted to support the institutional
strengthening orientation of the project and to implement the training component.
In designing the Project, both positive and negative lessons from previous rural community development
projects, including those sponsored by non-government organizations (NGOs) were considered. These
included the ADB's Forestry Project I (started in 1989), the Ford Foundation's Social Forestry and
Community Forestry Project (1982-1992), the Bank's Central Visayas Regional Project (1983-early
1990s), and the USAID's Rainfed Resources Development Project (1982-1990). Furthermore, the design
of the components took into account the creation and institutionalization of proper incentive mechanisms to
ensure that critical stakeholders such as LGUs, NGOs and communities, in active partnership with DENR,
are part of the overall efforts in managing forestry resources. However, an effective funds flow mechanism
from the DENR to the LGUs was not provided for in the design, which would have supported the
envisioned decentralized mode of implementation. This concem became more important with the enactment
of the Local Government Code (LGC) in 1991. More importantly, the weak financial management
capabilities of LGUs and communities have not been properly addressed in the design of the training
programs pursued under the Project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the sector adjustment programme and the investment programme were maintained as
foreseen and no major changes were required during their implementation. However, it was noted during
the medium-term review (MTR) that, as originally designed, the ENR-SECAL did not incorporate specific
measures targeted at bringing about a complementarity in the implementation of its principal components,
particularly in terms of institutional arrangements and site selection. In view of this, the Project
Management Office (PMO) drew up a program for better integrating RRMP and MEC project activities.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
QAG did not exist at the time of the Project's approval. Peer reviewers and Bank decision makers
endorsed the project's design and considered its quality at entry as satisfactory. The ICR mission also
concluded that the Project's quality at entry is satisfactory. At design stage, all objectives and activities
scheduled under the project responded to the priorities of the GOP's agenda for forestry policy reforms and
for community-based forest management. This initiative helped create an avenue for forestry issues to be
included in the macro-economic structural and sectoral adjustment dialogue for the first time and provided
an opportunity for GOP to address environmental issues within this broader context. DENR was very
much aware of the environment-poverty-economy linkages, and actively used the Brundtland Commission
report issued in 1987 as a leverage for designing a more comprehensive and integrated adjustment program
for Bank financing.
-3 -



ENR-SECAL was designed to tackle the full range of issues concerning forestry and natural resources
management - sector policy environment, enforcement/regulatory role of government, and the importance of
LGUs, communities and civil society involvement in securing forest protection and sustainable resources
management. The whole Project design was innovative, at a time when there were very few such types of
operations within the Bank's portfolio. Also, it is worth stating, that the P'roject provided the GOP through
DENR, a working laboratory for modelling the intents and purpcses of the L(WC (which only came into
force in 1992) while most other devolved line agencies are still grappling on the issue of how best to
address decentralized delivery of front line services. However, it was also geographically dispersed, with
the components covering almost all the regions of the country. Inevitably, as a result of these factors, it
was also complex and arnbitious, which may have contributed to the slow start up of implementation in the
initial stages. Hence, its original design could have been better if specific measures were done to ensure
complementarity in the implementation of the two principal sub-components of the investment program, i.e.
MEC and RRMP.
The three main risks identified at appraisal were mainly those arising from possible delays, inadequate
implementation, and non-sustainability. These were expected to be mininiisecl through the enactment of key
legislation and separate bills for forest charges which were either approved or were in the process of being
approved by the legislative body at the time of appraisal. The inclusion of ai long-term investment and
institutional strengthening component with strong cross-linkages to policy reforms, provided the
opportunity for continuous monitoring intended to minimise the possibilit/ of slippage. The implementation
of the policy reforms was designed to reduce risks of failure of the institution building and investment
components.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project as a whole, both in relation to its development objectives and its physical
implementation, is rated satisfactory. All major legal covenants of the Loain/Credit were satisfactorily
complied with. The overall rating reflects the fact that the implementation of the quick-disbursing Sector
Adjustment component and the MEC were satisfactorily completed in 1996, with the latter having been
institutionalised in the DENR's regular program of activities. This indicates that at design stage, the
foreseen GOP's commitment towards the actual implementation of the pol.icy reforms was realistic. The
RRMP component has achieved an overall accomplishment rate of over 100% and has demonstrated an
acceptable approach such as the Community-Based Forest Management (C]BFM), by which concerned
stakeholders can participate in decision making processes for managing communal forestry resources.
Later on, there may be scope for the Bank to assess whether substantive positive economic and
environmental effects and impacts can best be obtained through the irnplernentation of the CBFM, as
compared with other non community-based approaches.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The Sector Adjustment Component. Objectives and outcomes for this component have, on the whole,
been achieved in a satisfactory manner. The GOP confirmed its commitment to undertake and implement
the requisite sectoral reforms through a statement of policy on environment and natural resources sector
adjustment (issued jointly by DENR and the DOF in May 1991) and a resolution issued by the Cabinet
Subcluster on Rural Development. The sectoral reforms were on proper pricing of natural resources;
property rights reform; establishment of an integrated protected areas system; rehabilitation of degraded
ecosystems; inducing growth in the rural areas; and integration of population concerms and social welfare in
development planning. The current status of these required policy actions are summarized in Table I in
Annex 8. During the February 1998 supervision mission, the policy action matrix agreed during appraisal
-4 -



was revised and updated. Table 2 in Annex 8 outlines the revisions made and the latest current status of
the agreed natural resources policy actions.
As can be seen in the Tables 1 and 2 in Annex 8, the relevant laws agreed for the component have been
enacted and additional legislative bills on Sustainable Forest Management, National Land Use Code and
gazetting of individual IPAS areas are also in different stages of approval by Congress. The corresponding
rules and regulations for these laws have also been issued by the concerned government agencies. Relevant
institutional units for environmental and natural resource management at the national and local levels have
been established and CBFM has been recognized as the principal strategy in sustainable forest resources
management. These reforms form the basis for a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework in the
Philippines necessary for pursuing a long-term sustainable track for environmental and natural resource
management. The challenge now lies in sustaining these enabling mechanisms for effective implementation;
in ensuring that the intents of these policy issuances, institutional reforms and laws are effectively carried
out, and more importantly, policy reversals must be avoided so as not to send conflicting signals and create
disincentives to primary stakeholders of CBFM.
The Investment Component. The evaluation of how each sub-component contributed to the general
outcome is presented below.
Monitoring and Enforcement Component (MEC). The MEC which was implemented from 1992 to 1996
in Regions II, IVA, VII, VIII, XIII and NCR had demonstrated that illegal logging and sawmilling can be
curbed, provided that there is the political will to do so and that there is active cooperation between and
among communities, civil society and concerned government agencies, notably DENR, and the other
Departments of Interior and Local Government, Justice and Defense. MEC was able to show that the
enforcement of forestry rules and regulations is not the sole responsibility of DENR, but rather, a joint
collaborative undertaking with LGUs, communities and civil society, who have a greater stake in ensuring
the protection and sustainable management of their own forest resources. On the downside, MEC's
implementation also showed the inadequacy of nationwide communication and computer facilities to
access/transfer big databases in real time, hence, impeding the national replication of the information
system on Log Control Monitoring being espoused under the Project.
Multi-Sectoral Forest Protection Committees (MFPCs). The creation of MFPCs constitutes one of the
biggest accomplishments of ENR-SECAI, in terns of raising people's awareness of forestry and
environmental concerns and harnessing their active participation in fighting illegal forestry activities.
Technical assistance provided through MEC developed the necessary framework for organising the various
interest groups on forestry issues and at the same time coordinating their activities for more effective
monitoring of illegal forestry activities. When this component closed in 1996, 94 MFPCs had been
organised, well above the original target of 16 MFPCs in the six target regions. By 1998, 297 MFPCs had
been formed in 15 regions, 49 provinces, 9 cities, 206 municipalities and 35 barangays. Based on the
evaluation made by DENR Regional Offices in 1998, most of them are functioning satisfactorily and have
formed a national federation which held its latest annual meeting in 1997. However, there are about 50
MIFPCs (comprising about 17% of the total number) which are inactive because of inadequate funding
support, and lack of interest and initiative on the part of its members. The lack of a sustainable source of
funding support has made it difficult for many MFPCs to continue their activities and pursue interregional
cooperation.
The MFPCs have evolved over the years from a pure surveillance group to monitor illegal forestry
activities to a civil society group concerned with advocacy of forestry and other environmental policy
issues. In general, local awareness of forestry and other environmental issues has increased significantly,
- 5-



and concern and interest on these issues continue to grow. It would be a grave setback if the GOP fails to
support this initiative and to sustain this level of civil society and stakeholder awareness. One issue that
remains to be resolved is the clear enunciation of the institutional and working relationship between DENR
and the MFPCs in order for both parties to maximize their effectiveness as partners in natural resources
conservation. The DENR, through its Forest Management Bureau (FMB), committed during the ICR wrap
up meeting to hold a three-day MFPC National Conference this year. This Conference will aim to finalize
MFPC sustainability plans and to resolve the issue on future institutional linkages and working relationship
between the DENR and the MFPCs.
Log Control Monitoring System (LCMS)/Forest Stocks Monitoring System (FSMS). This sub-component
has only partially accomplished its objectives, mainly due to ambitious expectations during Project design.
It was assumed then that DENR had an adequate nationwide communication system that can handle data
exchange in real time. In reality, the LCMS had limitations in handling different transport systems, varying
timber sale procedures, and harvests from plantations and private lands. In addition, it would be very
costly and unsustainable in the long run to maintain this information system. A further weakness was the
absence of information about the residual stands, which serve as the basis of future decisions and flow of
benefits. For these reasons, FSMS, an enhanced version of LCMS, was developed to address the
deficiencies of the previous system particularly in providing data on the species, number, diameter and
height of the trees remaining in a given area after logging. DENR staff from the Operations Office, FMB
and regional offices overseeing harvesting operations were trained on FSMS, and a National FSMS Core
Group chaired by the Assistant Director of FMB was organized and given the task to implement the system
nationwide starting this year. Presently, the FSMS is implemented only in Region XIII.
Interdiction and Enforcement Activities. This sub-component of MEC showed the effectiveness of
well-planned and coordinated efforts of DENR officers and co-operators in enforcing forestry laws and
regulations in the six target regions. Air, sea and ground surveillance operations plans were put in place
and implemented using equipment provided by the project and cooperating agencies. Procedures,
administrative orders, implementing guidelines, directives and manuals were prepared as required. DENR
foresters, military and police personnel and other cooperators were trained in all phases of surveillance,
seizure and arrest. Illegally cut logs (20 to more than 30 thousand cu.m./year) and various equipment
(trucks, sea vessels and chain saws) were seized, and illegal sawmills were closed down (90% in the
Agusan provinces and all in Region II) by the mobile and transitory strike forces. Cases were then filed
against the perpetrators by the legal teams. It is sad to note that 14 DENR staff and MFPC members were
killed in action while performing their duties under this Project activity.
Legal Technical Assistance. The results of this technical assistance sub-component is considered
satisfactory and resulted in the filing of numerous cases (541 in 1996 alone) against illegal loggers
(including powerful local leaders), illegal log transporters and operators of illegal sawmills. More
significantly, for the first time in the DENR, hundreds of these cases resulted in the conviction of forestry
criminals. These court victories can be attributed to the training workshops and seminars conducted for
judges, prosecutors, foresters, MFPC members and lawyers who were designated to handle or assist in the
forestry cases as well as the cooperation of various sectors. Memoranda of Agreement (MOAs) were
executed between the DENR and other agencies including the Department of Justice, the Supreme Court,
the Department of National Defense and the Philippine National Police. However, after the completion of
the technical assistance, while the high number of cases filed in the courts has continued, the number of
cases resolved and the number of convictions have dropped drastically (An exception to this is the case of
Nueva Vizcaya where the PENRO reported that they continue to record a high conviction rate: 26
convictions out of 88 cases filed from 1996 to 1999). Evidently, the presence of a concerned judge, a
motivated prosecutor and a supportive Governor in the province are the right ingredients needed for the
-6 -



successful prosecution of forestry cases.
Regional Resources Management Projects (RRMP). The objective of RRMP was to support the
development of the institutional capabilities of LGUs and communities to plan, generate and service
small-scale community-based resource management and livelihood sub-projects in upper watershed areas.
It followed a strategy to address upland poverty by empowering communities through improved local
organisation, enhancement of skills for natural resource management and sustainable agriculture, secure
tenure arrangements and better access to financial resources for livelihood improvements. It was
implemented in 28 project sites covering an area of about 134,000 ha and directly benefited around 18,000
rural households. In terms of physical achievements, RRMP exceeded the targets set in the 7-year Work
and Financial Plan (revised in 1995) and executed over 8 years following the GOP request to extend the
Project by one year. The overall outcome of RRMP is rated satisfactory. This reflects the success of
RRMP in raising awareness of environmental issues at the regional and local levels, particularly in the
targeted communities, wherein the critical foundations for future sustainable upland development were built
up. However, it should be noted that the RRMP was better implemented in the Luzon sites rather than the
Mindanao sites mainly due to facilitating factors such as effective collaboration among the major
implementers such as the DENR, LGUs, technical assistance team, local communities, NGOs and other
service agencies; and the presence of an operational monitoring and evaluation system. On the other hand,
RRMP implementation in Mindanao was beset with problems due to weak coordination among project
implementers, numerous unresolved tenure issues, weak monitoring and evaluation system; and dispute on
technical assistance services. Also, the poorer performance of NGOs in the early stages in supporting
implementation in Mindanao, partly contributed to the slower start up of activities in those areas. Based on
this implementation experience, it is clear that there is a need to carefully review the skills and capacities of
NGOs, and making sure that they match the requirements of project design, before engaging them in
supporting project activities. Also, given the substantial geographic dispersion of implementation
activities, the scale of operations at a particular site and within a participating municipality was fairly
small. Hence, the larger objective of realizing improved natural resources management and conservation
through discernible impacts can only be gauged much later, and will depend on the extent to which there
was replication. Initial evidence suggests that LGUs have shown enthusiasm and interest in pursuing the
RRMP model. They have taken on board the important messages of the ENR-SECAL, despite their
resource limitations. However, if their efforts are not properly supported with future assistance, LGUs
would have limited ability to replicate and broaden the scope of their initial RRMP activities. Despite this,
it must be said that it is clear that the Project provided a good model for community-based natural resource
management for DENR, LGUs and the communities to build upon. The performance of specific RRMP
activities is discussed below.
Local Social Development (LSD). The presence of community organizations were a prerequisite to
obtaining communal tenure rights and participating in RRMP activities. The RRMP helped establish 110
community associations (CAs),transform 80 CAs into multipurpose cooperatives, and create over 130
community-based resource management committees. At project completion, over 9,500 participants were
registered members of CAs while non-registered members, or informal participants, numbered nearly
4,600. Women played an active part in project implementation and committee functions including in key
positions as treasurers or presidents of CAs. One of the project sites in Luzon was cited by the Philippine
Commission on the Role of the Filipino Women in its efforts to mainstream gender considerations in
planning, implementation and monitoring of community subprojects. A socio-economic survey was
conducted in 1993 to gather benchmark information on the condition, issues, concems and problems of men
and women in the community. These indications were taken into account by the project. In the context of
RRMP, gender awareness raising was conducted and women were given equal opportunities to participate
in technical training and in accessing financial resources. Women took an active, and frequently leading,
- 7 -



role in community organizations and credit committees and carried out livelihood projects as well as some
non-traditional infrastructure work. It appears, however, that one of the mnajor driving forces behind the
creation of many of the CAs was the opportunity to obtain project funds for livelihood enhancement rather
than to obtain the inherent benefits of belonging to self-sustaining commtnity support organizations.
Several CAs are now idle following project completion or only concentrate on problem-ridden lending
activities. This can be attributed to the quality of community organizing provided to the target communities
as well as the supervision at the field level.
Under the RRMP, project beneficiaries receiving payment for labor in comrnunity resource development or
infrastructure projects contributed a part of their earnings to a Communit y Revolving Fund (CRF). This
mechanism was introduced in order to improve access to short-term loans. The rate of contributions
differed between Project areas and sub-project types, typically ranging from 5% to 30% of total wages.
Over the course of the project, 146 CRFs were established with estimated total funds amounting to 51
million pesos. To date, the estimated take up of funds from the CRF as loa ns th) members remains low and
many of the communities transferred over 50% of their CRF to a bank deposit. This can also be due to the
fact that most of the community members are risk averse in view of their prevailing marginal conditions,
hence it is difficult for them to avail of loans. Only approximately 13 million pesos were taken out on loan
by members. Repayment rates in some areas have also been low. Due to the inadequate time frame
involved in developing capabilities of communities in handling the CRF, it wvill be difficult to sustain the
current CRF system beyond the project life unless further sustained interventions are provided, particularly
in the area of technical assistance on production and non-production-related skills and other support
mechanisms. Although physical LSD targets were exceeded, the outcome is, rated unsatisfactory.
Community Resources Development (CRD). The CRD has promoted sustainable land use practices for
upland farming communities. Off-farm activities supported reforestation of some 14,800 ha with mainly
fast-growing tree species, the protection of over 1,800 ha of natural forest, and the establishment of 68
nurseries producing nearly 20 million seedlings. Communities benefited frorn the issuing of communal
tenure arrangements for forest management. On-farm activities included thei establishment of model farms
(approximately 725 ha) for agroforestry and other soil and water conservation (SWC) measures (about
13,000 ha). Farmers participating in the on-farm activities further benefited from the issuance of
individual tenure arrangements. The Project Impact M&E system or PRIMES survey carried out in
September 1999 indicated that 90% of respondents rated on- and off-farm activities as "effective" or "very
effective" at reducing rates or levels of resource depletion. Both reforestation and agroforestry activities
can be financially viable (see Annex 3). However, insufficient attention was paid by staff providing TA to
the communities under CRD to maximise income improvements through the careful choice of the tree
species or cropping pattern most likely to maximise financial returns to participating farmers. While these
considerations need to be incorporated in the replication of CRD activities, the overall implementation of
the CRD is rated satisfactory.
Development of Livelihood Options (DLO). The RRMP provided support for community livelihood
sub-projects through a grant seed money of P 60,000 per project site. Over the project life, these funds
sponsored 97 livelihood projects. A further 175 projects were created drawing, on funds from the CRF and
other sources. The most common activity undertaken by the commtnities was short-term lending
operations, particularly for agricultural inputs. Other livelihood activities included raising or fattening of
small animals (such as goats and pigs), community stores, handicrafts and trading operations. Albeit
financially and economically viable in principle, some of these livelihood sub-projects have failed or are
expected to fail due to lack of financial management skills. In many sites, repayment of loans has been poor
and there appears to be a lack of community pressure to sustain the payment cycle and initiate new
activities. Technical assistance provided in the implementation of this component has been insufficient.
- 8 -



Neither DENR nor the Department of Agriculture (DA), who provided the bulk of extension advice, have
sufficient intemal capacity to support communities in these activities in a systematic manner, particularly
on the important aspect of marketing information and support services. This points to a fault in the design
of the project in failing to identify the need for the proactive and integrated involvement of other related
agencies to provide these support services in a cost-effective and sustainable manner. In order to facilitate
and sustain community livelihood sub-projects and to develop the CRF as an effective source of support to
groups seeking financial assistance for such activities, communities will require additional and sustained
technical assistance on various needed skills and competencies from various institutions which could
provide production and non-production related support (eg., marketing, financial intermediation, etc.). Due
to these reasons, the DLO is rated unsatisfactory.
Infrastructure and Facility Development (IFD). Through this subcomponent, RRMP provided small-scale
but key rural infrastructure to improve market access, water supply and economic activities. These
included the construction of 16 km and rehabilitation of 1,440 km of rural roads, 63 bridges, 30
multi-purpose buildings, 107 multi-purpose drying pavements and 58 new small-scale irrigation systems,
as well as the rehabilitation of 34 existing micro-irrigation schemes. In addition, some 240 small domestic
water supply systems were constructed under the project benefiting over 17,000 households. Structures
have been turned over to the relevant level of LGUs who will now be responsible for maintenance. Given
their limited resources, however, continued maintenance cannot be guaranteed. The project did not
introduce an obligation for the establishment of maintenance funds, but some LGUs and communities
committed themselves to provide some internal funds and free labor for maintenance operations, as part of
the sustainability plans they have drawn up. Although the maintenance problem is significant and actions
will need to be taken to sustain benefits, the overall achievement of IFD in providing key infrastructure
with an immediate impact on the livelihood of participating communities is rated satisfactory.
Institutional Strengthening (IS). One of the most important outcomes of ENR-SECAL is the institutional
development of the DENR, LGUs and the forest communities for effective forest resources conservation
and development. The DENR is being transformed from a purely regulatory agency into an organization
providing upland extension service and technical assistance. The start of project implementation coincided
with the coming into force of the LGC in 1992. Although the original project design had not taken this
decentralization into account, the Project design in itself, is all about decentralization. In fact, RRMP was
amongst the first initiatives to put LGU involvement into practice. The institutional strengthening
sub-component enhanced the capability of the LGUs as well as DENR, CAs and NGOs to plan, coordinate
and support the implementation of community-based activities and shift to the new paradigm of devolution
of social forestry activities. At the community level, multi-purpose buildings constructed through the IFD
subcomponent contributed significantly to improvements in extension services as they provided settings for
regular community gatherings. IS included support for training and provision of Information and Education
Campaign (IEC) resources, some equipment and facilities. The targets set by the work plan were exceeded
significantly, particularly in the provision of training. IS activities created a strong sense of ownership not
only of RRMP but of the new approach of community-based resource management at the levels of the
LGU, the local DENR and the community. This constituted a sound basis for replication of such activities
where resources permit it. The farmers-to-farmers training program was implemented successfully and was
well received by the participants. The implementation of the institutional strengthening program is rated
highly satisfactory.
Access to Natural Resources (ANR). ENR-SECAL made a strong contribution to the development of
tenure arrangements for upland communities and institutionalized the GOP's Community Based Forest
Management Program (CBFMP) as the primary national strategy for sustainable forestry. More
specifically, RRMP supported preparatory activities such as boundary surveys, socio-economic profiling,
- 9-



community organising, various skills training, resource surveys, and other activities to allow CAs to apply
for communal tenure arrangements such as the Community-Based Forest Management Agreements
(CBFMAs) and the Certificate of Stewardship Contracts (CSCs'). ANR cooperated closely with other
social forestry programs in the same implementation area in fostering the issuance of various tenure
instruments. Over the project life, more than 5,500 CBFMA-type tenurial instruments covering over
75,000 ha, including some 5,000 CSCs covering over 10,000 ha were issued in the project area and
awarded to participating communities. Over 50% of these were a direct r esult of ANR activities. In
addition, ancestral domain and lands claims (for over more than 100,000 ha) were issued to communities of
indigenous peoples (predominantly in the CAR). However, this accomplishment is only partial since the
bulk of the tenurial instruments to be issued to IP communities would be awarded under the on-going
CPPAP project. Overall, the achievements of ANR are rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As stated in the President's Report, the characteristics and design of the ENR-SECAL make it impossible
to come up with a meaningful estimation of economic rates of retum. It would be extremely difficult to
assess the social benefits accruing from the totality and diversity of all interventions done under the Project
(eg., social benefits accruing from reductions in the rates of soil erosion and forest depletion and
degradation, etc.) Also, it must be noted that social and economic benefits accruing from upland service
extension would greatly vary among diverse sites and clients. Inspite of this, the ICR mission tried to give
an estimation of the environmental benefits of reforestation and agroforestry practices (see Annex 3, Tables
3 and 4) which do not accrue on-site and are conventionally not quantified, using one-ha models (see Annex
3, Tables 1 and 2), representing typical agroforestry and reforestation subprojects done under
ENR-SECAL. Estimated off-site benefits of reduced sedimentation of downstream irrigation systems and
dams as well as reduced damage to fisheries resulting from decreased soil erosion upstream, are low (50
Pesos/ha/yr for reforestation and 79 Pesos/ha/yr for agroforestry) and do not change the IRRs significantly,
which remain at 43% and 48%. Estimates of global benefits in term of incremental carbon sequestration,
on the other hand, amount to over 2,600 Pesos/ha/yr for reforestation and over 2,800 Pesos/ha/yr for
agroforestry and raise estimated rates of return considerably to 69% and 59%, respectively.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The President's Report did not also include an estimation of the financial rate of return for this type of
operation since it was not considered applicable to ENR-SECAL. However, the ICR mission considered it
useful to provide an indication of the financial viability of on- and off-farm activities supported by the
project as this will be a key determinant of sustainability and replicability of such initiatives. For this
purpose, one-ha models of a typical reforestation site (off-farm) and an agroforestry (on-farm) are
presented in detail in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2. These models indicate that both activities would be viable
and attractive for farmers even in the absence of subsidy payments and would generate financial rates of
return of 43% and 48% for the off-farm and on-farm investments respectively.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project is a major initiative for changing attitudes and approaches to natural resource management, as
it provided a different definition of the roles and responsibilities among the DENR, NGOs, local
communities and other stakeholders in forest resource management. It was among the first initiatives to put
the decentralized institutional structure for the natural resource sector into practice. As discussed in the
foregoing sections, the implementation experience shows that LGUs and local communities can undertake
forest resource rehabilitation and development activities, and help curb illegal forestry practices given the
necessary enabling mechanisms, skills training, and proper incentives. DENR has demonstrated its ability
to provide a catalytic role in providing upland extension service and technical assistance for enabling
communities and other stakeholders as their active partners in managing communal forestry resources. The
- 10-



challenge now lies for DENR to sustain this thrust by supporting replication initiatives jointly with LGUs,
providing adequate resources, reinforcing established incentive mechanisms, and further improving
collaboration within its regular functional units in order to continue its avowed thrust on supporting
community-based forest management.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The East Asian financial crisis in 1998 severely affected the ability of the GOP to provide adequate and
timely counterpart funds for the implementation of its foreign-assisted projects. The counterpart funds
which were finally released to the Project for the said year were inadequate for its needs, considering the
fact that the Project was already in its last two years of implementation and catching up of some delayed
activities were being actively pursued.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Proiect Design. As mentioned earlier, the design of the investment component would have been much better
if there had been a better integration between the MEC and RRMP activities in terms of its location and
operating modality. Such integration would have provided a more definite and clearer carrot-and-stick
mechanism for communal forest management. Also, the GOP could have worked for a faster, smoother,
and more organized transition into devolution among its concemed line agencies. This could have greatly
facilitated the implementation of ENR-SECAL within the framework of partnership, devolution and
decentralization. The fact that the procedures, mechanisms and models of this framework were still being
developed by the rest of the Philippine bureaucracy, while ENR-SECAL was already being implemented,
caused initial delays and misunderstandings among the players and participants. Thus, the first 3 years of
project implementation was constrained because the key players were undergoing transition due to these
change in institutional arrangements. Lastly, at project design, the existing tenure instruments had a number
of shortcomings with respect to the objectives of RRMP. The available tenure instruments were the CSC
for individual households, Community Certificate of Forest Stewardship (CCFS) for community
organizations under the Integrated Social Forestry Program, and the Forest Land Management Agreement
(FLMA) for organizations involved in contract-reforestation implemented under the National Forestation
Program. There was as yet no strategy on how to put recognition of ancestral domains and lands rights
into practice since the instrument for the recognition of ancestral domains/lands claims (CADC/CALC)
was only promulgated in January 1993 (DENR Administrative Order No. 2, s. 93). The preferred tenure
arrangement, the Community-Based Forest Management Agreement (CBFMA) was not introduced until the
adoption of the CBFM strategy in 1995-1996 (as supported by ENR-SECAL). In several RRMP areas,
the inadequacy of existing tenure instruments caused delays in project irnplementation because the issuance
of such instruments was a milestone which detertnined the time when project resources were made available
to the site, such as the release of the seed-money for the CRF. Overall, if these factors have been addressed
more proactively by the GOP, the scope of Project outcomes would have been more substantial.
Implementation Plan. The 7-year implementation plan had to be revised several times with the major
revision done in 1995. The adjustments made were mostly on physical targets, since the original
implementation plan was very optimistic and did not take into account absorptive capacities of
implementing units and the fact that modalities for effective DENR-LGU partnership were still being
developed.
Funds Availabilitv. The inadequacy of GOP counterpart funding affected the pace of Project
implementation and in the end, resulted to the cancellation of US$ 9.6 million, representing 9% of the total
IBRD loan. The amount had to be cancelled because the GOP counterpart provided for in the annual
appropriations was always less than the required amount as foreseen in the implementation plan. On top of
- 11 -



that, there were mandatory reserves imposed by the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), such
that the effective resources available were always lower than thalt provided in the GAA. The situation is
further aggravated by the fact that there was always the problem of untimely releases of the GOP
counterpart. More often than not, the loan proceeds (consisting cf 60-750%'o of implementation costs) were
available but could not be utilized until the GOP counterpart (25-.40%) has been released.
Administrative Constraints. Government contracting and bidding procedures (in addition to the
unavailability of adequate counterpart funds) were too restrictive and in thie end, contributed to long delays
in procurement of needed equipment and fielding of technical assistance contractors. For example, the last
batch of seven 4x4 vehicles was only finally purchased in December 1999 after more than two years of
contract bidding and processing. Similarly, the last batch of dump trucks supposed to be procured in the
first three years of the project was never purchased at all.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implementing agency control:
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Program monitoring by DENR and supervision missions by the Bank
identified the problems and bottlenecks in implementation and made proposals to correct the problems.
These provided bases for revising the implementation plans and allowed the Project to make up for the
delays. However, initially, the M & E efforts focused on physical outputs. It was only in 1998 that the
project attempted to put in place a revised system for evaluating the outcomes and impacts of the Project,
through the establishment of a Project Impact Monitoring and Evaluation system. The said system took
more than one year to develop and was set up belatedly, two years before project closure. Also, there was
no economic analysis or an assessment done on the environmental impacts of the Project. Furthermore, no
attempt was made during implementation to see how the mainly micro-watershed level interventions fitted
into, and contributed towards, the larger watershed management objectives.
Funds Flow: The setting up of the US$ 3.0 million Working Fund Special Account was very effective in
facilitating the flow of loan proceeds to the Project. It was a facility from which funds could be released as
advances to the implementing units (DENR and LGUs), and was periodically replenished by the Bank as
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) were submitted by the PMO. These SOEs were, in turn, based on
submissions of SOEs from the field implementing units. However, the rate of replenishment of the account
and, consequently, the rate at which funds could be forwarded to the implementing units, were dependent on
how fast the implementing units could liquidate the advances given to them. As a result, implementing
units with high throughput rates (fast implementation and fast liquidations) still had to wait for some time
before new funds are made available to them because the replenishment rate was being slowed down by
those units which were lagging behind (slow implementation, slow liquidations). This situation would have
been alleviated if there was a directed capacity building assistance provided. for LGUs and DENR central
and field personnel on financial management. Although the Project's institutional development component
provided some resources for capacity-building in financial management for DENR and LGUs, it is evident
that the financial management systems and capabilities of the LGUs and DENR need to be better enhanced
to respond efficiently to the requirements of facilitating Project implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
Actual project costs as of May 15, 2000 amounted to US$ 331.89 million, almost 90% (or about 96% if
the on-going GEF-funded CPPAP component is excluded) of the estimates made at appraisal. The
following are the final disbursements: (i) IBRD Loan of US$ 145.67 million, (ii) IDA Credit of US$ 66
million, (iii) OECF co-financing of US$ 100 million, (iv) Japan-WB Technical Assistance Grant of
US$ 4.3 million and (v) GOP/Beneficiaries contribution of US$ 15.92 million. During appraisal,
disbursements for the Project was estimated to be completed in seven years. However, a one-year
extension was foreseen by both the Bank and the Borrower as early as the medium-term review in 1995.
- 12 -



This was due to the high rate of slippage in RRMP activities in the initial years of implementation, brought
on largely by the lack of linkage and integration of institutional efforts. This was also caused by legal
dispute problems encountered by the Project, particularly in the Mindanao regions, with its technical
assistance service provider. As requested by the Borrower, US$ 9.6 million has been cancelled as of
September 1999 since the said loan amount cannot be fully utilized even within the extended Project
implementation period. On May 15, 2000, the undisbursed loan balance of $2.7 million was also
cancelled. While both the IDA Credit and the OECF co-financing were fully disbursed, the Nordic
Development Fund participation did not take place. Disbursements by component is given in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The ENR-SECAL was designed to bring about a change in the manner by which DENR carried out its
functions, and how local communities and other stakeholders were integrated into this approach for
improving overall natural resource management. Within this context, the sustainability of the project has
been rated as likely. This can be justified not only by the successful attainment of most objectives in
physical terms but more so on the successful achievement of sectoral adjustment objectives. The laws that
have been passed, the Executive Orders that have been issued, and the corresponding policies, rules and
regulations to implement them as well as the successful mobilization, involvement and deep commitment of
the LGUs, local communities and DENR in the new approach to forest resources conservation, protection
and development are to be seen as positive signs with respect to project sustainability. Other legislative
proposals such as the Sustainable Forest Management Act, the Land Use Act as well as the law approving
IPAS sites, remain at varying stages of approval. The completion of these reforms would additionally
provide clearer and more consistent directions concerning the conservation and management of natural
forestry resources. It is important to note that with the institutionalization efforts done under this Project
for CBFM, DENR must continue to reinforce and be consistent in the implementation of its policies and
incentive mechanisms in order to sustain the full and continued engagement of stakeholders in CBFM
approaches and modalities.
The institutional ownership of future activities is expected to remain strong since there is greater awareness
among LGUs and benefiting communities of the need for their direct contribution to meet future financial
obligations either from the LGU's Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) and other resources, or as equity
contribution from the beneficiaries themselves. In this context, all LGUs involved in the Project have
formulated their own sustainability plans, with corresponding budgetary requirements and identified
sources of financing. Also, reforestation and tree plantation subprojects are considered sustainable and
replicable on the basis of their financial and economic viability as well as their acceptance by the local
communities. However, concerns remain about the continued availability of the necessary financial
resources for the maintenance of completed and turned-over civil works. Finally, the replication of some
livelihood projects initiated under the community revolving fund scheme failed mainly because of
inadequate financial management systems and skills among the CAs. Adequate and continuing technical
assistance on production and non-production related skills from various institutions within the context of a
decentralized system for upland support service delivery would be necessary to ensure the continuation of
these important income-generating activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
DENR has allocated regular budgetary funds for the continued operations of its CBFM initiatives starting
this year. Although modest in comparison with the previous budgetary resources provided for under the
Project, the DENR's FMB and regional offices have been tasked by the DENR Secretary to provide the
necessary support to sustain CBFM initiatives through their regular activities and funding. A CBFM
- 13 -



Office has been created both at the Central and Regional Offices during the life of the Project and after
completion, a number of the staff would remain in DENR. In the field, most of the staff have been absorbed
by either the DENR regional offices or partner LGUs to staff the environmental and natural resources
(ENR) offices which have been created and institutionalized in the provincial and municipal LGUs to
continue and sustain Project activities on CBFM and CBRM. It is expected that these DENR and LGU
CBFM and ENR offices would continue to maintain the PRIME system in order to provide DENR
management and other interested stakeholders on the impacts and effects of CBFM efforts initiated during
the Project. The PMO, has also focused its last few months of implementation in turning over to LGUs
Project equipment and facilities, which are now expected to be fiully maintained by the latter.
In terms of related operations, the Bank and the GOP started in 1998 the imnplementation of the
Community-Based Resource Management Project (CBRMP). The Project, which is being implemented by
the Department of Finance, in collaboration with the DFNR, DA, and DILG, has a strong focus on
addressing local natural resource management and poverty alleviation issues through the provision of a
local government financing window under the Municipal Development Fund. Although there is only one
ENR-Secal region which is currently being covered by CBRMP, DENR aknd DOF are collaborating
actively on replicating the lessons learned and initiatives of ENR-Secal into CBRRMP implementation.
It would be extremely useful both for the Bank and the Borrower if say, five years from now, impacts of
the Project would be examined by the OED, particularly on assessing the effectiveness of CBFM
approaches in arresting the degradation of natural resources and alleviating rural poverty. As of to date,
ENR-Secal is included in two on-going OED review efforts: (i) Evaluation of the Environmental Impacts of
World Bank Adjustment Operations; and (ii) Gender Impact Assessment in the Philippines (a joint
undertaking with the ADB). These on-going evaluation efforts, along with this ICR, can certainly provide
critical lessons and guidance in designing and implementing similar future operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the Project is rated
satisfactory. The original objective of the project was consistent with the GOP's agenda for preserving the
country's biological diversity and introducing sustainable land use practices. The Bank designed the Project
as a reflection of the priorities of the CAS, taking into account other ongoing complementary development
co-operation activities in natural resource management. The Bank team also consciously designed this
lending operation based on the results of a highly analytical sector work onl the constraints and challenges
facing Philippine forestry, fisheries and agricultural resources (the ffARM study). The Bank recognised, at
appraisal, some risks and concluded that these were worth taking, given the high importance of the Project
to the GOP. The main shortcomings in designing this operation were the lack of integration of RRMP and
MEC activities, too much geographical dispersion of Project sites, and inaclequate assessment of
institutional capacities of implementing units, particularly on financial management. The role of the Bank
in effectively organizing the various donors involved in natural resource management and resulting to
co-financing arrangements for the Project was also satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance with respect to supervision was satisfactory. Overall, 12 well-staffed supervision
missions were carried out and adequately reported implementation progress; (,Anmex 4). The project was
well managed from Headquarters from the beginning and during the latter half of 1999, the responsibility
was given to the World Bank Office in Manila, which successfully carried out its role of supervising the
project up to its completion. Implementation problems were identified early and performance ratings were
- 14 -



realistic. The MTR, carried out in June/July 1995, confirned the validity of the project objective,
indicating as well, the successful implementation of the program policy reforms. The MTR also had an
important catalytic role in expediting physical implementation, reviewing RRMP targets to reflect realistic
implementation possibilities and adequately assisted DENR in planning the realistic deployment of
resources for the balance of the Project's duration.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Because of the satisfactory performance during identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision,
overall, the Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance during the preparatory work for the Project was satisfactory. By the time of
negotiations, the GOP had reviewed and agreed to a detailed matrix of project activities in line with the
planned timetable to meet datelines up to Loan/Credit effectiveness.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GOP was able to achieve satisfactory progress under the Sector Adjustment Component, which was
completed as per the agreed schedule. It took actions required to satisfy all macro-economic framework
conditions for the release of the second tranche. In this respect, the GOP was able to continue to adhere to
a sound program of macroeconomic management despite natural disasters and difficult internal and
external economic conditions. The cooperation between the GOP and the Bank was satisfactory. It
remained firm throughout the implementation period and resulted in a positive impact on project
performance. The GOP complied satisfactorily with the legal covenants in both the Loan and Credit
Agreements.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of DENR, the main implementing agency, is considered satisfactory. It was able to
successfully carry out pre-implementation activities, like the appointment of regional project managers and
key staff, and the initiation of training and community organising activities by utilising the Japan-WB
technical assistance grant in anticipation of loan effectiveness.
The PMO played a very constructive role during project implementation and maintained good working
relations with DENR, LGUs, the communities, and the Bank. It assisted adequately the WB supervision
missions and presented a complete and well-documented report on their evaluation of Project
implementation. This report's summary is presented in Annex 9 while the complete report has been placed
in the project files and is available to interested readers.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the above, the overall Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons of General Applicability:
I.    Sectoral reforms, in themselves, cannot be entirely effective without the accompanying
investments needed to support the transition into a new policy environment.
2.    It is critical to underline the importance of process-orientation in community-based
approaches for project implementation, as opposed to a purely physical output orientation of
- 15 -



traditional projects. In this approach, outputs simply become the means by which the success or failure
of desired processes are manifested.
3.     Substantial delays in project start-up and implementation can be avoided if institutional
capabilities (including technical, financial and administrative) are thoroughly assessed as early as
project preparation stage and a corresponding agreed action plan formulated with involved institutions for
focused capacity building interventions.
4.     Introducing and testing out new approaches requires geographical focus, in order to maximize
opportunities for fine-tuning implementation as results of pilot testing and innovations are generated.
Hlaving a wide dispersal of activities across the country dissipates, the Project management's capability to
strategically re-design and phase implementation to achieve desired objectives and results.
5 .    Monitoring and evaluation systems (particularly on establishing the baseline database) need to
be in place shortly before or right at the start of project implementation, in order to provide the
necessary data in regularly assessing project implementation, sharpening project design and mechanisms
during implementation, and in drawing out effects and impacts accruing directly or indirectly due to project
interventions.
6.     Provision of training and other forms of technical assistance are most effective and relevant
when real felt needs of targeted participants are answered in relation to improving their effectiveness
in carrying out their specific roles and responsibilities in their respective olrganizations.
7.     Precise institutional development plans must be formulated prior to project implementation.
T hese should specify procedures for selecting NGOs, training beneficiaries, setting up monitoring and
evaluation systems, etc.
,Specific Lessons:
I .   Communal responsibility is essential for promoting sustainable natural resources
management. With institutional support and the right incentive structure, ]LGtJs and communities are
capable of being effective stewards of natural resource management, actively participating in NRM and
conservation type initiatives, with long gestation benefits. Social assessment in each concerned community
is critical for identifying development priorities, and each site must have a comprehensive development
program, agreed to and owned by all stakeholders, specifying concrete responsibilities and counterpart
arrangements.
2.     With the limited human and financial resources of DENR, there are tremendous benefits to be
gained in devolving natural resource management and delivery of basic services to LGUs and
communities, as long as the latter are fully engaged in the process and proper capacity building measures
are provided based on their specific felt needs.
3.     LGUs and communities are willing to commit and allocate their scarce resources for
sustainable resource management, livelihood generation, rural infrastructure development and
maintenance, provided that they are recognized as the overall manager for these efforts and are properly
supported with relevant technical assistance from national agencies, donor communities and other
stakeholders.
- 16 -



4.     Strong and committed partnerships among various stakeholders (national and local
governments, rural and upland communities, downstream resource users, civil society, donor community,
etc.) are critical for sustainable natural resource management.
5.     Community organizing has to focus on building partnerships at the local levels for mutual
support in the community. Associations created with the primary purpose of accessing donor's funds are
not sustainable and cannot make a significant contribution to community development in the long run. The
CRF can provide a valuable source of funding for local development through start-up assistance to income
generating activities. However, CRFs can only be sustainable if sound financial management is introduced
and all participants feel a strong sense of ownership of the fund's resources.
6.     Formal long-term tenurial agreements for the utilization of State lands provide concrete
incentives for farmers and upland settlers to invest time and capital, in ensuring high standards of
land management. The issuance of CBFMAs and Certificates of Stewardship Contract (CSC) in the
Project areas have proven to be highly beneficial towards the implementation of on-farm agroforestry and
off-farm reforestation activities.
7.     Fund transfers to LGUs through the national government agencies can be inefficient. There
is a real need to put into place an efficient fund transfer mechanism by which national and donor
financial resources can be channeled to LGUs during this transition stage prior to their full
decentralization (especially among the poorer LGUs which still do not have enough capabilities and
internal resources to access formal financing windows). Such an effective fund transfer mechanism must
be able to provide a purely financial transfer function, ably supported by existing national and regional
development institutions which will provide expert technical analysis for gauging feasibility of proposed
local projects for financing.
8.    Involvement of NGOs does not automatically lead to successful community involvement and
action -- they need to be qualified, and also acceptable to the communities they will be working with.
9.     Good laws and regulations can have major impacts on curbing activities which degrade the
environment. Even highly profitable activities such as illegal logging can be controlled effectively.
However, this requires strong political commitment and partnership with local communities and other
stakeholders.
10.    A multi-agency approach is needed to tackle complex forest protection type initiatives.
Linkages established with the Department of Justice (for the prosecution of criminal cases), the National
Bureau of Investigation (NBI), the Office of the Solicitor General (OSG) for the prosecution of civil cases
and the Supreme Court were very successful. For the first time, inter-personal relationships established
between the DENR on the one hand, and the mentioned agencies on the other, smoothed the path for
significant cooperation and increased conviction rates.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
April 14, 2000
Ms. Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron
Task Manager for ENR-SECAL Program
The World Bank, Taipan Place, Emerald Avenue
Ortigas, Pasig City
- 17 -



Dear Ms. Figueroa-Geron:
This is to acknowledge receipt of the draft ENR-SECAL, Project Implementation Completion
Report of the World Bank-FAO ICR mission. We are very pleased about the result of the evaluation
including the overall satisfactory performance rating given by the WB/FAO Team to the project.
In general, we concur with the ICR mission's analysis of the performance and outcomes of the
various components and sub-components of ENR-SECAL. However, we would like to dispute the team's
unsatisfactory rating of two RRMP components: Local Social Development/Community Organizing and
Development of Livelihood Options.
1.    Local Social Development/Community Organizing
The ICR team based its assessment on its impressions on the financial operations of community
associations (CAs) interviewed in Regions 2 and 9, specifically on the operations of the Community
Revolving Fund (CRF). While the viability of the financial operations of the CAs is a measure of their
internal strength, we believe that other criteria have to be given equal consideration in the evaluation
because the main emphasis under this sub-component is on the strengthening of local community
institutions with respect to the development objectives of RRMP.
This sub-component is one of the major interventions towards local empowerment and in unifying
community participation in the management of upland resources likewise, in systematizing the mobilization
and re-channeling of community savings into a community revolving fund (CRF) that will finance
livelihood endeavors of the members. The primary objective of LSD/CO is to build strong people-oriented,
value-based groups that will carry out development activities in the watershed. It is hinged on the thesis that
organized upland communities can be effective natural resources managers if they have access to options
that would improve their economic well-being.
The CRF was put up to promote thrift and savings movement amoong the project participants and in
turn, becomes the "people's development bank" to serve micro-financing needs of the community
association. The conditions and terms imposed on the borrower-member focus more on the service -- i.e.,
access to credit that is otherwise inaccessible through traditional facilities such as rural banks -- that the
Fund provides to its members, rather than on the absolute profit generated from the lending operations.
An important milestone under the LSD/CO activities is the registration of the CAs with the
appropriate regulatory agency. The very nature of the operations and objectives of the associations
necessitate that they possess a legal personality and be governed by certain statutory laws. Most registered
CAs under the project are registered as non-stock and non-profit entities.
The size and growth of membership are also important indicators in determining the organization's
overall health and performance. Every single member is a potential contributor of ideas, financial resources
and social/moral strength required to keep the association strong. This implies that the larger the
membership size, the stronger is the association. It also reflects the association's attractiveness to the
members, and is an indication of the perceptible rewards that may be obtained by anyone joining or
maintaining his relationship with the association. A reduction in membership size indicates that the
association is no longer able to provide such expected benefits to the members.
An assessment of the current organizational set-up of the association is another important factor
-18 -



since the effectiveness and sustainability of the CAs are dependent to a large extent on the capability of the
officers to formulate policies and strategies and to translate them into outputs and services that would lead
to the achievement of the organization's goals. Records from the field disclosed that CAs have their Board
of Directors, management officers such as the Secretary, Treasurer and Manager and heads of working
committees such as Membership and Education Committee; Credit Committee; Project Development
Committee; and Audit and Inventory Committee. Technical assistance have been provided to these officers
in such areas as management skill development, and supervision and monitoring activities so that they are
now able to operate on their own with consistency and improved quality.
The intemal strength of the associations can likewise be assessed in terms of the frequency and the
quality of meetings conducted either by the officers, working committees or the General Assembly. In
general, meetings are decision-making exercises. They provide the forum for the democratic exercise by
the member of his/her duties and obligations as well as his/her rights in the organization. They also serve
as avenues for the association to pool together ideas and talents for generating additional resources and the
conversion of these resources into outputs and services for its members. For instance, Region 2 CA agenda
and records of minutes of meetings showed discussions on house rules that would discipline members,
credit policies, accounting and intemal control measures and plans for community development affairs.
(refer to Status and Performance of Community Associations of Region 2, Special Study Report #24,
March 1995).
The installation of basic intemal control system is another crucial element to the overall
strengthening of CAs primarily to safeguard the CRF and maintain the credibility in the community. With
the CRF capital build-up growing, both officers and members of the CA may have different expectations
and interest on the fund and oftentimes their expectations do not match and could become the source of
conflicts within the organization. The absence of this intemal control system has led to either loss or
disarray of some CA assets. To address this need technical assistance and on-the-job training were
provided to CA officers for the installation of accounting and bookkeeping system; proper enforcement of
loan policies and regulations; regular updating of financial status; and regular auditing of CA transactions.
The extent of improvement in knowledge and skills was rated 'much' to 'very much' by 95% of the
respondents (p. 48 Completion Report of Northem Luzon RRMP Five-Year Training Program
Implementation).
In effect, we believe that the LSD/CO component of ENR-SECAL/RRMP has strengthened local
govemance and has "achieved most of its relevant objectives or is expected to achieve satisfactory
development with only a few shortcomings," Guidelines for Preparing Implementation Completion
Reports (ICR), World Bank, p. 12 and should therefore be rated Satisfactory.
2.    Development of Livelihood Options
Per design of ENR-SECAL, the introduction of sustainable livelihood options is the main extension
goal of the project. Under the project, a seed fund of P60,000.00 per site was provided as start-up
financing for non-farm livelihood projects and this forms part of the project share contribution to the
community revolving fund. The release of this seed fund was dependent on the CA's demonstrated
capability to manage the CRF. Project records showed a total of 272 livelihood projects operationalized
during the life of the project. The question of the likelihood of replication and initiation of additional
economic generating projects has been raised by the ICR team. While the issue is completely valid, we feel
that it is more relevant to look at how ENR-SECAL has demonstrated the vital linkages between: providing
the institutional platform for local economic activities to flourish, providing the skills for managing these
economic activities, and how improvements in the local economy will bring about sustainable natural
- 19-



resource management at the local level. Our assessment is that ENR-SECAL has amply demonstrated these
linkages, and has set the example from which future work can draw on.
For instance in Luzon, assessment of various livelihood projects at the close of 1996 disclosed
maximum utilization of the LDF and CRF amounting to P2,975.,937.00 and P1,654,450.00, respectively.
These funds have been augmented by fund assistance from the Department of Agriculture (P120,000.00);
Department of Science and Technology (P150,000.00); Department of Trade and Industry (P200,000.00)
Office of the President (P200,000.00) and LGU-R2 Internal Revenue Allocation (P54,000.00). A summary
of the livelihood projects and sources of funding in Regions 1, CAR and 2 are shown in Tables 22, 23 and
24 of the Luzon Technical Assistance Completion Report dated May 1998.
In Mindanao, development and packaging of livelihood projects by CAs themselves accelerated
only in late 1998 until 1999 when the Enterprise Development Program was introduced. In Region 9, there
were ten line agencies that actively responded to the People's Organizations Grant Networking and Product
Marketing and Installation of Marketing Infonnation System. The alliance with government agencies was
firmed up during the Investment Networking for Cooperatives in Region 113. Report showed six assisting
agencies affirmed their collective commitments to provide technical, fnancial, and marketing assistance to
the CAs/Cooperatives through a Memorandum Agreement signed by the parties on May 11, 1999 which
was witnessed by the visiting World Bank Mission, Mr. Herbert Acquay and Ms. Carolina Figueroa-Geron
and DENR officials. Similar activity was conducted in Region lD in which ten assisting agencies
participated and approved the MOA on June 3, 1999. In addition, eight coop-beneficiaries were introduced
to five Coop/Rural Banks as Cooperative Intermediary Banks (C1'Bs) in one forum conducted last June
25,1999. This forum signaled the start of a cordial business relationship between cooperatives and the
CIBs. (Details are found in the Training and EDP Terninal Report dated July 1999).
In this respect, we feel that the rating for this RRMP component should likewise be Satisfactory.
We will appreciate consideration of the above comments in the final ICR.
Best regards.
Very truly yours,
(Original Signed)
MARIO S. RONO
Undersecretary :for International Commitment
aind Local Government Affairs
(b) Cofinanciers:
A copy of the draft ICR was provided to the OECF (now known as the Japan Bank for
International Cooperation or JBIC). No additional comments were received.
(c) Other partners ('NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable at this time. It is expected that during the preparation of the CPPAP ICR,
comments from the Borrower's partner NGOs would be documented.
10. Additional Information
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
|ndicatoiMaxtdx                     Projected in last PSR                 A;tuatILatest Estimate
Project Objectives
- Adjustment Component                Preservation of remaining biological diversity, Satisfactory outcome
re-establishment of natural resources that
have been degraded, and introduction of
sustainable land use practices through
enactment of critical policy reforms and
enabling legislation
- Investment Project                  Improvement in the enforcement of logging   Satisfactory outcome
regulations, provision of upland extension
service and secure tenure rights to users in
return for sustainable resource use, and
development of mechanisms for supporting
small-scale community-based resource
management and livelihood projects in
impoverished upland areas
Note: One of the components, the GEF-supported Conservation on Priority Protected Areas in the Philippines Project is still
on-going and will be completed in December 2001. CPPAP covers ten priority protected areas nationwide and is
implementing activities which will contribute to the development of an effective protected area system, charging of
apprpriate user fees for public resources, provision of secure tenure rights and altemative livelihood activities to upland
communities in order to ease pressure on the remaining natural resources in these priority sites.
Output Indicators:
Ind ka iMetrix                      Projected In last PSR                 ActualLatest Estinat
Sectoral Adjusment Component
- First Tranche                       Released by October 31, 1991           Released by October 10, 1991
- Second Tranche                      Released by June 30, 1992              Released by October 28, 1992
Policy Actions Matrix                  Pls. see Table 1, Annex 9             Pls. see Table 1, Annex 9
Natural Resource Policy Matrix        Pis. see Table 2, Annex 9              Pis. see Table 2, Annex 9
Investment Component
Monitoring and Enforcement (MEC)      To be implemented in Regions II, IV, VIl, Vil Implemented in Regions Il, 1II, IV, VIl, VIII, X,
and X (Region X was divided into two  Xill and NCR
regions: X and Xil)
Multisectoral Forest Protection       16 MFPCs (in six regions)              200 MFPCs (in 15 regions; with 50 of them
Committees (MFPCs)                                                           inactive)
Log Control Monitoring System (LCMS)I    To be implemented nationwide        The FSMS is implemented only in Region
Forest Stocks Monitoring System (FSMS)                                       XiII, but a National FSMS Core Group has
been formed to organize and implement
FSMS nationwide in Year 2000
Interdiction and Enforcement Activibes  Enforcing forestry law and regulation  -DENR foresters, military and police
- Increased effectiveness of enforcement by  personnel, government prosecutors, judges
concentrating on illegal logging hot spots    and NGOs were trained in all phases of
Improve capacity of local DENR officers in  surveillance, seizure and arrest
enforcing forestry laws and regulations  - 20/30 thousand cum./year were seized, and
illegal sawmills were closed down
- Noticeable reduction in illegal logging
activities in hot spot areas
- Increased capacity of DENR to implement
enforcement activities through provision of
equipment and supplies
- 21 -



Regional Resources Management Projects
(RRMP)
-Administrative Regions                          4 + 2                                     6
- Provinces                                        26                                     24
- Municipalities                                   48                                      38
- Barangays                                        n.a.                                   121
- Project Sites                                    28                                     28
- Area Covered                                     n.a.                               134,000 ha
- Project Beneficiares                          20,800 households                      18,000 households
Local Social Development (LSD)
- Barangay Resource Management Planning           127                                    133
Committee
- Establishment of Community Associations
(CAs)                                             107                                    110
- Multipurpose Co-operabives (Conversion
from CAs)                                          79                                     80
- CAs Participants (Formal)                       n.a.                                  9,500
- CAs Participants (Informal)                     n.a.                                  4,600
Community Resources Development (CRD)
- Off-farm Activities/ Reforestation
- Model Farms                                  14,600 ha                               14,846 ha
- On-farm Activities (Agroforestry/swc)          725 ha                                   725 ha
12,600 ha                                13,017 ha
Development of Livelihood Options (DLO)
- Number of Projects
255                                     272
Infrastructure and Facilities Development
(IFD)
- Road Construction (Main)                       13 km                                   14 km
- Road Construction (Secondary)                  171 km                                 181 km
- Bridge Construction                             63                                      63
- Road Improvement                             1,410 km                                 1,440 km
- Multipurpose Buildings                         29                                       30
- Multipurpose Pavements                        107                                      107
- Irrigation (New)                               14                                       18
- Irrigation (Improved)                          32                                       34
- Domestic Water Supply Systems
(Constructed)                                    231                                     240
- Domestic Water Supply Systems
(Upgraded)                                       64                                       64
- School Buildings                               62                                       62
Institutional Strengthening (IS)
- Barangay Development Units (BDUs)              81                                       81
- Watershed Management Units (WMUs)              29                                       29
- Provision of training and organizational
development support for LGUs and
communities                                   30,872 person days                     40,010 person days
- Provision of equipment support                  na                                    332
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proiect Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component           Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentage of
Appraisal (%)
Adjustment Component            266.00                  266.00                  100.00
Investment Component:
RRMP                            64.60                   56.69                   87.76
MEC                             14.20                   7.00                    49.30
IPAS Design                     2.20                    2.20                   100.00
CPPAP                           22.00                 on-going                on-going
Total                           369.00                  331.89                   89.94
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent), Appraisal Estimate:
Component/                ICB            NCB           Other           NBF           Total
Category                                            (by Force        (GOP
Account)     Counterpart)
IBRD Loan:
Eligible Imports                   100.00                                                     100.00
Works                                                            15.10          5.00           20.10
Goods                                              7.60                         0.65           8.25
Agroforestry                                                     4.60            1.50          6.10
Project Mgt. / Tech.Services        15.00                                       4.25           19.25
Incremental Cost                                                 12.00          4.20           16.20
Unallocated                                                      3.70           1.80           5.50
IDA Credit (Adjustment loan)         66.00                                                      66.00
OECF (Adjustment loan)                                            100.00                       100.00
GEF (CPPAP)                                                       20.00          2.00           22.00
Japan-WB TA (IPAS Design)            4.60                                                       4.60
NDF                                                                1.00                          1.00
Total                               185.60          7.60          156.40         19.40         369.00
-23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent), Actual/Latest Estimate:
Component/                    ICB             NCB             Other            NBF             Total
Category                                                   (by Force         (GOP
__Account)        Counterpart)
IBRD Loan:
Eligible Imports                       100.00                                                             100.0
Works                                                                    9.84            3.36             13.20
Goods                                   6.00             1.51                            0.16             7.67
Agroforestry                                                             3.39             1.16            4.55
Project Mgt. / Tech.Services            12.15                            1.62            6.30            20.07
Incremental Cost                                                         11.17           4.94             16.11
IDA Credit (Adjustment loan)             66.0                                                              66.00
OECF (Adjustment loan)                                                    100.0                            100.0
GEF (CPPAP)                                                                                              on-going
Japan-WB TA (IPAS Design)                4.30                                                              4.30
NDF
Total                                   188.45            1.51           126.02           15.92           331.90
Note: GEF CPPAP implementation is still on-going and will be completed by December 2001; Nordic Development Fund (NDF) did not materialize;
as requested by the Borrower, $9.6 million was cancelled in September 1999 and the undisbursed loan balance of $ 2.7 million was also cancelled on
May 15, 2000.
Proiect Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent), ADpraisal Estimate:
Component    IBRD             IDA         OECF          GEF       Japan-WB         NDF          GOP/
TA Grant                   Beneficiary
__________                     Contribution
Adjustment      100.00        66.00        100.00
Component
Investment
Component:  ______l
RRMP             50.0                                                 2.40                       12.20
MEC              8.00                                                               1.00         5.20
IPAS Design                                                           2.20
CPPAP                                                   20.00                                    2.00
Total           158.00        66.00        100.00       20.00         4.60          1.00         19.40
-24 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent). Actual/Latest Estimate:
Component  IBRD                  IDA          OECF           GEF    Japan-WB    NDF                      GOP/
TA Grant                     Beneficiary
Contribution
Adjustment        100.00         66.00         100.00
Component
Investment
Component:
RRMP             39.08                                                     2.10                         15.52
MEC              6.60                                                                     0.00           0.40
IPAS                                                                       2.20
Design
CPPAP                                                      on-going                                   on-going
Total             145.68         66.00         100.00       on-going         4.30          0.00          15.92
Note: GEF CPPAP implementation is still on-going and will be completed by December 2001; Nordic Development Fund (NDF) did not materialize,
as requested by the Borrower, $9.6 million was cancelled in September 1999 and the undisbursed loan balance of $ 2.7 million was also cancelled on
May 15, 2000.
Project Financing by Component, Percentage of Appraisal (%):
Component  IBRD                  IDA          OECF           GEF    Japan-WB    NDF                      GOP!
TA Grant             ~~~~Beneficiary
TA Grant            ~~~Contribution
Adjustment        100.00        100.00         100.00
Component
Investment
Component:
RRMP             78.16                                                     87.50                        127.17
MEC              82.50                                                                    0.00           7.69
IPAS                                                                      100.00
Design
CPPAP                                                      on-going                                   on-going
Total             92.20         100.00         100.00       on-going         93.5          0.00      I   82.04
Note: GEF CPPAP implementation is still on-going and will be completed by December 2001; Nordic Development Fund (NDF) did not materialize:
as requested by the Borrower, $9.6 million was cancelled in September 1999 and the undisbursed loan balance of$ 2.7 million was also cancelled on
May 15, 2000.
- 25 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
As stated in the President's Report for this Project, financial and economic evaluation was not done for this
lending operation since this type of analysis was not considered applicable to the design of ENR-SECAL.
However, the ICR mission considered it useful to provide an indication of the financial viability of both on-
and off-farm activities supported under the RRMP subcomponent of this Project, as well as an assessment
of the potential environmental benefits that can be generated from such activities. These financial viability
analysis and environmental assessment can be useful in gauging sustainability and replicability of RRMP
initiatives.
Financial Viability of Off-Farm and On-Farm Activities
Present Value of Flows   _=
Economic Analysis                 Financial Analysis
Appraisal      Latest Estimates   Appraisal _ Latest Estimates
ERR (%)        Not applicable    Not applicable        -
FRR (%)
-  -   -   Not applicable      43
Reforestation
-  -   -   Not applicable      48
Agroforestry
Based on data provided by the Project Management Office (PMO) and informnation collected in the field
and in interviews with farmers, one-ha models of a typical reforestation site (off-farm) and an agroforestry
model farm (on-farm) are presented in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex. These models indicate that both
activities would be viable and attractive for farmers even in the absence of subsidy payments.
Reforestation activities based on Gmelina arborea, carry an estimated rate of return of 43% assuming a
wood volume of 56 cu.m./ha harvested after 10 years and sold at a farmgate price of 2,200 pesos/cu.m.
This rate of return estimate is broadly in line with other studies (eg., Christophersen, K.A., 1996, "Farmer
Perspective Financial Analysis", USAID, reports rates of return to Gmelina plantations ranging from 35%
to 45%). The full assumptions used in the model are specified in Table I of this Annex.
In order to assess returns to typical on-farm activities, an analysis was made for a one-ha model farm
planting eucalyptus, fruit trees and cash crops. This operation would generate a rate of return of 48%.
Cash crops are only planted and harvested over the first seven years after which the growing trees reduce
light availability to the point that no significant yields can be obtained. The fruit trees, in this case jack fruit
and rambutan, start bearing fruit after six and nine years respectively, 3 years later than in an open area
owing to competition for light from the growing eucalyptus. Eucalyptus is planted for one rotation only and
harvested over four years and starting in year 9. Detailed assumptions for the model are presented in Table
2 of this Annex.
- 26 -



Table 1. Reforestation: Gmelina arborea (One-ha Model)
Fast growing      Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 YearlO  Yearll
speciesiGmelina
in Pesos
Costs:
Seedlings        6418
Estab. Cost      6000
Maint./                   420    420    144    144    144    144    144    144    144
Protection
Thinn./                                          2084                                            67500
Harvesting
Revenues:
Thinnings        _                _52100
Final Harvest                                                                                     106920
Total Costs        12418  420    420    144    2228   144    144    144    144    144              67500
Total Revenues                                     52100                                           106920
Net Revenues       (12418)   (420(420)  (144)  49872  (144)  (144)  (144)  (144)  (144)   39420
One harvest horizon (11 years)                 Unit
NPV at 10%                                     Pesos           32,394
NPV at 15%                                     Pesos           21,554
NPV at 20%                                     Pesos           14,222
IRR                                            %                43%
Input Data                                     Unit
Seedings first year planting                   no              1667
Cost of seeding                                pesos            3.5
Establishment cost                             days/ha          50
Maintenance and protection years 2 and         days/ha         3.5
Maintenance and protection years 4-10          days/ha          1.2
Trees/ha after (three) thinning @five years    unit            625
Thinning cost                                  pesos/stem        2
Price of thinnings (farmgate)                  pesos/stem       50
Harvest volume (10 year rotation)              cu.m./ha         54
Proportion of wood fit for selling             %              90%
Price of wood at harvest (farmgate)            pesos/cu.m.    2200
Harvesting cost                                pesos/cu.m.    1250
Wage rate                                      pesos/day       120
Notes:
(a) calculations based on data provided by the Project Management Office as well as on data collected in
the field. Estimates made on the basis of one rotation which does not include potential benefits from
coppicing.
(b) allowing for 10% mortality and replanting at the end of year I
(c) allowing for 10% reduction for fire, drought or pests
(d) wage rate is higher than for work on agroforestry model farm (see Table 2) reflecting harder labor
conditions and potential distance of reforestation site from the villages
- 27 -



Table 2. Agroforestry Farm (One-ha Model )
Item/In Pesos Year   Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year   Year   Year   Year  Year
1       2    3    4    5    6    7         8     So      10       11     12      13/25
Costs:
Seeds/Pi      15000
Mats.
Labor         3000    1800 1800 1800 1800 1800 1780  1780  153500 169500 169500 16950  32000
__              ~~ ~~~~~0  0                         0
Revenues:
Cash Crops   2000   2000 2000 2000 2000 1000 1000
Rambutan               =     =    =                                    4000   4000   4000   4000
Jackfruit                                          1600  2400  32000  40000  40000  40000  40000
_0     0
Eucalyptus                                                     262500 262500 262500 26250
Total Costs   18000  1800 1800 1800 1800 1800 1780  1780  153500 169500 169500 16950  32000
0     0                             0        _
Total          2000   2000 2000 2000 2000 1000 1700  2400  294500 306500 306500 30650  44000
Revenues                                     I _ 0        0                     I _     0
Net Revenues  (16000) 200  200  200  200  (800 (800) 6200  141000 137000 137000 13700  12000
25 year horizon (length of tenure arrangement)
NPV at 10%            Pesos          219,509
NPF at 15%            Pesos           129,485
NPV at 20%            Pesos            77,406
IRR                   %                48%
Input data            unit
Cost of labour        pesos/days         100
Setup costs           pesos/ha         18,000
Incl. Labour         days/ha             30
Labour cost          pesos/ha          3,000
Cash crops
land care and harvest
cash crops          days/ha/yr         18
pesos/yr         1,800
revenue years 1-5     pesos/ha         2,000
revenue years 5-6     pesos/ha          1,000
Fruit trees
Land care and harvest -
Fruit trees          days/tree           2
Pesos/tree       200
Pesos/tree     32,000
Rambutan              trees/ha           80
Yield/ha             pesos/ha        4,000
Yield/ha             kg/tree            3
Price/kg             pesos/kg          17
Jackfruit             trees/ha           80         fruit/ha pesos/ha
Yield year 7         fruit/tree         4           320    16,000
Yield year 8         fruit/tree         6           480     24,000)
- 28 -



Yield year 9           fruit/tree            8             640      32,000
Yield year 10          fruit/tree           10             800      40,000
Price                 pesos/fruit          50
Trees
Eucalyptus               stems/ha            500
Survival rate/actually sold   %              60%
Price/pole               pesos              3,500
Revenue at harvest       pesos          1,050,000
Harvesting cost          pesos/stem         1,000
Harvest cost             pesos/ha         500,000
Uprooting                days/stem              I
Cost/stem               pesos/stem          100
Cost/ha                 pesos/ha          50,000
Notes:
(a) estimates based on data collected in the field during farmers' interviews on current and expected yields
(b) monggo, sweet potato, peanuts, vegetables, corn, cassava
- 29 -



Environmental Benefits of Reforestation and Agroforestry Activities
This Annex examines how environmental benefits, which are conventionally not quantified, affect the rates
of return on reforestation and agroforestiy activities. The types of environmenital benefits can be broadly
divided into:
off-site benefits - resulting from a reduction in soil run-off upstream leading to reduced sedimentation and
siltation problems in downstream infrastructure, a reduction in damages to downstream fishery resources
and improved moisture balance reducing incidences of flooding and drought; and
global benefits - including incremental carbon sequestration and enhanced protection of biodiversity.
Further there are also other benefits, such as reduced illness and mortality owing to a reduction in pollution
and improvement in air quality and recreation benefits from improved natural amenities.
Off-site benefits considered include the reduction of sedimentation in the irrigation system and in dams as
well as diminished damages to fisheries. No estimation is made of benefits from improved moisture
balances. In terms of global benefits the estimates presented below only consider potential gains from
incremental carbon sequestration. As most reforestation activities promote exotic species, biodiversity
benefits should not be significant. Health and recreation benefits are not included in the analysis.
Table 3 below provides estimates of (i) downstream benefits from reduction of soil erosion owing to the
adoption of reforestation or agroforestry practices as well as (ii) potential gains from incremental carbon
sequestration. Values are based on incremental benefits from switching land use to forestry or agroforestry.
The assumptions are that reforestation activities replace grassland (90%) and cultivated land (10%) while
agroforestry replaces grassland (25%), cultivated land (70%) and plantations (5%).
Table 3. Estimation of Environmental Benefits from Reforestation and Agroforestry Activities (in
Pesos/ha/yr)
Type of Benefits                    Reforestation                Agroforestry
Reduction in Soil Loss (off-site
benefits)
Impact on:                        41.43                        65.32
Irrigation System              17.52                        2.40
Dams d                        50.18                        79.12
Fisheries
Subtotal
Carbon Sequestration '(global benefits) 2611.20                 2880.00
Total Benefits                     2661.38                      2959.12
Notes:
(a) Estimates of soil erosion from different land use types (based on the P'hilippine Environmental and
Natural Resources Accounting Project (ENRAP) Phase II, Main Report, Appendix E): open grassland -
79.6 tlha/yr, agroforestry (trees, shrubs, grasses) - 12.5 tlha/yr, Gmelinar plantations - 1 tlhalyr and
unsustainable upland agriculture 191.6 tlha/yr.
(b) Estimates are based on the loss of value of production from a reduction in irrigable area owing to soil
- 30 -



erosion/sedimentation. The analysis draws on Segayo, M.L. "Environmental Damage in Irrigation
Systems" (DENR, 2000, unpublished) which estimates the loss in terms of gross value added (GVA) from
paddy production. In the analysis presented in this Annex, the total loss is calculated as the difference
between GVA of paddy production and the GVA of rainfed corn (estimated alternative planting strategy in
areas not irrigated owing to erosion damage).
(c) Estimates are based on the total cost of damages from sedimentation owing to the decrease in service
life based on amortized capital cost of the four reservoirs most affected by sedimentation problems (57.7
million Pesos/year in 1988 prices - based on ENRAP Phase II, Main Report, Appendix B).
(d) Estimates consider the benefits of a regeneration of fishery yields resulting from reduced upstream soil
erosion based on data collected by the mission on fisherfolk offering fish at discounted prices to upstream
farmers in compensation for their application of agroforestry practices. This estimate reflects a lower
bound of the willingness to pay to avoid soil erosion upstream in order to protect downstream fishery
resources, and is likely to be lower than the full benefits of the value added of additional fish caught.
(e) Estimated on the basis of a shadow carbon price of $24/tC (using an exchange rate of 40 Pesos/$) and
incremental carbon sequestration of 3 tC/ha/yr and of 3.4 tC/ha/yr as a result of adoption of agroforestry
and reforestation practices respectively. The sequestration figure for reforestation is adjusted to 2.7
tC/ha/yr reflecting the assumption that only 80% of the harvested wood will be used for poles or timber. It
should be pointed out that scientific research on incremental carbon sequestration potential is still at an
early stage and that these estimates carry a large margin of error.
Total domestic benefits considered, i.e. the reduction in production losses attributable to sedimentation of
irrigation systems, the reduced life-span of dams owing to siltation and the damage to fisheries from soil
run off, only amount to a value of 50 Pesos/ha/yr and 79 Pesos/ha/yr for reforestation and agroforestry
respectively. An inclusion of these values in the one-ha models (see Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex) does not
change the IRRs for reforestation (43%) and agroforestry (48%) significantly. The consideration of
benefits from carbon sequestration, however, does have a large impact. Annual values are estimated at
2,661 Pesos/ha/yr and 2,880 Pesos/ha/yr and IRRs consequently increase from 43% to 69% for
reforestation and from 48% to 59% for agroforestry (see Table 4 of this Annex).
Table 4. Effect of Inclusion of Environmental Benefits on the IRR on Reforestation and Agroforestry
Activities
Internal Rate of Return     Impact                                Reforestation  Agroforestry
(IRR)
Without environmental benefits    43.0           47.6
Including off-site benefits       43.4          47.8
Including global benefits         68.8           59.4
It is important to point out that farmers adopting agroforestry or reforestation practices do not currently
receive compensation for downstream or global benefits. In the case of fisheries, the estimates were based
on actual transfer payments from fisherfolk to upland farmers (although this is not yet a common practice
across all of the Philippines). From the farmers' point of view, the relevant rate of return for an investment
decision is therefore the original one ignoring all environmental benefits. This could change if a market in
carbon develops and certificates of sequestration could be sold or if transfer payments from downstream
beneficiaries were introduced on a larger scale.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
te of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation         7   U
June 1989
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1990                      7   U
Supervision
August/Sept. 1992             1  AE                                    S                 S
June/July 1993                1  AE                                    S                 s
March 1994                    4  AE, WM, F, BD                         S                 S
Oct./Nov. 1994                3  EC, NRM, F                            S                 S
June/July 1995                5  E, EC, NRM, F, LCS                    S                 S
February 1996                 5  EC, E, NRM, F, EE                     S                 S
Sept./Oct. 1996               4  EC, NRM, FS, LR                       S                 S
June 1997                     3  EC, LR, EE                            S                 S
February 1998                 3  NRM, E, P                             S                 S
October 1998                  5  NRM, E, RD, P, FN                     S                 S
May 1999                      4  NRM, OP, FN, IN                       S                 S
October 1999                  4  OP, NRM, P, FN                        S                 S
ICR
Feb./March 2000               3   E, EE, IL                            S                 S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
________________ __ uNo. Staff weeks          LiUS (000)
Identification/Preparation              105.2                       292.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                    69.8                   _   208.8
Supervision                             175.2          __      _   571.2
ICR                                      10.0                        45.0
Total                                   360.2          __      _ 1,117.3
AE = Agricultural Economist; BD = Biodiversity; E = Economist; EC = E,cologist; EE = Environmental
Economist; F = Forestry Specialist; FN = Finance Specialist; FS = Farming Systems Specialist; IL =
Institutional Legal Expert; IN = Infrastructure Specialist; NRM = Natrual Resources Management
Specialist; WM   Watershed Management Specialist; LCS = Local Consultant Sociologist; LR = Land
Resources; OP = Operations Officer; P = Procurement Specialist; RD = Rural Development Specialist;
U = Unidentifiable
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
F Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Sector Policies                         O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
F Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
ZGender                            OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Other (Please specify)           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Stakeholder Participation
Z Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                   Rating
F Lending                                             O HS * S O U O HU
Z Supervision                                         O HS * S   ( U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OH1S         (DS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
I Preparation                                         O HS * S   O U  O HU
I Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S  (D u  0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                   O Hs * S   CD u  O HU
X Overall                                             OHS OS  ( U O HU
-34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Documents on File:
President's Report dated May 1991
Legal Documents
Supervision Reports
ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire (February/March 2000)
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR (Full Text with Annexes)
DENR DAO 25, series 1992 Implementing Rules and Regulations for RA 7586: National Integrated Protected
Areas System (NIPAS)
ENR-Secal RRMP Institutionalization and Sustainability Plans
Status of Agreed Actions During the Last Supervision Mission in October 1999 (as of 15 December 1999)
ENR-Secal Project Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Report (1998-1999)
ENR-Secal Program Profile Prepared by PMO-DENR
- 35 -



Annex 8. Status of Agreed Policy Actions
Table 1. Policy Agenda Action Matrix
Objectives/Proposed       Actions Already Taken           Short-Term/          Current Status at Project
Action Program               (as of 1991)              Medium-Term                 Completion
(1991-1992)            (31 December 1999)
A. Protect Biological
Diversity
Develop an effective
Integrated Protected Area
System
(a) Determine and survey    Consultants appointed and    Sites identified, described
proposed sites             studies underway           and justified
(b) Prepare and submit     Satisfactory enabling      IPAS enabling law passed   28 sites including 9 under
enabling legislation; issue    legislation submitted to  by Congress on June 1,  ENR-SECAL proclaimed;
regulation                 Congress; consultants      1992 and implementing      222 draft proclamations
appointed to study gazetting   guidelines issued on June  under review
issues                     29,1992
(c) Prepare and implement   Consultants appointed and    Management plans being  One management plan
management plans for       studies undertaken         prepared for 10 areas;     approved; six others in
gazetted areas                                        corresponding 1992 budget   second draft and being done
requests submitted to      under CPPAP
Congress
(d) Eliminate pasture      Completed report on status    Similar reports completed  Policy not to renew Pasture
leases from parks, reserves,   and rationale for      for above terrestrial      Leases in place; existing
critical watersheds and all   cancellation of pasture  protected areas and at least   leases are subject to
areas with slopes > 50%   leases in the Magat         one other critical         evaluation in Protected
watershed, and agreed      watershed; agreed          Area Suitability Assessment
administrative actions taken   administrative actions taken
- 36 -



B. Discourage excessive
or illegal logging
1. Introduce user fees
recovering full economic
rents
(a) Competitive bidding for  Procedural guidelines    Public bidding for at least  As a policy, public bidding
new logging licenses       issued; initial areas      two new TPSAs completed    for TPSAs and similar
identified and timber                                  use-privileges are in place
inventory authorized
(b) Legislation setting    Administrative Order       Forest charge of 25% of     Law setting forest charge of
adequate formula for forest   imposing Environmental  market value passed by      25% of market value passed
charge                     Fee; bills approved by     Congress; implemented;      by Congress; implemented;
House and Senate           normal legal remedies for   normal legal remedies for
non-compliance plus        non-compliance plus
cancellation of TLAs       cancellation of TLAs
violating terms of license
agreement are in place
(c)Maintain reforestation  Strengthened monitoring to   Revised procedures        Environmental fee
deposit and provide for    ensure compliance and      implemented                 (reforestation deposit) for
periodic adjustments       institution of true                                    operating TLAs being
performance bond                                       managed by the Philippine
Wood Producers
Association (PWPA).
(d) Study effects on prices                           TORs agreed, study carried    Export of logs from natural
and rents of export ban and                           out, actions agreed         forests and raw sawnwood
other restrictions                                                                not allowed. No restrictions
on plantation wood and
processed products.
(e) Increased fees for     Study of appropriate rental    DA and ADB agreed on    DA A.O. issued to
fishpond use of mangrove    fee underway, sponsored by   new fee level            implement new fee level
areas                      ADB Fisheries Sector Loan
(f) Reversion of idle or   Joint DENR-DA              ADB-fmanced survey          ADB-financed survey
abandoned fishpond areas    Memorandum of             carried out, DA/DENR        carried out, DA/DENR
to forest use              Agreement on reversion     Mangrove Committee          Mangrove Committee
signed by DENR             rescinded leases of all idle    rescinded leases of all idle
ponds                      ponds
-37 -



2. Improve enforcement of
forestry laws and
regulations
(a) Develop and implement  Monitoring plan agreed and   Program monitoring      Program monitoring
an adequate monitoring    TOR for TA in              commissioned and           commissioned and
system                    implementation drafted     reporting system           reporting system
operational               operational
(b) Develop and implement  Enforcement plan agreed   Annual evalualion report on   Annual evaluation of law
an adequate enforcement   and TORs for TA in         imp]ementation, including    enforcement, including
strategy                  implementation drafted     quantitative indicators,   quantitative indicators,
agreed with Bank          being undertaken.
(c) Enlist cooperation of  Memoranda of Agreement                               MOAs with DOJ, DND and
Depts. of Justice and     between DENR and DOJ                                  DILG executed; Special
Defense                   and DILG drafted                                      Courts on forestry cases
assigned
C. Encourage Sustainable
Land Use Practices
1. Provide secure tenure
rights
(a) Improve tenure value    AO revising CSC terms   Routine issue              Routine issue
of CSC (stewardship       issued; revised contractual
contract)                 form issued
(b) Extend modified CSC   AO defining mangrove       Routine issue              Routine issue
for mangrove areas        CSCs and appropriate
contractual form issued
(c) Legislation to                                   Various bills on ancestral  Passage of the Indigenous
recognize, delineate, and                            domains filed in Congress;   Peoples Rights Act (IPRA)
adjudicate land occupancy                            interim mechanism for     in October 1997
claims of indigenous                                 recognition of ancestral
communities                                          domains claims
implemented by DENR
Administrative Order No. 2,
issued January 1993
Adequate funding provided
for task force and
evaluation report on work
submitted to the Bank
-38 -



(d) DENR public            Task force formed to                                    Implementing rules and
recognition of prior rights    delineate ancestral domains                         regulations of IPRA
of ancestral domains and   and recommend                                           provides for DENR role in
administrative assistance in   mechanisms for transfer of                          delineation of ancestral
delineation                resource ownership rights                               domains. DENR DAO 2
and management                                         (1993) resulted in issuance
responsibility in operation;                           of Certificates of Ancestral
delineation guidelines                                 Domains Claims (CADC)
issued. Statement of policy                            over 1.4 million hectares.
recognizes ancestral domain                            Recognition and
rights in principle.                                   adjudication process now
subject to IPRA.
(e) Expand numbers of      Seven and twenty CFLs                                   The CBFM strategy
Community Forest Leases    issued in 1990 and 1991,                                developed a comprehensive
issued                     respectively                                            package for establishing
contractual arrangements
(f) Devise and issue new   AO and guidelines defining                              over all types of state forest
contractual instruments    instruments signed                                      lands (including natural
giving property rights over                                                        forests, forest plantations,
reforested areas to local                                                          agroforestry areas). Work is
residents                                                                          underway to unify all
existing tenurial
arrangements into the
comprehensive
Community-Based Forest
Management Agreement
(CBFMA)
(g) Authorize ISF and CFS   Draft IPAS legislation                                 NIPAS law and its
in protected areas         provide scope for such                                  implementing rules and
programs in appropriate                                regulations provide for
zones within protected areas                           recognition of tenure of
as part of long-term                                   migrant communities and
protective management                                  indigenous peoples in
program                                                protected areas; CBFM-type
approaches to be
implemented in buffer
zones and multiple-use
zones of protected areas.
- 39 -



2. Establish organizational
framework for provision of
extension services in
upland areas
(a) Recognition of        Resolution (No. 01-90) of    Implementation within   Interagency convergence
extension requirements of    Cabinet Cluster A on Rural   administrative units covered   policy under the Social
upland populations and    Development and Statement  by public investment      Reform Agenda and the
agreements on sourcing    of Policy extend this     component                  National Anti-Poverty
recognition;                                         Program addresses this
implementation within                               concern. Inclusion of
scope of public investment                           CBFM as part of the
component agreed                                     Agrarian Reform Program
(upland component) opens
up agrarian reform
resources for uplands.
(b) Improved autonomy,    ISF separated from FMB,                              ISF program devolved to
visibility, mandate, and  Asst. Secretary responsible                          LGUs by virtue of the 1992
staff complement for ISF  for program. New ISF and                             LGC; Environment and
program                   CFS guidelines issued; new                           Natural Resources Offices
field staff positions added                          created in many Provincial
for "Social Forestry                                 and Municipal government
Technicians"                                         units; CBFM strategy
provides for partnership
between LGUs, DENR and
communities
(c) Implement common      Training materials        Implementation within
training program (for DA,    developed; implementation    administrative units covered
DENR, DAR)                within scope of public    by public investment
investment component      component
agreed.
(d) Complete census of    Census completed, future                             Perceived need for another
forest occupants          measures agreed                                      census of forest occupants
to determine magnitude of
work to be undertaken in
CBFM and protected areas.
(e) Develop NGO linkages   NGO Desk created;                                   Civil society participation
registration of NGOs                                 being tapped for upland
undertaken; NGOs used                                development programs in
extensively in contractual                           the area of mobilization,
work; roles confirmed in                             monitoring and
Statement of Policy                                  enforcement, involvement
in CBFM and MFPC
activities
- 40 -



3. Establish mechanisms to                           New ISF and CFS            CBFM strategy emphasizes
promote small-scale,                                 guidelines issued;         development of sustainable
community-based resource                             organization and           livelihood projects by
management and livelihood                            procedures for interagency,   communities as part of
projects                                             LGU and NGO involvement  overall natural resources
in agreed public investment   management framework
component
-41 -



Table 2: Natural Resource Policy Matrix
Issues and Strategic         Initial Status        Revised Policy Framework           Current Status
Consideration          (At project appraisal,       (Per Aide-TIMmoire,            (At project closure,
1990)              February 1998; items in          December 1999)
italics directly addressed by
SECAL conditions
Resource Mobilization    Policy should seek to assure
that natural resources are
allocated to appropriate and
sustainable uses, that rents
generated from exploitation
of publicly-owned natural
resources are channeled
through appropriate
budgetary procedures to high
priority uses, and that public
expenditure procedures
provide adequate resources
for natural resource
investments, maintenance
and protection
Protected Area System    Inadequate legislation,       National Integrated         Implementing Rules and
funding, land allocation and   protected Areas (NIPAS)  Regulations (DENR DAO
management did not          Law in place                92-25) issued
guarantee adequate           GEFfunding securedfor        GEF-funded CPPAP in
protection of a representative   priority sites under CPPAP    place; first phase of
selection of critical habitats    * Draft guidelines on the  EU-supported NIPAP nearing
integration ofpeople and    completion
parks                         Initial components of the
system identified, in various
stages of assessment and
gazetting
User fee system for protected
areas being developed through
ENRAP
Forest Land Allocation    Forest designation applied to                          * National Land Use Code
essentially all public lands                            under consideration in
and defined on strictly                                 Congress
technical basis (slope)                                   DENR field offices
excluding consideration of                              preparing forest land use
actual use and occupancy                                plans, assisting LGUs prepare
their Provincial/Municipal
Land Use Plans
* DENR planning in the
context of watershed
ecosystems
- 42 -



Mechanisms for           Long term concessions had     No new TLAs issued;         Implementing rules and
Industrial Forest        generally been awarded      Existing TLAs scheduled to    regulations for Industrial
Utilization              untransparently and without   expire no longer to be    Forest Management
competition. Largely not in    renewed                  Agreement (IFMA) in place,
compliance with               TLAs not complying with    including profit-sharing
management requirements     management requirements     mechanism between investor
cancelled                   and government
Old-growth naturalforests   Socialized Industrial Forest
included in Protected Areas    Management Agreement
System                      (SIFMA) for small holders in
place.
CBFM provides for
utilization offorest resources
Incentive Framework      Policy should aim to ensure
that all resource users
recognize and respond to
natural resource scarcity
through realistic prices,
regulations and other
incentives
User Fees and Royalties                               Forest charges set at 25%
fo.b. price
Improve Forestry Law                                   Routine aerial and marine   LCMS further developed
Enforcement                                          surveillance missions       into FSMS as forest
conducted                   management information
* Log control monitoring    system; national and regional
system piloted in CARAGA    core staff trained to install
region                      FSMS nationwide
* Multisectoral Forest       More than 200 MFPCs
Protection Committees       organized; long term
(MFPCs) organized           institutional relationship with
DENR needs to be clarified
Expand access to secure   Issuance of tenure          Community-Based Forest       Community-Based Forest
tenure                   instruments proceeding on a   management established as    management established as
limited basis, essentially  national strategy (EO 263)  national strategy (EO 263)
with experimentation on a    All tenurial instruments     All tenurial instruments
range of instruments and    under previous              under previous
terms                       people-oriented             people-oriented
programs/projects to be     programs/projects to be
eventually converted to     eventually converted to CBFM
CBFMAgreement               Agreement
Log and Forest Products    Log exports banned since                               Various versions of 'total
Trade Restrictions       1986, raw lumber exports                                logging ban' bills pending in
banned since 1989. Bans                                 Congress; DENR advocating
have potential to reduce log                            for Sustainable Forest
values and promote                                      Management as a better
inefficient processing.                                 alternative to total logging ban
- 43 -



Forest Management       Private logging operations   Stricter requirements      Forest Stocks Monitoring
Regulations             on public land were poorly    imposed on Timber License    System (formerly LCMS)for
controlled and essentially  Holders (e.g., submission of   nationwide installation by
unmonitored                aerial photo coverage;     trained national and regional
integrated annual operations   DENR core staff
plans required)
Log Control and
Monitoring System piloted in
CARAGA region
Sector Governance and   Policy should be based on a
Organization            broad consensus among a
range of stakeholders on the
legitimacy of control over
resource use and access.
Develop NGO linkages    Confrontational atmosphere  NGOs now recognized as     NGOs now recognized as
between Government and    legitimate players in public   legitimate players in public
NGOs                       lands management           lands management
Indigenous Peoples Land                              Ancestral Domains to       Before the passage of the
Rights                                             come under policy of       IPRA in 1997, DENR initiated
National Commission on     since 1992 (DENR DAO 02, s.
Indigenous Peoples created    1992) the recognition of
under the Indigenous       ancestral domains/lands
Peoples Rights Act (IPRA)    claims of IPs over 1.4 M
hectares
* DENR, through its Ancestral
Domains Management
Program within the CBFM
strategy, will continue to
assist in the delineation of
ancestral lands/domains
* The NCIP is in place, but
the constitutionality of IPRA
has been challenged before
the Supreme Court.
Role of Local           National Government          Local Government Code      Joint Memorandum Circular
Government Units        dominant in policy and     delegates significant      98-1 between DENR and
(LGUs) in resource      budgeting, but limited     resource management        DILG clarifies the roles of
management              capacity to influence      responsibilities to LGUs   DENR and LGUs
activities on the ground.                               DENRfieldoffices
providing technical assistance
to LGUs in land-use planning,
and incorporatingforest land
use plans in LGUplans
* LGUs still need substantial
assistance to develop skills,
and to generate resources, for
local management of natural
resources
- 44 -



Annex 9. Executive Summary of the Borrower's Evaluation of the Project:
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ENR-SECAL)
PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Environment and Natural Resources Sectoral Adjustment Loan (ENR-SECAL) Program is a hybrid operation,
consisting of a quick-disbursing sector adjustment_program based on policy and institutional reforms and an
investment project in support of institutional strengthening and regional community-based resource management
activities.
After final appraisal in May 1990, the ENR-SECAL was approved by the Board of the World Bank on 25 June
1991, and both the IBRD loan and the IDA Credit became effective on 10 October 1991. Implementation of the
investment component (see para. 1 1 for the various sub-components) commenced in January 1992; RRMP was
implemented until December 1999 while MEC was implemented until June 1996. CPPAP is ongoing.
Total project cost was estimated during appraisal at US$ 369 million, consisting of US$266 million for the
quick-disbursing sectoral adjustment component, and US 103 million for the investment component. The financing
plan consisted of the following:
Adjustment Component                                       US$ 266 million
IBRD                               US$ 100 million
IDA                                US$ 66 million
OECF                               US$ 100 million
Investment Component                                       US$ 103 million
IPAS/CPPAP                         US$ 24.2 million
IPAS Design                         US$ 2.2 million
IPAS Implmn (GEF)                   US$ 20.0 million
IPAS Implmn (GOP)                   US$ 2.0 million
RRMP                               US$ 64.6 million
IBRD                                 US$ 50.0 million
Japan-WB TA Grant                    US$ 2.4 million
GOP and Beneficiaries                US$12.2 million
MEC                                US$ 14.2 million
IBRD                                US$ 8.0 million
GOP and Beneficiaries                US$ 5.2 million
Nordic Dev. Fund                     US$ 1.0 million
Note: Nordic Dev Fund of US$ 1.0 million did not materialize; loan cancellation of US$ 9.6 million in September 1999.
The objectives of the sectoral adjustment program were: to preserve what remains of the biological diversity of the
Philippines; to re-establish the natural resources that have been degraded, and; to introduce sustainable land use
practices.
The objectives of the investment component were: to develop an effective protected areas system; promote proper
pricing and imposition of user fees for natural resources; improve the enforcement of logging regulations; provide
secure tenure rights and extension services in the uplands, and; establish mechanisms for community-based
resource management and livelihood in the impoverished uplands. The logical framework of ENR-SECAL is
available in the project files.
- 45 -



Evaluation of the obiectives.
*   Relevance to national and sectoral development goals is rated highly satisfactory. The program concept,
objectives and approaches are highly relevant to the country development strategy, which is anchored on the
principle of sustainable development.
*   Efficacy is rated satisfactory. The implementation approach aimed to introduce processes characterized by
participatory approaches involving all stakeholders (e.g., upland communities, indigenous peoples, other
national line agencies, local governments, and civil society).
*   In terms of efficiency, the program is rated satisfactory. The program provided adequate safeguards for the
efficient and effective utilization of program resources. World Bank staff and GOP oversight agencies closely
guided program implementers on procedures for procurement, disbursement, and resources utilization.
Participation of stakeholders (including participating LGUs ancl communities) in the planning,
implementation, and monitoring ensured transparency at all levels and phases of project implementation.
*   Sustainabilitv is rated conditionally likely. The operationalization phase will require future continuation and
replication of the ENR-SECAL development model, with the local government units (LGU) playing greater
roles. Replication and sustainability will depend on whether the national and local governments can continue
to provide resources to replicate and expand the coverage of the strategies and approaches, with the proper mix
of physical and human resources shown during the implementation of ENR-SECAI, as vital elements of
success.
The Sectoral Adjustment Component
Attainment of policy and institutional reforms obiectives. The following have been achieved:
*   Development of an effective Integrated Protected Area System (iPAS). The NIPAS law and its implementing
mechanisms are in place. The initial components of IPAS, consisting of miore than 200 sites covering an
aggregate area of 2.6 million hectares, have been identified Additional 171 sites have been recommendedfor
inclusion in the system.
* Proper pricing of environmental services and natural resources. The achievements in this area are: (i)
institutionalising the Philippine Economic-Environment and Natural Resources Accounting (PEENRA)
System; (ii) reforming the user fees system for environmental services, the appropriation of economic rent
from natural resources use (e.g., raising forest charges on timber harvested from natural forests to 25% of
market price, determination of governnent share in the proceeds of industrial forest plantations), and the
formulation of economic instruments for ENR management (e.g. pilot implementation of user charges on
wastewater discharges into the Laguna de Bay);
*   Property rights reforms. The Community-Based Forest Managemnent Strategy has been adopted by the GOP as
the principal strategy for sustainable forest management. The Indligenous People's Rights Act was passed in
1997. Presently, CBFM-type projects, including those covered by the Integrated Social Forestry Program, the
Forest Land Management Program, and the Ancestral Domains Management Program, cover an aggregate
area of 5.114 million hectares, including 2.543 million hectares covered by in(digenous peoples' ancestral
domains/lands claims (CADC/CALC).
* Devolution and decentralization of environmental and natural resources management responsibilities to
LGUs. The Local Government Code specifies the services and functions related to environmental protection
and natural resources management which local government units and executives shall perform.
*   Various legislative bills on Sustainable Forest Management, Land Use, Wildlife Resources Protection, and
gazetting of protected areas, are in different stages of the legislative process.
The policy and institutional reforms agenda under the adjustment component are summarized in Annex 8, Tables I
and 2. Annex 8, Table I is the matrix of reforms committed to by GOP at project design. This was updated in 1998
(and presented in Annex 8, Table 22) after an assessment done by the WB supervision team and DENR.
- 46 -



The Investment Component
1. The investment component financed the following:
*   design of an Integrated Protected Areas System, including a suitable legislative framework;
*   program support for management of ten priority protected areas;
*   improved monitoring of logging operations and enforcement of forestry laws and regulations through the
provision of equipment, training and technical assistance to selected DENR regional and local offices; and,
*   development of the capacity of local governments and line agencies to generate and service small-scale
community-based resource management and livelihood projects in watershed areas, combining community
organizing and pre-cooperatives development; improvements in tenure and resource management;
introduction of sustainable means of livelihood; and improvement of infrastructure and services
2. The investment component was implemented through three sub-components:
*   Regional Resources Management Project (RRMP), which is concerned with the development of the capacities
of local governments, government line agencies, and local communities to implement community-based
management of watershed, forest and land resources. The objectives of RRMP were to be achieved through
community organizing and development initiatives, primarily livelihood development, provision of physical
infrastructures, and enhancing the role of women in uplands development.
*   Monitoring and Enforcement Component (MEC), which focused on the development of capabilities to monitor
logging operations and enforce forestry regulations. Its objective was to develop a bottom-up approach to
transform community attitudes towards the forest resources, combined with a top-down effort to strengthen
capacity to identify, apprehend, and prosecute violations of forestry laws, rules and regulations. The MEC
component financed the provision of (a) training and educational efforts to increase community awareness of
the negative effects of illegal logging; (b) the establishment of joint Government-NGO monitoring committees
to encourage community involvement in monitoring and enforcement activities; (c) training, technical
assistance, equipment, and operational support to increase the quantity, quality, timeliness, and utility of
Governmental monitoring activities, addressing all identified weaknesses; (d) training, technical assistance,
equipment, and operational support to improve the effectiveness of all operatives involved in forestry law
enforcement.
*   Conservation of Priority Protected Areas in the Philippines (CPPAP), which supports the management of ten
priority protected areas in the country under the Integrated Protected Areas System (IPAS).
Performance in the investment component' The cumulative weighted performance of the investment
component is 107% of target'. In terms of the various investment components, the performance targets and
accomplishment are as follows:
Weighted Target          Weighted
Accomplishment
RRMP                                 60.49%                67.93%
MEC                                  18.85%                18.85%
Technical Assistance and
Program Management                   20.66%                20.66%
100.00%               107.44%
RRMP Performance. RRMP was implemented in 28 project sites covering an aggregate area of 134,090 hectares.
These sites, in turn, were part of major watersheds covering an aggregate area of 922,038 hectares. located in six
(6) administrative regions (3 in Luzon and 3 in Mindanao), 24 provinces, 38 municipalities, and 121 barangays.
- 47 -



RRMP was implemented through four complementary strategies:
* Local Social Development! Community Organizing-Community Development (LSD/CO-CD). This
subcomponent was intended to strengthen local community institutions with respect to the devlopment
onjectives of RRMP. Hence, participants were organized, trained and mobilized to undertake
community-based environment and natural resources management projects. In the RRMP project sites, 110
community associations were organized, trained and assisted; 80 of these associations have gone forward to
develop as registered cooperatives. Participatory decision-making was enhanced with the organization of 133
Barangay/Community Resource Management Committees; 149 barangay development plans were firmed up.
At project completion there were 9,524 registered members of the CAs, and 4.627 participated as non-formal
members. Women played an active part in the project implementation and participated in the CAs, community
planning, barangay councils, and in participatory monitoring and evaluation activities. TA and on-the job
training were provided to CA officers and members on installation of accounting and bookkeeping systems,
proper enforcement of loan policies and regulations, and regular auditing. A local financing mechanism, the
Community Revolving Fund (CRF), was developed through ENR-SECAI. There are presently 146 CRFs in
place and managed by the community associations themselves. As of end of 1999, the aggregate fund
accumulation of these CRFs totaled PHW 51.22 million. The CRF is the community organization's own pool of
financial resources built up from various sources: start-up seed money from ENR-SECAL, members'
contributions from their wages in project-related infrastructure and contracted project activities, profits from
the CA's business operations (e.g., community store, products trading, loan facility), donations and grants, etc.
This pool of resources is accessible to members finance household-level livelihood projects (e.g., hog/cattle
fattening, agricultural inputs), and to finance projects of the organization (e.g., communal tree farms, forest
plantations, small irrigation systems, rice/corn mill). This sub-component is one of the major interventions
towards local empowerment and in unifying community participation in the management of upland resources
in systematizing the mobilization and re-channeling of community savings into a CRF that will finance
livelihood endeavors of the members. The primary objective of l SD/CO i's to build strong people-oriented,
value-based groups that will carry out development activities in the watershed. It is hinged on the thesis that
organized upland communities can be effective natural resources managers if they have access to options that
would improve their economic well-being.
o   Development of Livelihood Options. Per design of ENR-SECAL, the introduction of sustainable livelihood
options is the main extension goal of the project. Under the project, a seecl fund of P60,000.00 per site was
provided as start-up financing for non-farm livelihood projects and this forms part of the project share
contribution to the community revolving fund. The release of this seed fund was dependent on the CA's
demonstrated capability to manage the CRF. Project records showed that a total of 272 livelihood projects
were operationalized during the life of the project. The question of the likelihood of replication and initiation
of additional economic generating projects has been raised. While the issue is completely valid, we feel that it
is more relevant to look at how ENR-SECAL has demonstrated the vital linkages between providing the
institutional platform for local economic activities to flourish, providing the skills for managing these
economic activities, and how improvements in the local economy will bring about sustainable natural resource
management at the local level. Our assessment is that ENR-SECAL has aniply demonstrated these linkages,
and has set the example from which future work can be drawn.
*   Community Resources Development (CRD). Community resources development (CRD) consists of: provision
of tenurial rights to land and natural resources, the development of the forest and land resources-base through
forest rehabilitation, and the introduction of sustainable land-use practices. T hese CRD activities were
generically categorized into on-farm activities in individual farmer-participants' farmiots, and off-farm
activities, involving development of the larger areas granted under the community-based forest management
strategy. On-farm activities covered 13,017 has. of farner-participants' fannlots; off-farm activities covered
14,846 hectares. A total of about 18,000 hectares of plantations (timber, rattan, bamboo, fruit trees, etc.) were
developed through agroforestry and forest plantations establishment in RRMP project areas. Natural forests
within the project sites, covering 1,848 hectares, were protected and managed by the CAs as part of their CRD
activities.
The following table summarizes the various tenurial arrangements and instruments put in place in the RRMP
project sites. These tenurial instruments/arrangements include those issued tinder other CBFM
- 48 -



programs/projects (e.g., Forestry Sector Project, Integrated Social Forestry Program, Ancestral Domains
Management Program, etc.) in RRMP sites. These were facilitated through RRMP in line with the integrative
approach of RRMP/ENR-SECAL:
Area Covered (ha.)       No. of
Instruments
Issued/Perfected                                           186,594         8,165
CBFM-type (CSC, FLMA, CBFMA, etc.)                          75.097         5,731
CADC/CALC                                                  102,918           82
Leases (PLA, AFFLA, IFMA, SIFMA)                             5,562            6
Others (JVA, etc.)                                           3,017         2,346
In-process (as of end of 1999)                             454,125         2,449
*   Infrastructure and Facilities Development. ENR-SECAL/RRMP provided resources for the construction
and/or improvement of infrastructure and related facilities in the project sites. The main objective of these
infrastructure was to provide basic facilities to the target communities, under the premise that the provision of
basic infrastructure to poor communities is necessary in catalyzing local economic activity and, consequently,
promote rational use of environmental and natural resources in these areas. A secondary objective, but of more
immediate impact, was for the creation of temporary employment to local peoples. RRMP infrastructure
projects were either contracted out to local firms - which were required to employ local labor - or to the
community organizations or barangay governments themselves. Infrastructure development under RRMP was
also an entry point for local government participation in the project. The initial participation of the LGUs was
in establishing these infrastructure and facilities through their respective engineering offices
(Provincial/Municipal Engineering Offices), using funds and equipment provided to them by the project.
Through time, the LGU's involvement expanded to the other components of RRMP in line with the
institutional development process. The project established or improved the following infrastructure and
facilities in the various project sites: Barangay Development Unit Bldgs. (81 units); Watershed Management
Unit (WMU) Office Bldgs. (29 units); multi-purpose buildings (30 units); school buildings (62 units); housing
units (80); Multipurpose pavements (107 units); new (main) road constructed (16 kms.); secondary road
constructed (169 kms.); road improvement (1,443 kmns.); trails & tire-path constructed (352 kms.); trails &
tire-path improved (149 kms.); bridge construction (63 units); bridge rehabilitation (2 units); culverts
construction (95 units); domestic water supply systems (238 units constructed and 238 units upgraded);
irrigation systems (58 units constructed and 34 units upgraded).
* Institutional Strengthening. This involved the development of the capabilities of DENR, LGUs, other national
government agencies (NGAs) concemed, community associations, and supporting NGOs, to develop,
implement, and manage community-based ENR projects. It included the provision of support for training and
organizational development for LGUs and participant communities; provision of information, education and
communication (IEC) resources; and provision of equipment. Mechanisms were developed for the
operationalization of partnership between stakeholders in community-based resources management, including
the participation of NGOs in the implementation of development programs and projects.
MEC Performance. The monitoring and enforcement component was intended to develop and implement strategies
for improved forestry law enforcement, initially directed at selected areas where illegal logging operations have
been identified as prevalent. In the long run, DENR would intensify direct management presence in the forests,
particularly in areas where the Timber License Agreements(TLAs)s have expired, in primary forests placed under
the protected area system, and in areas where production-sharing or community-forest management arrangements
are extended.
MEC was implemented through the following sub-components: formation of Multisectoral Forest Protection
Committee; conduct of operations services in organizing and managing interdiction and law enforcement
-49 -



activities; development and implementation of a Log Control and Monitoring System (later to be improved into a
Forest Stocks Monitoring System), and; provision of legal technical assistance for the improvement of the
capabilities of DENR and other related agencies in the prosecution of forestry cases.
Myltisectoral Forest Protection Committees. The organization of MFPCs was intended to unify and mobilize
the then fragmented various interest groups espousing forest and environmental protection, and to provide
direction for their efforts in coordination with DENR. The work on MFPC focused on the development of a
framework within which these groups can work together and be legally recognized as partners of DENR in forest
protection advocacy. At the termination of this component in 1996, 94 MFPC's have been organized, well above the
original target of 16 MFPCs. A national MFPC federation has been organizedl. As of 1999, there were 297 MFPCs
formed in 15 regions, 49 provinces, 9 cities, 206 municipalities and 35 barangays.
Operational services. This sub-component of MEC improved the capacity and effectiveness of local DENR
offices and forest protection advocate groups in enforcing forestry laws and regulations in the identified critical or
"hotspot" areas. Air, sea and ground surveillance plans and procedures, administrative orders, implementing
guidelines, procedural directives and manuals were prepared. Staff of the DENR, Department of National Defense,
Department of Justice, the military services, the national police, and NGOs, were trained in all phases of
surveillance, seizure and arrest, and prosecution. Illegally cut logs and equipment used were seized and
confiscated, and illegal sawmills were closed down by the mobile and transitory strike forces. Cases were filed and
prosecuted against the perpetrators.
Log Control Monitoring System (LCMS)/Forest Stocks Monitoring System (FESMS). The LCMS is a
computerized database system to document and track legally harvested timber from the stump to the processing
plants. Conceptually, it is possible to document and track all legally-sourced timber nationwide, and any timber
that has no record in the database can be considered illegal. The system was developed and tested in Caraga
region. This first attempt revealed some limitations in handling different transport systems, varying timber sales
procedures, and harvests from plantations and private lands. Another drawback was the system's assumption that a
fully operational nationwide communication system would be in place that can handle data exchange in real time.
It was also realized that, in order for the system to be cost-effective, information on the quantity, quality, and
location of post-harvest residual stands should also be included in the system. For these reasons, LCMS was further
developed into the FSMS. DENR staff from the Field Operations Office, Forest management Bureau, and the
regional DENR offices were trained on the FSMS, and a National FSMS Core Group was organized and tasked to
implement the system nationwide.
Legal Technical Assistance. Legal technical assistance is crucial to the whole MEC initiative. The TA
provided legal assistance to the interdiction and enforcement activities. Workshops and seminars were conducted
for judges, prosecutors, foresters, MFPC members, and lawyers who were designated to handle or assist in forestry
cases. Various Memoranda of Agreement (MOA) were firmed up between the DENR and other agencies including
the Department of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Department of national Defense, the Philippine National Police,
and the military services. High-profile forestry cases were aggressively prosecuted to demonstrate the government's
strong commitment to stop serious forestry crimes,
Conservation of Priority Protected Areas in the Philippines (CPPAP). As part of the ENR-SECAL Program, ten
(10) priority sites were identified for implementation under the Conservation of Priority Protected Areas in the
Philippines (CPPAP) component: Batanes Protected Landscape and Seascape; Northern Sierra Madre Natural
Park; Mt. Kitanglad Natural Park; Mt. Kanlaon National Park; Bataan Subic Natural Park; Turtle Islands Wildlife
Sanctuary; Agusan Marsh Wildlife Sanctuary; Siargao Island Protected Landscape and Seascape; Apo Reef Natural
Park; and Mt. Apo Natural Park. Nine (9) of these priority sites have been issued presidential proclamations under
the IPAS. The Protected Area Management Boards (PAMB) have been organized and are meeting regularly
Two sites, Batanes Protected Landscape and Mt. Kitanglad National Park have been approved on 3rd reading at
the Lower House and awaiting to be filed at the Senate. The integrated strategic action plan for Turtle Island has
been prepared by a multi-sectoral body. Natural resource inventory has been completed for nine (9) sites, and the
management plans for five (5) sites namely Batanes PLS, Bataan NP, Mt. Kanlaon NP, Mt. Kitanglad NP and
- 50 -



Northern Sierra Madre NP have been submitted.
Program Costs and Financial Performance
The total ENR-SECAL program cost was planned at US$369 million. Actual expenditures amounted to
US$329.689 million, about 98% of appraisal estimates (net of the GEF grant and GOP counterpart for CPPAP, the
Nordic Development Fund which did not materialize, and the loan cancellation of US$ 9.6 million. The costs by
category and financing source are (in US$ million equivalent):
Project Component          Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Actual/Appraisal
Estimate         Estimate
A. IBRD Loan.
Eligible Imports               100.0             100.0            100.00%
Works                           15.1             9.234            61.15%
Goods                           7.6              7.332            96.47%
Agrofrestry                     4.6              3.154            68.56%
Proj. Mgt./Tech. Services       15.0             13.474           89.83%
Incremental Cost                12.0             10.629           88.58%
Unallocated                     3.7
Total IBRD                     158.0            143.823           91.03%
GOP Counterpart                 17.4             15.566           89.46%
B. IDA (Loan)                     66.0              66.0            100.00%
C. OECF (Loan)                    100.0             100.0           100.00%
D. GEF (Grant)                    20.0            on-going
GOP Counterpart                2.0             on-going
E. NDF Grant                       1.0        Did not materialize    0.00%
F. Japan-WB TA Grant               4.6               4.3             93.48%
TOTAL                             369.0            329.689           98.01%
Note: Net of CPPAP GEF Grant - US$ 20 million and GOP counterpart - US$ 2 million); NDF (US$ I million) did
not materialize; loan cancellation - US$ 9.6 million
From 1992 to 1999, the ENR-SECAL program (RRMP and MEC components only) was allocated,
through the GOP Annual Appropriations Act, PHP 2.245 Billion, of which GOP counterpart is PHP 587 M and
loan proceeds (LP) is PHP 1.658 B. Cumulative utilization rate is 94% (obligation/allotment) while the
disbursement rate is 80% (disbursement/NCAA and NCA releases).
Lessons Learned:
On community-based approaches to environment and natural resources management:
*      ENR-SECAL has shown that community-based approaches to the management of environmental and
natural resources are effective and cost-efficient, provided the responsibilities and use-rights of the different
stakeholders are clearly defined, acknowledged, and respected by all parties. These are cost-efficient in that the
costs of managing these resources, which used to be regarded as 'public goods' and should be managed using
public resources, can in fact be managed by private (albeit community-level) resources. Strong partnerships
between the different stakeholders of environmental stability and natural resources conservation (national
government, LGUs, downstream resource users, environmental advocates, rural and upland communities) is vital.
The link between rural poverty and natural resources degradation is real, and thus, strategies for resources
conservation should firmly address poverty-eradication. Rural development strategies should clearly link the issues
of poverty and natural resources at several levels - at the community level, at the watershed level, at the
sub-national (regional) and national levels. The natural resource base is a vital element in rural development, and
- 51 -



rural development programs should enhance the importance of these resources in the rural economy.
*      Community-based approaches (CBA) are process-oriented rather than physical targets/outputs- oriented.
The objectives of CBA can best be attained if performance indicators for CBA programs are linked to the
successful playing-out of the processes, rather than simply to the attainment of physical outputs by fiscal years.
Environmental and natural resources are, in most cases, state-owned (as in the case of the Philippines).
The state-as-owner invariably lacks the resources to fully fulfill its ownership role, and effectively these resources
become open-access in nature. Under this condition, the state should be able, and willing, to delegate its ownership
roles, responsibilities, and use-rights to the sectors of the society that are willing, capable, and have interests in the
sustainability of these resources.
Learnings from field experience:
Policy changes are necessary condition for change, but not a sufficient one; another necessary condition is
the "capitalization of experiences". It is essential to establish an environment that supports experimentation,
learning, correcting, and adjusting.
"Project-based" community organizing (CO) is effective in facilitating the implementation of a
multi-component community development project like ENR-SECAL,
*      Existing institutions governing the mode of voluntary cooperation in the community are effective "entry
points" of community organizing.
Participation in training and expression of strong commitment are not assurance enough that the CA
officers will faithfully exercise their respective functions which is necessary to establish the internal strength of the
organization. There should be a mechanism for insuring that these officers will actually perform these functions
until such time that doing so will already become a sort of habit on their part.
Greater farmer commitment to the attainment of community-based project goal is achieved when they are
encouraged to voice out their "own expert opinions and field-tested experience".
On-the-job training, cross-farm visits and actual demonstrations' were very effective training
methodologies for on-site courses; improving work attitudes; and promoting immediate application of technologies.
Training is most relevant and responsive when it addresses the real needs of the participants in improving
the performance of their roles and functions in relation to the mandate, goals and objectives of their organization
or project.
Evaluation of Implementing Agency's Performance:
The Philippine Government has substantially achieved the sectoral reforms under the adjustment component.
These commitments were embodied in the Government Statement of Policy and Environment and Natural
Resources Sector Adjustment and a Policy Resolution adopted by the Cabinet Sub-Cluster on Rural Development
(Cluster A, Resolution No. 01-90). The major commitments consisted of: proper pricing of natural resources;
property rights reforms; establishment of an IPAS; rehabilitation of degraded ecosystems; inducing growth in the
rural areas; and, integration of population concerns and social welfare in development planning. These sectoral
reforms are now embodied in the framnework for environment and natural resources management of the
Philippines.
The GOP has drawn from the lessons and experiences from the implementation of the ENR-SECAL investment
component, in further developing the various people-oriented forestry programs to the current community-based
resource management strategy.
- 52 -



There is still a need to improve the coordination and complementation of development programs and projects.
ENR-SECAL's institutional strengthening work, particularly in bringing LGUs and organized communities to the
forefront in the development planning and implementation process, has provided important lessons. Nonetheless,
these lessons need to be translated into firm policies and effective mechanisms that would enhance inter-agency
and multi-sectoral coordination at all levels of governance, including coordination between financing
organizations.
Operational constraints to effective implementation of development programs (e.g., complementation across
programs/projects, adequacy and timing of counterpart resources, time-consuming and complex procurement
procedures, ambiguity in policy interpretation at different levels of the bureaucracy) need to be effectively
addressed.
Evaluation of World Bank Performance
The congruence of historical developments, both intemationally and domestically, that led to the situation of the
country at the time of project appraisal, was adequately considered. The poverty-environment nexus was fully
recognized and influenced the design of the ENR-SECAL program.
Supervision by Bank staff was adequate and effective; diagnosis of implementation constraints, conducted jointly
by Bank and project staff, were timely and provided a forum for frank and fruitful dialogues between the Bank and
the GOP.
The periodic interaction of Bank staff with the stakeholders/implementers on the ground enriched the perspectives
of the latter, particularly in disabusing their minds that development assistance loans incurred by government are,
as far as they are concemed, effectively 'grants' or dole-outs. Conversely, Bank staff have been receptive to
feedback from the stakeholders, and have positively responded by taking these into consideration in their
assessments of project performance.
This is a summary of the Main Report, copies of which can be obtained from the implementing agency, DENR, Philippines.
Annex 8, Table I is the matrix of reforms committed to by GOP at project design. This was updated in 1998 (and presented in
Annex 8, Table 2) after an assessment done by the WB supervision team and DENR.
This Project Completion Report does not include the performance of CPPAP which is ongoing implementation. References to
CPPAP performance are for information only.
Weighted performance consists of the ratio of 8-year physical accomplishment to physical target in each of the implementing
activities, weighted by the corresponding ratio of financial resources allocated to each activity viz. the program-wide allocation.
For example, the Upland Field School (UFS) concept implemented in Mindanao was found very effective.
- 53 -



