GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
1(309T
Republic of the Philippines
Conservation of Priority Protected Areas Project
Project Document
April 1994
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United NationsDevelopmentProgramme,the United NationsEnvironmentProgramme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band  provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Document of
The World, Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11309-PH
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
EAST ASIA & PACIFIC COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON PROPOSED GRANTS
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AMOUNTS EQUIVALENT TO SDR 2.0 MILLION (US$2.9 MILLION) TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
SDR 12.1 MILLION (US$17.1 MILLION) TO THE
NGOS FOR INTEGRATED PROTECTED AREAS, INC.
FOR A
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
PART I:  MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
April 15, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eauivalents
(As of March 1994)
US$1.00 = P28
P1.0 = US$0.036
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
asl                Above Sea Level
CVRP               Central Visayas Regional Project
DENR               Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF                Department of Finance
EIAs               Environmental Impact Assessments
GEF                Global Environment Facility
GET                Global Environment Trust Fund
GOP                Government of the Philippines
IPAF               Integrated Protected Areas Fund
LBP                Land Bank of the Philippines
LCB                Local Competitive Bidding
NGO                Nongovernmental Organization
NIPA               NGOs for Integrated Protected Areas, Incorporated
NIPAS              National Integrated Protected Areas System
PAs                Protected Areas
PAMB               Protected Areas Management Board
PAs                Protected Areas Superintendent
PAWB               Protected Areas Wildlife Bureau
SECAL              Sector Adjustment Loan



PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Source of Grant:         Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Recipients:        Republic of the Philippines
NGOs for Integrated Protected Areas, Inc.
Amount:                   SDR 14.16 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
total, of which:
SDR 2.031 million (US$2.87 million equivalent) to
the Republic of the Philippines
SDR 12.129 million (US$17.13 million equivalent) to
the NGOs for Integrated Protected Areas, Inc.
Terms:                   Grant
Obiectives:              The project supports the Government's policies for the
design and development of a protected area system to
conserve  the nation's biodiversity heritage.   The
project would protect ten areas of high biodiversity
value; improve protected area management through
strengthening DENR, incorporating local people into
the management structure, and establishing permanent
funding mechanisms; confirm the tenure of indigenous
cultural communities; and develop sustainable farms of
livelihood consistent with biodiversity protection.
Financing Plan            Local              ForeigTn              Total
uS$  '000 --
Government               2,856                   0               2,856
GET                     15.442               4.558              20.000
TOTAL                  18,298                4,558              22,856
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Povertv Category:         Program of targeted interventions.
Map:                      IBRD 23920R
his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duities. its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without world Bank authorization.






PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
1.        Background.   The Philippines includes,  within its moist tropical
forest, wetlands, and marine environments, an exceptionally rich assemblage of
both terrestrial and marine life forms, specifically about 12,000 plant species
(3,800 endemic), 170,000 species of fauna, including 960 terrestrial vertebrates
(43% endemic), and about 500 species of coral. The present system of protected
areas (PAs), including over 61 national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, or
equivalent reserves, exists mainly on paper, for lack of resources, funds,
personnel and political will.   On the basis of scientific and sociological
studies, a new legal framework for a "National Integrated Protected Areas System"
(NIPAS) has been developed, passed Congress, and signed into law by the
President; the priority areas for biodiversity conservation have been identified,
and preliminary management plans for an initial core of ten priority areas have
been drafted. However, the benefits of biodiversity protection primarily accrue
to the international community as a whole, and the Government is unwilling to
borrow externally at market rates of interest for such conservation activities.
2.        This project supports the Government's policies for the design and
development of a protected area system to conserve the nation's biodiversity
heritage. It is an outgrowth of the recommendations of a World Bank study of
environmental and natural resource management issues in the Philippines completed
in 1989,/1 and a Congressional resolution the same year mandating the Government
to define and develop a National Integrated Protected Areas System. The program
was given high priority in the Government's environmental policy framework, the
"Philippine Strategy for Sustainable Development", which was formally endorsed
by the Cabinet in October 1990. Congress has passed and the President has signed
into law new enabling legislation providing a secure foundation consistent with
international standards for protected area designation and management.
Implementing guidelines for this law, reviewed and found satisfactory by the
Bank, have been issued by the Secretary of the Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (DENR).
3.        On paper,  the NIPAS legislation and implementing guidelines have
already broken new ground by embodying in law principles and approaches which
elsewhere are the subject of recommendations and small-scale demonstrations. The
Global Environment Facility (GEF) operation would provide a full-scale
demonstration that such approaches can be successfully implemented.   These
features include:   (a) selection of PAs based on scientific principles and
studies, and categorization based on an internationally-recognized system; (b)
/1   The Forestry. Fisheries and Agricultural Resource Management (ffarm) Studv
(Report No. 7388-PH, January 17, 1989), later republished as a World Bank Country
Study under the title Philippines Agriculture and Natural Resource Management
Studv.



-2-
requirement that NIPAS sites be managed according to scientifically-based
management plans; (c) decentralization of management authority to the PA level,
with a Management Board composed mainly of community representatives having
direct planning and administrative authority; (d) recognition of tenure rights
of indigenous cultural communities, and inclusion of their representatives on the
Management Board; (e) use of zoning within PAs and buffer zones outside PAs to
provide legal opportunities for sustainable livelihood activities for tenured
residents; (f) legal authorization of a national endowment fund to receive both
PA revenues and external contributions to provide a sustained means of support;
and (g) promotion of an assisting role for NGOs at the national and local levels
in PA management, including their representation on Management Boards and
exercising management powers under contract.
4.        The DENR in collaboration with local non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) and research institutions selected the ten areas for early inclusion in
NIPAS to represent six of the most important bio-geographic zones  (out of a
total of 15 such zones distinguished in the Philippine Islands). The selected
areas constitute a mix of terrestrial, marine and wetland environments with high
endemism; and they include six existing/candidate national parks.   The sites
cover a total of about 1.25 million ha of land, wetland, and water area, of which
terrestrial area is 746,000 ha (Map IBRD 23920).
5.        A team of international and local experts was engaged in October 1990
to develop preliminary management plans for these ten protected areas. The plans
were based on review and analysis of existing bio-physical data and field
collection and analysis of geographic, demographic, socio-economic, legal, and
other data on the areas.   The plans include preliminary delineation (based on
aerial mapping of existing land uses) of the scope and boundaries of the areas
and any buffer zones; and draft designs for conservation and development plans
for each area, which identify monitorable objectives and goals for management of
the PAs.
6.        These preparatory activities were financed by a Japan-World Bank
Technical Assistance Grant, as part of the Bank/IDA Environment and Natural
Resources Sector Adjustment Loan./2 The SECAL has addressed policy issues of
sustainable resource management affecting PAs, particularly the development of
NIPAS enabling legislation and implementing guidelines, but also through
provision of technical assistance for the design of NIPAS.   In addition,  it
contains long-term investment components which strengthen monitoring and
enforcement of logging regulations, and introduces sustainable livelihood
activities among upland dwellers who otherwise would contribute to degradation
/2   LN 3360-PH (US$158 million equivalent) and CR 2277-PH (SDR 50 million) were
approved by the Board on June 25, 1991 and became effective on October 10, 1991.



-3-
of forests. By providing a sound design and legal framework, the SECAL should
help reduce the external threat to PAs. However, the SECAL does not finance the
actual initiation and early operation of the NIPAS, and, in view of the current
Government budgetary crisis, there is a strong likelihood that in the absence of
concessional foreign support, the system would remain unfunded and unimplemented.
7.        Pro-ect Obiectives.  The proposed GEF component would:
*    protect ten areas of high biodiversity value;
*    improve DENR PA management capabilities;
*    incorporate  local  communities  and  NGOs  into  the  PA  management
structure;
*    confirm the tenure of indigenous cultural communities  and long-
established residents of PAs;
' ! establish a permanent funding mechanism for PA management and
development; and
*    develop sustainable forms of livelihood consistent with biodiversity
protection.
The project is a Type 2 project under GET, as substantial global
environmental benefits would be realized.
8.        Proiect DescriDtion.  The GEF operation would support the Government's
efforts to establish a core NIPAS system for ten sites over a seven-year period,
through the financing of the following components:
(a)  site  development  (27%  of  total  cost),  including  provision  of
appropriate levels and quality of staffing and construction of
infrastructure (access roads and trails, offices, housing, visitor
facilities, etc.);
(b) resource management (10%), including establishment of a community-
based and NGO-supported management structure, development of
management plans, mapping and boundary delineation and demarcation,
and habitat restoration;
(c)  socio-economic management  (44%),  directed entirely at  the human
population, including community consultation and training, population
census, registration, and tenure delineation, but especially the
development of non-destructive livelihood projects in buffer zones and
multiple use areas; and
(d)  national coordination, monitoring, and technical assistance  (18%),
providing for NGO-based project coordination; monitoring of project
implementation and trends in biodiversity inventories, and assessment
of management impacts; and technical assistance to individual PAs and
DENR's Protected Areas and Wildlife Bureau.



-4 -
9.        The project addresses past weaknesses of Government administrative
management of the PA system in part by integrating the NGO community into the
management structure.  The Government has designated the "NGO for Integrated
Protected Areas, Inc." (NIPA), a legally-incorporated non-profit Consortium
recently established by twelve national NGOs (including the most important
national umbrella groups for community development and environmental NGOs) to be
the recipient of a GET grant for the purpose of coordinating NGO support
activities, providing technical assistance, monitoring implementation, and
serving as trustee and manager of a Livelihood Fund (described below). Local
"host NGOs" at the PA level would provide training and technical assistance, and
coordinate grass-roots implementation of most activities under the supervision
of each PA Superintendent and Management Board. The formation and designation
of NIPA as lead NGO and grant recipient has been recommended by Government
because the various Philippine NGO networks and their umbrella groups,
represented on the NIPA Board, provide the best framework for the broadest
possible participation by local NGOs; and collectively the Philippine NGOs have
a substantial track record in managing community-based projects for sustainable
development. Although NIPA's Board of Directors would be responsible for
management of NGO participation in the project, and the grant which would finance
this participation, overall coordinative authority for the project would rest in
a Government-appointed joint Government-NGO Steering Committee, and day-to-day
management of the NGO component would be in the hands of a hired, long-term
professional staff.
10.       The project would support  the establishment  of a decentralized,
community-based management structure for individual PAs, based on Protected Area
Management Boards (PAMBs). Preliminary management plans as drafted are regarded
as an advisory input to PAMB, and all project activities at the PA level except
monitoring and evaluation would be subject to PAMB agreement on work programs and
budgets.
11.       To be consistent with decentralized management principles, the general
nature but not all the details of project activities at the PA level have been
specified. Based on a structure which is a hybrid of a rural credit and a social
fund project, GET financial support for development of alternative and
sustainable sources of livelihood for residents or neighbors of all ten PAs would
be managed as a common Livelihood Fund. Proposals for subprojects drawing on
this Fund would be prepared at each PA by host NGOs for approval of each PAMB.
The larger subprojects would require further screening by the NIPA technical
assistance group, and approval by the Governing Board of the Integrated Protected
Areas Fund, composed of government and NGO representatives. Implementation of
livelihood projects would be supervised by PA host NGOs.
12.       Draft  management  plans  already  include   substantial  baseline
information on the PAs, a geographic information system indicating inter alia
current land uses has been established, and monitorable objectives for each PA
have been proposed. Further development of baseline information is among the
initial project activities required by law and financed by the project.
Monitoring will focus on the project's success at arresting habitat degradation.
Full inventories of biodiversity will not be pursued because of expense; however,
a quantitative system for monitoring the direction of change in biodiversity



from, e.g., indicator species will be developed under technical assistance
contract and implemented in each PA by NGO contractors.
13.       Project ImDlementation.  The project would be implemented over seven
years. Overall authority over project implementation rests with the Department
of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) , which has planning, monitoring, and
approval functions at the central government level through the Protected Areas
and Wildlife Bureau (PAWB) and line implementation functions at the regional
level or below. An NGO-based organizational structure, coordinated through NIPA,
with the assistance of a number of community-level NGOs, would provide technical
and management assistance, research, and community development expertise in
support of NIPAS to both the central government and individual PAs.  A joint
project implementation office would be established by PAWB and NIPA, with long-
term staffing, including Project Manager, agreed by PAWE, NIPA and the Bank.
Policy and oversight would be set by a DENR NIPAS Steering Committee which would
add to the above parties representatives of senior management of DENR and the
Department of Interior and Local Government. Criteria and procedures for the
selection of local NGOs have been agreed with the Bank.  These NGOs would be
subject t-o policy direction by the PAMBs and, in day-to-day operations, would be
subject to the authority of the PA Superintendent.   The PAMBs, composed of
representatives of central and local governments, NGOs, religious orders, and
indigenous cultural communities in set proportions, are authorized by law to make
basic management decisions for the individual PAs, and would be given direct
authority to approve small subprojects for financing under the Livelihood Fund.
A Governing Board for the Livelihood Fund, consisting of representatives of
public agencies, environmental NGOs, and indigenous cultural groups, would
approve and oversee major livelihood projects.   Relationships and lines of
authority among these parties are clearly defined by the NIPAS implementing rules
and regulations, memoranda of agreement among parties, and explicit agreements
with the Bank on implementation arrangements.   The project would close on
December 31, 2001.
14.       Experience in past Bank projects (para. 17) has been that Government's
approval, programming, budgeting and disbursement procedures are slow and
inflexible, being especially unreliable at a time of budgetary crisis. Aside
from delaying proj&ct implementation, they force technical assistance contractors
to assume heavy financial risk and charge correspondingly high overhead rates.
These procedures discourage NGOs operating with low overheads and no financial
reserves from participation as contractors in Government-implemented projects.
They also do not afford the flexibility required to operate a social fund with
decentralized decisionmaking mechanisms. Consequently, Government has requested
and it was agreed to direct the financing and overall financial supervision of
(a) NGO participation and (b) the Livelihood Fund through a direct grant to NIPA,
Inc., the disbursement of which would not be subject to normal Government
budgetary and cash release mechanisms./3 NIPA would directly manage disbursement
/3 In order to reimburse operational costs and technical assistance required by
NIPA prior to grant effectiveness in order to become eligible to receive a GET
grant, the GET grant to NIPA would include retroactive financing of such costs
as incurred after December 1, 1993 to a limit of US$100,000 (0.3 percent of the
total grant).



-6-
and replenishments from special accounts held in the Land Bank of the
Philippines. Local NGOs and Land Bank staff would assist NIPA in supervising
disbursements under the livelihood component.   The responsibilities of NIPA,
Government, and the Land Bank are detailed in Annexes C and D and also in
Memoranda of Agreement between NIPA and the Government as well as NIPA and Land
Bank.
15.       Project Sustainability.  Management of the PA system has suffered from
lack of budgetary support in the past, and the adequacy of future budgets
allocated by Congress cannot be fully assured. To provide for sustainability of
management resources, project design includes the following measures, for which
necessary assurances were obtained from Government:   (a) the GET grant would
finance the major non-recurrent costs of PA establishment and development,
including infrastructure, equipment, and the development of surveys and plans;
however, project works would be confined to a scope for which maintenance would
be affordable in the Philippines context; (b) targets for PA staff have been
agreed with Government, which would finance a proportion of incremental costs of
staff build-up reaching 100% by the last year of implementation, and provide an
adequate operational budget;   (c) the NIPAS law and implementing regulations
provide that an endowment fund will be set up, to which all revenues generated
from the IPAS system would accrue, and to which external as well as budgetary
contributions may be made; and (d) livelihood activities, the largest portion of
the project budget, would be placed under the authority of a Governing Board and
the individual PAMBs on conditions which ensure considerable cost recovery to the
endowment fund. This combination of measures would ensure that an endowment is
built up to supplement Government budgetary resources in the post-implementation
period, and that future recurrent costs (estimated at US$0.7 million per annum)
do not become an intolerable burden on the budget. To provide an incentive to
completion of the gazetting process (ideally by mid-1997), disbursements to those
PAs which have not been gazetted will be suspended after total disbursements have
reached the amounts budgeted for the first three years of the project.
16.       Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement.  The Bank has completed
two previous projects dealing with the forestry sector, Watershed Management and
Erosion Control (Ln. 1890-PH) and Central Visayas Regional Project (CVRP; Ln.
2360-PH), and has begun implementation of the Environment and Natural Resources
SECAL (Ln. 3360-PH; Cr. 2277-PH) of which the proposed GEF project is a
component. The first of these suffered from legal prohibitions on livelihood
activities in protected areas such as critical watersheds, hindering efforts to
involve  and benefit  the  local population.   As  the NIPAS  legislation has
authorized such activities, introducing land use zoning as a control mechanism,
the problem should not recur.   Experience in implementing CVRP indicated the
advantages of decentralized administration, direct community participation and
livelihood benefits, and involvement of NGOs, all design features of the proposed
GEF project. The SECAL has made good progress on both policy and investment
components, increasing confidence in DENR's implementation ability. However,
speed and efficiency of implementation have suffered from weak Government
approval and budgetary mechanisms, as well as budgetary stringency, leading
Government and the Bank to jointly propose a strong role for NGOs in
implementation and a direct grant to NIPA as the mechanism for financing NGO
participation and a Livelihood Fund.



-7-
17.       Rationale for GET FundinQ.  The protection of the ten priority sites,
as an initial installment for NIPAS, has clearly established global environmental
benefits. Various parts of the Philippine Islands arose or were separated from
each other during several geological epochs, accounting for the exceptionally
high endemism. Due to extensive logging and subsequent land use conversion, few
sites remain of a condition and size to serve as refuges for the remaining flora
and fauna.   The ten sites proposed for protection under this project were
selected by NGO-led scientific teams to provide representation of different bio-
geographic zones and include examples of terrestrial, marine and wetland
habitats.  The biodiversity value of these sites has been confirmed by field
surveys. Two of the largest and most valuable have not previously been gazetted;
another  is a designated ASEAN Heritage Site.   Most are under  threat of
degradation from illegal loggers, and resident or migrant human populations.
18.       The project is unique in its approach to biodiversity conservation in
several respects: first, it forms part of a hybrid SECAL which has supported
Government's efforts to put in place a suitable policy framework for natural
resource protection and the implementation of an investment program highly
complementary to the NIPAS program.   The latter includes a monitoring and
enforcement program designed to control illegal logging, the main threat to the
PAs; and a program to introduce sustainable livelihood techniques among
populations living on the fringes of the forest.
19.       The project also seeks to reconcile the livelihood interests of local
populations with site protection by developing a decentralized community-based
PA management structure, strongly supported by community-development NGOs. This
management structure would include the recognition of the ancestral domain rights
of indigenous groups resident in the PAs, guaranteeing them tenure and a lead
role in management. As the project concentrates on areas with high populations
of indigenous people, project design meets the requirements of O.D. 4.30 on
Indigenous  Peoples.    Tenure  of existing  non-indigenous  settlers  is also
protected.   Thus,  the carrying out of the project is not expected to cause
resettlement.   The project would also designate a high proportion of GET
financial support for developing non-destructive livelihood activities in buffer
and multiple-use zones, following selection criteria agreed with the Bank. The
project would strengthen the Government's protected area management capabilities
by incorporating national and local NGOs into the project management structure,
phasing in increased Government budgetary and staff support, and establishing
Endowment Funds as sources of enduring post-implementation financial support.
20.       Agreed  Actions.    During  negotiations  on  the  Grant  Agreements,
assurances were obtained from Government as follows:
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)  NIPA Grant Agr-ement. All conditions required for the effective-
ness of the NIPA Grant Agreements would be fulfilled.
(ii) Project Coordination Unit. A Project Coordination Unit would be
established.



-8-
(b) Conditions of Project Implementation:
(i)  Government Staffing.  DENR would, by no later than January 1,
1997, increase its full-time personnel assigned to each project
site to numbers agreed with the Bank.
(ii)  Delineation of Ancestral Domains.  DENR would begin delineation
of ancestral lands no later than April 1, 1995, and DENR would
issue Certificates of Ancestral Land Claims within six months of
the completion of delineation.
(iii)  Conditions and Terms of Livelihood Component.  Funds in support
of livelihood activities would be managed and disbursed as
subgrants or subloans under the authority of the Integrated
Protected Areas Fund Governing Board established by the NIPAS law
and regulations and appointed by the Secretary of DENR.  The
Board would adopt rules, regulations, and subproject selection
guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
(iv)  Joint Project Management Office.  DENR would be responsible for
general oversight, coordination, and monitoring of the project.
It would establish a joint Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with
NIPA, with qualified management and staff, which would be given
the responsibilities and resources, including office facility,
required to undertake day-to-day supervision and coordination of
project implementation.
(v)  Monitoring and Evaluation. A satisfactory monitoring plan would
be submitted to the Bank for review no later than April 1, 1995,
and thereafter implemented.
(vi)  Accounts  and Audits.    Separate  project  accounts  would  be
maintained by Government and audited annually by auditing firms
acceptable to the Bank.  All audits would be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the close of the fiscal year.
(vii)  Appointment of PAMB.  At least five PAMBs would be appointed by
April 1, 1995 and the remaining five by April 1, 1996.
(viii)  Gazetting. Government, following the prescriptions of the NIPAS
Law, would issue a Presidential Proclamation declaring each
project site a PA, and would submit to Congress a bill to enact
such Proclamation.  DENR, assisted by NIPA, would draft, and
PAMBs would approve, a management plan for each site which
conforms to the requirements of the NIPAS Law and also the
policies of the Bank on Indigenous People and Resettlement.
(ix)  Governmaent Guarantees of NIPA. The Government will guarantee the
performance of all the obligations of NIPA and indemnify the Bank
against liabilities arising from either grant agreement.



-9-
(c)  Conditions of Disbursement. Disbursements to those PAs which have not
been gazetted would be suspended after total disbursements have
reached the amounts budgeted for the first three years of the project.
(d)  Conditions of Grant Default.  The rescindment or abrogation of the
Memorandum of Agreement among DENR, DOF and NIPA, or of the NIPAS
legislation, or the dissolution of the Steering Committee, IPAF
Governing Board, NIPA, or any project site designated as a PA, would
each constitute a condition of grant default.
21.       NGO Covenants. During negotiations on the Grant Agreements, assurances
-"-e obtained from NIPA, Inc. as follows:
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) GOP Grant Agreement: All conditions required for the effective-
ness of the GOP Grant Agreement would be fulfilled.
! (ii) NIPA-LBP Memorandum of Agreement. A Memorandum of Agreement
between NIPA and LBP delineating the LBP role would be signed.
(b) Conditions of Proiect ImDlementation:
(i)  Delineation of Ancestral Domains.  NIPA will prepare a time-based
action plan and budget for delineation of ancestral land claims
and farm surveying to begin no later than April 1, 1995.
(ii) Monitoring and Evaluation. A satisfactory monitoring plan would
be submitted to the Bank for review no later than April 1, 1995,
and thereafter implemented.
(iii)  Joint Project Management Office.  NIPA would establish a joint
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with DENR, with qualified
management and staff, and assign it the resources required to
undertake day-to-day supervision and coordination of project
implementation.
(iv) Conditions and Terms of Livelihood Component. NIPA would draft
rules, regulations, subproject selection guidelines, application
procedures and forms, all acceptable to the Bank, for the
approval of and implementation by the IPAF Governing Board, and
would enter into agreements with subgrant and subloan recipients
specifying the latter's obligations.
(v) NIlPA-LBP Memorandum of Agreement. LBP would be entitled to a fee
of 2% on disbursements of subloans or mixed subgrants-subloans,
and 2% on recovery of principal and interest from subloans.
(vi) Management Plans. NIPA would assist in drafting, and cause the
PAMBs to review and approve, a management plan for each site
which conforms to the requirements of the NIPAS Law and also the
policies of the Bank on Indigenous People and Resettlement.



- 10 -
which conforms to the requirements of the NIPAS Law and also the
policies of the Bank on Indigenous People and Resettlement.
(c) Conditions of Disbursement.
(i) Livelihood Fund Rules and Procedures. The rules and procedures
for administration of the Livelihood Fund, as adopted by the IPAF
Governing Board, would be reviewed and accepted by the Bank
(ii) IPAF Governing Board. The IPAF Governing Board would be organized
and appointed.
(iii) Gaz-tting. Disbursements to those PAs which have not been
gazetted would be suspended after total disbursements have
reached 50% of the total grant, that is, the amount budgeted for
approximately the first three years of the project.
(d)  Conditions of Grant Default.   The rescindment or abrogation of the
Memorandum of Agreement among DENR, DOF and NIPA, the Memorandum of
Agreement between NIPA and LBP, or NIPA's Charter, or the bankruptcy
of NIPA, or the repeal of the NIPAS legislation would each constitute
a condition of grant default.
22.       Benefits.  The project would enable the Government to implement its
National Integrated Protected Areas System program on an initial core of ten PAs,
establishing for the first time a sound framework for conservation management
based on legislation and implementing guidelines which recognize and attempt to
reconcile the multiple objectives of biodiversity conservation, sustainable
livelihoods for local populations, and tenure rights of indigenous cultural
communities.    Most  directly,  it  would  protect  ten  sites  of  recognized
international importance, which are now unprotected and subject to degrading
forces.  These sites encompass over 400,000 ha of primary forest, as well as
additional areas of coral reef and wetlands, and constitute the most pristine
habitat remaining for the endemic and endangered species of the Philippines. A
population exceeding 100,000, largely members of indigenous cultural communities
residing in or around these PAs, would benefit from efforts to establish their
land tenure, protect their cultures, provide non-degrading sources of livelihood,
and enlist them in protective activities.
23.       Risks.  Project implementation involves four main risks:  (a) a weak
civil service structure may have difficulty coping with the more innovative
aspects of the project, (b) conflicts among groups within communities may hinder
formation of a local consensus on plans and programs which reconcile economic
growth and biodiversity protection, (c) budgetary stringency may slow
implementation of the project, and (d) the gazetting process may not be
completed. Mitigating these risks, the innovative aspects of the project are all
prescribed by law and administrative regulation, and the project would provide
substantial managerial and technical assistance in implementation to the civil
service through the NGOs. The NIPAS law further alleviates the main source of
social conflict by balancing protection and livelihood concerns and confirming
land tenure, and by providing for the establishment of PAMBs, which can serve as
a mechanism for local conflict resolution. The local NGOs supporting each PA,



through their efforts at enhancement of community dialogue, are the major vehicle
for concensus formation, and the provision of adequate resources for development
of alternative sources of livelihood is also crucial to reducing conflict over
protected resources. The provision of a direct grant to NIPA in support of all
NGO activities and the Livelihood Fund would protect most project activities from
bureaucratic delays. Finally, the Grant Agreements call for cancellation of the
undisbursed portion if clear indications emerge than gazetting of the protected
areas will not be accomplished.
24.       Environmental Assessment. The project has a "B" classification, which
means that no formal environmental assessment is required. The project's primary
objectives focus on environmental protection and should result in stronger
institutional  capabilities.    The NIPAS  law  requires  environmental  impact
assessments  (EIAs) for all infrastructure in PAs.   The ecological research
component of the proposed project can be used to finance EIAs, and the
organization of the PAMBs and the development of management plans provide a
decentralized,  front-line mechanism for review of ElAs.   Finally,  the NIPAS
legislation, implementing rules and regulations, and overall project design are
consist!ent with the operational directive on indigenous peoples.
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 29, 1994



- 12 -
Schedule A
PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan
Estimated Costs:                         Local  Foreign       Total
------- (US$  000) -----
Site Development                      4,004       947      4,952
Resource Management                   1,707       280      1,987
Socio-Economic Management             8,499    1,828    10,327
National Coordination,
Monitoring & TA                      2.413       864      3.277
Total Base Costs                 16,623    3,920    20,543
Physical Contingency              184       145       329
Price Contingency               1.515       AU      1.980
Total Project Cost               18,322    4.531    22.853
Financina Plan:                          Local  Foreign       Total
------- (US$  000) -------
GET                              15,469    4,531    20,000
Government or Bilaterals          2.853         0      2.856
Total                         18.322    4,531    22,853



- 13 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method/1
Items                 LCB        Other/2        Total
1. Works
Government                    0.56         1.41         1.97
(0.56)       (1.41)       (1.97)
NIPA, Inc.                    0.24                      0.24
(0.24)                    (0.24)
2. Goods
Government                    0.22         0.23         0.45
(0.22)      (0.23)        (0.45)
NIPA, Inc.                                 0.20         0.20
(0.20)       (0.20)
3. Consultancies
Government                                 0.14         0.14
(0.14)       (0.14)
NIPA, Inc.
Local NGO TA                              3.52         3.52
(3.52)       (3.52)
Ecological Monitoring                     0.59         0.59
(0.59)      (0.59)
4. Miscellaneous
Government                                 3.16         3.16
(0.31)       (0.31)
NIPA, Inc.
Project Management                        2.57         2.57
(2.57)       (2.57)
Livelihood Fund                          10.01        10.01
(10.01)     (10.01)
Total                 1.02        21.83         22.85
(1.02)     (18.98)       (20.00)
/1 Figures in parentheses show GET financing.
/2 Includes force account works, shopping, salaries of direct NGO
hires, incremental operating costs, and consultancy contracts.



- 14 -
Schedule B
Pace 2 of 2
Disbursements
Amount           I of Expenditures
Categorv                             (USS million)         to be Financed
Grant to GOP
(1)  Civil Works                           1.97                 1001
(2)  Equipment                             0.45                 1001
of foreign and local
(ex-factory) expenditures
and 70% of local
expenditures for other items
(3)  Incre. Operating Cost                 0.31                 l10/a
(4)  Technical Assistance                  0.14                  1009
Subtotal                             2.87
Grant to NIPA. Inc.
(5)  Livelihood Fund                      10.01                 100%
(3) Project Coordination & TA
-National NGO TA                    2.65                  1001
-Local NGO TA                       3.89                  1001
-Ecological Monitoring              0.59                  1001
Subtotal                            17.13
TOTAL                       20.00
/a  Reimbursed on a declining scale:  1994 40%, 1995 30%, 1996-2000
201 until funds in this category are exhausted.
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY       1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
-------------------(US$ million)---------------------
Annual         1.6    3.1    3.2    3.0    2.5    2.5    2.5    1.6
Cumulative    1.6    4.7    7.9   10.9   13.4   15.9   18.4   20.0



- 15 -
Schedule C
PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   39 months, Oct. 1990-February 1994
(b)  Prepared by:                          Government with assistance from
NGO consortium
(c)  Approved by GEF Participants:         June 1991
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:          March 1992
(e)  Negotiations:                         April 1994
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        May 1994
(g) List of Relevant PCRs & PPARs:
Loan No.                    Project                               PCR Date
1890-PH     Watershed Management and Erosion Control           June 24, 1991
2360-PH     Central Visayas Regional Project                   June 23, 1993
The project was prepared by the following team:
Tom Wiens, Principal Agricultural Economist, EAlAN, Task Manager
Colin Rees, Sr. Ecologist, ASTEN
Shelton H. Davis, Sr. Sociologist, ENVAP
Hemanta Mishra, Consultant, Protected Area Management
Ponciano Bennagen, Consultant, Indigenous Peoples
Secretarial Support, Sandra Ginyard
The project was cleared by Pamela Cox, Chief, EA1AN.






Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11309-PH
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
EAST ASIA & PACIFIC COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON PROPOSED GRANTS
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AMOUNTS EQUIVALENT TO SDR 2.0 MILLION (US$2.9 MILLION) TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
SDR 12.1 MILLION (US$17.1 MILLION) TO THE
NGOS FOR INTEGRATED PROTECTED AREAS, INC.
FOR A
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
PART II: TECHNICAL REPORT
April 15, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd lank authorization.






PHILIPPINES
Conservation of Priority Projected Areas
Technical Report
Table of Contents
Paqe
I.    INTRODUCTION      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
II.    BIODIVERSITY.  HABITAT DESTRUCTION & PROTECTED AREAS IN
THE   PHILIPPINES    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  3
A.  Biodiversity in the Philippines  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
B.  Habitat Destruction and Biodiversity Loss  . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
C.  Protected Area System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
D.  Priority Areas for Protection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
E.  Proposed Protection Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
III.   THE   PROJECT    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  16
A.  Summary Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
B.  Detailed Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
C.  Proposed Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
D.  Procurement      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  23
E.  Disbursement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
F.  Accounting,  Reporting and Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                          . .  .              .  .    . . . . . . . 26
V.     NEGOTIATIONS, EFFECTIVENESS.  AND DATED COVENANTS  IN THE
GRANT AGREEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Risks   .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .35
Tables in the Text
Table 2.1:  The Ten Priority Sites  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 3.2:  Project Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Table 3.3:  Procurement Method  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Table 3.4: Disbursement Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Figures in the Text
Charts
Chart 1: Project Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28



Anr.exes
Annex A: Cost Tables
Annex :: _-dicative List of Candidate Priority Sites
Annex: C: Proposed Ccnservation Objectives for Ten Priority Sites
'nne:x  : L__eiihood Fund: Terms and Conditions of GEF Support
Anrnex :: ProjecZ 7piementation Schedule: NGOs for
Integrated Protected Areas, Inc.
Annex F: National Integrated Protected Area System (NIPAS)
Implementing Rules and Regulations



PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
TECHNICAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Philippines includes, within its moist tropical forest, wetlands,
and marine environments, an exceptionally rich assemblage of both terrestrial and
marine life forms. However, these environments receive almost no protection from
degradation, as the present system of protected areas (PAs), including over 61
national parks and wildlife sanctuaries exists mainly on paper, for lack of
resources, funds, personnel and political will.  On the basis of scientific and
sociological studies, a new legal framework for a "National Integrated Protected
Areas System" (NIPAS) has been developed, passed Congress, and signed into law
by the President; implementing rules and regulations issued; the priority areas
for biodiversity conservation have been identified; and preliminary management
plans for an initial core of ten priority areas have been drafted. This project
would initiate full implementation of the NIPAS program by funding the protection
and development of the priority sites.
1.2       The protection of the ten priority sites, as an initial installment
for NIPAS, has clearly established global environmental benefits. Various parts
of the Philippine Islands arose or were separated from each other during several
geological epochs,  accounting for an exceptionally high endemism.   Due to
extensive logging and subsequent land use conversion, few valuable sites remain
of a condition and size to serve as refuges for flora and fauna. The ten sites
proposed for protection under this project are among the few large and relatively
pristine sites, selected by Philippine scientific teams under the leadership of
World Wildlife Fund,  Inc.  (U.S.)  (WWF),  an international non-governmental
organization (NGO), and local NGOs, to provide representation of different bio-
geographic zones -- distinct in their endemic flora and fauna and cultural
associations -- and also to include examples of terrestrial, marine and wetland
habitats (Map IBRD No. 23920). The sites include a total of about 1.5 million
ha of land, wetland, and water area, of which the terrestrial area is 500,OOQ ha.
The biodiversity value of these sites was confirmed by field surveys. All but
two of the sites are at least partially gazetted for protection; another is a
designated ASEAN Heritage Site.
1.3       Preliminary management plans have been completed for these ten areas,
financed by a Japan-World Bank Technical Assistance Grant, as part of the
Bank/IDA Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) ./1
The SECAL is a hybrid which addresses policy issues of sustainable resource
management affecting PAs, and includes technical assistance for the design of
NIPAS and long-term investment components strengthening monitoring and
enforcement of logging regulations, and introducing sustainable livelihood
activities among upland dwellers who otherwise would contribute to degradation
/1   LN3360-PH (US$158 million equivalent) and CR 2277-PH (SDR 50 million) were
approved by the Board on July 30, 1991 and became effective on October 10, 1991.



of forests. The SECAL thus will result in a sound design and legal framework,
and reduce the external threat to PAs. However, the SECAL did not finance the
actual initiation and early operation of the NIPAS, because of the reluctance of
Government to borrow for such purposes at market rates.  In view of the current
Government budgetary crisis, it is likely that, in the absence of support from
the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET), the IPAS system would remain unfunded,
and hence unimplemenced.
1.4       The  Government  has  accorded  high  priority  to  the  design  and
development of a protected area system to conserve the nation's biodiversity
heritage. The approach it has followed emerged from the recommendations of a
World Bank study of environmental and natural resource management issues in the
Philippines completed in 1989,/2 and from the Government's environmental policy
framework and action plan, the "Philippine Strategy for Sustainable Development"
(PSSD), which was formally endorsed by the Cabinet in October 1990. Republic Act
No. 7586 (June 1, 1992) establishing NIPAS, and corresponding implementing Rules
and Regulations issued by the Secretary of the Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (DENR), have already broken new ground by embodying in law
principles and approaches which elsewhere are the subject of recommendations and
small-scale demonstrations.   The Global Environment Facility (GEF) operation
would provide a full-scale demonstration that such approaches can be successfully
implemented.  These features include:  (a) selection of PAs based on scientific
principles and studies, and categorization based on an internationally-recognized
(International Union for the Conservation of Nature) system; (b) requirement that
NIPAS sites be managed according to scientifically-based management plans; (c)
decentralization of management authority to the PA level, with a Management Board
composed mainly of community representatives having direct planning and
administrative authority; (d) recognition of tenure rights of indigenous cultural
communities, and inclusion of their representatives on the Management Board; (e)
use of zoning within PAs and buffer zones outside PAs to provide legal
opportunities for sustainable livelihood activities for tenured residents; (f)
legal authorization of NIPAS endowment funds to receive both PA revenues and
external contributions to provide a sustained means of support; (g) promotion of
an assisting role for NGOs at the national and local levels in PA management,
including their representation on Management Boards and exercising management
powers under contract.
1.5       The project is unique in its approach to dealing with the threat of
degradation or destruction of habitat in the PAs, in several respects: first,
it has the reinforcement of a hybrid sector adjustment operation which has
supported Government's efforts to put in place a suitable policy framework for
natural resource protection and the implementation of an investment program
highly complementary to the NIPAS program. The latter includes a monitoring and
enforcement program designed to control illegal logging, the main threat to the
PAs; and a program to introduce sustainable livelihood techniques among
populations living on the fringes of the forest.
/2   The Forestry. Fisheries and Agricultural Resource Management (ffarm) Study
(Report No. 7388-PH, January 17, 1989), later republished as a World Bank Country
Study under the title Philippines Agriculture and Natural Resource Management
Study.



1.6       Second, the project seeks to reconcile the livelihood interests of
local populations with site protection by developing a decentralized community-
based park management structure, strongly supported by community-development
NGOs; by recognizing the ancestral domain rights of indigenous cultural groups
resident in the PAs, and providing them with a significant role in management;
and by designating a high proportion of GET support for developing non-
destructive  livelihood activities  in buffer and multiple-use  zones.   This
approach fully meets the guidelines of O.D. 4.20 on Indigenous People which
applies to the project as a whole, and thus no separate indigenous peoples' plan
is necessary.   Tenure of existing non-indigenous settlers is also protected.
Thus, carrying out of project activities is not expected to cause resettlement.
1.7       Third, the project would strengthen the Government's protected area
management capabilities by drawing national and local NGOs into the project
management structure in support of the civil service, phasing in increased
Government budgetary and staff support, and establishing an endowment fund as a
source of enduring post-implementation financial support.
II. BIODIVERSITY, HABITAT DESTRUCTION AND PROTECTED AREAS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.   Biodiversity in the Philippin-s
2.1       Although knowledge of Philippine biodiversity is quite incomplete, a
good foundation was laid down in the first half of the century and has been
partially updated by a handful of Philippine biologists. This is summarized in
Table 2.1.   However,  many parts of the country remain underexplored  and
undercollected, particularly the Sierra Madre Mountain Range in Luzon, interior
mountains of Mindanao, limestone forest areas of Samar-Leyte Islands, and the
swamps and marshes of Mindanao./3
2.2       The Philippine forests are among the world's richest in terms of
biodiversity, containing some 8,500 species of flowering plants, 3,800 species
of indigenous trees, 33 species of gymnosperms, 1,035 species of ferns and fern
allies, and 640 species of mosses.  About 3,500 plant species are endemic to the
country. Faunal diversity includes around 270 species of reptiles, 556 species
of birds,  and 210 species of mammals.   The wetlands,  ranging from coastal
mangroves, estuaries and mudflats to high altitude volcanic crater lakes, also
harbors great diversity (aside from the large numbers of migratory waterbirds
which inhabit or feed in them). Coastal wetlands support over two-thirds of fish
species at some point in their life cycle. As transitional zones between land
and water, marshes and lake margins host organisms characteristic of either land
or water as well as those specifically adapted to marshlands, including
amphibians such as crocodiles (e.g., the endangered Crocodylus mindorensis) . The
manarove areas have minimal species diversity and little or no endemism, but are
unique as habitats and important as sources of nutrient enrichment and spawning
grounds for aquatic life.
/3 Three of these areas are represented in four of the ten sites.



-4-
2.3       The marine environment  is part of the Indo-West Pacific Region,
recognized as the world's highest biodiversity area in the marine environment.
The Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia have been called the "coral triangle",
on which the most diverse habitat in the marine tropics is centered.  Over a
third of the 2,200 fish species reported in the Philippines are reef-associated.
Its coral may include between 400-500 species and their associated benthos are
likewise as diverse.
2.4       Endemism and Habitat Uniaueness.   Species unique to a particular
locality, as a percentage of total species found in that locality, is a measure,
of endemism. The high endemism in the Philippines is explained by geological and
biogeographic evidence that Luzon, Mindanao, Mindoro, and Negros-Panay were not
in recent epochs connected to the Asia mainland, although Palawan may have been
connected to Borneo during the Pleistocene. As a result, five large and distinct
faunal regions are defined by these islands, and the Philippines has the highest
percentage of faunal endemism among ASEAN countries.   In addition, the 7,107
islands of the Philippines, subject to varying exposures to shifting tradewinds
and typhoons, possessing mountains of great height, and as a result varying and
peculiar distributions of rainfall, encompass a wide spectrum of ecological
niches and habitat types.
2.5       The major habitat types include:
(a) lowland evergreen forest, from 200-800 meters above sea level
(asl),  dominated by dipterocarp tree species and to a large
extent converted to broad-leaf second growth forest, cogon
(Imierata  cylindrica)   or  talahib   (Saccharum  spontaneum)
grasslands, or croplands following logging and shifting
cultivation;
(b)  pine forests (Pinus kesiva and merkusii) , at 600-1,500 meters asl
or even higher, found in Northern Luzon and Mindoro;
(c) mossy forests at higher elevations, characterized by mosses,
leafy liverworts, filmy ferns, orchids, vines, PodocarDus, oak,
Svmclocos, Tristania, Eugenia, Dacrydium, and Myrica;
(d) coral reef communities and seagrass beds around the islands; and
(e)  brackishwater habitats,  such as mangrove swamps,  nipa  (NiDa
fruticans) swamps, estuaries, mudflats, etc.
Rarer or unique habitat types not previously studied in the Philippines include:
(f) ultra-basic forests;
(g) limestone (Molave) forests;
(g)  sago palm (Metroxylon saqu) forest; and
(h) peat swamp forest.



- 5 -
2.6       The ten sites proposed for GEF project support provide an initial
representation in NIPAS for each of the habitat types listed above (and 10
additional subtypes) .  The covered habitats also provide virtually the only
remaining sanctuaries for each of the endangered species mentioned above.
B. Habitat Destruction and Biodiversity Loss
2.7       Although there have been no systematic studies of biodiversity loss
in the Philippines, all the evidence points to a severe rate of decline in
habitat.   The old-growth dipterocarp forests,  dominated by a multitude of
hardwood species loosely classed as Philippines mahogany, covered about ten
million ha four decades ago, but by the early 1980s the area had fallen to
something over two million ha. A 1987 SPOT satellite land use survey, conducted
as part of a Bank study, found that less than one million hectares remained,
confined mainly to northeastern Luzon (40%), Mindanao (29%) and Palawan (10%).
This area, which has been logged in recent years at rates of 100-200,000 ha per
annum, has recently been brought within an administrative ban on logging in
virgin forests. However, the Government's ability to enforce this ban is still
minimal,  and the pressure due to domestic timber shortage is growing.   The
remaining forest area -- some 3-4 million ha of logged-over and disturbed and/or
second-growth forests, under threat from shifting cultivators and small-scale
illegal logging -- may also not last until the end of the century.
2.8       The coastal zone has also been continuously subject to destructive
pressures due to physical and chemical damage to coral reefs, disruption of ocean
habitat through bottom trawling, clearing of mangroves for firewood and fishpond
conversion, and pollution of freshwater lakes, swamps, rivers, and coastal
waters. Approximately 450,000 ha of mangrove were thought to exist in 1918,
which had dwindled to around 200,000 ha in 1980 and 149,000 ha in 1987-88.
Almost no old-growth mangrove can be found today (about 10,000 ha have been
identified in Palawan and Zamboanga del Sur). A 1976-81 underwater survey of
Philippine reefs at 600 sites found that coral at about one-third of the sites
was in "poor" condition (0-25% cover), 40% "fair" (25-50% cover), and under 6%
"excellent" (75-100% cover). The better sites tend to be remote or along less
populated coastlines.   Where fishing pressure is high, reef degradation is
associated with dynamite blast fishing, cyanide use, and other destructive
practices.
2.9       As  indications  of  the  consequences  of  habitat  destruction  for
biodiversity, it is estimated that about 60% of endemic Philippine flora are now
extinct, and some 18 species of mammals, birds, and reptiles are on the list of
endangered species.   Two endemic species of particular symbolic importance
(featured on Philippine stamps and coinage) are on the verge of extinction -- the
tamaraw (Bubalus minorensis) and the Philippine eagle (PithecoDhaQa leffervi).
In the marine environment, five Tridacna species and two Hipocvus species have
been included in Appendix II of CITES.   The dugong DuQone duqon is likewise
endangered from intensive hunting and habitat destruction, as are marine turtles
(Chelonia mvdas and Eretmochelvs imbricata). Although these and other species
have some nominal sanctuaries in the Philippine park system, these parks have
almost all been degraded in varying degrees as a result of human encroachment and
currently stand virtually unprotected.



- 6 -
C. Protected Area System
2.10      The  foundations  for  the  existing  national  park  system  of  the
Philippines were laid in 1932 in Legislative Act No. 3915 ("An Act for the
Establishment of National Parks Declaring Such as Game Refuge and Other
Purposes").   This law allowed reservation of national parks for aesthetic,
historical and scientific reasons, but gave only one specific objective -- the
protection of wildlife, and did not distinguish between "national parks" and
"game refuges"  (i.e., wildlife sanctuaries)>  The act permitted tree cutting.
under certain conditions.  The implementing rules and regulations, issued two
years later as Forestry Administrative Order 7, were amended in 1947 to allow,
inter alia, logging and establishment of sawmills. Due partly to the ambivalent
and  vague  conservation  objectives  in  the  original  enactment,  subsequent
establishment and preservation of PAs was haphazard.   In general,  the pre-
eminence of commercial logging pushed the administration of parks and wildlife
to insignificant corners of the forestry bureaucracy, and the lack of active
field presence of park management or governmental commitment to conservation in
practice relegated the parks to the commons. As the demand for land increased,
the encroachment of settlers in the protected areas became a major problem. As
commercial logging of production forests progressed, so also did illegal logging
inside protected areas proliferate.
2.11       A 1983 official study of the legislative status of the national park
system also found that:  (a) out of the 62 national parks gazetted since 1910,
only 45 were theoretically at least partially under DENR jurisdiction, two had
been lost to reclassification, another reclaimed and no longer physically in
existence, and 14 scattered among other government agencies; (b) park boundary
amendments in 1910-82 had resulted in the loss of 29,000 ha of national park
lands;  (c)   the administration of national parks had undergone five major
institutional changes; (d) overlapping and inconsistent legislation affected
14 national parks; and (e) the parks had been subjected to agriculture,
reclamation, land subdivision, logging, and mining.
2.12      The major issues in protected area management in the Philippines are
described below:
2.13      Low Standards of Protection.   None of the sites of existing or
potential national parks in the Philippines can yet meet the standards of the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature and National Resources (IUCN),
as all areas of biological importance and adequate size (more than 10,000 ha)
have human settlements within their boundaries, lack even minimal visitor
facilities, and are subject to conflicting land uses.   There are, however, a
number of sites which, with careful boundary definition and proper development
and management, could eventually reach IUCN standards.
2.14      Poor Administration and Management.    While DENR  is the primary
institutional agent of the government for the protected areas, other agencies
(National Power Corporation, National Irrigation Authority, Philippines National
Oil Corporation, Departments of Tourism and Agriculture, University of the
Philippines) have jurisdiction over some parks. Within DENR, the Protected Areas
and Wildlife Bureau (PAWB) has primarily provided staff services to the central



office of DENR, while direct management of PAs has been devolved to the regional
offices of DENR.  Of 548 personnel supposedly working in the protected area
management at the regional level, only half are actually in the parks. There
are, on average, only four employees per park, mostly untrained park wardens with
minimal authority and budgets.
2.15      Minimal Public Expenditures.  The total national budget for !990 for
field activities :n protected areas and wildlife management was US$574,000,
almost all salaries and benefits of the above personnel; and the total budget for
PAWB was US$826,000.   There was no explicit allotment for development and
maintenance of the protected areas.   In view of the prevailing budgetary
situation, it is unlikely that significant incremental budgetary resources can
be made available for PAs within the next two years.   The Government has
therefore found it necessary to seek external support for the development and
maintenance of some protected areas with high conservation values from sources
such as the GET, debt-for-nature swaps, international NGOs, and various bilateral
and multilateral sources of grant assistance.
2.16      Inadeauate Human Resources.   The critical shortage in this area is
indicated by the fact that, even within PAWB, there is only one individual with
Master's level training in protected area management, one Doctorate in wildlife
ecology, and two Masters in forestry with majors in wildlife management. Most
of the technical personnel of PAWB and the regional offices have bachelor degrees
in forestry and the biological sciences. This is due to the absence of suitable
specialized academic programs in the Philippines: the forestry curriculum has
emphasized forest production and utilization, due to the lack of career
opportunities in the past in protected area management.
2.17      Land Claims of IndiQenous Cultural Commiunities (ICCs). The areas of
the Philippines where biodiversity remains most intact are usually relatively
remote, difficult of access, and forbidding to human occupancy. As such, these
areas have often become the last refuges of indigenous cultural communities --
populations distinct in culture and/or race from the dominant lowland population,
which has historically expanded its areas of control and exploitation to cover
virtually all of the better agricultural lands. This expansion has been abetted
by nationalization of all land not under titles during the colonial period,
leaving ICCs with only customary rights which are now recognized by the
Constitution but not yet clarified by law or administrative procedure. Many of
the areas gazetted as national parks lie within territories traditionally
occupied by ICCs, and claimed by them as "ancestral domains." In many of these
areas there is ongoing conflict between immigrant settlers who have attempted to
establish land claims through swidden cultivation on land which was both ICC
ancestral domain and gazetted as national park.
2.18      The ICCs vary in their means of livelihood from hunting and gathering
to intensive,  settled cultivation.   In general,  those occupying "pristine"
wilderness areas have in the past pursued sustainable livelihoods compatible with
the maintenance of biodiversity. Indeed, so-called "pristine" areas have been
shaped by such human occupancy over centuries.   ICC occupation and use is
therefore compatible with protection and conservation except where traditional
approaches to livelihood have been radically disturbed by external influences
(e.g., employment in illegal logging or commercial-scale gathering).  At the same



-8-
time, ICC leadership is supportive of government programs to further principles
of protection and conservation, although only if this is accompanied by
recognition of their ancestral domain rights and preservation of traditional
livelihood rights.
2.19      The  ICCs,  through  their  leadership  organizations  and  various
supportive NGOs, have sought public and legal recognition of their ancestral
domain rights, i.e., collective ownership rights of territory traditionally
occupied. Their case finds legal backing in an early Supreme Court ruling that
land occupied "from time immemorial" by ICCs was excluded from nationalization
as "unoccupied" land, and ICC ancestral domain rights are also recognized by the
1987 Constitution. These rights have not been observed in practice, and land
claimed by ICCs has been treated as public land, subject to government
management.   The previous administration was sympathetic to ICC claims, and
supported draft legislation which would have established a mechanism to settle
these claims.   The legislation however did not pass both houses of Congress
during the last session, and in the interim, DENR established procedures for
delineating ancestral domain claims pending their recognition by law. DENR also
developed collective tenure instruments, not prejudicial to ICC land claims,
which were used to turn over management rights for some forests to ICCs.
2.20      Encroachment  by Micratinc Population.    Shortage  of arable  land,
unchecked population growth, and economic distress have been forces contributing
to a migration from the lowlands to upland areas where access has been opened by
creation of logging roads and land clearing has been facilitated by prior
logging.   Migrants have typically settled and farmed on public forest land
bordering the protected areas, and, in the absence of proper boundary markers
or active patrolling, have expanded their cultivation into the PAs. Similarly,
loggers and their families have turned to illegal logging or cultivation as means
of livelihood when forest logging concessions were cancelled. In such areas,
there may be a high degree of complicity among local government, the military,
and insurgents in promoting or protecting environmentally destructive activities.
Furthermore, the population of non-ICCs occupying land within or surrounding the
PAs now greatly exceeds the ICC population.
2.21      In the past, it has proven extremely difficult to evict or resettle
well-established encroaching populations in the Philippines, particularly where
the encroached area was no longer forested and not effectively protected. In a
society where Torrens titles are held by only a tiny fraction of land occupants,
evidence of long-term occupancy and improvements may be accepted by local courts
as sufficient proof of tenure rights. It has also been difficult to prevent or
control extractive uses of forests and coastal waters, when alternative forms of
livelihood for impoverished populations could not be provided. However, non-ICC
communities also recognize the negative consequences of resource degradation, and
can be persuaded to abandon such practices, given assistance in pursuing non-
destructive, alternative sources of livelihood.
2.22      Role  of  NGOs.    During  the  last  few  years,  a  few  indigenous
environmental NGOs have taken steps to protect and study some of the PAs.  These
include the Haribon Foundation, Tubbataha Foundation, Bicol National Park
Foundation, and Nature's Crusaders, all active in protection and community-based
resource management. Recently Conservation International and the International



-9-
Council for Bird Preservation have supported research activities. These NGOs
have raised about US$500,000 from abroad to support their activities.   World
Wildlife Fund (U.S.) initiated a debt-for-nature swap in the Philippines, raising
over rTS$2 million equivalent in support of particular national parks, training,
research, and NGO activities, and assisted USAID in extending this concept to set
up a Fund for the Philippine Environment with an endowment of over US$ 10
million.
2.23      In addition, at the local level, a far larger number of NGOs are
engaged in small-scale, community development activities within or on the fringes
of national parks.   Although some of these NGOs have limited objectives and
pursue a narrow range of activities, a number share a broad focus on rural
economic development and poverty alleviation, and have the management expertise
and flexibility to expand their activities by hiring additional staff in
proportion to available external support. NGOs have more skill and experience
in working with local communities than government staff in DENR.   Hence a
partnership of government, NGOs, and local community organizations is more likely
to succeed in implementing a biodiversity conservation program.
D. Priority Areas for Protection
2.24      With support from a Japan-World Bank Technical Assistance Grant, a
consortium of NGOsL4 carried out an 18-month study in 1990-92 to design a
National Integrated Protected Area System (NIPAS) and identify priority areas for
inclusion in that system. For ten areas identified as having highest priority
for inclusion, preliminary management plans were also drafted, as an input to the
preparation of this project.
2.25      One starting point for these studies was a division of the Philippine
Islands into 15 bio-geographic zones (recognized by IUCN), as shown in the map
(IBRD  23920).   These  are  comprised of  five  fairly  large  faunal  regions
(identified on the basis of Pleistocene geology); subzones thereof based on
climate, lithology, topography, and floral composition; and three small-island
chains isolated by very deep waters. An official objective of DENR was to insure
that NIPAS contained at minimum one PA for each bio-geographic area.   An
"indicative list" of 342 candidate sites was also compiled, consisting of a list
of existing national parks, game refuges, and wildlife sanctuaries; sites
recommended by a 1988 Haribon Society-WWF Project; and sites proposed as wetland
protected areas by the Asian Wetland Bureau and U.P. Marine Science Institute.
This list provided potential candidates from each of the bio-geographic zones;
however, some zones offered few remaining viable sites.
/4  Overall coordination provided by WWF (U.S.), U.P. Science Foundation (College
of Science, U.P. Diliman), and Foundation for Sustainable Development, Inc., with
subcontracts to other NGOs, viz. the Philippine National Museum, U.P. Marine
Science Institute, Asian Wetland Bureau, Computer Literacy Center, Economic
Development Foundation, Forestry Development Center, and consultancies in legal
studies and boundary delineation groups.



- 10 -
2.26      To eliminate highly degraded sites and those with little conservation
value, the indicative list was reduced to around 62 (Annex B) in a process
combining  (in sequence)  studies  of previous  reports,  aerial  photographic
coverage, and satellite imagery; workshops involving the project team, DENR, and
NGOs; direct field verification by the survey team or field offices of DENR; and
a concluding/synthesizing workshop.
2.27      Pending detailed surveys, all 62 sites remain potential candidates for
inclusion in NIPAS. However, two groups of ten sites were further identified as
first and second priority selections for near-term inclusion and support from
external sources./5 The considerations in selecting the priority sites included:
(a) desire to represent as many distinct biogeographic zones as
possible;
(b) desire to include in the initial groups of sites terrestrial,
wetland, marine, and mixed ecosystems;
(c)  conservation  values  of  various  sites,  including  endemism,
biodiversity, endangered species, remaining pristine habitats,
size, uniqueness, and scenic values;
(d) size considerations -- a target of 30,000 ha for terrestrial
parks, and an ideal size of 100,000 ha in the broader bio-
geographical regions; and
(e) practical considerations, such as preference for sites already
gazetted (to minimize legal and political difficulties and cost
of land acquisition), not highly degraded, and relatively secure.
2.28      The decision on highest priority sites was not difficult.  Although
choice of marine and wetland sites required evaluation of several alternatives,
there are only about five sites of sufficient size, endemism, and relatively
undisturbed conditions available to reflect the five major faunal regions
(including Palawan, which is already represented by the St. Paul site).  One
important site -- Mt. Iglit-Baco in Mindoro -- was designated among the top ten
sites,  for expansion  into a Mangyan Heritage NP.   However,  in community
consultations, the resident ICCs expressed a desire to remain outside the legal
framework of NIPAS and instead press their ancestral domain claims.
Simultaneously, the end of U.S. military occupation of the Subic Military
Reservation made available an exceptional tract of virgin forest contiguous to
the Bataan National Park, and the local ICC proved enthusiastic about NIPAS
participation. Consequently, a combination of Bataan NP (itself among the short
list of twenty sites) and Subic Forest was accepted to replace the Mangyan
Heritage NP for priority support.
/5 An additional site, St. Paul Subterranean River National Park (3,901 ha in
Palawan), was treated as a special case, as it has already received substantial
assistance under a WWF-sponsored debt-for-nature swap.



- 11 -
2.29      The ten priority PAs (Table 2.1) cover three of the five major faunal
regions, seven biogeographic zones, and about 1 million ha, of which 500,000 ha
of land area are included.  This may be compared with the present 715,000 ha
total area of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries (not including Palawan).
The selected sites cover the entire latitudinal and altitudinal range of the
Philippines. The features and conservation objectives served by protection of
these sites are summarized in Annex C.
2.30      Three sites have been previously gazetted as national parks or game
refuges (Mts. Kitanglad and Apo; Bataan National Park) . Apo Reef was designatedf
a Marine Park and Tourist Zone in 1980. The Northern Sierra Madre Nature Park
is currently managed as a protected area./6  The forested areas of the Subic
Military Reservation (3,500 ha), which would be incorporated into the Bataan NP,
have been de facto protected during U.S. military occupation. One of six islands
within the propfsed Turtle Island Nature Park is presently legally protected as
a marine turtle sanctuary. Mt. Apo is additionally included in the 1982 United
Nations List of National Park and Equivalent Reserves, and in 1984 was named by
the Association of South East Asian Nations as an ASEAN Heritage Site.  Siargao
Island is a declared wilderness area and mangrove swamp forest reserve, but is
otherwise not formally protected. With the exception of the Batanes Islands and
small parts of the No. Sierra Madre site, the remaining terrestrial areas are
classified as public forest land. Acquisition of new land is therefore not a
major issue.
E. Proposed Protection Strategy
2.31      The  overall  protection  strategy  is  (a)  to develop  a new  legal
framework for the Philippine protected areas system (in the form of NIPAS
enabling legislation and implementing rules and regulations); (b) gradually bring
within the scope of NIPAS (through gazetting) those priority parts of (or
additions to) the existing protected areas system for which staffing, financial
resources, and prior management planning are sufficient to facilitate genuine
protection; and (c)  implement a PA protection and development program which
elicits the fullest cooperation of population resident in or around the protected
areas.  The first element of this strategy was developed as part of the IBRD/IDA
Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Program, and has been
achieved as a condition of tranche release for the policy component of the SECAL
(para. 1.3) prior to the presentation of this report to the Regional Vice
President.  The two remaining elements are to be pursued under the GET-supported
investment component of the SECAL.
2.32      NIPAS Legislation and Implementing Guidelines.   The NIPAS enabling
legislation, Republic Act No. 7586, which passed Congress in February 1992 and
was signed by the President in June 1992, was designed to remedy the deficiencies
/6 Under Executive Order and Letter of Instruction 917-A dated September 1979;
which, however, covers all forest lands within a 45-km radius of Palanan Point
in Palanan, Isabela.  This area includes three towns, and the shape does not
correspond to natural features, hence boundaries would need redefinition.



Table 2.1 The Ten Priority Sites
BIOGEOGRAPHIC            NAKE OF                CATEGORY          LAND     WATER AREA   TOTAL AREA
ZONES            PROTECTED AREA                               AREA         (HA)             (HA)
(HA)
Batanes           Batanes Protected         Protected               20,323      193,255        213,578
Landscapes and           Landscapes and
Seascapes                Seascapes
Sierra Madre      Northern Sierra Madre    Nature Park             240,229       15,716        255,945
Nature Park
Zambales          Bataan Nature Park        Nature Park             27,168             -        27,168
Mindoro           Apo Reef Marine Nature  Nature Park                   29       15,798         15,827
Park
Western Visayas   Mount Canlaon Nature      Nature Park             32,348             -        32,348
Park
Sulu              Turtle Island Marine      Nature Park                392      136,396        136,788
Nature Park
Mindanao          Mount Apo Nature Park   Nature Park               65,476             -        65,476
Mount Kitanglad Nature  Nature Park              31,143             -        31,143
Park
Siargao Wildlife         Wildlife                60,390      101,213        161,603
Sanctuary                Sanctuary
Agusan Marsh Wildlife    Wildlife                22,464       43,342         65,806
Sanctuary                Sanctuary                         (Wetland)
TOTAL                                                              499,962      505,720      1,005,682



- 13 -
of previous legislation, in accordance with the recommendations of the Philippine
Strategy for Sustainable Development, by providing that:
(a)  the existing protected areas be evaluated and reclassified,
employing new classifications embodying management objectives and
in accordance with internationally understood and recognized
criteria/7;
(b)  the power to establish and abrogate protected areas, and alter
their boundaries, be vested in Congress, to prevent the previous,
practice of frequent changes as government administrations
changed;
(c)  adoption of a two-tiered management plan, combining integration
of administration and management at the top and more direct
participation in on-site management by the local community
through the vehicle of a representative management council;
(d)  indigenous and other local communities be included in management,
and the need for community benefits in the form of livelihood be
recognized;
(e)  the de facto tenure of indigenous groups and long-established
settlers be given de lure recognition;
(f)  active management planning in the PAs be implemented, and devices
to facilitate sustained financial support of the system, such as
endowment funds, be authorized;
(g)  the principles of preserving biological diversity and promoting
sustainable development be given balanced recognition; and
(h)  enforcement mechanisms and penalties be strengthened.
2.33      To clarify the legislation and translate  its principles  into a
workable implementation framework, Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) for
the NIPAS legislation (Department Administrative Order No. 25, Series of 1992)
were issued by the Secretary of DENR on June 29, 1992.  The IRR, which were
reviewed and agreed by the Bank (attached as Annex G), give legal backing to the
elements of protection strategy discussed below.
2.34      GazettinQ.  The NIPAS legislation provides that all existing protected
areas are designated initial components of the NIPAS system, but continue to be
governed under previous legislation pending specific gazetting in NIPAS. These
areas are to be documented by maps and legal descriptions within one year, and
protected in the interim. Within three years, following appropriate studies, the
Secretary of DENR must recommend to the President which of the initial areas
should be  included or excluded  from the NIPAS.    The  President,  through
/7 Essentially those proposed by the International Union for the Conservation
of Nature (IUCN).



- 14 -
proclamation, will then designate the recommended areas as protected areas,
pending formal Congressional   gazetting or de-gazetting.  De-gazetted areas
revert to the category of public forest unless otherwise classified by Congress.
Gazetting of the initial components of NIPAS by Congress thus would mark the
completion of a transition from the prior legislative framework to full
implementation of NIPAS legislation.
2.35      Implementation Strategy. The key elements of implementation strategy,
as applied in the GEF component design, include the following:
(a)  Larger and improved PA staff (government and NGO):  numbers of
staff involved in protection and administration at the PA level
should be increased, with staff selection to favor junior and/or
better  quality  staff,  reinforced  by  an  intensive  training
program;
(b)  Reliable, if small, Government budget:  the annual Government
budget should provide for basic operations costs commensurate
with the scale of the work program in each PA;
(b)  Zmployment of local residents:  staffing would give preference
to local residents, especially members of indigenous communities,
to build an increasing community stake in resource protection and
provide livelihood opportunities;
(c) Management Boards with adequate representation of local groups
and  substantial  management  powers:    selection  of  the  PA
Management Board (PAMB) would be the culmination of community
organizing and educational activities.   The members would be
nominated by and represent various local constituencies,
including local governments, NGOs, and tribal communities. The
PAMB would be given primary management responsibility for the
PAs, subject to review by the Secretary of DENR.
(d) Management plans subject to Management Board approval: Although
project staff or consultants might draft a Management Plan, the
final management plan and subsequent revisions would have to be
approved by the PAMB, with adequate representation of ICCs on
PAMB and direct consultation with ICCs where management decisions
may infringe on ancestral domain rights (management planning thus
would be fully consistent with Bank Operation Directive 4.20);
(e)  Sustainable financing for PAs:  as a supplement to budgetary
resources and provision for long-term PA development, an
Integrated Protected Areas Fund (IPAF) should be established as
an endowment for the support of PAs (collectively and
individually) which would accept external funds (donor and
private contributions, debt-for-nature swaps, etc.) and retain
earnings from PA fees and shares of revenues based on PA
resources, such as eco-tourism;



- 15 -
(f)  Up-front resolution of tenure and ancestral domain issues:  the
process of population and ethnographic census, land survey and
identification of ancestral domains, and issue of tenure
instruments would be put at the forefront of implementation, to
obtain early public support by local communities and indigenous
cultural groups;
(g) Local resolution of conflicts between livelihood and protection
needs:   with the PAMB having lead responsibility,  and with
oversight by DENR and assistance from NGOs, a zoning and
regulatory approach would be applied within a framework of
negotiations among all parties, to rapidly contain and then phase
out livelihood activities which are incompatible with management
objectives; where PAs overlap with ancestral domains, this
approach would be pursued in close partnership with indigenous
cultural communities;
(h)  External  support  for  alternative,   sustainable  livelihood
development: the quid pro quo required in eliminating incompati-
ble or unsustainable activities is support for alternatives.
These would be proposed as individual subprojects by the PAMB,
prepared with local NGO assistance, and, in the case of large
subprojects, appraised and prioritized centrally, and finally
approved and funded by the IPAF Governing Board. A decentralized
and consultative project selection mechanism requires a flexible
disbursement mechanism based on a "social fund" approach;
(i) External grant support for ecological research: although a small
amount of funds should be reserved for inventorying and monitor-
ing of biodiversity changes, employing mainly local people, a
major project should concentrate its resources on protection, and
seek cofinancing support for biodiversity research;
(j) Parallel Government-NGO project implementation, to reinforce and
strengthen institutions: at both national and local PA levels,
lead or host NGOs should be tasked to share responsibility with
PAWB and local PA administrators respectively for project
implementation. The primary NGO responsibilities should be to
provide technical assistance and project coordination at national
and local levels, while PAWB at the national level and field
staff of DENR at the local level would have primary responsibili-
ty for PA development and rehabilitation planning and implementa-
tion,  patrolling  and  other  protection  activities.    Other
responsibilities would be shared, and a part of donor financial
support for protected area management should be disbursed
directly as a grant to the NGOs to protect against implementation
delays resulting from budgetary problems and bureaucratic
processes; and
(k)  Long-term Ownership and Institution Building.  The duration of
external support should be long enough to leave behind strong



- 16 -
management institutions at all levels, and external financing
should be replaced at project closure with Government budget and
an endowment fund depending on income-generating activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
3.1       The proposed GEF component would provide program support for the
development, conservation and management of resources within ten priority sites
under the Government's new National Integrated Protected Area System (NIPAS)
program, based on already completed draft management plans, enabling legislation,
and implementing guidelines.   It would lay the foundations for a long-term,
efficient program of management and administration of PAs which could be
sustained with a reasonable level of Governmental and external support and
substantial NGO involvement. For the priority sites, the project would support,
over a seven-year period:
(a)  site development (25%), including appropriate levels and quality
of staffing and construction of infrastructure (access roads and
trails, offices, housing, visitor facilities, etc.);
(b)  biodiversity   and   resource   management   (10W),   including
establishment of a community-based and NGO-supported management
structure, development of management plans, mapping and boundary
delineation and demarcation, and habitat restoration;
(c) socio-economic management (49%), including community consultation
and training, population and ethnographic census, registration,
and tenure and ancestral domain delineation, and non-degrading
livelihood projects in buffer zones and multiple use areas; and
(d)  coordination of the national program, monitoring and evaluation
of   component   implementation,   ecological   monitoring   and
inventorying within the ten designated PAs, and NGO-based
technical assistance to individual PAs and DENR' s Protected Areas
and Wildlife Bureau (16%).
B. Detailed Project Description
3.2       Site Develovment (US$ 5.7 million).  This component would reinforce
the currently weak Government presence in the ten priority PAs and establish
programs for protection (through regular patrolling) and the education of
visitors. The Government would provide (US$2.8 million) incremental staff, basic
equipment, operational expenses, construction of on-site housing, offices,
visitor center, watchtowers, etc., and a modest development program to include
access road rehabilitation,  trail construction,  and visitor facilities.   A
commitment was obtained at Negotiations that the Government, by no later than



- 17 -
January 1,1997, would increase its civil service or contract staffing of
individual PAs from present levels of zero to four, to numbers agreed for each
site, ranging from three professionals and three support staff at Apo Reef Marine
Nature Park to 19 professionals and five support staff at Subic-Bataan Protected
Area.   Additional NGO hires  (US$0.55 million)  of local residents including
members of indigenous cultural groups, to be trained as Park Pangers and
reporting to the Superintendent, would bring PA staffing levels within the range
of 11-30 per PA during the implementation period.
3.3       Equipment for each PA would include  (a) motorized vehicles  (Asian
Utility Vehicle and motorcycle) for offsite transport and horses for patrolling
(or boats for marine/wetland sites) ; (b) radio communications equipment; (c)
basic office equipment and furniture; and (d) power generator. O&M costs would
include vehicle fuel and maintenance expenses, horse feed, office supplies,
uniform and travel allowances. PA Superintendent and staff would be expected to
reside on site for extended periods at an administrative and visitor center to
be established in each park, hence a complex consisting of visitor center,
offices, dormitories, and related facilities would be provided, as well as watch
towers or cabins for patrols. Access roads to most sites are extremely poor, and
few trails have been constructed or marked for visitor use, which situation would
be remedied by the project.
3.4       Resource Management (USS 2.2 million).   The component, implemented
almost  entirely by NGOs  (US$2.1 million),  supports  the establishment  and
operations of the Protected Area Management Board and NGO-based support staff,
as well as resource management operations including mapping and boundary
delineation and marking, and restoration of degraded areas within PAs. For PAs
with large resident populations, provision is made for construction (or optional
rental) of a project management center usually sited in the buffer zone
(optionally consolidated with the PA administrative center) and to include
offices, dormitory, and meeting room.  A local NGO/S contracted to coordinate
implementation at each PA would provide support services for the Board, which
would meet as often as once a month initially, as management plans are developed
and approved.   The NGO would also provide technical staff to manage site
restoration  projects,  as  needed./9    Surveying  and  boundary  delineation
(US$143,000) would be contracted out by Government to surveying firms or
accomplished by force account, with assistance from Park Rangers/Foresters.
/8 For the purposes of implementation, local NGO refers to a consortium
consisting of a lead NGO with rural community development objectives and
demonstrated capabilities of managing site development projects (which may be
either a private voluntary organization (PVO) with hired staff or a regionally-
based consultant firm willing to accept not-for-profit overhead rates), and
linked NGOs contracting for implementation of specific activities or at specific
sites.   Candidate NGOs for each PA have been identified,  although further
screening and negotiations would be required to finalize participation.
/9   Material and labor costs of site restoration would be drawn from the pooled
Livelihood Program funds, described below; any restoration projects -- e.g.,
reforestation -- would be prepared and evaluated as with livelihood projects.



- 18 -
3.5       Socio-Economic Management (US$ 11.3 million).   The component would
support NGO-implemented productive activities mainly targeting the local
community (as well as training for PA staff). Qualified staff would be hired by
NGOs to pursue four distinct programs (the project would finance staff,
equipment, materials and operating costs):   (a) Information, Education, and
Communication (IEC) staff would be responsible for both PA staff training and
educational outreach to the local community; (b) Tenure Surveying staff would
survey farm lots and ancestral domains, to enable occupants to qualify for tenure
instruments; (c) Census and Registration would be a one-year program to meet
legal requirements for gazetting by providing information on occupants, as well
as documenting tenure claims; and (d) Livelihood Program staff would be
responsible for community organization and preparation and implementation of
livelihood projects, which would begin in the second year of implementation.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that delineation of the ancestral land
claims of indigenous cultural communities and farm surveying would be programmed
and budgeted for inception no later than April 1, 1995, and that DENR would issue
Certificates of Ancestral Land Claims within six months of the completion of
delineation.
3.6       The majority of funds  (US$ 10.7 million,  including NGO technical
staff) in this component would be administered to generate alternative livelihood
activities for local residents, including indigenous communities, living within
the PA or buffer zone, and, through recovery of subloans or profits on community
enterprises, generate a permanent endowment for each PA [para. 2.35 (h)]. The
NIPAS legislation authorizes the creation of a national Integrated Protected Area
Fund (IPAF), with an appointed Governing Board, to serve as a permanent endowment
fund for the protected areas, receiving revenues generated from PA management as
well as contributions from all sources.  Consistent with this framework, the
project would create a Livelihood Fund (US$10 million) as a disbursement
component to be managed by an NGO (see para. 3.7) under the guidance of the IPAF
Governing Board and disbursed as loans or small grants in support of small
projects    involving    ecotourism    support    facilities,    agroforestry,
mariculture/aquaculture, conservation agriculture, handicrafts, marketing, and
employment-generating infrastructure projects. The IPAF would be established and
its  Governing  Board  appointed  by  Government  during  the  first  year  of
implementation. Detailed proposals for livelihood projects would be prepared by
NGO field staff beginning in the first year of implementation, screened by loan
officers of the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP), and endorsed by PA Management
Boards.   Projects requiring finance in excess of P100,000 would be further
appraised by the national Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and approved by the
IPAF Governing Board. Responsibility for oversight and loan recovery would be
shared between the local host NGO and loan officers of the LBP.   Eligible
projects would have to contribute to the objective of generating non-degrading
sources of livelihood, and be self-sustaining over the long run.   For fully
financially-viable projects, loans on commercial terms would be extended.
Otherwise,  small grants would meet part of the financing requirements.   The
organization and management of the Livelihood Fund (see also paras. 4.5-4.6),
procedures for subproject selection, and terms and conditions of support are
described in Annex D. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that funds in
support of livelihood activities would be managed and disbursed as subgrants or
subloans under the authority of the Integrated Protected Areas Fund Governing



- 19 -
Board established by the NIPAS law and regulations and appointed by the Secretary
of DENR.   NIPA would draft and the Board would adopt rules,  regulations,
subproject selection guidelines, and application procedures and forms, and the
review and acceptance by the Bank of the rules and procedures would be a
condition of disbursement.
3.7       National Coordination, Monitoring and Technical Assistance (US$ 4.2
million). A joint Government-NGO NIPAS Project Coordination Unit (PCU), would
be established in a common office facility to provide overall national
coordination, monitoring, and technical assistance in project implementation,
with mutually-agreed long-term staffing, including a Project Manager responsible
for day-to-day operations. Policy and oversight would be determined by a DENR
NIPAS Steering Committee, which would include representatives of senior
management of DENR as well as PAWB and NGO representatives. The Government would
contribute PAWB administrative staff and support staff (project officer,
accountant, bookkeepers, secretaries/clerks, etc., totalling US$365,000)), and
the remainder (US$2.6 million) would be NGO-implemented.   The Government has
designated as lead NGO the INGO for Integrated Protected Areas, Inc." (NIPA), a
legally-incorporated non-profit Consortium recently established by 12 national
NGOs (including most umbrella groups for community development and environmental
NGOs/l0) for the purpose of managing NGO participation in this project. The
formation and designation of NIPA as lead NGO and grant recipient has been
recommended by Government because the various Philippine NGO networks and their
umbrella groups, represented on the NIPA Board, provide the best framework for
the broadest possible participation by local NGOs; and collectively the
Philippine NGOs have a substantial track record in managing community-based
projects for sustainable development.
3.8       A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) signed by representatives of DENR, the
Department of Finance, and NIPA inter alia designates NIPA as grant recipient,
extends a Government guarantee to the Bank against liabilities arising from
implementation by Government or NIPA, establishes Government's authority to give
guidance to the project, and assures of Government's continuing efforts to
support NIPA's activities in relation to the project. The establishment of a
joint NIPA-PAWB PCU and signing of the NIPA-LBP MOA defining LBP's role (para.
4.6) would be conditions of effectiveness of both grants.   The rescindment,
abrogation, or adverse amendment of the MOA among DENR, DOF and NIPA, the MOA
between NIPA and LBP, NIPA's Charter, or the bankruptcy of NIPA, or the repeal
of the NIPAS legislation, would each constitute conditions of grant default. The
Bank and Government have agreed that the grant to NIPA should include financing
/10 The consortium consists initially of the following non-profit corporations
or foundations: Association of Foundations; Community Extension and Research for
Development; Cooperative Foundation Philippines; Earth Savers Philippines; Green
Forum-Philippines; Haribon Foundation for the Conservation of Natural Resources;
Nature Crusaders of the Philippines Foundation; Philippine Institute for
Alternative Futures; Philippine Foundation for Environmental Concerns; Philippine
Rural Reconstruction Movement; Tribal Communities Association of the Philippines;
and Women's Action Network for Development.



- 20 -
for both the NGO technical assistance and the Livelihood Fund, for the following
reasons:   experience  in ongoing Bank projects has been that Government's
approval, programming, budgeting and disbursement procedures are slow and
inflexible, being especially unreliable at a time of budgetary crisis. Aside
from delaying project implementation, they force technical assistance contractors
to assume heavy financial risk and charge correspondingly high overhead rates.
These procedures discourage NGOs operating with low overheads and no financial
reserves from participation as contractors in Government-implemented projects
(NGOs are limited to 15* fee rates). They also do not afford the flexibility
required to operate a social fund within decentralized decision making
mechanisms.
3.9       Although NIPA's Board of Directors would be responsible for management
of NGO participation in the project, and the grant which would finance this
participation, overall coordinative authority for the project would rest in a
joint Government-NGO Steering Committee. Day-to-day management of the NGO
component would be in the hands of a hired, long-term professional staff,
consisting of local or foreign specialists in the following subject areas, for
varying terms of service: program administration and management, conservation,
park design, resource economics, infrastructure, training/IEC, legal affairs,
community development, indigenous affairs, financial/budgeting, and agribusi-
ness/marketing. The staff would act as advisors to PAWB and would have primary
responsibility for provision of training and assistance to PA field staff and
coordination of all subcontracted field support by other NGOs. Detailed terms
of reference for the national NGO technical assistance are included in Annex E.
In addition to personal services, the component would finance equipment, office
supplies, and operation costs. In order to maximize the transfer of expertise
to PAWB and facilitate Government-NGO coordination, a commitment was obtained
from Government and NIPA at negotiations that the joint PCU would be given
qualified management and staff and the responsibilities and resources, including
an office facility, required to undertake day-to-day supervision and coordination
of project implementation.
3.10      NIPA would draft a monitoring plan for the project, for the approval
of PAWB,  following principles proposed by the Bank  (para. 4.9 below).   A
commitment was obtained at negotiations that a satisfactory monitoring plan will
be submitted to the Bank for review no later than April 1,2995, and thereafter
implemented. Regular reporting on project implementation would be a joint
responsibility of NIPA and PAWB. A pool of funds amounting to US$586,000 would
be managed by NIPA in cooperation with PAWB to finance contractual biodiversity
inventory work, studies assessing the viability, sustainability and ecological
impact of activities within individual PAs, and surveys supporting monitoring and
evaluation of project implementation. Research would be carried out by local
universities and NGOs with methodological guidance by the national PCU and
substantial employment of local residents in implementation. Proposals would be
reviewed by the national PCU and approved by the Director of PAWB. NIPA would
also provide staff to serve as secretariat to the IPAF Governing Board, and would
oversee the activities of other NGOs in supervising implementation of livelihood
subprojects.



- 21 -
C. Proposed Project Costs and Financing
3.11      Estimated project costs,  net of taxes and inclusive of physical
contingencies at 15% of civil works and equipment costs and price contingencies
based on an exchange rate of P28=US$l prevailing in February 1994, and Bank
projections of domestic and international inflation rates, are as follows
(detailed project costs are given in Annex A):
Table 3.1 PROJECT COST SUMMARY
US$ '000              Foreign
Local Foreign   TotalExchange (%)
A. Site Development
PA Establishment               2,939      448   3,386           13%
Basic Infrastructure              245     202      448          45%
PA Development                    821     297   1,118           27%
Sub-Total                     4,004      947   4,952           19%
B. Resource Management
Site Infrastructure                76      75      151           50%
Maps & Boundaries                 131       0      131            0%
Mgmt. Board Operations          1,090     205   1,295            16%
Site Restoration                  411       0      411            0%
Sub-Total                      1,707     280   1,987           14%
C. Socio-Economic Management
Consultation, Training, &
Awareness                       353       0      353            O%
Land Surveys                      136       0      136            0t
Census and Registration            93       0       93            0%
Livelihood Activities           7,917   1,828   9,745            20%
Sub-Total                      8,499   1,828  10,327            18%
D. National Coordination,
Monitoring & TA               2,413     864   3,277            26%
Total Base Cost                  16,623   3,920  20,543            19%
Physical Contingency              184     145      329           44%
Price Contingency               1,515     465   1,980            25%
TOTAL COST                       18,322   4,531  22,853            20%



- 22 -
3.12       Estimated project financing plan is as follows:
Table 3.2 PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(USS '000)
GEF Core    Government or
Program    Other BilateraL Total
Activities      Amount  %    Amount  %  Amount  %   Local Foreign
A. Site Devetopment
PA Establishment      937  25%  2,821 75%  3,757  16%  3,261   497
Basic Infrastructure  564  100%              564   2%   309   255
PA Development       1,407  100%            1,407   6%  1,033   375
B. Resource Management
Site Infrastructure   190  100%              190   1%    95    95
Maps & Boundaries     143  100%              143   1%   143       0
Mgmt. Board Operations  1,440  100%         1,440   6%  1,212   228
Site Restoration      449  100%              449   2%   449       0
C. Socio-Economic Mgt
Consultation, training,
and awareness        387  100%               387   2%   387      0
Land Surveys          149  100%              149   1%   149       0
Census and Registration   102  100%          102   0%   102       0
Livelihood Activities  10,667  100%        10,667  47%  8,533  2,133
D. Ecological Research  586  100%              586   3%   393   194
E. National Coordination,
Monitoring & TA    2.978  99%     32  1%  3.010  13%  2.255   755
Total Disbursement    20,000  88%  2,853 12% 22,853  100% 18,322  4,531
3.13       Financing  for  this project  would be provided by the  GET  (US$20
million)  and the balance by the Government of the Philippines  (GOP).   GOP
contribution would cover, in proportions increasing to 100% over the implementa-
tion period, incremental civil service and contract positions required at each
PA, the PAWB staff for the PCU, and operations costs at the PA level. Additional
sources of grant cofinancing may be identified, especially for NGO activities and
ecological research, although most donor activities will proceed in parallel
taking advantage of the institutional framework supported by the GEF project.
Assuming annual GOP budgetary support is sustained at US$500,000 (covering
salaries and operations cost) after project closure, earnings from PA fees and
licensing revenues as well as recovery of subloans from the Livelihood Fund could
be committed to capital maintenance (about US$200,000), improvements and other
uses.
3.14        In order  to  free project  implementation  from hindrances  due  to
tedious Government approval, programming and budgeting mechanisms which otherwise
discourage NGOs operating with low overheads and no financial reserves from
participation in Government-implemented projects, the Government has requested
that two GET Grant Agreements be concluded: a US$2.87 million grant agreement
with the Ministry of Finance on behalf of DENR and a US$17.13 million grant



- 23 -
agreement with NIPA, Inc. The former would finance such elements as civil works,
equipment, incremental operating costs, and surveying and mapping assistance,
through the normal management mechanisms.   The latter would finance the NGO
project coordination and technical assistance component and the Livelihood Fund.
Special Accounts in U.S. dollars for these two components would be maintained in
the Land Bank of the Philippines. In order to reimburse operational costs and
technical assistance required by NIPA prior to grant effectiveness in order to
become eligible to receive a GET grant, the GET grant to NIPA would include
retroactive financing of such costs as incurred after December 1, 1993 to a limit
of US$100,000 (0.6 percent of the total grant).
3.15      The responsibilities of NIPA would be defined in Schedule 2 of the
Grant Agreement between NIPA and the GET and in Annex E below (see also Section
IV) . All activities of other NGOs in support of the project would be managed and
financed through contracting by NIPA, which would be the authorized signatory of
the LBP Special Account for this purpose. NIPA would also exercise supervision
over uses of project funds by subcontracting NGOs, and would arrange regular
audits of project accounts at each level.   Equipment or capital improvements
provided under the NGO component would be turned over to DENR at project closure.
D. Procurement
3.16      Civil works would be simple, small, dispersed, located in isolated
rural communities, and labor intensive. They would provide employment to labor
from beneficiary communities. Most of the civil works would cost under US$50,000
and are expected to be carried out by force account, mainly by site-level Project
Management Units,  with an estimated total of US$1.4 million.   Civil works
contracts from US$50,000 to US$200,000, with an estimated total of US$800,000,
would be awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for
goods from US$50,000 to US$200,000, with an estimated total of US$220,000, would
be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Any contracts for goods or civil works over US$200,000 (none are expected)
would be procured under international competitive bidding  (ICB) .  Domestic
suppliers would be granted a price preference of 15% or the custom duties and
import taxes, whichever is less, when competing under ICB. Goods valued at less
than US$50,000, up to a total of US$10.5 million, may be purchased through
prudent shopping based on a comparison of at least three price quotations. This
includes small items of equipment and procurement under the small loans and
grants of the Livelihood Activities subcomponent. Incremental operating costs
and project management costs amounting to US$5.7 million would not be suitable
for procurement through tendering or shopping. The first LCB contract for goods
and works, all ICB contracts, and any contract (including consultancies) in
excess of US$100,000 (US$50,000 for individual consultants) will be subject to
prior review. Project works would all be carried out on government-owned land,
and no land acquisition would be financed by the GET grants.
3.17      Contracts  for  project  coordination  and  technical  assistance,
totalling about US$4.3 million would be awarded and carried out in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Subcontracts for field support
to individual protected areas, financed from the grant to NIPA, would be
designated for qualified NGOs, selected for the skills, experience and social



24 -
commitment required to mobilize local communities for participation in protected
area management, manage local alternative livelihood projects, and plan and carry
out a long-term biodiversity conservation program. These are qualities which are
not well-developed in the civil service (paras. 2.22-23) or for-profit consulting
communities. The roles and selection criteria for NGOs are described in Annex E.
3.18       The estimated procurement plan is shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3 PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$ million)
Procurement Method/1
Items                  LCB        Other/2        Total
1. Works
Government                     0.56          1.41        1.97
(0.56)        (1.41)      (1.97)
NGO                            0.24                      0.24
(0.24)                    (0.24)
2. Goods
Government                     0.22          0.23        0.45
(0.22)        (0.23)      (0.45)
NGO                                          0.20        0.20
(0.20)      (0.20)
3. Consultancies
Government                                   0.14         0.14
(0.14)      (0.14)
NGO
Local NGO TA                                3.52        3.52
(3.52)      (3.52)
Ecological Monitoring                       0.59        0.59
(0.59)      (0.59)
4. Miscellaneous
Government                                   3.16        3.16
(0.31)      (0.31)
NGO
Project Management                          2.57        2.57
(2.57)      (2.57)
Livelihood Fund                            10.01       10.01
(10.01)     (10.01)
Total                  1.02         21.83        22.85
(1.02)       (18.98)     (20.00)
/1 Figures in parentheses show GET financing.
/2  Includes force account works, shopping, salaries of direct NGO
hires, incremental operating costs, and consultancy contracts.



- 25 -
E. Disbursement
3.19      Disbursements for all expenditures would be based on full documenta-
tion, except for:  (a) contracts for works and equipment that cost less than
$100,000 equivalent, (b) force account procedures, (c) incremental operating
cost, and (d) grants and loans for livelihood subprojects approved by the IPAF
Governing Board. in such cases disbursements will be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE). Minimum size of withdrawal applications for direct payment
(outside Special Accounts) will be US$50,000 equivalent. Supporting documents
for disbursements based on SOEs would be kept by the project agencies for review
by external auditors and Bank supervision missions.   NIPA would open a US$
Special Account in the Land Bank for the NGO technical assistance component, and
an initial deposit of US$ 700,000 would be made, equivalent to about eight
month's reimbursements for eligible expenditures. Payments for personal services
and operational expenses allowable under the grant would be eligible for
disbursement from this account. An Integrated Protected Areas Fund (IPAF), an
endowment fund for the protected areas system, would be established within six
months of project effectiveness, and a Governing Board appointed, as a condition
of disbursement for the Livelihood Fund (para. 4.8) . NIPA, as trustee, would set
up a US$ Special Account in the Land Bank for the Livelihood Fund, and an initial
deposit of US$ 990,000 equivalent would be made, equivalent to about eight
months' reimbursements for eligible expenditures. Grants or loans for livelihood
subprojects, approved by the IPAF Governing Board and/or PA PAMBs, would be
eligible for disbursement from this account.   The application and feasibility
study for any subproject costing in excess of US$50,000 would be submitted to the
Bank (as Trustee) for review on a "no objection" basis prior to the signing of
the grant or loan agreements. DENR would open a Special Account in the Central
Bank and an initial deposit of US$250,000 would be made, equivalent to about four
month's expenditures. In view of the large number of small expenditures expected
from these components, replenishment would be against SOEs.  The Disbursement
Plan for GET grant funds is as follows:



- 26 -
Table 3.4 DISBURSEMENT PLAN
(US$ '000)
Disbursement
Amount           Percent
Items                (US$)         Financing
Grant to GOP
(1)  Civil Works                    1.97              100%
(2)  Equipment                      0.45           70-100%/a
(3)  Incre. Operating Cost          0.31               10%/b
(4)  Technical Assistance           0.14              100%
Subtotal                       2.87
Grant to NIPA
(5)  Livelihood Fund               10.01              100%
(3) Project Coordination & TA
-National NGO TA             2.65               100%
-Local NGO TA                3.89               100%
-Ecological Monitoring       0.59               100%
Subtotal                      17.13
TOTAL                20.00
/a One hundred percent of foreign and local ex-factory,
70% of other local.
/b Reimbursed on a declining scale: 1994 40%, 1995 30%,
1996-2000 20%, until funds in this category are exhausted.
The project would close on December 31, 2001, and the grant on June 30, 2002.
F. Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
3.20      It was agreed at negotiations that DENR and NIPA would maintain
separate project accounts for their respective portions of the project, which
would be audited annually by firms whose qualifications are acceptable to the
Bank. Separate project accounts would also be maintained by NGOs under contract
to NIPA, and these would also be subject to annual audit by a private firm
acceptable to the Bank. For the Livelihood Fund,a rolling sample audit by a
qualified private auditor, under contract to the NIPA, would be conducted of
subproject accounts at random times and places, and submitted to the Bank to
verify that funds were used for the purpose applied for and uses are adequately
documented. Subprojects where the total approved grant and loan exceeds P100, 000
would be audited annually. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of the fiscal year.  A quarterly report on project
progress and statements on project expenditure, consolidating Government and NGO-
implemented components, would be submitted to the Bank by the PCU.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1       The  project  would  be  implemented  over  seven  years.    Oversight
responsibility for the project rests with the Department of Environment and



- 2 7 -
Natural Resources. The Implementing Rules and Regulations for NIPAS (see Annex
G) give initial authority for policy and program review to a NIPAS Steering
Committee appointed and chaired by the Secretary or his representative and
including as members relevant senior officials within DENR, representatives of
other government agencies, and NGOs. This committee would serve to coordinate
the NIPAS program with other relevant DENR programs and the NGO and Governmental
activities with each other.
4.2       The organizational structure for implementation (Chart 1) seeks to
link bureaucratic and non-governmental institutions, taking best advantage of the
skills of each.   It combines  (a) regular administrative lines of authority
running from central DENR down to the field; (b) a parallel NGO-based organiza-
tional structure providing technical assistance, research, and community
development expertise in support of NIPAS to both the central government and
individual PAs; and (c) Management Boards composed of public and private sector
representatives, at both the central and PA levels, authorized by law to provide
policy guidance, program monitoring, and (at the PA level) basic management
decisions for the NIPAS. The joint NIPA-PAWB Project Coordinating Unit, with a
full-time Project Manager, would provide the day-to-day leadership which
coordinates between administrative authority and supporting NGOs at the national
level; the PAMB and its NGO-based secretariat would provide this coordination at
the PA level.
4.3       Government Administration.   Field operations within DENR have been
regionalized, and the NIPAS management follows this scheme by placing each
individual PA under a resident PA Superintendent, who would report jointly to the
PA Management Board (PAMB) and the DENR Regional Executive Director, assisted by
the Regional Technical Director in charge of the Protected Areas and Wildlife
Division. The Regional Executive or Technical Director would chair the PAMB and
be responsible for enforcing its policies.   Decisions of the PAMB would be
subject to review by the Secretary of DENR, and the Director of PAWB would serve
a staff function in advising the Secretary on all NIPAS matters.   The PAWB
Director would also be responsible for coordination of technical assistance
financed by the grant to government, system-wide planning, and monitoring of the
NIPAS program.
4.4       Management Boards.  Both the individual PAMBs and a Governing Board
for the IPAF would be appointed by the Secretary.  The PAMB's functions provide
the local community with comprehensive management power: it shall (a) decide
matters relating to planning, resource protection and general administration of
the PA; (b) approve proposals, work and action plans, and guidelines for
management as embodied in a Management Plan; (c) demarcate and delineate
protected area boundaries, buffer zones, ancestral domains, and recognize the
rights and privileges of indigenous communities;/11 (d) promote projects on
/11 Chapters VII-VIII of the NIPAS Implementing Regulations (Annex F) describe
the legal framework for tenure in declared protected areas. As all indigenous
groups and immigrants in residence for five years before PA establishment under
NIPAS are entitled to tenure, and as park boundaries may be redefined to exclude
heavily settled areas, project activities will not require resettlement (para
1.6).



Chart 1. Project Organization                          Grant to NIPA
|GEF Disb7urse-ment  |        
NIPAS             Secretary                             rant to
IPAF                                    Steering                                                 overnment
LGoverning Board                            LCommittee  -
A                                                              I r  _  _  a;   |      Dept of Budget &
_ _ _ _ _ _                             A _   _   \//  __ _1   _                        Management/
_________________  __    -  -        j                                 ~~ ~~~DENR
NIPA-PAWB                 DENR
__  _ Landc Bank           Project Coordination        Operations
Livelihood    NGO Special                Unit                     __
Fund        Accounl                                       A
DENR Regional Office
Executive Dir
Universities                                    ____
and Research
Institutions
Protected Area                                Budgetary approvals
Management Board
Funds flow
Supe rntedent               rLine of authority
; Host Nz No~~~~~~~l | ~PA Superintendent|.
|   Rclail   |             P~~~~roject Mgr|    
Financial
Institution
T   Linked NGOs |    | NGO Staff |  | PA Gov't Staff



- 29 -
biodiversity conservation and sustainable development, ensuring that the
Management Plan provides livelihood benefits for local residents; and (e) monitor
and evaluate the effectiveness of local PA government administration and NGO or
private programs. The PAMB has a prescribed membership composition, representing
virtually all involved governmental or non-governmental constituencies, who
nominate its members for confirmation by the Secretary. Its Executive Committee,
selected by the PAMB as a whole, would consist of the Regional Technical Director
as Chairman and three members representing respectively local government units,
NGOs, and indigenous cultural communities. A commitment was obtained at
Negotiations that at least five PAMBs would be appointed by April 1, 1995 and the
remaining five by April 1, 1996.   NIPA would assist in drafting, and cause the
PAMBs to review and approve, a management plan for each site which conforms to
the requirements of the NIPAS Law and also the policies of the Bank on Indigenous
People and Resettlement.
4.5       The  IPAF  Governing  Board will  consist  of  seven  persons,  three
representing government (of which LBP would provide one representative), two
NGOs, and two indigenous cultural communities. Its function would be to manage
and oversee the IPAF, an endowment fund for the NIPAS system (with separate
accounts for each PA). As authorized by law, all revenues of the NIPAS system
(taxes, license fees, fines, contributions, etc.) would accrue to the IPAF rather
than the general revenues. At least three-fourths of revenues generated by each
PA would accrue to accounts on its own behalf, the remainder being distributed
among PAs or otherwise allocated by the Governing Board for the types of support
activities or projects authorized by law. Authority to disburse IPAF funds is
vested jointly in the Governing Board and individual PAMBs, subject to approval
by the Secretary of DENR. Although the project's Livelihood Fund would not be
maintained as an endowment and is not legally equivalent to the IPAF or
necessarily subject to its rules of operation, the IPAF Governing Board would
be appointed to serve concurrently as Governing Board for the Livelihood Fund and
all recovery of subloans or other project income would accrue to the IPAF. NIPA,
which provides a Secretariat to the IPAF Board and serves as trustee for the
Livelihood Fund, would ensure that funds are disbursed for properly approved
projects, are used for the prescribed purposes, and duly repaid. It would also
train and supervise local NGOs in subproject identification, preparation and
implementation.
4.6        Inasmuch as the Livelihood Fund would operate like a rural credit pro-
ject, financing through subgrants and subloans the projects of eligible
beneficiaries (para. 3.6), the involvement in financial management of the Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP), as the premiere rural credit institution, has been
sought. The LBP would serve as depository institution for the NIPA grant; as ex-
officio members of the IPAF Governing Board and individual PAMBs, evaluate
subprojects and beneficiaries; disburse on a wholesale basis to participating
retail financial institutions (RFIs); propose a list of suitable RFIs based on
accreditation criteria agreed with NIPA; recover principal and interest from
RFIs on subloans to credit the accounts of PAMBs and IPAF; and monitor and report
to the IPAF Governing Board on the performance of the RFIs. Eligible RFIs may
include credit cooperatives, cooperative banks, private commercial banks, or non-
profit non-governmental organizations (NGOs) with substantial experience in
management of retail credit.



- 30 -
4.7       As conditions  of disbursement of  the Livelihood Fund, prior  to
submission of an initial disbursement request, the IPAF Governing Board would be
organized and appointed, and the rules and procedures for administration of the
Livelihood Fund would be reviewed and accepted by the Bank. The LBP, in its role
as depository institution and wholesaler of funds, would be entitled to a fee of
2* on disbursements of subloans or mixed subgrants-subloans, and 2* on recovery
of principal and interest from subloans.
4.8        NGO Organizational Structure.  The responsibilities of NGOs in the
project are defined in an Implementation Schedule (Annex D) and would be extended
by cooperative agreement or contract to other participating NGOs. NIPA would
represent the participating NGOs in direct dealings with the Bank, and would bear
direct responsibility for management and supervision of disbursement or
reimbursement of project expenditures by participating NGOs. NIPA would provide
technical assistance to NIPAS and coordination for other NGOs participating in
the project. It would appoint a Project Manager and establish a joint Project
Implementation Unit with, and in support of, PAWB and its operations would be
subject to oversight by the NIPAS Steering Committee of DENR. In addition to
providing long-term technical assistance and management support, it would
identify, screen, and develop contracts with local NGOs, which would provide
assistance to each PA in project management, conservation and protection,
community outreach, and the development of alternative livelihood activities,
under the guidance of PAMB and subject to the authority of the PA Superintendent.
Research support for specific PAs would also be provided by subcontracting with
national and local universities and research institutions.   At each PA, a
subcontracted host NGO will hire a full time project manager, accountant, and
other support staff to coordinate project activities of all site-level NGOs. A
draft terms of reference for site management NGOs is also included in Annex E.
4.9       BudQetarv Approvals  and  Flow of  Funds.    A budgetary  approvals
mechanism would be used to maintain overall governmental authority over project
activities, whether government- or NGO-administered.   Each implementing unit
would prepare an annual work program and budget for consolidation and approval
by the appropriate superior units (Chart 1). The PAMB at each PA would review
and approve the annual consolidated budget and work program for local PA
administration and supporting NGOs. The endorsed NGO program and budget would
be further reviewed by NIPA, the governmental budget by the regional office of
DENR, and activities financed from the national Livelihood Fund by the IPAF
Governing Board. The PCU (NIPA-PAWB) would consolidate work programs and budgets
for overall review and approval by the NIPAS Steering Committee of DENR, and
incorporation of the governmental portion in the national budget for Congressio-
nal appropriation. GET reimbursements to NIPA would be justified on the basis
of inclusion in budget and work programs approved by the NIPAS Steering
Committee, but would not require individual DENR endorsement, in order to
eliminate a common source of delays.
4.10      MonitorinQ and Evaluation.  The primary and secondary objectives of
the project for each PA, as listed in the draft management plans, are summarized
in Annex C.  These objectives, subject to ground truthing and vetting by the
PAMBs as part of their review and approval of management plans and development
of specific work programs, form the overall criteria set for project evaluation.
Development of baseline information on each PA, including socioeconomic data and



- 31 -
resource profiling, is among the initial project activities required by law and
financed by the project.  This will be compiled into a GIS system, developed
during preparation, which already reflects aerial surveys of land use. A repeat
aerial survey of each PA will be conducted in the fourth year of the project to
assess the project's initial success at arresting habitat degradation.   Full
inventories of biodiversity will not be pursued because of expense; however, a
quantitative system for monitoring the direction of change in biodiversity from,
e.g., indicator species will be developed under technical assistance contract and
implemented in each PA by NGO contractors.   Monitoring of routine project
implementation will be pursued at several levels and in parallel, with monitoring
of the project as a whole for impact on people and biodiversity; NIPA monitoring
as well the implementation by their cooperators; Land Bank monitoring financial
status of retail institutions involved in Livelihood Fund delivery; PAWB
monitoring performance of civil servants at the PA level; and DENR viewing
performance in the context of the overall SECAL. NIPA will draft an overall plan
which incorporates these roles, and the Director of PAWB would have general
responsibility for approving the design of the monitoring and evaluation system.
Separate quarterly monitoring reports would be submitted to the Bank by NIPA with
the endorsement of the NIPAS Steering Committee. A mid-term evaluation would be
conducted in the fourth year of the project by independent consultants selected
by the Bank, and decisions made on project structure and work program for the
remaining years of implementation based on its recommendations.
4.11      NIPAS legislation requires that the Secretary of DENR recommend to the
President and the President recommend to Congress on the gazetting of each
individual PA as part of the NIPAS system within a fixed time frame. Should any
of the ten priority PAs not be approved for gazetting, the long-term prospects
for  sustainable  management  would be poor.    Therefore,  it was  agreed  at
negotiations that Government, following the prescriptions of the NIPAS Law, would
issue a Presidential Proclamation declaring each project site a PA, and would
submit to Congress a bill to enact such Proclamation. As conditions of disburse-
ment, disbursements from both Government and NIPA grants to those PAs which have
not been gazetted will be suspended after total disbursements have reached 50%-
of the total grant, that is, the amount budgeted for approximately the first
three years of the project.



- 32 -
V. NEGOTIATIONS, EFFECTIVENESS AND DATED COVENANTS
IN THE GRANT AGREEMENT
Government Covenants
5.1       During negotiations on the Grant Agreements, assurances were obtained
from Government as follows:
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) NIPA Grant Agreement. All conditions required for the effective-
ness of the NIPA Grant Agreements would be fulfilled (para. 3.8);
(ii)  Project Coordination Unit.  A Project Coordination Unit would be
established (para. 3.8);
(b) Conditions of Prolect Implementation:
(i)  Government Staffing.   DENR would, by no later than January 1,
1997, increase its full-time personnel assigned to each project
site to numbers agreed with the Bank (para. 3.2).
(ii)  Delineation of Ancestral Domains.  DENR would begin delineation
of ancestral lands no later than April 1, 1995, and DENR would
issue Certificates of Ancestral Land Claims within six months of
the completion of delineation (para. 3.5).
(iii)  Conditions and Terms of Livelihood Component.  Funds in support
of livelihood activities would be managed and disbursed as
subgrants or subloans under the authority of the Integrated
Protected Areas Fund Governing Board established by the NIPAS law
and regulations and appointed by the Secretary of DENR.   The
Board would adopt rules, regulations, and subproject selection
guidelines acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.6).
(iv)  Joint Project Management Office.  DENR would be responsible for
general oversight, coordination, and monitoring of the project.
It would establish a joint Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with
NIPA, with qualified management and staff, which would be given
the responsibilities and resources, including office facility,
required to undertake day-to-day supervision and coordination of
project implementation (paras. 3.8-3.9).
(v)  Monitoring and Evaluation. A satisfactory monitoring plan would
be submitted to the Bank for review no later than April 1, 1995,
and thereafter implemented (para. 3.10).
(vi)  Accounts  and  Audits.    Separate  project  accounts  would  be
maintained by Government and audited annually by auditing firms
acceptable to the Bank.  All audits would be submitted to the



- 3 3 -
Bank within six months after the close of the fiscal year (para.
3.20).
(vii)  Appointment of PAMBs.  At least five PAMBs would be appointed by
April 1, 1995 and the remaining five by April 1, 1996 (para.
4.4).
(viii)  Gazetting.  Government, following the prescriptions of the NIPAS
Law, would issue a Presidential Proclamation declaring each
project site a PA, and would submit to Congress a bill to enact
such Proclamation.   DENR, assisted by NIPA, would draft, and
PAMBs would approve, a management plan for each site which
conforms to the requirements of the NIPAS Law and also the
policies of the Bank on Indigenous People and Resettlement (para.
4.11).
(ix)  Government Guarantees of NIPA. The Government will guarantee the
performance of all the obligations of NIPA and indemnify the Bank
against liabilities arising from either grant agreement (para.
3.8).
(c)  Conditions of Disbursement. Disbursements to those PAs which have not
been gazetted would be suspended after total disbursements have
reached 5096 of the total grant, that is, the amount budgeted for
approximately the first three years of the project (para. 4.11).
(d)  Conditions of Grant Default.   The rescindment or abrogation of the
Memorandum of Agreement among DENR, DOF and NIPA, or of the NIPAS
legislation, or the dissolution of the Steering Committee, IPAF
Governing Board, NIPA, or any project site designated as a PA, would
each constitute a condition of grant default (para. 3.8).
NGO Covenants
5.2       During negotiations on the Grant Agreements, assurances were obtained
from NIPA, Inc. as follows:
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)  GOP Grant Agreement:  All conditions required for the effective-
ness of the GOP Grant Agreement would be fulfilled (para. 3.8).
(ii) NIPA-LBP Nemorandum of Agreement. A Memorandum of Agreement
between NIPA and LBP delineating the LBP role would be signed
(para. 3.8).
(b) Conditions of Prolect Implementation:



- 34 -
(i)  Delineation of Ancestral Domains.  NIPA will prepare a time-based
action plan and budget for delineation of ancestral land claims
and farm surveying to begin no later than April 1, 1995 (para.
3.5).
(ii)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  A satisfactory monitoring plan would
be submitted to the Bank for review no later than April 1, 1995,
and thereafter implemented (para. 3.10).
(iii)  Joint Project Management Office.  NIPA would establish a joint
Project  Coordination  Unit  (PCU)  with  DENR,  with  qualified
management and staff, and assign it the resources required to
undertake day-to-day supervision and coordination of project
implementation (para. 3.9).
(iv)  Conditions and Terms of Livelihood Component.  NIPA would draft
rules, regulations, subproject selection guidelines, application
procedures and forms, all acceptable to the Bank, for the
approval of and implementation by the IPAF Governing Board, and
would enter into agreements with subgrant and subloan recipients
specifying the latter's obligations (para. 3.6).
(v)  NIPA-LBP Memorandum of Agreement.  LBP would be entitled to a fee
of 2% on disbursements of subloans or mixed subgrants-subloans,
and 2% on recovery of principal and interest from subloans (para.
4.7).
(vi)  Management Plans.  NIPA would assist in drafting, and cause the
PAMBs to review and approve, a management plan for each site
which conforms to the requirements of the NIPAS Law and also the
policies of the Bank on Indigenous People and Resettlement (para.
4.4).
(c) Conditions of Disbursement.
(i)  Livelihood Fund Rules and Procedures. The rules and procedures
for administration of the Livelihood Fund, as adopted by the IPAF
Governing Board, would be reviewed and accepted by the Bank
(para. 3.6).
(ii)  IPAF Governing Board and LBP Role. The IPAF Governing Board would
be organized and appointed (para. 4.7).
(iii)  Gazetting.  Disbursements  to those  PAs  which  have  not  been
gazetted would be suspended after total disbursements have
reached 50% of the total grant, that is, the amount budgeted for
approximately the first three years of the project(para. 4.11).
(d)  Conditions of Grant Default.  The rescindment or abrogation of the
Memorandum of Agreement among DENR, DOF and NIPA, the Memorandum of
Agreement between NIPA and LBP, or NIPA's Charter, or the bankruptcy



- 35 -
of NIPA, or the repeal of the NIPAS legislation would each constitute
a condition of grant default (para. 3.8).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS
6.1       The project would enable the Government to implement its National
Integrated Protected Areas System program on an initial core of ten PAs,
establishing for the first time a sound framework for conservation management
based on legislation and implementing rules and regulations which recognize and
attempt to reconcile the multiple objectives of biodiversity conservation,
sustainable livelihoods for local populations, and tenure rights of indigenous
cultural communities. Most directly, it would protect ten sites of recognized
international importance, which are now unprotected and subject to degrading
forces. These sites encompass over 400,000 ha of primary forest, as well as
additional areas of coral reef and wetlands, and constitute the most pristine
habitat remaining for the endemic and endangered species of the Philippines. A
population exceeding 100,000, largely members of indigenous cultural communities
residing in or around these PAs, would benefit from efforts to establish their
land tenure, protect their cultures, provide non-degrading sources of livelihood,
and enlist them in protective activities.  Although Government is expected to
budget for an appropriate increase in the level of basic staffing and operating
budgets over the life of the project and absorb additional staff following
project closure, the combination of establishment of endowment funds and
financing of sustainable, income-generating livelihood projects (ranging from
tourism to agro-forestry) provides additional assurance that PA management
activity will be sustainable beyond the life of GET financing.
Risks
6.2       Project implementation involves four main risks:  (a) a weak civil
service structure may have difficulty coping with the more innovative aspects of
the project, (b) conflicts among groups within communities may hinder formation
of a local consensus on plans and programs which reconcile economic growth and
biodiversity protection, (c) budgetary stringency may slow implementation of the
project, and (d) the gazetting process may not be completed. Mitigating these
risks, the innovative aspects of the project are all prescribed by law and
administrative regulation, and the project would provide substantial managerial
and technical assistance in implementation to the civil service through the NGOs.
The NIPAS law further alleviates the main source of social conflict by balancing
protection and livelihood concerns and confirming land tenure, and by providing
for the establishment of PAMBs, which can serve as a mechanism for local conflict
resolution.   The local NGOs supporting each PA,  through their efforts at
enhancement of community dialogue, are the major vehicle for concensus formation,
and the provision of adequate resources for development of alternative sources
of livelihood is also crucial to reducing conflict over protected resources. The
provision of a direct grant to NIPA in support of all NGO activities and the
Livelihood Fund would protect most project activities from bureaucratic delays.
Finally, the grant agreement calls for cancellation of the undisbursed portion
if clear indications emerge that gazetting of the protected areas will not be
accomplished (para. 5.ld).



PI IILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF I'RIORI'I'Y PRO'ITECED AREAS
'I'otal Project Costs By Year and Component
(IJSS I   28.0
1994    1 995     1996     1997    1' )8    1999    2000      Local   Forcign   'I'otal    local  Forcign  Tl1al   lFORE
Aclivilies              -------------- Costs by Year (Pesos millions)    -------------------  ------- Pesos niillions --------   ------ USS millions -------    l'ercent
A. Site Development
PAEstablishment               17.57    11.42    13.15    13.17    13.17    13.17    13.17    82.28     12.53    94.81     2.94    0.45     3.39    130/0
Basic Infrastructure           9.33    2.77      0.09     0.09    0.09     0.09      0.09     6.87      5.67    12 54    0.25    0.2()    0.45    45%
PA Development                 1.42    11.80    11.80     3.52     1.10    1.18      0.49    22.97      8.32    31.30    0.82     (.30     1.12    27%
Sub-Total                    28.31    25.98    25.03    16.78    14.36    14.43    13.74    112.12    26.52    138.64    4.00     0.95    495    19%
B. Resource Management
Site Infrastructure            3.96    0.09      0.09     0.02    0.02     0.02      0.02     2.12      2 10     4.22     0.08    0.08     0.15    50%.
Maps& Boundaries               3.66    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     366      (.00      3.66    0.13    0(.00     0.13    0%
Mgmt. 3oard Operations        9.40     5.06      4.78     4.26    4.26     4.26      4.26    30.52      5 75    36.27     1.09    0 21     1 30    16%i6
Site Restoration               0.00     1.92     1.92     1.92     1.92    1.92      1.92    11.49      0.00    11.49     0.41    0.00     0 41    0
Sub-T'otal                   17.02     7.06     6.79     6.19     6.19     6.19     6.19    47.80      7.85    55.65     1 71    0.28      1.99    14%
C. Soclo-Economic Management
Consultation, Tining, &
Awareness                     3.30    3.30      3.30     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     9 90     0.00      9.90     0.35   (00       0.15    0%
Land Surveys                   2.35     1.45     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     3.80     0.00      3.80    0.14    0o00      0 14    0%
Census and Registration        2.60    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     2.60      0.00     2.60     0.09    0 00     0 09     0%O
Livelihood Activities         19.14    28.10    45.25    45.09    45.09    45.09    45.09   221.67     51.19   272.85    792      1.83     9.74    20%
Sub-Total                    27.38    32.85    48.54    45.09    45.09    45.09    45.09   237.96     51.19   289.15     8.50     1.83    10.33    18%.
D. Natioal CoordInation,
Monltoring& TA               12.69    17.40    17.40    12.66    10.54    10.54    10.54    67.57    24.21    91.78     2.41     0.86     3.28    26%
Total Bae Cost                 85.41    83.30    97.77    80.73    76.19    76.26    75.57   465.45    109.77   575.22    16.62    :3.92    20.54    19%/,
Physical Contingency           4.21     2.20     1.80     0.54    0.18     0.19      0.09     5.14     4.07      9.22    0.18     0.15     0.33    44%
PriceContingency              10.44    16.66    26.91    29.14    34.02    41.29    48.54    193.22    13.78   207.01     1 52    0.46     1.98    23%
TOTAL COST                    100.06   102.16    126.48   110.41   110.39   117.75    124.20   663.81    127.63   791.44    18.32  4 53    22.85    20%
tD Xt
:>



Philippines Conservation of Priority Protected Areas Cost Detail                     Annex A
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
Project Budget by Protected Area
(US$ I= 28 )
Category                          Pesos             US$
1    Subic-Bataan Protected Area        38,195,548         1,364,127
2    Katanglad Nature Park               28,109,567        1,003,913
3    Northern Sierra Madre Nature Park   30,873,046        1,102,609
4    Agusan Marsh Wildlife Sanctuary     23,286,913         831,675
5    Mount Apo Nature Park               26,211,503         936,125
6    Mount Canlaon Nature Park           23,330,994         833,250
7    Siargao Wildlife Sanctuary          21,422,815         765,101
8    Batanes Landscapes & Seascapes      18,601,266         664,331
9    Turtle Island Nature Park            9,117,672         325,631
10    Apo Reef Marine Nature Park          8,347,952         298,141
Sub-Total                       227,497,276        8,124,903
Pooled Funds
Livelihood Activities                     255,944,704        9,140,882
Monitoring & Research Funds /a             15,000,000         535,714
National Coordination &
Monitoring, TA Expenditures                76,775,780        2,741,992
Total Base Cost                            575,217,760       20,543,491
Physical Contingency                       9,215,529         329,126
Price Contingency                        207,005,314        1,979,971
TOTAL COST                                 791,438,604       22,852,588
/a Included elsewhere as part of National Coordination, Monitoring,
and TA expenditures



Philippines Conservation of Prority Protected Areas Cost Detail                           Annex A
Table 3
PH[ILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
Project Budget by Implementing Unit (US$ '000) /a
Local      National
Gov't        NGOs           NGO            Total
A. Site Development:
PA Establishment               3,246           511             0          3,757
Basic Infrastructure             564             0             0            564
PA Development                 1,408             0             0           1,408
B. Resource Management:
Site Infrastructure                0           190             0            190
Maps & Boundaries                143             0              0           143
Mgmt. Board Operations             0          1,440             0          1,440
Site Restoration                   0           449             0            449
C. Socio-Economic Management:
Consultation, Training, &
Awareness                         0           387             0            387
Tenure Surveying                 149             0              0           149
Census & Registration              0           102              0           102
D. Livelihood Program (I            0         10,667             0         10,667
E. National Coordination,
Monitoring & TA                 362             0          3,234         3,596
Total Cost /a               5,873         13,746         3,234        22,853
/a Including physical and price contingencies.



PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
Government Budgetary Costs By Year and Category /1
------------------ Costs by Year (Pesos thousands) -------------------                    Total
Activities                  1994        1995         1996         1997         1998        1999         20()0
Civil Works /2              13,821       20,190       17,598         5,735      2,025        2,303        1,120      62,792
GEF Reimbursement           13,821      20,190       17,598         5,735       2,025       2,303        1,120       62,792
Equipment /2                10,475           14          15             0           0            0           0        10,503
GEF Reimbursement          10,475           14          15             0           0            0           0        10,503
Salaries                     9,326       11,487       13,392        14,363      15,400      16,451       17,602      98,018
GEF Reimbursement 3/        3,730        3,446        2,678         2,943          0            0           0        12,797
Operations & Maintenance      1,592       2,026        2,508         2,730       2,927       3,127        3,345       18,255
GEF Reimbursement /3          637         608          502           559           0            0           0         2,306
Technical Assistance         4,091            0           0             0           0            0           0         4,091
GEF Reimnbursement          4,091            0           0             0           0            0           0        4,091
Total               39,304      33,717       33,513        22,828      20,352      21,880       22,067      193,660
/I In current prices, with price contingencies applied pro rata.
/2 Including physical contingencies.
/3 Reimbursed on a declining scale: 1994 40%, 1995 30%, 1996-2000 20%, until loan
funds in this category are exhausted.
o f 
m x
a 4 Vs



N4A133NA1. U38.RI)INAt3(3N, M(3N33(31N(i & IA  9942000                                                                                                                           p         NLK
Peistoogrl     8~~~N. ci Sulea/                                                                                                          1gild . Ioi     l,4.j
Achtwvais                  Seri-.               Pa-sE    Mouth        1994            995           196           1997          1998           1999          21KK0        (Pc-,)       C'a -1  1
Projwc C'ooa&at-o
Irelchul Stal1l
hopei Adumnw1olsulofl5am-u         3    94,500        567,000              0             0             0              0             0              0       567.(XX)      20u250
Pork Limpu Expsrl/Sp-cal.a         I   302.400              0      3,628,800      3,628,8100                                                              7.217.6 000   759200
PI%ojac Manages                    3    94,100       1,13,1000     1,134.000      1.1I34,000    1,134,000     1.114,000      1.1I14,0(XK    1,134,000     7,930000O     2031500)
faucc Eameuewo                     I    94,500       3,334,000       850500        830,500        567,000       5o7,000        567,000       567,000      3.130400      382.1511
tafinmobtiarvSpecsejae             I    7 5,60D                      907,200       907,200       907.200                                                  2,7213600      97.200
Tr.WA/tEC Speaehet                 I    75.600        907,200        907,200       907,200        907,200                                                 3.628,800      129600
Lapi Adv,se                        I    71,600        680.400        907,200       907,200       302,400                                                  2.797,200      99900
C.ammimiy Deve Spacialur           I    75,000        907,200        907,200       907,200        907,200       907,200        907.200       907,200      6,350.400     226800
Fueeecehal/uelpe Spacc.lhr         I    75,600        907,200        907,200       907,200)      907,200        907,200       907,200        907.200      6,350,400     226,800
Awtiaaisttkgt. SpeciaaJaa          I    75,600        907,200        6830,400      680,400        453,600       453600         453.600       453,600      4,082,400      145.800
Supp.gt Staffi m (keAdmoiStae                    2     15,070       363,680        363,680       163i,680       563,680       561,680        161,680       161.680      2,3 11.760     90,420
h7xecnb  veDirclou(0)              I    138000        216,000        236,000       216,000       236,000        216,000       216,000        216,000      1,512,000      14,000
Ad ED (Fia/Ads) (()                3    35.600        187,200        137,200       387,200        387,200       387,200        387,200       387,200      1,310.400      46800
Aoe' ED (Prg. Mgp) (G)             I    15,600        387,200        387,200       387,200        387,200       387,200        187,2(00      387,200      1.310.400      46800
Prqi DnOt.OfficerIV (OOP)          2      9.900       257,600        237,600       237,600        237,600       237,600        237,600       237,600      3.663,200      59,400
Puqi Da,9.Offime IlI (GOP)         2      7,500       380.000        380,000       380,000        380,000       380,000        180O000       380 00)0     1,260,000      45,000
PrcjDevt.Officw 11 (GOP)           3      5,300        69,600         69,600        69,600         69,600        69,600         69.600        69,600       487,200       17,400
Compels Op.n IIl (GOP)             I      5,300        63,600         63.600        63,600         63,600        61 600         63,600        65 600        445,200      31 S900
Oatk IV (GOP)                      2      3.3550       80,400         80,400        810,400        80,400        80.400         80400         80,400        562,800      20,300
MamaUer (GOP)                      I      3,000        36,000         36,000        36,000         56,000        36,000        36,000         36,000       252 000        9,000
Thvvee (GOP)                       2      2,700        64,800         64,800        64,800         64,800        64,800        64.800         64800        415,600       36.200
Audlit FMn                         3    60,000         60,000         60,000        60.000         60.000        60,000)       60 000         60,000       420OU 000     IS 00
LqaI Fim                           I    30,000        350,000         60,000        60,000         60,000        60,000        60.000         60,000       530,000       18,214
GLSdC,omnputar PzoFamer            I    23,000        350,000        350,000       350,000        150,0D0       350,000        350,000       110,000      3.050.000      57,500
Equlemncid Procuraunani                         QTY      Cod
AU Vehile                          2   320.000        640,000                                                                                              640,000       22,817
Motomccye                          3    50,000        520,000                                                                                              520,000       11.429
Reftieamt                          3      7,500         7,500                                                                                                7,500          208
Compuuc/Pnnter                     3    40,000        320,000                                                                                              320,000        4,286
Typmwnoc                          30    30,000        300,000                                                                                               M00AN         3,517
CakWleuao                         I33       500         7,50                                                                                                 7,500          2o8
Exacuty. Chai A Table              I    30,000         30,000                                                                                               30.000         317
JuaniEc tmSest  Chai & TaM         9      7,000        61,000                                                                                               63,000        2,250
OflbeTawI                         3 5     3,500        22,300                                                                                               22,500          804
offi cChai                        3 2      500          6,000                                                                                                6,000          234
Vistoa Chew.e                     30       500          5,000                                                                                                5,000          179
CoRafrance Table With Claime       I    25,000         25,000                                                                                               25,000         893
FiA% Cabanat                      30      6,000        60,000                                                                                               60,000        2,343
Subtotld                                           3.386,500                                                                                             3,386,500      49,518
Oparboc Cod. Vehicle & Mm.ocycle
(FueI &Maud.eaneo)                                    365,000       365,000        365,000       365,000       31,000uu       365,000        165,000     3,355,000      41,250                                           3- 
(ilSic Supplie                           60,000        60,000         60,000        60,000        60,000        60,000         60,1000        60(100       420.000       35000
o3fice Relbhehttnao                3   296.760        296,760        296,760       296.760       296,760       296.760        29o,7760       296,760     2.077.520       74,390                                      o     ,:
Intl Travel                        8    53,000        409,000        408,000       408,000       408,000       408,000        408(810        408.000     2,85e0000      1020O0O                                      MT  H-  Mr
Intl Psdaem.                     300      3,960       596,000        596,000       396,000       196,000       196,000        59600          1v6,0(0     2.772 1610     99.000                                            MD  X
L.ocaltnel & Par [Stern                               792,000       792,000        792,000       792,000       792,000)       742,000        792,000     5.144000       398000                                                : ,  .,
Trotal saaa Co                                                     32.692,540     14,903,540    34,901,540     30.157,640    8,040,84       8,040,840      8,040,841    76,775 7850   2~743.9Y24
P'hyawcol(Cnmuagaocy                            35%                  207,975              0             0             0             0              0              0       207,975        ?,428
Pru c awciueay                                                      3,556,668     2,599,011S    3.578,336      3,696,23J3    3.53.036       4,283 lo3 I   085m,226    24,330,616t     &A03,52
TOWa (out                                                           34,417,363    17.50.555    3K,379,676      33.8153,813    33.572.810    37.124.203     13.126.006   01,U33  4.41 1    3,030,372
[nlclaid.. 20% coowl caes& I Ste -oclard
tImasgol.3 lt ral or talilissgt,ctcalhwwsa   - -c1o10 to 34-3- Wiuke udula.rco,-,g



ptippines Conservation ot Priidy Piateced Areas Cost Detad
AGUlSAN MAKSII WI )l lIlFR SANC TUARY                                                                                                                            ISM  I  12   2K
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...    ................    ..  _.__.........       .   _. _ ....... ......^ .  ..  ...... .....    ..  ... . . ...  ........   ....... .  .....----
t ltl                                                                                                          Total (C-St       lotal
A04ivities        SrvikLs          t [nits      Costs       1994          1995           1996           1997           199H          1999           2000          (lPsos)      C0m 1'SS
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                  . .   _..........  .............. -------- ...... .  .....  .... .....  -- ---.- ------  -- ------    -- ------     -----    ------- - --------
A. Site 2     pvclnent:                                   3,027,657    3,740,935    3,593,383          1,525,201      1,525,201     1,525,2t)1     1,295,008      16,232,587       579,735
PA Establishrmcnl                                        1,897,464      1,127,560      1,2X0,00X      1.280,008      1,2X0,00X     12X0,t8)()     l,2Xo,0()X     9,425,064        336,609
SWallBuildup  lASuperintendent    I         190,20/)       I90,200        190,200       190,200        190,200        190,2002    1290,200         10,2(00       2.1321,4I         47.550
Fore4er IV (Govt.      2    115,320         115,320        115,320        115,320       115,320        115,320        115,32(0       115,320        X07.24(         28,830
Former I (Govt.)       5      79,248        158,496        316,992       396,240        396,240        396.240       396,240        396,24()      2.456,6XX         87,739
Blookkeeper            1      54,600         54,600)        54,600         54,600        54,60)0        54,600         54,6(0()      54,600)        3X2.200         13,650
Seaclary/Clerk         I      52,200         52,200         52,200         52,200         52,202)       52.2()0        52,202)        52,20H)       165.4(H)        13,050
MaintenanceUnit        1      42,648         42,648         42,648         42,648        42,648         42,648         42,648        42,648         29X,536         10,662
Focester I (NGO)       I      36,000         36,000         36,000         36,00         36.000         36,t)()()      36,0t))       36,0(/H        252,000          9,0ttO
Park Ranger (NG        6      27,000         54,000        108,000        162,000       162,000        162,000        162,0)00      162,000         972,0H1)        34,714
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._. . _.  .. _. .  ___. .... _. .    .   . .._. .. .. .. ....  _ - -   -  ... .   .. .. .. .._....  ------
Sub-Total                                703,464        915,960      1,049,208      1,049,208      1,049,208      1,049,2/l8    1,049,2/)X      6,65,464       245,195
-Equipment Procurement
Unit
QTrY C OSt
AU Vehicle             1    320,000        320,000                                                                                                  .120,/t)        11,429
Motorcyck or boa       2      50,000        100,000                                                                                                 I')0,tH)         3,571
lorses                 5       5,000         25,000                                                                                                  25,000            893
VIIF Bae Radio
With Askama           I      40,0(X0        40,000                                                                                                  40,2t)0         1,429
VlIF I lanIld Ra    6         15,000         90,000                                                                                                  9(2,0t)         3,214
Conutcr/Printer        I      55,000         55,000                                                                                                  55.000          1.964
Power  (ntor(          1      60,000         60,000                                                                                                  60,0tH)         2,143
lypewriter             1      15,000         15,000                                                                                                  15,000            536
Calculaor              3         500          1,500                                                                                                    1,500            54
Fint Aid Kit           1       2,500          2,500                                                                                                   2,5/HI            X9
Office filuniture      2      70,000         70,000                                                                                                  70,000          2,500
Chain tuw              1      40,000         40,000                                                                                                  40,000          1.429
Binoculars             6       5,000         30,000                                                                                                  30.0220         1.071
Tape  order/pub        I      10,000         10,000                                                                                                  I),/)000          357
Other equiptent        1    150,000         150,000                                                                                                 150,0(X0         5,357
_ _ _~~~~~~~~~ ........                                                                        ----  - -------  .... .. . ........
Sub-dotal                              1,009,000               0              0                                                                 1.0m9,048)       36,036
-)purations C Vehicle & Motorc                                                                                                                                                                          IQ  Or t
(Fuel &  Maintena           125,28)O       125,0(X)       125,0tX)       125,000       125,000        125.04))       125,t)0t)     125,000         X75,22H)        31,250                    20  x
I orne Feed                    1,500          3,000          6,004)        7,504)         7,500          7,52X)        7,50)0         7.52)2         46,500          1,661               LI 4,, :,
(OIrt2  Supplies              12,000         12,000         12,000         12,8)00       12,008         12,/H)0        22,00)        12,2)0)         84,20)          31,2()              0
Rangeessuniforn&touls          3,500         22,000        35,000         45,5(X)        45,500         45,500        45,5t0)        45,5t0        2K3,5(Xi        10,125
Iravelingh  Per 1)             2,400        24,08)         33,600         422,800       40,800         40.,X00        4(2,82H)      422,82)        2612.622         9,343
b5.   0 .........  ............6..  ...............  . .23........  2--------  23 2       2.2- --                        ..3.........
Sub-lFkal                                18 5,000)      211,6/H       23t)X0)        230,X00        21(),Xt)      2.1t),#t)      2.10A00t    1,550jM,t)          55,A7t)



Phdppha  Conservation d Piority Protected Areds Cost Oe(aLr
llasi- li-astructor-
Sql. FL. Coust/Sq.
kmll      Ft., km.
.....--   .. ............
Iark Superi. Rsid  MIL              420         336,000                                                                                                           3 4,(40H)        12,W(\t
1:uniture Supet. Residence                       2t,00t(                                                                                                           20.)()             714
I)ornu (50 sq. fi    80JI           2X0         224,()00                                                                                                          224.00H)           X,00
l)orms Furniture                                160,000                                                                                                           I ,0,004)          5.714
Nature Center                                                   300,000                                                                                           141).0)o0         10,714
Storag  & Other                                 I00,000                                                                                                           I2t0(,410          3,571
Water Supply/Sanitation                          15,0(00          15,W00          15,000          15,000          15,000          15,t00          15,o(o)         205,H)           31,750
Watch Tower, (1amb3o)                            45,000                                                                                                            *15,ocjd          1,607
- - ------   -  - - -- -   ----  ............ ...  ............ ...  --------   . ......... ... ..  . ... .. .. ..... ...  ------    ---- -------_
Sub- 1otal                                   900,000         315,000           15,000          15,000           15,2()0         15,0((          2 15,0()()    1.290,0(0          46,071
PA levelopm   Road Improvemen    10             413,636                        2,068,182       2,06X,282                                                                         4.1.16,364        147,727
'I'railsComntnadio       9      153,462         230,193         230,193         230,193         230,193          2310,19.1       230,19.1                       1,11X,159          49.127
__. ... .._., .  ...... .    -_------  ...............  --------    .  -------                         --------         ..... ... .. ....
Sub-Tlotal                                   230,193       2,298,375       2,298,375          230,193         2.10,193        2310,193                       5,517,523          197,054
B. Resourc Managemnt:                                           1,835,820         667,040         643,640          599,640         599,64(1        599,64(1        599,6440       5,545,060          198,038
Site Infrastrun1 Dons For N(G)
(50 sq. fl./Person)  400            280        112,000                                                                                                            112,0()()         4,()00
Denms Furniture                                  80,W00                                                                                                            8(0,(1)          2,857
Storage & Other                                 100,000                                                                                                           I20,(1)0          3,571
Water Supply/Sanitation                          30,000          25,000          25,0(0            5,000           5,0()0          5,0(0(1         5,(00          2,)000             3,571
. .  .._.. .  ... ... - -------          .     .   .... ... ._. .__.....  ---------  ...... .. .. .. ...  --------- -----   ... . ..  ----   - ----
Sub-Total                                    322,000           25,000          25,000           5,000            5,4100          5,((0           5,(()(        392,4(H)          14,000
M       ps&  Boun Geodetic Engineer       I      121,800          60,900                                                                                                            6(1,900          2,175
Survey Aides             2       82.500          82,500                                                                                                            X2,5(X4           2,946
Field Assistant          2       72,000          72,000                                                                                                            72,00)           2,571
FEncoder/difrasman       2       57,600          57,600                                                                                                            57,6()0          2,057
Expenes & materials                            250,000                                                                                                           250,0o0            8,929
Sub-lTotal                                   523,W00                                                                                                           523,0(10         28,679
Mgmt. Board Operations                                          990,820          520,240         496,840         472,840         472,840         472,X4(4        472,84(l       3,X99,260          139,259                    -Q .J :j
IlokrdMemnbr             9     1300/day         140,4400         46,800          23,40)t          23,400         21,400          2.1,400         21,400          304,20(1           (1,864                        4,  >
Project Coxwdinato       I     190,t\00         190,000         190,()t(        2 9(,t())       19(029(),0t)0   I)9(1,0(t)t      )(),O(W(       19(t()(t(1        1,0()t          47.54X0                    0
Acc;ountant              1      95,040           95,040          95,040          95,041(         95,040          95.14t1         95,040          95.04(0         665,24(1         2.1,760
Bxookckpr              1       54,600          54,600          54,600          54,6(00         54,600          54,60(1         54,41           54,6(14)        lX2,200           1.1,650
Secretary/Clerk          1       52,200          52,20)(         52,2t)0         52,2(14         52,200          52,2(1         S2.20(           52,200         MON(,5.(          13,05(4
---...  .  .-.-..  --------------- . ...............  ............ .....  ---------------  .. ..............  -------   ------.  --------------  ....... .. .... .. .



Ph*ppmCs Cntrvation d Praiity PFlected Ame^ Cost Detdd
SuWl-otal                             532,240      431,640       415,240       415,240      415.2401      415,240      415,240      3.047,1j)xi)    IOX,24
*-Equipment Proiurar igt       ---- -
I Init
QIY      Ct*A
Mimetgraphing M      I      50,0t)l       50,0W0                                                                                         51t),00(       1,7g6
Power (GencratEr     2      25.0(t'      50,000                                                                                          5(.()01        1,7X6
Otliie furiture      1      40,0()O       40,0(X0                                                                                        4034XM)        1,429
Coniputte/printCr    I      40,000       40,000                                                                                          40,(00O        1,429
flaw & 4 handhel     1      47,500       47,500                                                                                          47,500         1,696
1linocular           4       5,000       20,0tW                                                                                          20.t() )         714
Cerat                1       4,000         4,000                                                                                           4,00N)         143
Calculator           2         500         1,000                                                                                           1.0(M)          36
i1icycb              2       2,500         5,000                                                                                           5.1HN1         179
Motorcycbs           2      50.000      100I000                                                                                          I ,OW)         3.571
0                                                                                              0             0
Miscellaneous        I      50,000        50,000                                                                                          50,00t)       1,786
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                          - - - -        ...... .   ._ _.....__
Sub-lotal                            407,500                                                                                         407,500        14,554
-oJpcrutionsC O(likSuplics                12,000       12,000        12,00(0       12,0XW                                                              .16,)0X0       1,286
Travelling & Per             2,400       39,0X0        69,600        69.600       57,600        57,600        57,600       57,60t0      40)X.6XO       14,596
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..._...... ..       --------    -   ----   -... . .    - ...... ---  -... ---- .    .   ...... .  .. ._____. ...... .  - - --------   - -
Sub-Total                              51,080        81,600       gl1.6W0       57,600        57,6(X1      57,600        57,(w00      444,6X0        15,81(
Site Rsoratio AglfrxcsrySpcci    I    121,X00                       121.,S0(      121,X00       121,gO0      121,X00       121,X00      121.,X00      730,X00        26,100
Teduuical Asasisan    0     72,000                          0             0             0            0             o0                          0            0
_  __._  .............. ___ . .__ . _ . _ ......... ... ....-----.-.-.---_-- . -.-    ___----...-_   _   _   .   ......  _ .
Sub-lotal                                           121,X00      121.1(K)      12,W,OOO      121,800      121 ,XIN      121,8100      7301,(00       26,1 0
C.SocioE-IoAnmicManaganent:                             497,666      331,W00       331,00         g7,000       X7,t)/)       87,000       h7,0/h)     1,509.2t)       53.902
Conmaullatim, Training A
Awarenm       riningCoordi        I    1,X0W          100,X00      100,X00       100,X00                                                             302,400        IO,XW10
Information Olliec    I     84,W000       4,000        X4,000       X4,000                                                              252,'00        9,000
Meduin a h maleri    3      20,000       60,000        60,000       60,000                                                              I X0,O)       6,429
._ . __ .,,,. ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.._. _. ... ..... ___... . .... . 
Sub-Total                             244,S00      244,X00       244,X00                                                              734,400       26.229
Terure Surwvying
(t   Fan,. Surveyor               1      95,400        15,900                                                                                          15,94ou         56X              w       0 
Survey Aidc          I      X2,500        13,750                                                                                         1.1,750         491                   0  X
SubwTOtatl                             29,650                                                                                          29.650         1.059              0
Carni & Registatim.%                                                                                                                                                                     0,
lnawrc lnst. Anthro.Istwiul.    020    121,8X(M)       24,360                                                                                         24.t(/6)    K     7
Field Assist.      0.50    66,W0(1       33,0)0)0                                                                                        .4, 3MM)      1,179



Phlpwm Conswvatlon of Prilxty PfA(ected Aieds Cost Detdil
I:nctsk-r        (1.20    57,6800     1 1.52(0                                                                                  11,520        411
Iivernicwcrs     4.0)    17,640       42,336                                                                                   42,3.,        1.512
Expcnses                              25,0HX)                                                                                  25.,lHH        893
SubIOoIaI                          136,216                                                                                     116.216     4.X65
I.ivClihOOd Pro CnmimuityO()rgai    I    X7,0(1)    X7,lMXx)    87,)         87,000      X7,048)      X7,0(H)      87,)00      87,000      609,0(10      21,750)
Field Assistant    0     66,(X)0           0            )            0                           o        O            O)                        0
Sub-TI Al                           87,000       87,000       87,0(X)     X7,0(X)      87,0()     X7,o(o)      87,48)0    6f)J),(H)()    21,750
D. Ecological Rcsutsb Program:
Sub-l'otal(A-D)                     5,361,143    4,739,775    4,568,823    2,211,841    2,211,X41    2.211,X41    1,9XI,64X    23,286,9).1  X3.1,675
F.. Cosingmics:
Total I.Ase Cod                                  5,361,143    4,739,775    4,568,823    2,211,841    2,211,841    2,211,.41    1,981,648   23,2X6,913    831,675
PhysiculCoSing;rgenoY(I5%                         430.304      395,756      350,756       37,529      37,529       37,5219      3,0(M)    1,292,403      46,157
Priivc CAuiiv.m.y                                 656,268    1,030,386    1,377,287     851,852    1.058.850    1,2X2.3X3    1,358.561    7,615,588     271,9X5
ToWaiSite Cos                                     6,447,715    6,165,917    6,296,866    3,101,222    3,3081,220    3,531,754   3,343,23$)   32,194.9X)4   1,149.818
0bu
0
MIt 
OQ- 
tC



Ph*yima Conamrimn d Pnmidy Protected Aleas Cost 0D
APO)RIiK~F MARINF 'NAITJRIi .PARK (I3*SO.S): 1993-1999)                                                                                                   lSS I  P      23000o
l'ersanwl       Number of' Salary/                                                                                            'louta Cash   lasial
Activities            Servicvm        Peronne    Ye:ar         2994         2995         2996        1997         39931       1999        2000        tL'O)       w  15
A. Site I)evekinpnwn:                                            1,976,030    1.248,930    1,211I.H30    1,231,843(  732,830      781.H30(    781.831)    8.I.14,112    290,504
PA Fstablism,et                                                 1.174,316     738,216      771.1I36    771,116      771.116      771,116     771,116     5,763,112    206,004
SIaftl33ui1dup      PA Superinienleni.          I    I390,200     390,20       90200 302    90,200J    390.2)       30200 34.2   90,200      i90,2(H)    1,331,400J    47,550
ForesterIV (GovL.)         I    115,320      115,320     115.320      115,320      115.32(0    115,320      335,320     3315.323 8o 07,244)    23,330
Foreder I (Govt)           I    79.248        79,248      79,243       79,248      79,243       79.248       79,248      79,24K       554,736     19,832
BNXookeee                  I     54,600       54,600      54,600       54,600       54,600)     54,600       54,600      54,(10o      382.20X0    33,650
Secrelary/Clerk            3    52,200        52,200      52,200)      52,20(1      52,20(H     52,200-      52,200)     52,2(x1      365,400)    13,050
MaiFdnlmaace Unit lhead    I    42,643        42,648      42,648       42,648      42,648       42,648       42,643      42,64X       2981,536    10,662
Forcser I (NGO)            3    36,000        36,000)     36,000       36,000)      36,000)     36,1XKm      36,000)     36,1Mm)      252,000      9,000
Putk Ranger(NOO)           4     27,000       5?,00)(     33,000      303,000    I108,11Cm     108.000      108,000)    108,0(1(1     675,000     24,307
Sub-T~otal                             624,236      653,236      678,236     67X,226,    678,216      673,236      678,216     4,666,512    166,661
-Equipment Procurerment                   ----- ____
Unit
Q31Y       Cash
float (Bancas)             2     35,000       70,000)                                                                                  70,000      2,500
VI IF B3cw Radio
With Antenna              3    40,000        40,000                                                                                   40(100      3,429)
VIlF Ilandheld Radio       4      7,500      30,000                                                                                    30,00       2,073
Comuter/Priter             3     55,000       55,000                                                                                   55,000      1,964
Power Generator (solar)    I    60,000       60,000                                                                                   6,0,000      2,143
Typewr'ter                 3     35,000O      35,000                                                                                   35,000        536
Calclator                  3        500        1,500                                                                                    3,500)        54
First Aid Kit              3      2,500        2.500                                                                                    2.500        89
Offic fuariture            I    70,000        70,000                                                                                   70,000      2,500
Chain saw                  0     40,000            0                                                                                       0          0
Binoculars                 6      5,000      30,000                                                                                   30,000       1,071
tape recorder/public ad    2     30,000      20,000O                                                                                  2(0,00        714
Othe equipmen              3    75,000        75,000                                                                                  75,1Km       2,679
Sub-Total                              469,000                                                                                  469,1KmO    16,750
-OIperations Cost   Itot & Geneators
(Fuel & Maintenance)            30,000       30,000       30,000      30,0(K3      3(1,3(o(     30,000      30,11(1      1(1,(01(    2 10WMm      7,500
Office Supplies                  32,000O      32,000      32,0(10      32,000      12,01)41     12,000       12(3(0(     32,(1(1      84,1Km)      3,000      09a 
Rangets unifann&tools             3,500       37,500      21,00(0      24,500)     24,50(0      24,500      24,500       24,5(k1     161I,1Mm     5,750          CD X
Traveling & Per D)iems            2,400       231,600)    24,0)10      26,400      26.400       26,400       26,404)     26,41)4)     177,600)    6,343          p. 4  P.
Sub-fatal                               81,10(3      87,000O     92.900       92,900      92,900       92,900      92,9030      632,600     22,593       p.



Phdpis ConIefvabo d Prwy PIldeded Ate* Cost DeM
Ilaic Infrsaizadu
Sq. 1:t..   C'tmISq.
km      Ft., kin.
1;ark Supct. Resiokec    l()t      420      336.h1.Y                                                                              :1.1Mm4      12,000
:urniture Supal. Resiaxe2, 20,(M)                                                                                                   20.,00)      714
imis (50 sq. R/Peawn)
-Abo li.hides Det for
V    _ Kding Rcewdm     750        280     210,000                                                                                21l,00(1      7,500
I)orms Fuwuie                               100.1m                                                                                 100I1M)      3.571
Storage aOtha                                75.000                                                                                 75,000      2,679
WaerSupply/Sanitsti                          10,714      10,714       10,714      10,714       10,714      10,714      10,714       75.000      2,679
Boet Dock                                    50,0300                                                                                5K.000      1.7Y6
Sub-Toa)                              301,714       10,714       10,714      10,714      10,714       10,714      10,714      966,1M     30,929
PA Iewlopm:I        Visitxrs ceter                                           500,000     5000.00      500,00o                                         1.500,1M)    53.571
Sub-Toll                                           500,000      W0          5000(30                                         l,51M),"      53,571
II. kemurcc Mana.eMat:                                             71,230      23,760      23,760       23,760      23.,760      23,760      23,760      21.1,X40     7,637
Mpi. Dowd (pe ion Hoard Maber (Med fo          9   1300/day      70,200       23,400      23,400       23,40t)     23.401      23,401)      2.1,400     210,61)0     7,521
1 Y Days in 7 Yens)
-Maluyan site jal' will
povide fintber amaicraiv
asance to Ibis sic.
Sub-Tolw                               70,230       23,400      23,400       23,401W     23.400      23,400       23,400      210,6300    7,521
-Operinsu   Cod     Travelling A Per Xiam
(Hoard Manbus, Trravl
Eapeto Mangyan site)           20/Day        1,030         360          360         360         360          360         36tl        3,240       116
_ ... __ ...... _. _ _ .~~~~~~~~~..... .. _.... _ ......... _... ...._...............   _     _
Sub-Total                                1,080        360          360          160        36(1         360        .160         3,240       116        e   3
Pi P 
00
OD '-'
mx
OD
1). FAologSvl ReCW:h Progsin:                                                                                                                                                    0
01
..........................----------------...........-------------- -----



Ph*ppNm Came2bon of PrAoy PiciecIed Aise Cod DeldE
Iolal Cir(A-D))                        2,0)47,310    1.272,6'0    1,305,590    1.305,5)0   1105,590     8105.59      11)5.5%)    11,347,952    298,141
F. Ct.mtingai.s:
l'la)3lks Cog                                                   2,047,310    1,272,6'0    1,305,5'0    1,305,590    111)5,59iX   1105,590    8()5.5'I    X1-147,952    2918,141
Physal Cuningto   *                                               1'0,607      76,607       76,607       76,6(07       1,6(17      1,607        1,(,t7     425.250     15,188
Ilrico Comingemy                                                  250,635     267,855      42(,678      544.714     349.31)4     471,375     559.0-14    2.9)0.,685    103,703
otal Sit Coat                                                 2,488,552    1,617,152    1.(02.,876    1,926,912    l,196.5Xl    1,27X,573    1,.166,241    11,676,X87    417,032
09 a D
OQ I-' 0
(D M
o
Ox>
'0
0I,



Frsppre Conervalion d PKiy Protecled Areas Cost tetail
IIAIAN I: l.AND)SCAPES  NWI) SEASCAPES (II-SOS): 1993-199W                                                                                                                   S$ I  12          28
.....~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ..  .. .     ,_ ,,_,, .......... .   __.. .......... .. ............... ..... .... ......... .   ........... . . .. ... ...... ......  .. .......... ..... ... ... . . .......    .. ..............
I ersondl         Numiber of' Salary/                                                                                                       ITtal (0os       Total
Adtivitics               Services         Plrsomric    Ycar           1994          1995           1996          1997          2992          1999          2000         (Pes.s)     Cogt JSS
A. Sitcl )cveloprnmnO:                                                   2,236,661     1,54X,661      1,409,161     1,409,161      X32,41.0      X32,430       832,410       9,100,936    325.033
I'A Fstablisfnumrnt                                                     1,404,216       786,216       821,716       821.716       821,716       X21,716       821.716      6,299,012    224,965
SlaIllluildup          PASuperintcndent               I    19)0,200      190,200        190,200       190,200       190,200       190.200       190,200       290,2(M      1,1131,400     47,550
Fwester IV (Govt.)            I    115,320        115,320       115,320        115,320       115,320       115,120       115,320       115,320        X107,240     28,830
ForeslerI(Gov-.)              I      79,248        79,248        79,248         79t24X        79,248        79,248        79,248        79,248        554,736       19.812
lkxA.keeper                   '      54,600        54,600        54,6(00        54,600        54,6(H)       54,60((       54,60t)       54."6((       3X12,200      13,650
Sectrary/Clerk                I      52,200        52,2010        52,2(10       52,200        52,2(1(1      52,20(0       52,200        52,21(        3655,400      13,050
Maintcnance Unit Ilead        1      42.648        42,648        42,642         42,648        42,64X        42,648        42,642        42,64X        29X,536       10,662
Forstar I (NGO)               I      36,000        36,000        36,000         36,000        36,M(K(1      36,000        36,1NK)       16,1)00       252,00         9,000
Park Rang(NGO)                5      27,000        54,000       108,01KJ       135,000       135,00(       135.M00       135,000       1.35,00K)      837,000      29,893
Sub-rotal                                   624,216       678,216       705,216        705,216       705,216       705,216       705,216      4,828,512     172,447
-FA-uipment Prcuement                          .--
tJnit
Q3I-y       C051
lioa (llanas)                 2      35.000        70,000                                                                                              70,000        2,5210
1orses                        I       5,000         5.000                                                                                               5,00()         179
VIIF Bae Radio
With Antlnea                 2      40,000         10,00                                                                                             1X(l,(KK0      2,X57
VIIF IIandhed Radio           6      15,000        90,000                                                                                              )0,000        3,214
Consputw/Prina                1      55.000        55.000                                                                                              55,000        1,964
PoWe Gweator (Solr)           I      60,000        60,000                                                                                              60,000        2,143
Type-wibr                     I      15,000         15,000                                                                                             '5.000         536
Cakculaor                     3         500          1,500                                                                                              2.500           54
First Aid Kit                 1       2,500         2,500                                                                                               2,500          g9
Oimce huniture                1      70,000        70,000                                                                                              70,000        2,500
Chin saw                      1      40,000        40,000                                                                                              40.000        1.429
Bimculs                       6       5,000        30.000                                                                                              30.000        1,071
Tqy  recorder/public ad       2      10,000        20,000                                                                                              20,000         714
OUtheraeuinant                1    150,000        150,000                                                                                             150,000       5,357
Sub-lotal                                   689,000                                                                                            689,000       24,607
4ipetons  Cad          Bioat& Generator                                                                                                                                                                    l    
(FuelA Mainte Snan)                  25,000        25,000        15,000         5000         1K0 25,0(     I25,000       ,52)0         15,t.YK       105,0K10       3,750       DO  a, O
28 I.- 28
Ilorse Feed                           1,500         1,500          1,5(1         2,500         2500          1,5))         1,500         1,5(0         10,500         375           ID  x
Rang6esunifoern&tools                 3,500        17,500        24,500        2X,W00        2X,21)0       22,0)12        28,000       22,I)0        IX22.0K0       6,500        a  4: 
OfliceSupplies                       12,(0         12,000        12,(0          12,000        12,0KK1       12,11()       12,0121       12,(H)        X4,0(K)       3,00 
Traveling & Per D)ims                 5,00         45,000        55,0(M)       60,000        60,00()        60,(KH)       60,121(      6(0,2221      4t1),t(K)     14,286        r-r
.. . . . _ . 9. . . 21)21,121)0  25 00 ,   ... ........ . 226-522(-   ---       -   .        ..     . 7....2..5.( . ..2........  4
Sub-Total                                    91,0K)0      I()X,o(N       116,500)     MOM5)(        116,5(Hl      116.5tK)     llu,()()       7XI,5(x)      27,911        



Phtiines Conservatmn d PrKitity Protected Areas Cost Detail
Ilasic, rliiastfucture                     .
Sq. I:t.,    CostiSq
km       Ft., km
P'ark Supert. Rcsidn&ce  tO)        420      336,WW0                                                                                    3 6)00to    12,000
Furniture Supeut. Rcsidcnce                   20,00(                                                                                     2t),0(N       714
IDon(5n(0 sq. IL/Prsoun    550      280      154.000                                                                                    154,0W       5,50K
)omn Funmiture                                I IO,WW                                                                                   I IO,O(t     3.929
Nature Caetr                                               175.000                                                                      175,(Xt      6,250
Storage h ;thcr                               75,000                                                                                     75.,t00      2,679
Watcr Supply/Sanitation                        10,714       10,714      10.714       It,714       10,714       10,714       10,714       75,0Wl       2,67'>
LBoa Dock                                     50,000                                                                                     50,000       1,7W6
-     _     _  -    -   --   -  -   _._ -   ..  -   --   -   -- - -- -   -  -- - - - - -   -- - - - - - -  . .  _.   . . . . .........  _.............__..__.._
Sub-rotal                               755,714      135,714       10,714       10,714       10,714      10,714       10,714      995,000      35,536
PA l)evelknnt        FActourunIfaciiies                                        500,00       5W,.000      50s1),0)                                          1,5000,00     53,571
Trails Conaction (km       6    153.462        76,731       76.731      76,731       76.731                                             306,924      10.962
Sub-Total                                76,731      576,731      576.731      576.731                                           I,X06,>924    64.533
Ui. Resoure Maern4 cnt:                                           I,SX4,290      760,640      737.240      67K,t40     678,840)    673,340       673,34()    6.097,530    217,769
Site Infrairucture   Dumns For NO) S9Tff
(50 sq. Lt/Person)      650         230      182,W000                                                                                   12,0XW       6,500
Dorms Furniture                              130,0W0                                                                                    13O000      4,643
Storage & Other                               75,000                                                                                     75,000      2,679
Weer Supply/Sanitation                        21,000        17,000      17.0W0        5,()00       5,000        5,00        5.00)        75,000      2,679
Sub-lotal                               408.000       17,000       17,000        5,000        5,000       5,000        5,0(H0     462,000      16,500
Maps  Boundaries    Geodetic Engineer            I    121,800       60,900                                                                                    60,900       2,175
SurvcyAides                I     82,500       41,250                                                                                     41,250      1,473
Field Assitant             I     72,000       36,000                                                                                     36,000      1,286
Encoder/dFafisman          2     57,600       57,600                                                                                     57,6(H0     2,057
Expnses & Materials                          250,000                                                                                    250,()00     8,929
Sub-I otal                              445,750                                                                                   445.750      15,920
Mgmt. Board Operations                                           1,030,540      549,840     526,440)    48),040       4X0,040      4X0,040     4X0.040    4,026,930    143,321         ) A) 
lluardMtmnbtr              9   1300'day      140,400       46,X00       23,400       23,40)0     23,400)      21,400       21,400      304,20)0     1 X1,64        (D X
Project Coordinator        I    190,(H00     1')0,000     I')(),(K))   190,001)     190,00(11   1911,00      190 PJ(),()(Ol')         I ,330l0)()   47.50H)      ,  p. >
Ac.,m'ontan                1    95,040        95,040       95,044)      95,040       95.040)      95,04()     95,t)4(1     95,040      665,280      23,760       0
Uuokkeeper                 1     54,600       54,600       54,604)      54,600       54,(0()      54,60)0     54.0,001     54,600      432,20()     I ,650     in
Secretry/Clerk             I     52,200       52,2(X)      52,204)      52,200)      52,20()      52,2410     52.211H      52,200      .165t40      I 1,050     4c
Sub-lotal                               532,240     43X,641)     415,240      415,240      415,241)    415,240      415,240)    ,047.l)X)   1OX,X24



Ph_pamws Corervaton d PFity Protected A,ten Cort De(ad
-Equipmnt ProLu.nni                      -----   .............
I Init
QIY       Ctmt
lialwAbgralihilig Madinu  1    5(),(X)     5o,0010                                                                              5(0tHH)    1,786
Power (knerator           I    6(),(XJO    60,000                                                                             6t0()(IO     2,143
(nike fumiture            1    40,1300     40,000                                                                              4;,(NH)     1,429
Cornputer/prinler         2    40,000      40,000                                                                               40,000     1,429
l22  & 4 hudAeld radio    1    47,500      47,500                                                                               47,500     1,696
Binucuis                 4      5,000      20,000                                                                               20.000       714
Carnra                    I     4,000       4,000                                                                                4,000       143
Cakculator               2        50        1,000                                                                               I,00         36
tlicyot                  2      2,500       5,000                                                                                5.000       179
Mo(ormycks               2    50,000      100,000                                                                              I(X)000     3,571
0                                                                                   0         0
Miswellauoua              I    50,000      50,000                                                                               50,000     1,786
SubwTotat                            417,500                                                                             417.500     14,911
-Operations Cud    Oflitr Suplies                  20,000      20,000      20,000      20,(X)0                                                     60(X,0      2,143
Iratvelling & Per Diemn         2,400      60,800      91,200      91,200      64,800      64,(XO)     64,8(X)     64,8(M)    502,40(1    17.943
Sub-Trotal                            80,800     111,200     112,200      64,X(H;     64,X00      64,;00      64,80)      562,400    20,036
Si,e Rejuraiion     AgruforedrySpecialisd     I   121,800                  121,800     1221,00     1221,8(H   221,8(M)    1221,X00    121,8M)      730,90Xt    26,100
Tednical Asian            1    72,000                  72,000      72,000      72,0(X)     72,000      72,0(X)     72,0(X)     432,000    15.429
Sub-legal                                        193,X00     193,800     J93,800     193,300     193,800     J93,300    1,162,800    41,529
C. SoCio-Ecnic  Managanat:                                     965,200     606,800     606,800     306,000     306,000     306,000     306,(M80    3.402,300   121,529
Consuhation Tr_niu  &
Awwrean            TrainingCoordinator       I   100,300     100,800     100,800     100,300                                                     302,400     10,300
Meetings & Maiah         20    20,000     200,000     200,000     200,000                                                     600,000    21,429
SubTotal                             300,00      300,300     300,300                                                     902,400    32,229
Tenur Surveying
(4200 Fam', 4 Fams/ Surveyor                 1    95,400      95,400                                                                              95,400      3,407
Survey Aide              2    82,500      165,000                                                                             165.(XKO     5 93  
Sub-I 1.al1                          260,400                                                                             260,400      9,300        0  X
Caen & Reistr4aion, a
eI ru(c s In.     Andwuo/soio.            0.17   1222,00      10,150                                                                              10,150       363      ;
Fi.:d Assistants       0.33    66.000      11,0 (3                                                                             I l ,(XM)    393      O
l lw.od.:r             0.17    57.600       4,300                                                                               4,M(M2      171



Phvppm  Cwrervamt d PirotFy Pirctted Aien Cod Detal
Imgcrviewu1s              5     17,640      22.050                                                                                22,05t)      788
Fxpna                                       50,000                                                                               50,IJM)     1,786
Suh- lIal                              92,000                                                                               9X,(H)      3,500
I.ivelihoxo Prognm    CunirnunityOrganiza     2    K7,000J    174,000      174,000      174,000     174,t00)    174,(XX)    174.(0X)    174,(HH)    1,212.(X4)    43,500
FicIIIAunSt-m             2    66,000      132.000     132,000     132,000      132(XHH     1132t0H0    132,000     132,tXJt    924,000     33,000
Sub-Fatal                             306,000     306,000     306,000     306,0)    306,0(0)    306,000        30(,(42)    2,142,0tlO    76,500
1). FAclgical Racait* Progun:
_~~~~~~~-   - . . --       ------   ...... .........  ---  .. ------ ......   .. ... .   _...     . 
1TalCod (A-D)                          5,086,151    2,916,101    2,753,201   2,394,0)1   1.17,270    1,217,270   l,N:7,270   1,601,266   664,331
F. Ci_tnuco:
lToal Ban Cod                                                 5,086,151   2,916,101   2,753,201    2,394,H) 1    1,817,270   1,N17,270(  1,817,270   IN,6t01,266   664,331
Physcl CcIin      *                                            352,042      116,917      90,667      22,N67       2,357       2,357       2,357      655,564     23,413
Prim Couingagcy                                                642,203     623.537      215.189     915,992     220,978   1,06,413   1,264,701    6,209,018   221,751
TOa Site Clct                                               6,020,395   3,656,555    3,659,058   3,398,266   2,7l00,605    2,886,040   3,024,329   25,465.248   909,495
00 o   t
*    1.-'  *
(D X
tS 4  >
rn
0*



Ptuhppmnes Conservation of Pimonity Protected Areas Cost Det,il
MOUJNI CANELAON NAI(IRI. PARK (I'l:SlIS): 1993-1999                                                                                                                  t'ss I  1             28
IPerstnwl        Numlber ol Salary/                                                                                                     [ I-al C(st    'Total
Activiltis              Services         Personnel    Year          1994         1995          1996          1997         1998          1999         20tN)       (PesIc)      Cost (151
_,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_,__.  . .. ._. . ....... .  .. . . ... .  . .  ---   -  -----------  -------  ----   - -- - - --   - ---------  ------- -  ------  -----------  - ------- -------- ...... .. .. .. . ..  --------  ---------  .........
A. Site evelopment:                                                   2,750,044    3,052.889    2,830,68)    1,176,144        9)X4,116      984,316      984,.316    12,762,71-1     455,81I
PA Establishnment                                                    1,730,216      891,516       969,316      969,316       969,316      969,316       969,316      7,46X,.112     266,725
Stafllluildup         PA Superintendcnt            I    190,20(1      190,200       190,200       190,200      190,201)      190(2tH)     1910,20)0     1901,20o    1,131,4tN1      47,550
Forester IV (Govt.)          I    115,320       115,320       115,321)      115,320      115,3120     115.320       115,3201      11 5,32o1     Xt7,240       28,830
Forester Il(ovt.)            1     79,248        79,248        79,248       79,248        79,248       79,248        79,248       79,248        554,736        19,812
Bookkeeper                   I      54,600       54,60(K       54,600       54,6(00       54,601)       54,6(1)      54,600       54,6011t      382,2001       13,650
Secretary/Clerk              I      52,200       52,200        52,200       52,200        52,200        52,200       52,200        52,201)      365,400        13,050
Maintenance Unit llead       I      42,648       42,648        42,64X       42,648        42,648        42,64X       42,648       42,64K        298,536        10,662
Forester I (N(O)             I     36,000        36,000        36,)000      36,000        36,000        36,000       36,1))       36,(1ONH      252,(NtO       9,(1)O
Pk rRanger(NGO)              7      27,000       81l,WO       135,000       189,000     189.)) 1,9OtN) I             ) X,0tN)    189X,(0O    1,161,(0(0      41.464
Sub-Total                                 651,216       705,216      759,216       759,216       759,216  *  759,216        759,216     5,152,512       184,018
-Equipment ProLurement
I Jnit
QE'Y       Cost
AM  Vehicle                  I    320,000       320,000                                                                                         320,)000       11,429
Motorcycle, 125cc            2      50,000      100,000                                                                                         IOO1,(N)I       3,571
lorses                       3       5,000       15,000                                                                                          15,001)         536
VIIF Ltase Radio
With Antetma                I     40,000        40,W00                                                                                          40,000         1.429
VIF Hlandheld Radio          4      15,000       60,000                                                                                          60,t000       2,143
Comuter/Printer              I,    55,000        55,000                                                                                          55,(Nt0        1,964
PowerG nerator (solar)       1     60,000        60,000                                                                                          60,(),0        2,143
TI'ypewniter                 I      15,000       1 5,000                                                                                         15,0NN0         536
Calculator                   3         500         1,500                                                                                          1,500           54
Firt Aid Kit                 1       2,500        2,500                                                                                           2,500           89
Office firniture             1      70,000       70,000                                                                                          70,()00       2,504)
Chain aaw                    1     40,000        40,000                                                                                          40,(NN0        1,429
Binoculars                   4       5,00        20,000                                                                                         20,000           714
Tape recorder/public ad      2      10,000       20,000                                                                                          20,000          714
Other equipment              1      75,000       75,000                                                                                          75,000        2,679
Sub-Total                                 894,000             0                                                                           894,000       31,929
-Opei hons Colt       Vehicle & Motorcycle, c                                                                                                                                                    X   o   t
(Fuel & Maintenance)              125,()W       125,000      125,0)N0      125,000      125,0NN0      125,0NN0     125,000       125,tNI)      X75,(1)0       31,250          (  'X
Ilorse Feed                          1,500        3,000         4,50t)       4,500         4,51)(0      4,500         4,500        4,500        30,000         1,071       4.. 4p 
Office Supplies                     12,000       12,000        12,000       12,000        12,0NN0       12,000       12,00t)      12,()         84,000         3,000       o
Rane's unionm  & tols                3,500       21,000       2K,000        35,000        35,()N)      :15,()tN      35,000JO     .15,()00     224,0410        8,000 
Traveling & Per Dians                2,400       24,000        16,800       33,600        33,600       33,6t)0       33,60)t      3.1,60       208,810         7,457       4g
-b-ldal  185,0ttO  186,30N) ------ --  21(),1(N1  2,--- ---- - -------                             50,779
Sub-Total                                 185,0410      186,300)     210,1(00      2 10,1I1)11  2101,1()      2 10, I )X1  2111,11(m    1,42 1,80       50,779



_Mm.up  Ccmmlm d Pa,iy PouIded A.  CAd 0X1
S4 K,  CO4.
km     IFL.km
Pak S_ay Rllce         300        420     336,000                                                                             336,000      12,000
Fulare Sept Raid.                          20,000                                                                              20.000        714
lu  (50  O.I *Jl/M    650         230     1Y2,000                                                                             1 ' 2,000     6.500
13mm Fwmsaw                               130,000                                                                             130.000       4.643
Nuam C.u                                              300,000                                                                 300,000      10.714
stWagde  0                                100,000                                                                             100,000       3,571
Walera SuWlySaniahacn                      15.000      15,000      15,000      15,000     1S,00       15.000      15,000     105,000       3,750
Wa  Tower. (Iiaboo)                        45,000                                                                              45,000       1,607
Sub-Toal                             32U,000     315,000      15,000      15,000      15,0O0      15,000      15.000    1,218,000     43,500
PAl)Developekt      Roadlmprwrnact(kru       8   413,636                 1,654.545    1,654,545                                                  3,30'9.0')I  11.182
-'IaiBCouanwcion (km     5   153,462      191,U8      191,S2X     191,X28     191,828                                         767,311      27.404
Sail-Tota                            191,828   1,846,373   1.846,373     191,23                                        4,0)76,402   145,5S6
I.I ReOkcc MAMgnMIUd:                                         1,861,740    778,240     754,840     67X,X40     678,840     678,840     671.840    6,1 10,1O   21S.221
Site Inlnfraulure   Durma FI  N(O Stalf
(50 q.AJPuson)         650       2X0      132,000                                                                             182,000       6,500
Dorm Funuiturc                            130,000                                                                             130,00        4,643
StrageAObA  r                             100,000                                                                             100,000       3,571
Waler Supply/Sanialatin                    30,W0       25,000      25.000       5,000       5,00        5,000       5,000     100.000       3,571
Sub-Total                            442,000      25,000      25,000       5,000       5,O00       5,000       5,0W0     512.000     1,236
Maps& I3oundaia    QCodAic Engie              I   121,800      36,540                                                                              36,540       1,305
Suavey Aid               2    82,500       49,500                                                                              49,500       1,76g
Fielo A";aat             1    72,000       21,600                                                                              21,600        771
Eaoois/drJaauan          2     57,600      34,560                                                                              34,560       1,234
Ex  A h marials                           100,000                                                                             10,000        3,571
Sub-l'o(al                           242,200                                                                             242,200       8,650
MNgan. Board Opstwma                                         1,177,540    559,440     536,040     4XO.040     480.040     4X0,040    480,040    4,193,180     149,756            :3
m  p 
I(ardMemb6f              9   1300/day    140.400       46,800      23,400      23,4        23D4A)     23,400      23.400)    1(4,200       10,X64         I x
Irojo. Courdoitor        I   1w90,000     190W,0      IJ0(,000    19O,000   l(9J.414    19(1,4144I    19t.0(10  19,0(14)    1,130,000    47,500       ",    1
Acoonaast                1    95,040       95,040      95,040      95,040      95,0401     95(,040    95,040      95,040     1.65.280      23,760       o
llokkcopcr               1    54,600       54,600      54,640      54.600      54.600      54.6t(1     54,601    54,6(A)     382.2(10     13,650       -
5a3.frIay/CILk          I    52,200       52,200      52,2tHt     52,200      52,200      52,2t11    52,2(1)     52,21H      IbS,400      11.050       4.
........          -----   - ---  ...............  .... .. ........  ......... _...  . ....  ------
Sub-Tagal                            532,240     438,640     415,240     415.2-10   415,2-10    415.240)    415,24l0    J,0-17,(411U  108.824
C-'
, S)



Phbls Comarvtatn d PRiety Proteded Aea Cmt  Detl
-liquiigncid PFLrLIrnwth.......f..l ...
I tnil
QTl Y     Codt
---      -- . ._  .   .  ...
Minmoagqibing Machin       1    50,W0         50(tX1x                                                                                 SO,0())       1,786
IPswcr (k.neralor          I    25.0(30       25,1X)0                                                                                 250tH)         X93
()llic 1lrniture           1    40,000        40,003                                                                                 42),0)tN       1,429
Compulr/prin(er            I    40,1N)0       40,000                                                                                  40,(KH        1,429
lic 4 tailneld radio      I    47,500        47,50                                                                                   47,5(X)       1,696
llinocula                  4     20,000       30,0W)                                                                                  80,0(N)       2,357
Canm                       1      4,0(10       4,000                                                                                    4,00W         143
Caleulhaor                 2      1,00O        2,000                                                                                    2,0N)0         71
llikyck                    2      5,000      I3O,000                                                                                    2,tNO         357
Motorcycles                2    100,000     200.000                                                                                  2(H,000(       7.143
0                                                                                  2(H1(X        0,4
Miseelneous                1     50,000       50,000                                                                                  50,t10        1,786
Sub-Total                              548,500                                                                                  548,5(X0      39,539
-Oprations Cost     tLlcc Supplies                   20,000       20,W0(K      20,w0o      20,000                                                          60,1(X)       2.143
TravellingA Per l)kem             2,400       76,800     300,830      I00,300      64,3W0       64,X30      64,300       64,3(3)     537,(,t1)     19,200
Sub-Total                               96,300      120,800      120,830      64,X30       64,X00      64,300       64,83(0     597,600       21,343
SitReltloration      Agroforesy Specialist      1    121,83                   123.300      121,8W0      121 0X()    121,XtHt     321,3ON1    121,2(X)     730,(00       26,310
Technical Assistant        I    72,000                    72,000       72.0WW      72,0(X)      72.000       72,000      72,(01)     432,(XX)      15,429
__ -.  - -. . . - --   - ----------  ---  - . -----  -----   - ---.   ........... . .  -------    ......__..__.._
Sub-lotal                                           193,300      193,300     193,g0ON     193,gO()    193,830      193,83()    1,162,800      41,529
C. Socio-FIcncmac Managanat:                                     1,421,600    1,077,700     734.830      306,000     306,)00      306,(0W     .i(1,(33)    4,458,300    159,218
Cumuhation, Training, &
Awaeness            TrainingCoordinator        I    30,000W       00,3(1            100,300   I0,30                                                      302,400       10,8(HI
Iornmution Officer/Ass     2     34,000      163.000     163,000      168,000                                                        504,000      13.000
Mectimp & nhantials        3     20,000      160,000     160,000      160,000                                                        430,0(XX      17,143
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._. __.__ ._ .._.._..
Sub-Total                              428,300      423,300     428,80                                                        1.236,4()0     45.943
Tcnure Surveying
(7500 Farnm. 4 Fanns/ Surveyor                 I    95,400        95,400      95,400 t90,800                                                                            6,14       w  w  >
Survey Aide                3     32,500     247,500      247,500                                                                     495.0         37,679          cr 
__             _-- _         _                                                                                             X
Sub-Ttal                               342,900      342,900           0                                                        685,800       24,493        o  ,, >
0
Ccmnss & Registration,
'      n'tnurclit   Anthro./soiol            0.50   121,300      60,9(1)                                                                                 4(1.9""       2,175       0
Field Asst               3.00    66,W0       66,010(1                                                                                (kjMM(        2,357



Pwlp9mnes Consevaton d Pnoriy Protected Areas Cost Detai
i:nctxker                U.S0 s  57,600       2K,8(00                                                                                 2X,X(0O       1,029
interviewers            1000    17,640        88,200                                                                                   XX.2()0      3,150
lttIl'txts                                   I Wl0,000                                                                                ,oo(H)        3,571
Sub-Total                              343,900                                                                                  341,9(1(1     12,282
l.ivelihood Progann    Conmmunity (rganizer     2     X7,0W\)    174,000      174,000      1740(10      174,000     174,000      174.000     174,WH1     1,218X,000     43,500
Field Assistant            2     66,000      132,01)0    132,000      132,0)00     132,000     132,000      132,001     132,000      924,000       33,W00
Sub-Total                              306,000 306,000             306,00(1    306,00       3606,000((             306,0()0    2,142,W00      76,500
1). EIcological Research Program:
. . . . . . ..     .. . . .. . ..  -- - - - - - -  . .... . ....... ..  -- - - - - - -  ... . . . . ..  -- - - - - - - -  -- -_   - -   
TotalCost(A-I))                          6,033,384    4,908,829    4,320,329    2,16(1,'94    1,969,156    1,969,156    1,969,156   23,33(0,994  833,250
E. Contingencies:
doal lase Cod                                                   6,033,384   4,908,829   4,320,329    2,160,984    1,969,156    1,969,156    1,969,156   23,330,994     833,250
Physical Contingene  '                                            435,649     327,956      282,956       31,774       3S,000       3,000       3,()00    1,087,335      38,833
Price Contingency                                                 748,277    1,069,004    1,300,399     832,928     941,267    1,139,688    1,351,805    7,383,368     263,692
lTotl Site Cot                                                7,217,310   6,305,789    5,903,684   3,025,686    2,913,423    3,111,844   3,323,961    31,801,697    1.135.775
a)0
C-
0
_>>
O
rh



PIpluippnes Conseiviion of Prioray Protected Aieas. CAst DL,ag
KAT'ANGL.AD NAXl22R2i PARK                                                                                                                                                           r s  I1     224.0
I (Biit                                                                                                    lTal14 C',st       ta
Awlivitics               Servies               fliti2     Costs       I 1994        1995          1996          I997           1 9911        1999         2000          (Pso)         os 1)SS
,IL Site l)evelopmns.n:                                                  2,1144,612    4,2t00.674    4.036,070    1,554,252    1.554,252        1 ,630.'923    11.6.2(,9M43    I 7.35 I.227  6129.708
PA I.stablfshmnt                                                        I .267,612    1.297,2456    1.532.452    1.532,452    1.532.452    1.532,452    1,532,452    20.2427,7224          3246,705
StaSrikinId.p          'A Suparintendeat             1    190,200        290,202)       290,200       190),200)     290,200)      190.200       290),200      190,2(24     2.321,400        47,550
Forester IV (Govt.)           2    115.320        11 5,320      225,320        115.320       115,3201      115,3220      115,320       11 5,3202      207,240        224,K30
Foreser I(Govt.)              24     79.2484      237,744       475,488       633,9244      633,9K4       633,9114       633,9244      6331,9244    3,2423,152      138.6844
B-okkeepe                     2      54.60)0       54,600        54,600         54.600        54,600        54.600        54,600        54,602(       382,2200       13.650
Secretary/Clerk                2     52,200        52,200i        52.200        52,200        52,222X)      52.200        52.200        52,22(xi      365,422         13,050
MAainiaatum, Unit I ead       1      42.64K        42,64K        42,648         42,648        42,648        42,64K        42.64K        42.648        29X4.536       10,662
F~oreier I (NOO)              2      36.000        36,000        36,000         36,000)       36,000        36,0(2        36,200        36,2M)        252,22)0        9,0001
Park Ranger (NGO)             6      27,000        54,000       1OK,000        262,000       162.M0(       162,2)0       262,000       162,22XH)      972,000        34,724
Sub-Total                                   782,712    2,074,456    1,2246,952    1,2246,952    1,2116,952    1,2246,952    1,2246,952        22.291,9224     296,240
-1Iiquipment Procurement- 
Ulnit
QyI-Y       Cosi
AU  Vehicle                   1    320.000        320,000                                                                                             322)0,M)       12,429
Motorcycle, 225cc             2      50.000       200.000                                                                                            2I242,00         3,571
Horeso                        3       5,000         25.000                                                                                             15.04)           536
VIIF B3aw Radio
With Ardenna                 I      40,000O       40,000O                                                                                             4()04)M        2,429
VI F liandheld Radio          4      25,000        60,000                                                                                              602,224        2.2143
Coniputu/Pnriner               2     55,000        55,000                                                                                              52,0(20        1,964
Power Generator (solar)        2     60,000        60,000                                                                                              622,21)24)     2.143
Typewrnter                    1       25,000        25,000                                                                                             25,00            536
Calculato                     3         500          2.500                                                                                              2,5(20           54
First Aid Kit                 2       2,500         2,500                                                                                               2,5(04.           99
O11rcr fiurniture              2     70,000        70,000                                                                                              7(2.0(24       2500
Chain saw                      I     40.000        40,000                                                                                              40,000          2,429
2linoculars                   4       5,00         20,000                                                                                              2(1.2)2)         724
T'ape rcomrder/public ad      2      20,000        20,000                                                                                              20,00)0          714
Other equipment                2     75,000        75,0(2                                                                                              75,22)2        2,679
Sub-.Total                                  8494,000             0             0                                                               2494,2)04)      32,929
-Op..rations CkAt      Vehicle & Motorcycle. e                                                                                                                                                              D1- 
(Fuel & Maintnarunce)               225,000       I25,000O      125,20H)     1250H 125,000         125,2)2) 25,22       1225.2242)    125.2)24)      2475,2)20      .12,250            m  X
Iliais Feed                            2,500        3,(()2)       6,0002         4,504         4,50)2        4.52)2        4,51L42       4,5224        321.520        2,125         OD p. :sw
0211cr Supplies                      22,000        22,000         1 2,0002      22,000        12,22)        212,2)2)2     12,04242      12.22424       244,02)2       3,0)00 
Rangcess unifimrn & tools             3,500        24,500        42,042        56,000        56,22H)0       56.0(2(       56,2242)      56.2)(H)    .346.500)       122375          t-
'rraveling & 1'er D)iens              2,400        26,400         224,404      44,224)0      424,42)       424.0420       424,2224     424.224)      3024,800)       2 2.246        4
Sub.Total                                   290,904)      223,4o)2      245,5tX0      245.502)      245,5(24)     245.5(24      245.522H2     1.642,24224)     524,616



Pphpnes Conseivatin d Prioty Pyolected Aueas Cost EXtadl
Basic olrastructure
Sq. 1:1,    CowsSuj
kn      Ft., km.
3'ark Supcnl. Residncc    300      420     336,000                                                                                  3 il,Imm)     12,000
Furniture Supen. Residence                   20,000                                                                                   20.0)          714
k)omns(50 sq. ll./lerson    950     280     266,000                                                                                  266,0N0        9,500
Domu Fumniture                               I 90(,00                                                                                390,000        6,7t6
Nature Cater                                             300,)00                                                                     300t),000     10,714
Storage & Other                              l(XO,OO()                                                                                I(lO,tH00     3,571
WalerSupply/Sanitation                       20,000       21,000       231,X00     21,3(O       2I1.M(o)    21M,Xl))     23101H      150,0tH)       5,357
Watdit Iower, (Bamboo)                        45,000                                                                                  45,000        1,607
----   - --- - -  .  . . ^Z@wo. *_oo. .. .....  -.   ---   ..   ..........@. . . ..  --------  .. . ... .. .. .. . ..  . ow. **. . .  . . . _. . . . . _. .  --   - -- 
Sub-Total                              977,000      321,000      2(,X()0      23,X300      23,300      2l,Xt)0      21,XtH)    1,407,0tH0     50,250
PAI)eveopnet         Roadlmprovaint(knur        3   413,636                  2,481,818   2,431,8i1                                                       4,963,636     177,273
TraiisConszction(km        5    153,462           0            0            0           0                    76,733      76,731       153,462       5,481
Sub-Total                                    0   2,481,818    2,481,81X            t)           0      76,731       76,731     5,117,099     332,754
31. Resource Management:                                         2,030,400     763,640      745,240      683.,40     683,840      63X,840     633,340    6,299,640      224,987
Site InfradruAture   Dim  Fur NSOK Star
(50 sq. It/Person)      650        230      132,000                                                                                 I3 2,4X)0       6,500
Dents Fupiturc                               130,000                                                                                  1 30,4M)t     4,643
Stae  & other                               lOt,000                                                                                   3(00,00       3,573
Water Supply/Sanitation                       30,000      25,000       25,000        5,000       5000         5,t(H       50t0(1      300,000       3,571
Sub-Total                              442,000       25,000      25,000        5,0tH)       5,000       5,000        5,0(M)     512,0(M)      38,286
Maps&IBoundauies   icEodti Engineer             2    121,800      121,800                                                                                  121,800       4,350
Survey Aides               2     82,500       82,500                                                                                  32,500        2,946
Field Assista              2     72,000      72,000                                                                                   72,000        2,571
EnAoder/dr&afan            2     57,600      34,560                                                                                   34,560        1,234
Expens & niaterials                          100,000                                                                                I300,00         3.571
Sub-Total                              410,360                                                                                  410,360       14,674
Managanent IloardOperations                                     1,177,540     549,840      526,44(1    490,040      49(1,040)    490,040     490,04(1    4,213,930     150,499
Board Memnbr               9   1300/day      140,40()     46,300       23,400      23,40)t)     23,400)     21,4(M)      2.1,4tH     304,2t)0      10,364       ni w  :
ProjectCoordinator         I   1)0,000       190,000     390,000      13)0,000    139t,tM)     19(1,0)10   19(,t4H)      9I)t),M    1,33t,tH)      47,501)     OQ Er H
Accounant                  1    95,040       95,040       95,040      95,4)40      95,040       95,44)     95,041)      95,040      665,280       23,760          iD x
lkxokeekpr                 1    54,600       54,600       54,6(M)      54,6(t)     54.600       54,60()     54.6t)t)     54.60))     3X2,200       13,650)   ,       >
Secretary/Clerk            3    52,200        52,200      52,20)0      52,20()     52,20(1      52,20(1     52,2(M)      52,20()     .165,400      13,050       0
. - .   - -- _   ----------  ... .             - - -               ------ ------- -.-------------------- -.-- - - - -- - --  - ------------- .
Sub-Total                              532,240      433.640     415,240      435,240     4i5,240)    415,240      415,240     1,047,080     108,324       S-
-I:quipnmt Procurement                    ------------  -------------



Ph*ppis Constevamn di Pawty Ptolected Aveas Cosl Delal
t 1hill
QTY        Cost
Miticographing Machin      1       50,000       50,00X) 50,tHN1                                                                                        1,786
I'ower (encratr            I     25,000J      25,0(XH                                                                                   25.38Hx         893
Ollicc lumnilurc            1     40,W0()     40.)00                                                                                     .10,010H      1,429
CUuputer/printcr            I    40,0X0       40,000                                                                                     40,000        1,429
IlIabe & 4 handkild radio  1    47,500        4 47,50                                                                                    47,5)0        1,696
Ilinoeulars                4     20,(00O      80,0OO                                                                                     80(,/)0       2,857
Cannera                     I      4,W(X1       4,000                                                                                     4,000          143
Calculator                 2       1,000       2.000                                                                                      2,000           71
Bicycle                    2       5.t)00      10,000                                                                                    10,000         357
Moorcycles                 2    100,000      200,000                                                                                    200W )0        7,143
0                                                                                         0            0
Miscellaeous               I      50,000      50,000                                                                                     50,00)        1.786
Sub-Trol                                548,500                                                                                   548,5(tX      19,589
A)perations Coat    Ollice Supics                      20,000      20,000       20,000       20,000       10(KK(       1(0l(KK      10,0(KK      1(00UI      I(Ol,OOO0      3,571
Iravelling   Per l)in              2,400      76,800       91,200       91,200       64,X0(1      64,X8H)      64,X00      64,8(H1      518,4(Kl      18,514
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                  ---------------......... ..  _... __   ....... . ........ .......  ....................  ----------  ..... I............. .......... .....:_
Sub-Total                                96,800      111,200      111,2t)0      74,800      74,800       74,800       74,X80      618,400       22,0E6
Site Restoration     Agroloroy Specialist        1    121,800                   121,800      121,X(X)     121.,X8((   121,X01      121,XtlO     121,XOt      710,800       26,100
Tedmical Asustant           1     72,000                   72.000       72,0)O       72,000       72,0(H)      72,000      72,0t18      432,000       15,429
Sub-Total                                            193,800      193,800      293,X80O     I9t,XtH     193,8X)      193.,X(1    1,162,800      41,529
C. Soio-Economic Managemnnt:                                      1.421,600    1,077,700      734,800      306,00(1    306,000      306,000      306,000     4,458,100     159,218
Consukalion, Training. &
Awarence           T'rainingCoordinator         I    100,800      100,800      100,80      0  100.80                                                        302,4010      10,8(0
Infonnaition OfficIr/Ass'  2      84,000      168,000     168,00t)     168,000                                                          504,()W       I X,O(O)
Meeting &  uaterials       8     20,000      160,000      160,000      160,000                                                          480,000       17,143
Sub-:otal                               428,800      428,800      428,80W                                                        1,286,400      45,943
'I'enure Surveying
(7500 Farms, 4 Frms/Surveyor                    1     95,400       95,400       95,400                                                                      1)O,XW         6,814
Survey Aide                3      82,500     247,500      247,500                                                                      495.000        17,679
Sub--1otal                              342.,00      342,900                                                                      68x5,xt1      24,493
Cows & Regidsration,                                                                                                                                                                      o-ri
TI nureIst.         Anthro./Ioiol.            0.50   121,800       60,90()                                                                                   6(1,900       2,175           tt X
Ficid Assist             1.0(1   66,000       66,001                                                                                    66,010        2,357        o   p >
EnAwodr                  0.50    57,600       28,801)                                                                                   2X,800         1,029       o
Interviewn              10.00    17,640)      88,2WI                                                                                    X8,2(10       3,15(1       hO
Expenses                                     I00,00(                                                                                  I(0.0(H)       3.571        4.
.....o.o .3........---9-1- ..                                                                    (-       12,282----
Sub-Tol'oal                             343,900                                                                                   Iti,.)OO      12,2X2



Annex A
Table 4
Page 21 of 40
I                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0  0
C4~~~~~'
s                                        N i   r   ij  >0  s > x; 
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
_s 2                                            N       x         ?i
j           @ ei                rx          -  : N r
F ; 0~~I'                                 ?sq<:
-- 8;                           N                 N t  7      M  t   .~
rv e  ! 8        , >                 r-   r         .- 
ii                                   S.366                           -



f _us Comaevant d Piuwy Pfotected Aeas Cost Delal
St UIC-IIA1AAN PR(Y]'FO1CIl'I) AREA                                                                                                               USS I  1'         280
_                                                                  __   .. ... ..    _  .    __   _   -    ..  .. . -_. _, _... ... ........ ...... . .. _ ._. . _ ._ . _ . __ . _  . . .................  .._._...........
tJn it                                                                                     Total Cos*    Tta
Activities           Servic            Units      Costs     1994        1995        1996        1997       199x         1999       2000       (Ia.,,ft)   Cods USS
___    _____   ................. __ .  .. .. ... ...... .. ... ...... . .............. -. - .--.. - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..._._._.___.
A. Site Dcvelopkni:                                           4,264,056   3,149,509   2,986,305   2,976,305   2,x22,N43   2,822,843   2,822,N43   21,844,704    780,16g
PA  s     _                                                  3,023,594   2,262,638   2,729,434   2.719t434   2,719,434   2,719.434   2,719,434   18,193,402    674,764
Slaffiluiklup      PASuperiedaident          I   190,200       190,200     190,200     1)0,200     190.2,0 190,200         190,200    190,2()0   1,331,400      47,550
Forser IV (Govt.)        1   115,320       115,320     115,320     115,320     115,320     115,320     115,320     115,320     807,240      28,h30
Foreaer I(Govt.)         17    79,248      950,976    1,18U,720    1.347,216   1,347,216   1,347.216   1,347,216   1,347,216    X,g75,776  316,992
AccouniaiK                1   106,358      106.358     106,358     106,358     106,358     106,358     106,358     106,35x     744.506      26.590
Secreary/Dai Ad&L        2    63.372       126.744     126.744     126,744     126,744     126,744     126,744     126,744     K87,20K      31,6X6
Mau wai nUhitl Head      2    42,648        8K,296      X5,296      85,296      K5,296      85,296      K5,296     X5,296      597,072      21,324
Forca- I (NGO)           I    36,000        36,000      36,000      36,000      36,000      36,000      36,000     36,000      252.000       9,000
Park RnIer (NGO)        12    27,000        54,000     108.000     324,000     324.000     324,000     324,000    324,000    1,7X2.000      63,643
Sub-Toul                             1,664,894   1,956,638   2,331,134   2,331,134   2,331,134   2,331,134   2,331,134   15,277,202   545,614
-Eeuupmi Prucurenuat
Unit
QTY       Codl
AU Veiick        '        I   320,000      320,000                                                                             320,000      11,429
Motorcycle. 125cc        2    50,000       100,000                                                                             100,000       3,571
lies                     6      5,000       10,000      10,000      10,000                                                      30,000       1,071
VIIF I3as Radio
With Ankeea             I    40,000        40,000                                                                              40,000       1,429
VIF lIandheld Radio      6     15.000       90,000                                                                              90,000       3,214
Compuaer/Priner           I    55,000       55,000                                                                              55,000       1,964
Power Gaaor (solar)      3    60,000       180,000                                                                             180,000       6,429
Typewritr                 1    15,000       15,000                                                                              15,000         536
Calulaor                 3        500         1,500                                                                              1,500          54
Find Aid Kit              1     2,500        2,500                                                                               2,500         89
Offce ianilure            1    70,000       70,000                                                                              70.000       2,500
Chain saw                 1    40,000       40,000                                                                              40,000       1,429
inoculas                 6      5,000       30,000                                                                              30,000       1,071
Tape rewrder/public ad   2     10,000       20,000                                                                              20,000        714
Oher equipment            1   150,000      150,000                                                                             150,000       5,357
Sub-ioltl                            1.124,0W      10,000      10,000                                                    1.144,000     40,857
4)peratis Cod      Vdeile & Motoryce,e                                                                                                                                        
(FueI&Masnteaance)            125,000      125,000     125,000     125,000     125,000    125,000     125.000     125,000     875,000      31,250          I X
I aie Feed                      1,500        4,500       9,0        9,000       9,000       9,000      9,000 9),00             58,500       2.089       N    p 1>
(UlruSupplies                  12,600       12,600      12,600      12,600      12,600      12,600      12.600      12,600      88,200       3,150       0
Ramers uniform and ols          3,500       35,00       63,0W      108,5500    109.5M      101,500     IO,5W  .   108500       640,50       22,875       -I
Travelirg& Per DiXm             3,600       57.600      86,400     133,200     133.20)     133,200     133,200    133,200      YIU,OW       28,929      .
S___~I~l  234,70 . 296,000  388,30    3..,.       388,300     318,300.     ~_         _ ._ _.     _        _.  _   ...       ._._ .18   2.472,200  18,29. 3.  O
Sub ldaI                    ~~~~~~~~~~234,700  296,0W0    311Y,300  3KX,loo    JXx,.loo  388,3W0    mm.100lo   2,472,2o0     YX1,293



pl_m cGm        m d Pmonty PnmIin Am  Cod DdS
Sq R.,   Cod/Sq-
km      FL., km
PinL S9al. R ct        111)0     450      360,000                                                                            360,tlO0     12,357
F_tuic Squat. R_imax                       20,000                                                                             20.000        714
I Dm (50 4 L/Pam.   900         300      270.000                                                                            270.000       9.643
Du   3J .FAM                              130.000                                                                           I33.000        6.429
N _h3e C               340      4.500                 630,000                                                                630,000      22.500
Sup A Odr                                 100.000                                                                            100.000       3,571
W    S MpI S _dim                         130.000                                                                            130.000       4.643
WO  Tmwr. (lmoo          3      9.000      27.000                                                                             27.0Y 964
Sa-Tda3                             1,037.000    630,000           0          0           0           0          0    1.717.000      61.321
PA 3)eVdqO         Rood   mvead (im         6    103.409                  103,409     103,409     103.44)     413.49)    103.409     10.4,09     620,454     22,159
Ta& C* Idi'in(km         a    76,731       153.462    153.462     153.462     153.462                                        613.X48      21.923
SH&-TdaI                              153,462    256.D71     256.X71     256.371     103.A)     103,409     103.409    1.234,302     44.032
it Rtmu   M ing                                              2.626.732   1.237.032   1,226,032   1.191l032   1,191,0.2   1,191p032   1.191,0.12    9.Y53,924  351.926
Site    1          D13 . Fa NGO Slff
(50      ) fllai.)   1.050       300      315.000                                                                            315,000      11,250
Dam F      _mUw                           210.000                                                                            210,000       7500
Slrapn  (b                                 WOOD.00                                                                           I00.000       3.571
WA  S&"Wsmwa[ia                           115.000                                                                            115.000       4.107
Sub-Tdal                             740.000           0          0           0           0          0           0      740,000      26,429
Mapm A Bww     ~   Geodic& IFAVw             3   121.300       60,900                                                                             60,900      2,175
& By Aid=                2    32,50        32,500 622500                                                                                   2,946
FIIM Anid                2    72,000       72.000                                                                             72.000       2.571
E ndaAi_m                2    57.600       57.600                                                                             57,600      2,057
FxpiA   _kj                            .  200.000                                                                            200.00        7,143
Sb-Tudal                             473,000                                                                            473.000      16.393
Mpi. 0d Op'iam                                               1,413.732    727.632    716.632     6XI.632     631,632    611,632     6XI.632    5.5X4.524    199.447
8owd Ma                  9   130Wa.y      30400        46,300      46,300     46,34t      46,X3       46,300     46.3X0      421.200      15,043    p
rtjCCoidali              I   190,000      190,000     I900.0      190,000     390.00     I90.000     390.0W      N9OON    1.3.30,W       47.50)0    *   
Ahvom_Lut                1   106.36       106,363     106.,36     106.363     106.36X    106I.KX     106,36X     106.WX      744.576     26,592        0 X
Ta*icaSq,pm              I   115,320       115,320    115.320     115,320     115,3203   115.320     115.320     115.320     307,240     23,330     , 1. 1 .
S-dmyKl1k                2    63,372      126,744     126,744     126.744    126,744     126,744     126,744    126.744      337,203     31.6U      o
Sub-Tal                              673.332     5X5.232     535.232    535.232     5x5.232     5X5.232    535,232    4,190,224     149.651    4,
-F'_M 3rucia



PIudijui CWOW     d Pry Pwbd  ieA    Cod Deidl
QT)IY    (Cud
Minx p       Maduin      1    50,000.      50.0O                                                                             50,(100      1,736
Powe (k:alw              I    25,1000      25.000                                                                             250i110       393
(lili e lfidlwe          1    40,010       40,011t                                                                            400t)()      1.429
Camp-_pn:r               I    55,000       55,000                                                                             55.tNX)      1,964
line  4 hodxeld radio    1    47,500       47,500                                                                             47,5(0)      1.696
lINaMLn                  4      5,000      20.00                                                                              20,INJO       714
Cana                     2      4.000       3,00W                                                                              N4,wW        236
Teda*il apc  _           I    50.000       50,000                                                                             50,000       1,786
Ili%iyt                  2     2.500        5.000                                                                              5,000        179
Madkcyes                 4    50,000      200.000                                                                            2U0,000       7,143
DraRmg lbb A Aoob        1    31.000       31,000                                                                             3 1. 0       1.107
M1.cdh.i                 I   100,000      100,000                                                                            100,000       3,571
Sub-Toal                             631.500                                                                            631,500      22,554
-Op(  =Cod         ofice Ssylin                   20.000      20,000      20,000      20,000      10,000      10,0     10,000      10,000      100,0W       3,571
TadVCIIg A Pr Dian              2,400      33,400     122.400     111,400      86.400     X6,400      86,400      86.400     662,300      23,671
Sub-Toal                              103.400    142.400     131,400      96,400     96.400      96,400      96.400     762,300      27,243
Sid R     emaiim   A      Ewbm    Spcialni   1   121,300                  121.300     121 ,XW    121 ,X00    121 ,W)    121 ,X00    121 ,3W     730,XW      26,100
Racur  Mg. Spocialist    2   121.300                  243,600     243,600    243,600     243.600     243,600     243,600    1.461.600     52.200
Tcdical Ammi             2    72,000                  144,000     144,000     144.000     144.0W     144.000     144.0W      364.000      30,857
Suab-Tog                                         509.400     509.400     509.40400  509,400     509,400     50'),40K    3,056,400   109,157
C. SaCgFAMuiC Man                                            1.913,440   1,476,2Y0   1.050,3U0    514,080     514.030     514.030    514.03    6,496,920    232.033
Cu-|mmffio Trakin A
Aw _M             T i_magCOW&ndar          I   100,300      100.800     100.800     100,300                                                    302,400     10,300
I     r&4dima O'11Ase   4      4.000     336,000     336.000     336.000                                                   1,.WS.WW     36.000
Mdp A ~miak              5    20.000      100.000     100,000     100,000                                                    3W.000       10,714
Sub-Toal                             536,.0      536,300     536,3W                                                    1,610,400     57,514
Tauu S&mcyimg
(17,000 Fn.. 4    SamCYs                    I    95,400       95.400      95,400                                                                190.0W       6.S14
F-I)ay)           S9wwy Aid                 4    32,500      330,000     330,000                                                                660.OW      23,571
Sub-Toed                             425,400     425.400          0                                                     Y50.30       30,336
ID lb :3
T    _a l Ia.     Adhto.Ioul              100   121.S8W      121,30W                                                                            121.YW       4,350         M x
Ilred AaiaL            1.00    66,000      66,000                                                                             66,0)o0     2,357      NJ
EILado                 0.50    57,600      23,300                                                                             2Y.300      1,029
1Iaia,cg               3.00    17,640      70.560                                                                             70,560      2.520      r%   .
Ea,ipau                                   150,0W                                                                             150.0Wl      5,357
Subl'TSal                            437,160                                                                            4.17,160    15,613



Ph*ppms Cavinaon d Pnoidy Poecded Aeas Cost Delal
Iwvelihood Ilron    Ctnununity(kpgnima           2    123,040       250,0K0      250,0M0     250.080      250,080      250,080      250,(180     250,08J     1750,i60       62,520
FieW Assistant             4     66,0(XX      264.000      264,000      264.000      264.1XX8     264,000     264,000      264,X00     1 .X43,00(      66,000
-----------               -  ----------  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  -----  .................. . . .  ... .. .. _. . .. .. .._._
Sub-TlAal                                514,080      514,080)    514,0O0       514,0X(\    514,080      514.0o0      514,018u    3,59Y,560     12X,520
D). Fxdogical Rnsd  Prorgan:
__ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~.     .   _. _  .. _........ .. . ..  -----  - --  -  .. ... .. __.... ......____.. ._.. . . ._.   .......... .. ..............._  __
TsaICod(A-I))                             8.804,228    5,862,321    5.263,217    4,6X1,417    4,527,955    4,527,955    4,527,955   3X,195,54Y    1,364,127
E. Coutingens:
Toal Lia Cao                                                       8,tt04,228    5,862,821    5,263,217    4,681.417    4,527,955    4,527,955   4,527,955    38,195,548    1,364,127
Fhyul Coniu- : '                                                    560,394      134,531       40,031       38,531       15,511      15.511       15,511      820,020       29,286
Prime C( rinmwy                                                   1,118,021    1,272,280    1,535,772    1,824,3a4    2,192,924    2,654,655    3,14X8,64   13,796,379)    492,728
ral sile Cost                                                  10432,643    7,269,632    6,83W,020    6,544,311    6,736,390    7,198,121    7,691,33(1   52.X1 1,947    1,336,141
OQ oS :3
0
rtF 
in -  :
0



tppm  Consrvdmon d P,uty Protected Areas Cost Detal
MO(tNTl AP( NATI IRE IPARK (P SOS): 1')3-1'))                                                                                                               15$ I  2'            28
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. . . ..  . .._._ .._ .............._-. .. ... ...........  .. ........... ....  .. .........   .. ...._ 
Pl'rsouml       Numbrof Salary/                                                                                                 Ioal Cost        l'otal
AJlivities             Servics         l'ersunnl    Year       1994         2995         1996         1997         1998        1999         2000        (tcs.rs)    cod LtIS$
_                                                                                                       _  .   .  _ _    .  _   .  --- -   -- -. - ---. . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- -   . - - -- - - - -- --- -- .. . .. . . . ._ .. ._
A. Sitle I)velowntm:                                              3,056,4/\9   3,621,439    3,390,239    1,322,057    1,322,057    1.322,1057    1.09,1,9(64    15,12(,.123  540,219
PA Estahlishwnt                                                  1,860,216    1,023,064    1,091,864    1,09'1,864    1,09IJ,X64    1,0191,864    1,091,864  X,342,(600   297,950
Stalilluiklup       PA Superintendant                  190,200     190,200     190,200      190,200      19)0,20AM)   290,200      190,200     190,2100    1,331,4/0       47,550
FIorester IV (Govt.)        I    1 15,320     115,320     115,320      115,320      115,320      115,320      115,320     115,320       807,240       28,830
Forester I (Govt)          2     79,248       79,248      158,496      158.4%       158,496      158,496      158,496     158.496     1,03t),224      36,794
llookkeeper                 2    54,600       54,600       54,600       54,6(X0      54,600       54,600       54,6(0      54,6(1(t     382,200       13,650
Secretary/Ckrk              I     52,200       52.200       52,200      52,200       52.200       52,20)t      52,20()     52,2o(K      365.400       13,050
Masinaance Unit tlead      1      42,648      42,648       42,648       42,648       42,648       42,648       42,648      42,648       298),536      10.662
Foreder I (NGO)             1     36,000      36,000       36,000       36,000       36,000       36,()00      36,000      36,000       252,000        9,000
Park Ranger(NGO)           8     27.000       81.000      162,000      216,000      216,000      216,000     216,000      216,000     1,323,000       47,250
Sub-Total                               651,216      811,464      865,464      865,464     865,464      865,464      865,464     5,790,000     206,786
-Equipment Procranaw
Unit
Ql2Y       Cod
AtJ Vehicle                 2   320,000      320,000                                                                                    32(0,(XK)     11,429
Motorcyck, 125cc.          2      50.000      100,000                                                                                   1()0,()00      3,571
lINes                      6       5,000      30,000                                                                                     30,1000       1,071
VIIF Base Radio
With A dkum               1     40,000       40,000                                                                                     40,000        1,429
VHF Heandketd Radio        6      15,000      90,000                                                                                    "90,(00        3,214
Ceruterrm/Prter            I      55,000       55,000                                                                                    55,(XX)       1,964
Power Gawart (solr)        I    60.000        60,000                                                                                     60,(KX)       2,143
Typewriter                  1     15,000       15,000                                                                                    15,()00         536
Cakulatr                   3        500         1,500                                                                                     1,500           54
Fird Aid Kit                I      2.500        2,500                                                                                     2,500           89
Ofice furniture             1    70,000        70,000                                                                                    70,000        2.500
Chain saw                   1     40,000      40,000                                                                                     40,()00       1,429
Birnocuat                  6       5,000      30,000                                                                                     30,000        1,07 1
Tape recorder/public ad    2      10,000      20,000                                                                                     20,000         714
(Oher equipmat              I    150,000      150,000                                                                                   150,0)(0       5,357
Sub-Toal                              1,024,000            0            0           0                                            1,024,000      36,571
-Operdtiom Cot       Vehick & Motorcyck. e                                                                                                                                              tD 1  tD
(FuelhMaidanae)                 125,000      125,000      125,0W       125,000     125,11)0     125,0)0      125,0M()     125,tKX)     X75,00X       31,250          tD X
lrie Feed                         1,500       3,W00        6,00         9,000        9,t()W      9,(X)0       9,W(K)       9',(N)(      54,000        1,929       C  4. S-
OTfce Supplies                    12,000       12,000      12,0W0       12,000       12,(XK0      12,000       12,(X00     12,0(W0       84,W0        3,000
Rargges unifonauA tools            3,500      21,000       35,000       42,000       42,000       2 42,00(1   42,0         42,000      266,000        9,500        -
Traveling& Per I)iens              2,400      24,000       33,600       38,40        38,400       38,400      38,40        38,4(X)     249,6100       8,914        ,p
. .........-.-..  ...... . ---- _ ....... ...... - ......      ....0..... ...  ................. _   -
Sub-Total                               185,000     211.6W       226,400      226,40()     226,4(10     226,4(N)    226,40N)    1,52X.t00       54,593



Phrppa Conservabn   Pnody Protected Asseas Cost Oailt
lIa Inae 3IlrastlLlurc- -
Sq. Ft.,    Cst/Sq
kIm      Ft., km.
Prk Supera. Iesidence    800        420      336,000                                                                                    316(000       12,000
I:uMiture SupIn ResideIce                     20,000                                                                                     2t,0(HX)       714
Dorms (50 sq. Il./peron    750      2X0      210,(H00                                                                                   21u0,o)        7,500
I)urm  Fumiture                               150,000                                                                                   150,000        5,357
Nature Centr                                              300,00                                                                        300,000       10.714
Stoage &(hlUer                                100,000                                                                                   I(H3,000       3,571
Water Supply/Sanitation                       105,000                                                                                   105,000        3,750
Watch Tower, (Iltahoo)                        45,000                                                                                     4 54(X)O      1,607
Sub-Tutal                               966,000      300,000            0            0            0           0 ;                1t,266;,;J0    45.214
PADevelopment        RoadInqrovenaent(kmns      30    413,636                 2.068,182    2,068,182                                                        4,116,364     147,727
IrailsComstruction(knl     9    153,462      230,193      230,193      230,193      2.30,193     210,193      2.10U191          (3    1,3K1,159       49,327
Sub-Total                               230;193    2.298,375    2,298,375      230,393     2.10,.193    230.193            1'    5,517.523     197,054
13. Resource Managemail:                                          2,179,540      760,440      728,240     686,240      686,240      686,240      686,240    6.413.1J0      229,042
Site Inlrstrusdure   Bomr  For N(;) Staif
(50 sq. Il./Perswn)      850        280      238,4to0                                                                                  2.18.1Mmo      8,500
luss FumRiture                                170,1H)0                                                                                  170t.030      6,071
Strage & ither                                100,000                                                                                   I00,W040       3.571
Waat Supply/Sanitation                       100.000                                                   ,,     ___.0,,                                  3.571
Sub-Tlual                               608.000            0            0           0            0            0            0      608,1300      21.714
M6apsa  Bundaries    Geodetic Enginea            I    3121,00       60,900                                                                                    60,9(0        2,175
Survey Aides               2      82,500      82.500                                                                                     X2,5tH/      2,946
Field Aistant              2     72,000       72,000                                                                                    72,000        2,571
F,ncoder/drallsnsan        2      57,600      57,6(00                                                                                    57.600       2,057
Expensa   matlerials                         250,000                                                                                   2 50,0()0      8,929
Sub-Total                               523,000                                                                                   523,00(0      38,679
Nlanagement BoardOperations                                      1,04X,540      566,640     534,440      492,440      492,440      492,440     492,340     4,119,380      147,121
Board Member               9    1300/day     140,400       46,X00       21,4(M)      2.1.4(HJ    21,40(0      23,4(g)      21.440(     .104,200      I0,864
Proje.t Coordinator        I    1I0,000      190,03)0    3x9,O(3(      390,0430    I3X903 ,( 190,0)0         190,0HI      l9),(H4I    1,330,000      47,500        o  P} 0
Accountant                 I     95,040       95,040       95,04(       95,04(       95,)40      953)40       95,040       95,(0410    665,2X0       23,760       0Q ro  0
IJookkeeper                I     54,600       54,600       54.600       54,600      54,6(H(      54,6(3(3     54.6(3(      54,60((     13(2,2()0     11,65(          ID X
S"cretary/Clerk            I     52,200       52,2(M)      52,200(       52,200       52,2(M)      52,2W3(      52,200 52,2(3          365,4(()     133,050        _  4.. ",
-- - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  . . - -   - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  ....... ..... ... .  - ------ - -- -
*0
Sub-Totall                              532,240     438,64(0     415,240      415,2-13(    415,2-1(     415,243)    415,23(3    .1,4(47,)X0    308,824       mn
-Lqnuilpneint Procurement                     ,,,,,,,  ,                                                                                                                                0
t Jinit



liftubip   Cansoh  d Pof Am  Pmgsdcd Aug. Cad et1
(yJY      Cod
Minscosrbing Ma.iin       I    50,0(0)     50.000                                                                              5" "'        1.786
Puwu (keaaakw            2    25,000       50.0'10                                                                             5(3.1        1.736
(lf  Itimiluac            I    40,(H00     40,000                                                                              40.J1KN      1.429
Con"iWINKsIIr             1    40,000      40,000                                                                              40,10)       1.429
law   4h_mngkirmdio       I    47,5W       47.500                                                                              47.56Y)      1.696
llinuculam               4      5.000      20.000                                                                              2010)          714
C :wa                     3     4,000       4.000      .                                                                        4.0(t)        143
Caulabar                 2        500        3,000                                                                               I,000         36
l3cyk                    2      2.500       5,000                                                                                5.000        179
Mooraydes                2     50,000     100.000                                                                              IOO.000      3,573
0                                                                                   0           0
Mibtmneous                I    50,000       0000                                                                               350,M()       1,736
Sub-Tol                              407,500                                                                             407,500      14.554
.ppcahix Cost      Office Suplies                  20,000      20,000      20,000      20.000      I(O,IH)0    l0,tH)0     30,0)       130,0(H)   IOO,(HH0      3,571
Travelling& Pa D)ian            2.400      S3.Y00      303,000     99,2W0      67,200      67,20('     67,200      67,200      564,300     20,171
Sub-Total                            I03.300     123.000     119,200      77,200)     77,200      77,200      77.200     664,XW       23,743
SiteRamtoraion      Ag1orestrySpccialist      3   12I.&00                  121,300    121,300     121,K00(    1231.340    121,KH)    121.K00      730.K00      26,100
1'edmic Asshisat          I    72,000                  72.000      72,000      72n,w0      72,000      72,000      72,000     432.000       15,429
Sub.rotal                                        193,W00     193,800     193,K0(0    193,K3)0    193,300     193.,00    1,162,W00     41,529
C. Socio.Ecnomic Man                                         1,555,700   1,117,700    774.,KW     306.000     306.000     306,000     306,000    4,672,200     166,K64
CuuNsultxon, Tran_ A
AwwaKu             1lruiningCoordinator      I   100.300     300,830     300,300     I00,00                                                      302,400      303S0
Infonnsion (fficer/@A    2    84,000      163,000     163,000     163,000                                                     504,(X)     I3K,000
Meetinp & naaials       30    20,000      200.000     200,000     200,000                                                     600,00()     21,429
SubTrdal                             468,W      463,300     468,800                                                    1,406,400     50,229
l'canre Surveying
(3,000 Fan., 4 Fam Survey'r                  1    95,400      95,400      95,400                                                                  3 9),K00     6,314
Survey Aide              3    32,500      247.500     247,500                                                                 495,W0       17.679
Sub-Tob                              342,900     342,900          0                                                      635,3K0      24,493
Cos & ReghAtiorklin.
lenure Int.        Adiho.hsociol,         050   121,300       60,900                                                                              60,3X)0      2,175       pZ P  "
Field Assi.             3.00    66,000     66,000                                                                              66,0()0      2,357      00  :1
Enwder                 0.5p    57,600      23,s00                                                                              2K,300       1,029         I X
czACvicwa             15500    17,640     132.300                                                                             132,34Ml      4,725      CO 4  >
Expens                                    1350,000                                                                            350,0t()      5,357
Sub-lrotal                           43K,0(H)                                                                            43.,t44)     15,643
.ivcOihood3'rogam    Co,ununi3yO)rganizer    2    K7,0()0    174,00(3    174,00()    174,(4)0    174,(3H)     174,tNNI   174.00(3(   174.tN)0   1.21X.(HH)    43,500



Phtqwm  Canawvtion d Pnority ProBied Ash  Cbt Detl
FickiAsistart            2    66,000      132,J00     132,000     132,(OtJ    132,000     132.00X     132,(000    132,000     924,(XX)     33,000
Sub-lutal                            306,000     306,000     306,000)    306,00t;    306,000     306,108)    306,00t0    2,142,0)0    76,500
1). Fcological Rcscwsh Prgrain:
TotalICost(A-D)                       6,791,649   5,499,579   4,893,279   2,314,297   2,314,297   2,314.297   2,0X4,104   26,211,503    936,123
E. CorwingLncies:
Toai lasm cod                                                6,791,649   5,499,579   4,893,279   2,314,297   2,314,297   2,314,297   2,084,104   26,2;1,503    936,125
Physcal Contingc  *                                           485,354     389,756     344,756      34,529      34,529      34,529          (3   1,323,453      47,266
Price Cosingecy                                               851,096   1,199,271    1,476,361    892,363    1,109,245    1,343,337   1,430,15    8,302,486  296,517
IToal Sie Ccod                                             8,128p099   7,088,606   6,714,396   3,241,189   3,458,071   3,692,163   3,514,919   35,837,443   1,279,909
D .- tD
tD X
0
4.



Ph*pm  Coraer-iion d Prordy Protected Aas CoAs Detal
SIAR(iAO Wll.)l.IFEF SANCI' IAR Y                                                                                                                              IIS$ I  1P         28.0
_                                                                                                      _  -   -   .    ---    ---  -   .. .. . _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . .. .. . .. .
Unit                                                                                              Total Cis      'I'otal
Acliviltcs             Serviuc             t Linis    Costs      1994         1'995        1996          3I'J)7      I3998         1999        2N0         (     )     Cost IJSS
.....   - - ------    .. .......  ..... .  ..          .......     -- - ---   - ---  ... .  . ... .-   --   -  -- - ----   - ..--------- -- -  - -   -----------  ---- -    -........ .........---  -  ---
A. Site I)ev:lopmcnt:                                               2,609,657    1.,59,605    1,777,653    1,777,653    1,277.653    1,277,653    1,047,460    11,627,335     415,262
PA Eblablishunmn                                                   1,432,464     929,412    1,047,460    1,047,460    1,047,460    1,047,460    1,1047,460    7,599,176      271.399
Siall'Uuildup        P'ASupermiendent            I    19(1,200      190,200      190,200      190,200      190,200      I'0,200      190,200      1')0,2wX)    1,331,40K)     47,550
Fwsutcr IV (Govt.)          I    115,320      115,320      115,320       115,320      115,320      115,320      115,320      115,32(1     807,240       28,830
FIoresterli(Govt.)          4     79,248      158,496      237,744      316,992      316,992      316,992      316,992      316,992      1,9X1,200      70,757
llookkekpcr                 1     54,600       54,6(0        54,600       54,600       54,600       54,600       54,600       54,600      3X2,200        13,650
Scvrltry/Clerk              I     52,200       52,200        52.200       52,201       52,2(0       52.200       52,200       52,20       365,400        13,050
MainuenanceUnitnIlcad       1     42,648       42,648       42,648       42,648        42,648      42,648       42,648       42,648       298,536        10,662
Forater I (NGO)             I     36,000       36,000       36,000       36,000        36,000       36,(100     36,000       36,000       252,000        9.000
Park Ranger(NGO)            5     27,000       54,000      108,000       135,000      135,000      135,t)0      135,000      135,000      837,000       29,893
___ _ _~~~~~~~ ---- __ _.      _  .._. __....... .. . .. . -.-----..--- ... . . .. .  -  --   ---  ._ -----  .. ._ . . ._.... _.    - _       
Sub-Total                                703,464      836,712      942,960      942,960      942,960      942,960      942,960    6,254,976       223,392
-Equipment Procurenent
Unit
Q1'Y       Cost
lbot (Bancas)               2     35,000       70,000                                                                                      701,0(0)      2,5(H0
llones                      2      5,000       10,000                                                                                       10,000         357
VIIF Base Radio
With Antmnrka              1     40,000       40,000                                                                                      40,000         1,429
VIIF laulbeld Radio         6     15,000       90,000                                                                                      ')0,000       3,214
CGu,Printkr                 I     55 000       55,000                                                                                                     1.964
Power Generator (solar)     1     60,000       60,000                                                                                      60,W(1        2.143
Typewriter                  I     I 5,1)0       15,000                                                                                      I 5,00         536
Cdculator                   3        500         1,500                                                                                       1,500          54
Firm Aid Kit                1      2,500        2,500                                                                                       2,500           89
ffikce fimnilure            1     70,000       70,000                                                                                      70,000        2,500
Chain uw                    1     40,000       40,000                                                                                      40,00          1,429
Binoculars                  6      5,000       30,000                                                                                      30,000         1,071
Ta recorder/public ad       2     10,000       20,000                                                                                      20,0(10         714
Otherequipm                 1    150.000      150,000                                                                                     150,0(1)       5,357
Sub-Total                               654,000                                                                                     654,000        23,357
-Operaticas  Cam     Bout & (iaerator                                                                                                                                                      P  Pz p
(Fuel A Maienawco)                15,00        15.000       15,00        15,000       15,W)        15,(H10      15,t(10      15,tl0      105,0(1         3,750      OQ c- tD
lorse Feed                         1,500        3,000        3,00         3,00W        3,01)0       3,000        3,0W0        .3,000       21,tlW0         750        L)    X
OffIceSupplies                    12,000       12,000        12,000       12,000       12,(10       12,00       12,MM        12,0(10       84,000        3,000       o  41 >.
Ra_'usunifonm  &tools              3,500       23,000       31,500       33,500       38,50(       3X,5(10      38,5(0       38,50(l      245,000        8.750       0
Traveling A Pae )iens              2,400       24,000       31,20        36,000       36,000       36,00(       36,000       36,00        235,200        8,400       nt
.         .7     92,700. .  345          304,5._ (,                 304,50.)  -------,- ------             24.650       0
Sub'Total                                75,0W        92,7W        104,500      1(14,500     1(14,500     104,5thl    1(14,5W       69tl,200      24,650       )



PINpns C;Conservaeon d Pnouty Prouected Ases Cost ruad
ILa5  InlflrkU-  -- --u
Sq. Ft.,   Cost/Sq.
km      Ft., km.
Park Supen. Residence    800      420     336,o00                                                                             36.K6(HX     12,000
Furniture Supert. Resideuce                20,000                                                                              20X000         714
lDoms (50 sq. AJPaaon    700      2xo     196,000                                                                              196,0tx/     7.000
Dons Furniture                            140,000                                                                              140,000      5,000
Nature Center                                         200,000                                                                 200,000       7,143
Storage & (Olther                         100,0                                                                                10000        3,571
Water Supply/Sanitation                    105,000                                                                             105,000      3.750
Boat Dock                                  50,000                                                                               50,000       1,7X6
Sub-lTotal                           947,000     200,000           0           t           0           (          tt)   1,1147,000    40,I64
PA Developmnt       Visits's racilities                                   500,000     500,000     500,00(                                        1,500,000      53,571
I'rils Cauetnuion
(Lourd Walk)knu.         9    153,462     230,193     230,193     230,193     230,191     210.19.1    230.193                1,31,159     49,327
Sub-rotal                            230,193     730,193     730,193     730,193     230t,193    230,193                2,XX1,159     102,899
It. Resouce Management:                                       1,X77,540    798,840     775,440     673,84()    673,840     673,840     673,840    6,147,180    219,542
Site Infrastnuture  Dorms For N(;O Staff
(50 sq. f./Person)     600       280      168,00K                                                                             161,0X0(0     6,(\00
Dons Furniture                            120,000                                                                              120(),000    4,286
Storage & Other                            75,000                                                                              75,(H0)      2,679
Water Supply/Sanitation                    75,000                                                                              75,000       2,679
Sub-Total                            438,000           0           0           0           0          0           0      438,00()     15,643
Maps & Boundriers  Geodetic Engineer         1   123,800       60,)00                                                                              6(0,900      2,175
Survey Aides             2    82,500       82,500                                                                              82,500       2,946
Field Aszisnt            2    72,000       72,000                                                                              72,000       2,571
Encoder/dratman          2    57,600       57,600                                                                              57,600       2,057
Expees and materials                      100,000                                                                             100,000       3,571
Sub-rotal                            373,000                                                                             373,tXWo     13,321
Managemet Board Opaatum                                      1,066,540    605,040     581,640     4X(0,040    480,040     480,040    4X0,()40    4,173,380    149,049
Board Member             9   1300/day    140,400       46,800      23,400      23,4(H)     23,400      23,400     23,400      304,2t)0     10,864    00 v' C
ProjectCoordinator       I   1900,00      1'90,W()    I9)0,00     1'9,W0      190,00(1    1 9)0,(KKJ    I'9t,OW0  19(,(0(0   1,330,0)0    47,5(X)       *  X
Accountant               I    95,040       95,040      95,040      95,4040     95(040      95,t40     95,0-t      95,040      665,280      23,760      , ,S -
Bookkeeper               I    54,600       54,600      54,600      54,6100     54,600      54,6(8)     54,600     54,600      382,200      13,650
Secretary/Clerk          1    52,200       52,200      52,200      52,200      52,200)     52,200      52,200     52.20K)     365,400      13,050     s
Sulb-otal                            532,240     438,640)    415,24t)    415,240)    415,240    415,240     415,240    1,047,08(0    1081.824   0



Ph*ppm  Cenhv*n  d Prnty Poled ed Areas Cos DetMU
-FAuuiplt PrOwnserna
t Init
QIlY      Cost
MinmmgWaphing Madcin     1    50,(N0)     50,0(\)                                                                          50.0(N)     1,786
pow.r (israIou          2    25.000       50,NJ0                                                                           50p,t()      1,736
(llik lritwmiue          I    40.01N      40,0(N)                                                                          40,(000      1,429
Cmuluta/ptdr             1    40,000      40,0(0)                                                                          40h(N)       1,429
lIashA4hmndhddracdiu     1    47,500      47,500                                                                           47,5W)       1,696
llinoculn               4      5,000      20.000                                                                           20,000        714
Camana                   1     4,000       4,000                                                                            4,000        143
Calkilator               2       500       1,000                                                                            1,000         36
Bicycle                 2      2,500       5,000                                                                            5,000        179
MI dxcyclm              2    50,000      100,000                                                                          100,000      3,571
aI                                                                               0          0
Miscellaneou             1    50,000      50,000                                                                           50,W00       1,7X6
Sub-Total                           407,500                                                                          407,500      14,554
-)peratios Colt    041cc Suplis                  20,000      20.000     20,000      20,000                                                    60,000       2,143
TravellingA Per Diem           2,400     106,W0      146,400    146,400     64,800      64,X00     64,800      64,X00     658,300      23,529
Sub-Total                           126,800     166,400    166,400     64,800      64,800     64,300      64,300     71h,800      25,671
SitcRcioration     AgroiorarySpecialist     I   121,300                 121,800    121,800     121,K00     121,X00    121,800    121,X00      730.X00     26,100
rechlial Asstai         1    72,000                  72,000      72,W00     72,0(X)     72,000     72,W00     72,0()0    432,000       15,429
Sub-Tolal                                       193,800    193,8XW     193,w00    193,300     193,XW\    193I,0O    1,162,X00     41,529
C. Socio-Economic Managanic :                               1,444,700    663,X00    663,800     219,000    219,000     219,0W     219,0(\()   3,648,33W   130,296
Conw  rramn&u. &
Aware..           Training Codintor        I   100I,X      IOO,3W      100,800    IW0,W0                                                    302.4WX      10,800
Inlnaon OffccrIA        2    72,000      144,000    144,000     144,000                                                   432,000      15,429
Medinp & notuish        10    20,000    200,000    200.000      200,000
Sub-Totl                            444,800    444,300     444,300                                                  1,334,400    47,657
Tenure Surveying
(3,000 Fau, 4 Fain Surveyor                1    95,400      95,400                                                                           95,400       3,407
Survey Aide             3    32,500      247,500                                                                          247,500      38,39
Sub-Total                           342,900          0          0                                                    342,900      12.246
Cams & Regnirlonti0 OQn
enure ld.         Anthro/sociol.         0.50   121,800     60,0)0                                                                           60,)00       2,175
Ficed Assid.           1.00   66,000     66,000                                                                            66,000      2,357      LO
Fnoder               0.50    57,600     2,800                                                                             23,3W       1,029
Intaviewear           15.00    17,640    132,300                                                                          132,300      4,725
Ixp..'mcs                                150,0(0)                                                                         150.000      5,357
--------------- l................4                                                            . I5,
Sub-l,otl                           438,0(N)                                                                         4.IX.tNN)   15,643



Ptuhppanes Cnsevation of PrKl)y Protected Areas Cost Detail
Livelihood Progann    Conmnunity Orgainizer       I     X7,004)      87,000       87,0(N)      87,000        87,0N00      87,(00)      87,000       87,tN)o     6t)9,0((      21,750
Field  ssistlant            2     66,000      132,00(0     132,000       132,000      132,tNN)     132.(H)0     132,0N10     132,)1)0     924,00(0       33,000
Sub-Total                                219000       219,000      219)000      219,0(K)(    219,(((      219)000      219,O(H)    1,53.,0(N      54,750
1). Icological Resarch P rogram:
- ---   - ---   -  .. ..__. _. .  .  . .  . .  . ._. ...... .  .  -----   -_-- ----  ... .. . .....___....  --------  -----
lotu Cost(A-D)                            5,931,897    3,322,245    3,216,893    2,670,493    2,17(,493    2,170,493    1,940,300    21,422,815     765,101
E. Contingencies:
dLoAl Base Cot                                                     5,931.897    3,322,245    3,216,893    2,670,493    2,170,49.1   2,170,493    1,940,300    21.422,815     765,101
Physical Corsingenc  *                                              401,504       139.529      109,529      109,529       34,529       34,529           tl       X29,149       29,612
Price Contingency                                                   762,647      711,759      955,502    1,029,133   1059,252    1.282,392    1,358,244       7,158,928     255,676
Iotal Site Cot                                                   7,096,049    4,173,533    4,281,924    3,809,155    3.,264,274    3,487,415    3,298,544    29,410,893    1,050,389
00 0c  :
0  H(
oDX
W ,3
0
p.



Phslppwne Conervatont od PFmoMy Protected Areas Cobt Detail
NOR'IIIIiRN SIERRA MAJ)RE NATU)RE. PARK                                                                                                                LISS I  1P       28.0
Unit                                                                                         Totial Ct,st   'loutal
Activilies            Services          t )ins     Costs     1994         199 5       199)6       1997         1998        1999        2000        (P.sos)    Cos[t JSS
A. Site Development:                                            3,472,132   2,239,572    2,452,712   2,486,312   2.486,312   2.486.312   2.486.312  IlX. 09,)d,66    646,774
PA Establishment                                               1.837.208    1.632.648   2,145.788    2,179.388   2,179.388    2,179,388    2.179,388    14,333,196  511,900
Staff l.taildup     'A SupaFintendant          2   190,200      190,200      190,200     1910.200    190,2(M)     190),20     190,200     190),20t2    1,331.400    47,550
Forester IV (Govt.)       2    115.320      1 15,320    115,320      115.320     11I5.320)    115,320     115,320     1 1 5,32t)   807,240      28.830
Forester I(Govt.)       I25    79,248       396,240     792,480    1.188.720)   1,188,720    1.188.720    1,188.720   1,188.720t   7,132,320   254.726
Ilok*keeper                2    54,600       54,600      54,600       54,600      54,600)     54,600      54,600       54,600      382,200      13,650
Sceadary/Clerk             2    52.200       52,200      52,200      52,200       52,200)     52,2040      52,200      52,200)     36,5,400O    13,050
Mainreance Unit Hecad      2    42.648       42,648      42.648      42.648       42,648      42,648      42,648       42,648      298,536      10.662
Foreste I (NGO)            2    36.000       36.000      36.000O     36.000       36,000      36,000)      36,000)     36,t)0)     252,00)0      9.000
Park Rangw (NGO)          8     27.000       81,000     162,000     216.000      216.000O    216.000     216.000      216,00)0    1.323.000     47.250
Sub-Total                             968,208    1.445,448    1,895,688   11,895,688    1,895.688    1,895.688    1.895.688    11.892,096  424.718
-EAqupmiert Procuwement                             --
I,Jnit
QTY       Cos
Motorcyce.- 125cc          I    50.000       50,(000                                                                                50,000O      1,786
Boat (BILana)             2    35,000        70.000                                                                                 70(2.0       2,500
llowes                  I10      5.000       50,000                                                                                 50,0M0       1,786
VIIF Bawe Radio
With Azieama             I    40.000        40,000                                                                                 40.000O      1.429
VIIF ltardeld Radio       6      25,000      90,000                                                                                 90,000O      3.214
Computeu/Printer           I    55.000       55,000                                                                                 55.000)      I.64
Powc Gerator (solar)      1    60,000        60,000                                                                                 60,000       2.143
Typewriter                 I     25,000      25,000                                                                                 15,000         536
Calculator                3        500        2,500                                                                                  1,500          54
First Aid Kit             2      2,500        2,500                                                                                  2,500         899
Mofce firmitarre           I    70,000       70.000                                                                                 70,000)      2,500
Chain saw                  I    40,000       40,000                                                                                 40,000       1,429
Bmnoculara                6      5,000       30,000                                                                                 30,000       1,071
Tape recorder/public ad   2      20,000      20,000                                                                                 20,000         714
Othe equipnmet             I   250,000      250,000                                                                                1 50,000      5.357
Sub-Total                             744,000            0           0                                                       744,000       26,571
-o)perations Cost   Motorcydle, Itoat & eCI.                                                                                                                                     )D I. 0
(Fuel A Maintenance)            30,000      30,000       30,000      30,000      30,000      30,000       30,000      30,0X)0     2210.000O     7.500          0  X >
liore Food                        2.500)                 25,000      15,000       15,000O     15,004)     25,04)0      25,000      90.000        3.214      4. 4.-.
OMLicSupplies                  12,000       22,000      22,000      22,000       22,000      22,000      12,000)     122,00(      84,000        3,000      o
hiJniform (2 Pairs/Year)         3.500)      35,000      63,041      87,500       87,500      87,5(M      87,500)     87,500)     515,500       19,125      Mth
Traveling & Per D)iems           4,800       48,000      67,200     205,600      239,200     139,204    I139.200      139,20)0    777.600       27,772       4.
.      .   ........  ....     .     .      ....    .    ....... .~ .. .  --- ----      .. .. ..... . . .0
Sub-Total                              125,000     187,200     2 5), 1 (X  283,704)     281.1,704   283.700)    2831,7m)0    2,697,204()  60,611



Philip      CcnVISA   Pr faV Pflfld Area Cost Dissi
Ilaic Intiasntuctwc
.S4. II.    *s)SVq.S.
kin     Ft., km.
IPark Supcn Residence   m00         420     336,0(                                                                                    3 It,,WH0    12,00W
l:uniturc Sulort. Rcsid&nce                   20,0oI 2(1.o00                                                                                          714
l)omn (50 sq. I./Person   1,400     280      392,00o0                                                                                 392,000      1440
Donam  Funilure                              280,000                                                                                 280.000       10,W)0
Nature Center                                            300,000                                                                      300I10       10,714
Storage & Other                              100,000                                                                                 IWI3,0O)0      3,571
Water Suppy/Sanitation                       150.000                                                                                  I Su,0010     5,357
Boat Dock                                     50,0(X)                                                                                 15,41(01)     1,786
Sub-lTtal                             1,328,000     300,000            0           4)           0           ;;          I)   1,62K,0;N        58,143
PA t)cvelopmnenw     'railsCoaistnhtion kns.   15    153,462      306,924      106,924     306,924      306.924     306,924      106,924     306,921    2,14X.470       76.731
Sub-Total                              306,924      306,924      306,924     306,924      3(6,924     t06,924      106,924     2,148,470      76,731
l1. Rcsource 6anagmgnnt.                                         2,510,540    1.222,440    1,128,840     95u,44(1    950,440      950,4401    950,440    8,661,580      309,414
Sile Infrastruncure  l)omrs For NGO) Stall
(50 sq. I./Persou)      750        280      210,000                                                                                  21O,tH1O       7,510
Dormn Fumiture                               150,)0                                                                                   150,.000      5,357
Storage & Other                              300,000                                                                                  300,000       3,571
Water Supply/Sanitation                      100,000                                                                                  IW),0W0       3,571
Sub-:[,al                              560,000            0           0            0            0           0            0      560,0tH0      20,000
MapsA lBoundarics    foodetic Engineer          2    121,800      243,600                                                                                  241,600)      8,700
Survey Aides               2     82,500      165.000                                                                                  165,000       5,893
Field Assistnt             2     72,000      344,000                                                                                  144,01H0      5,143
Fincoder/drafiaran         2     57,600      115,200                                                                                  115.200       4,114
Materials & expeses             350,000           0                                                                                                    0
Sub-loLual                             667,800                                                                                  667,800      23.850
Nigmt BoArd Operalios                                            1,282,740    906,840      813.240      634,840     634,840      634,844     6.14,X4(1    5,542.180    197,935
Ihord Mmnber               9   1300/day      140,404     140,400       46,80)      46,8(011     46,XO0      46,830(      46.840)     514,XIN1      18,386
Pruject Coordinatur        1    190,000      390,000     190.000      390,0(N)     19U2,0))    )901)0    190,(01)1   l941)(,)    1,33U,000         47,500      lb 
Accountant                 1    95,040       95,040       95,040       95.)40      95,040       95,044)     95,0410      95,044)     665,280       2.1,760     OQ 'r 0
looukLcespr                1     54,600       54,604      54,600       54,6.0t     54,61N1      54,644)      54,611'1    54,(64)I    182.2()       13,650          D X
Secicrary/Cicrk            2     52,200      104.400     104,400)    304,400       1)4,40)W    104,404     104,40)4     104,400      7144,8(0      26.100       1     ;
0
Su-l'lual                              584,4404    584,440      490,840      4)944,8'(    49(4,84(1   490,84(1    49(1,-80    3,623.1083    329,396       i
-Equianent lrcuwewn cnt                     . ----  .............                                                                                                                    
I In,ji



Ph*pm  Conseivtaon d Pnwty Protected Areas Colt Detasl
Q'l'Y     C st
Miueographinig Maciiii   I    50,000       50,0NN                                                                               5t),HN      1786
Power (inerator          2    25,000       50,(00                                                                               50,0t(O      1,786
Ollicc fumniturc          I    40,00(l     40,00(t                                                                              4,0tNN)      1,429
Cornputer/printer         I    40,000      40,000                                                                               40,000       1,429
Itase & 4 lIandheld radio  I    47,500     47,500                                                                               47,50t)      1,696
Binoculars               4      5,000)     20,000                                                                               20.000        714
Cantera                   1     4,000       4,000                                                                                4,000        143
Calculaltor              2        500        1,000                                                                               1,000         36
Bicycle                  2      2,500       5,t(00                                                                               5,000        179
Motorcycles              2     50,000     100,000                                                                              100,000       3,571
0                                                                                   0           0
Miscellaneous             I   100,000     100,000                                                                              It00,0tN     3,571
Sub-Total                            457,500                                                                              457,500      16,339
-Operations Cost   011ice Suplies                  20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000                                                      60,0(10      2,143
lravelling& Per Dictn           4,800     220,800     302,400     302,400      144,00t    144,00t)    144,000     144,t)0t)    1,401,600    50,057
Sub-Total                            240,800     322,400     322,400      144,00()   144,00()    144,0)00    144,100    1,461,600      52,200
Site Resoration    Agroforestry Specialist   I   121,800                  121,80(t    121,800     121,X8Ot    121,80(1t   121,800     1212,XOt    73(),800     26,100
Coastal specialist        1   121,800                 121,800      121,800     121,800     121,8(00   121,800N    121,X00      730,800      26,100
Technical Assistant       1    72,000                  72,000      72,000      72,t)00     72,000      72,00(1     72.00(1     432,000      15,429
Sub-Total                                        315,600     315,600     315,6(00    315,60(0    315,600     315,6oo    1,893,600     67,629
C. Socio-Econwnic Management:                                 1,374,200    750,800     750,800     306,000     306,000     306,000     306,000    4,099,800     146,421
Consultation, Training. &
Awarencss          Training Coordinator      I   100,800      100,8g0     100,800     100,800                                                     302,400      10,00
Inforntation officer/asst  2    72,000    144,000     144,000     144,000                                                     432,000       15,429
Meetingp & nuterials    10    20,000      200,000     200,000     200,000
Sub-Total                            444,800     444,800     444,800                                                    1.334,400     47,657
Tenure Surveying
(6,300 Fama, 4 Famts Surveyor                1    95,400      95,400                                                                               95,400       3,407
Survey Aide              2    82,500      165,000                                                                              165,00()0     5,893
Sub-Total                            260,400           0           0                                                     260,400       9,300
Census & Rcgistration.                                                                                                                                                           p
Tenure Inst.       Anthro/sociol.          0.50   121,800     60,900                                                                               60,900       2,175     0o a, (
(D i-. ID
Field Assist.          1.00    66,000      66,000                                                                              66,00t       2,357         t X
F,nkoder               0.50    57,600      28,8(10                                                                             28,800       1,029        ) , >
Interviewers          15.00    17,640     132,300                                                                             132,300       4,725      o
Expenses                                   75,000                                                                              75,000       2,679      I-
Sub---- --'' ' --3      ''''.....                                                                  12,964 . ...  4
Subl-Td;a                            363,0oo                                                                             "'("'0      12,'964     C)



Ph*Vmf  CIsstation of PZreoy Prodtffed Asea Cost Detaia
Iivclihood Progrm    Comimunity(OrganizeiT     2     87,(X1)     174,000]    174,01H1     174,000)    174,0()0    174,1NX)     174,000     174,04)0    1,21X,INN     43,500
FieddAnistant             2     66,000      132,000     132,000      132,000     132,0(N)     132,000     132.000     132,.H)      924,0(00     33,000
------   ~~~~~~~~~~ .....  ...           --------- -----..           .......   .........-----
Sub-Total                              306.000     306,000     306,000      306,000     306,000      306,0)0     306,(MXN    2,142,;HH)    76,500
1). Fcological Rsearch Program:
'rotalCod (A-D)                         7,356,872   4.212,812   4.332,352   3,742,752    3,742,752   3,742,752   3,742,752   30,873,046    1,102,609
F.. Contingcrics:
Idtal IBase Codl                                                7,356,872   4,212,812   4,332,352    3,742,752    1,742,752    3,742,752    3,742,752   3(),873,046    1,102,609
Physical Contingenc                                              509,464      91,039       46,039      46,039      46,03.9      46,039      46,0)9      830,696      29,668
Price Contingency                                                939,154     904,608    1,290,842    1,452,040    1,X)5,125   2,185,719   2,592,570    11,170.057  398,931
__ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.           _ .. ...  --------    ---  __ --  ...._ .........  ...... . __. ....... .  -----   - .
rotal Site Cost                                              8,805,490   5,208,459    5,669,233    5,240,831    5,593,916    5,974,510   6,381,361    42,X73,799    1,531,207
00 cr n
D t-~tX
ox
o
4-
0



PIh*        Ciomnat   Prmloy Ptted Area CoU Detal
T'IllKln.E ISIAND NATURE PARKI;                                                                                                                    IUS5   1'          2Y
I Init                                                                                     'I'tt,al CoAt    'ITt al
ALlivities            Scrvice           liits     Culls    1994        1H)5          1996        19'97       1998        1999        2t004      (PSom)    Cot lJSs
___ _ __ _ _ __ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- ----          .  ..    .  __........                   .._. .  ......... .. -----  - ---  ------.   -  .... .. _.... _. _.. .   . .. ... .. ..... .. ..  .... .... . ..._
A. Sitc Devcloprnnt:                                           2,076,076   1,418,016    1,275.916    1,271,116   771.116     771,116     771.116    8,354,472   298,374
PA Fablishrni                                                 1,339,116     728,016     760,916     756,116     756.116     756,116     756,116    5,X52,512   209,01N
Staff Buildup      PA Superintendent          I   190,200      190,200     190,20(0     190,200     190,200     190,20(1    190,200     190,200    1,331,400     47,550
FlrcsterIV(Govt.)         I   115,320      115,320     115,320      115,320     115,320     1153.12(    115,320     115,32(0     K()7,240    2X,130
Foresterl(Govt.)          I    79,248       79,248      79,248      79,241       79,248      79,248      79,241      79,248      554,736     19,X12
Bookkeeper                1    54,600       54,600      54,600       54,600      54,600      54,60(1     54,600      54,600      3X2,200     13,650
Secrary/Ckrk              I    52,200       52,200      52,200       52,200      52,200      52,20(0     52,200      52,200      365,400     13,050
Maintenance Unit lead     1    42,648       42,641      42,64X      42,648       42,648      42,64X      42,648      42,641      291,536     10,662
F'ter I (NGO)             I    36,000       36,000      36,000       36,000      36,000      36,000      36,000      36,0(0      252,000      9,000
Park Ranger (NGO)         4    27,000       54,000         1,000    101,000     10.000     10,()O        10,000   10,X00      675,000     24,107
Sub-ToIJ                              624,216     651,216     678,216     678,216      678,216     678,216     678,216    4,666,512    166,661
-Equilpment Procu-ecnat
Unit
Q1'Y      Cost
Boat (lanlau)             2    35,000       70,000                                                                                70,000      2,500
VIIF Bae Radio
With Aiterm              1    40,000       40,000                                                                                40,000      1,429
VIF tandheld Radio        6     15,000      90,000                                                                                9)0'(     3.214
Cemputer/Printer          I    55,000       55,000                                                                                55,000      1,964
Power Generator (solar)   I    60,000       60,000                                                                                60,0vo      2,143
Typewriter                I    15,000       15,000                                                                                15,000       536
Calcultor                 3        500       1,500                                                                                 1,S00        54
Fist Aid Kit              1      2,500       2,300                                                                                 2,500        19
Office fiLrniture         1    70,000       70,000                                                                                70,000      2,500
Chan saw                  I    40,000       40,000                                                                                40,000      1,429
Binoculau                 6      5,000      30,000                                                                                30,000      1,071
Tape recorder/public ad   2     10,000      20,000                                                                                20,0110      714
Other equipment           1   150,000      150,000                                                                               150,000      5,357
__ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... _.. .. . ........___
Sub-Total                             644,000                                                                              644,JX)0    23,000
-Operat ons Cost    Boat & Generator
(Fuel& Maintenuace)             15,000      15,000      15,000      15,000      15,0()0     15,1(00     15,(HN)      15,0(r)    105,(X10     3,750      pi C u3
OfficeSupplies                  12,000      12,000      12,000       12,000      12,000      12,000      12,000      12,000       14,000     3,000       m  D  m
Rangee'suniforn&tools            3,500      17,500      21,000      24,500      24,500       24,500      24,50(1     24,500      161,0V0     5.750         ID X
1Traveling & Per Di                                                                                                                                      00     :r
(includes NGO sLa)              2,400      26,400       21,100      31,200      26,400      26,40(      26,400      26,400      192,000      6,157      0
-----   __ - ... -- _ __ _ _ . .     ... .  .    ____.-  .       --  -   .-  .     --- -- -----   - --.-- -----.----  ---------------  ........ .........  ------.-.--- - h
Sub-'Tial                              70,')00     76,x1o      12,700      77,90(1     77,911(1    77,900      77.9M0      542,0(X)    11,357       ,.



P     )ae Conaevation of PnOwdy Protected Aleas Cost Detail
lasic Inirastnrcture
Sq. I:t.,   CosSq.
knm     Ft., km.
I'ark SupiSl. Resid-:e   W00        420     336,00W                                                                                   3 16.fH10   12,000
Fumiture Supcrl. RKsidLk                      20,000                                                                                   20(0X)0      714
Ikwn (50 sq. R./Person)
Also includes NGO staf    502      280      140,560                                                                                  140,560       5,020
Dlorm Furniture                              100,400                                                                                  100.400      3,586
Nature Cater                                              175,000                                                                     175,00       6,250
Storage a O75w                                                                                                                         75,04 )     2,679
Waer Supply/Sanitalion                        15,(H10      15000       15,000       35,000      15,(H)0      15,01)0      15.(HH)     105,W0W      3,750
Boat Dork                                     50.000                                                                                   50,000      1,786
Sub-Total                              736,960      190,000       15,000      55,0(H;      15,0(;0      35,00(;     15,0()     10(H1.960    35,784
PA Ievelopmard       Visitor frilitie                                          500,000     500.W00      50(),(H1(                                        1,500,000     53,571
'Sub-T'otal                                          500,0W      500,000      500,000                                           1,5(;0,W0    53,571
B1. Recuror Managant:                                              140,400       46,800      23,400       23.4()0     23,4(H)      23,400       23,400      304,200     10,364
Managan4 t Board Op Ioa  Manber                 9   1300/day      140,400       46,800      23,400       23,400      23,40)0      23,400       23,400      304,200     10,864
Sub-rodal                              140,400       46,330       23.400      2.3,40K(     23.400      23,400       23.400      304,200      10,3364
C. Socio-Economic Managamrn:                                       153,000      153,000     153,000                                                         459,000     16,393
i avelihood Progann    Comtunaty Orgunizr       I      7,000       87,000       37,000      87,000                                                         261,000      9,321
Field Asint                1    66.000       66,000       66,000       66,000                                                        1398,000      7,071
Sub-Total                              153,000      153,000      153,000                                                        459,000      16,393
1). F3logizld Researdi Program:
_-  - __0 _ _--------.--                        ---------------  ---------------  .................  ........... .-
TotalCuds(A-D))                         2,369,476    1,617,g16    1,452,316    1,294,516     794,516     794,516      794.316    9,117,672    325,631         (D X
,,                                                                                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 41 P5
0
E. Contingciesrwi
'I'oal Base Cost                                                2,369,476    1,617,816    1,452,316    1,294,516    794.516      794,516     7'4.51(    9.3 17,672    325,633      0



Plh_tp    Corwanl_ d PnmIV Pralcdd Area Coal Dill
sq=  Cy wial    '                                             207,144      103,500     77,250      77,250       2,25(0      2,250       2.250      471,0)4    16.353
PrliCmtueni&.y                                                289,923     341,723     425,6X7     487,749     3X6,19X3    467,479     554,395    2,953,158   105,470
I'oual Site Cod                                            2,866,543   2,063,039   1,955,253   1,859.515   1,192,964   1,264,245   1,351.,161   12.542.724   447,954
00 c  :3
ID X
o
0



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED AREAS
INDICATIVE LIST OF CANDIDATE PRIORITY SITES
BIOGEOGRAPHIC ZONE          PROTECTED AREAS          AREA (HECTARES)
BATANES                   SABTANG/ITBAYAT ISLANDS              /a
MT. IRAYA                           /a
YAMI ET. AL.                        /a
CENTRAL CORDILLERA        MAGAT FOREST
RESERVATION
MT. PULOG                         8,888
MT. DATA
SIERRA MADRE              SIERRA MADRE MOUNTAINS
PALANI ISLAND
CAGAYAN RIVER
MT. BINUANG
MT. ARAYAT                        3,715
SOUTHERN LUZON            BALAYAN BAY
PAGBILAO BAY
WEST CALATAGAN REEFS
TAAL LAKE
LOBO                               983
LA LAGUNA MARSH, LOPEZ           2,754
QUEZON NATIONAL PARK
MOUNT MAKILING
MOUNT BANAHAW
MINASAWA ISLAND
TAYABAS BAY
MANLUBAS SWAMP
RAGAY GULF
MT. LABO
BICOL NATIONAL PARK               5,201/b
MT. ISAROG                       10,113/b
MAYON VOLCANO
MT. BULUSAN
BULUSAN LAKE                      3,673/b
MT. PULOG-PALAY MATAAS            4,000/b
NA GULOD
LAKE BUHI
LAKE BATO
AURORA NATIONAL PARK'



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 2
ZAMBALES                   MT. PINATUBO
MT. ARAYAT                         3,715
CANDABA SWAMP
BATAAN NATIONAL PARK             23,688/b
SUBIC BASE FOREST/d
MINDORO                    MT. IGLIT-BACO                    22,634/a
MT. HALCON
LAKE NAUJAN                       97,100
PUERTO GALERA BAY
APO REEF                          15,827/a
WESTERN VISAYAS            MT. CANLAON                       24,S58/a
PHILIPPINE DEER
SANCTUARY                          1,143/b
TAKLONG ISLAND
EASTERN VISAYAS            MAHAGNAO                             635
TIMBER PRODUCEERS AND
MARKETING CORPORATION
WILDERNESS
LAKE DANAO                         9,023/b
RAJAH SIKATUNA
CENTRAL VISAYAS
CALAMIAN                   CORON                              7,372/b
PALAWAN                    EL NIDO                           36,868
ST. PAUL                           5,753Lc
SULU                       TURTLE ISLANDS                   136,788/a
ZAMBOANGA
MINDANAO                   MT. MALINDANG                     53,262Lb
RUNGKUNAN
LAKE DAPAO                         1,500
SALIKATA
MT. APO                           65, 476/a
SIARGAO                          161,603/a
MT. KATANGLAD                     31,143/a
AGUSAN MARSH                      65,806/a
LIGUASAN                   LIGUASAN MARSH
/a  Included within the ten highest priority site list.
/b Included within the ten second highest priority site list.
/c Already the recipient of external donor support.
/d Not included in original site lists, because under U.S. military jurisdiction
at that time.



ANNEX C
Page 1 of 9
PHILIPPINES
CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY PROTECTED ARRAS
PROPOSED CONSERVATION OBJECTIVES FOR TEN PRIORITY SITES
1. MOUMT CANLAOH MATURE PARK
Primry Objectives                                             Features
Addressed
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in natural state               Lowland evergreen rainforest (760-1.370
meters asl), mid-montane (1.371-1,989 meters
asl), upper montane forest (1.981-2340
meters asl)
b. Maintain ecological diversity                             Notably high species diversity, many trees,
shrubs and herbs, 160 species of birds,
mammaLs, reptiles, amphibians butterflies.
c. Preserve genetic resources                                Commercially  important trees, i.e.,
dipterocarps and those enumerated in b
above.
d. Protect watershed                                         Densely forested area (8.802 hectares)
e. Control erosion and sedimentation                         See d above
Secondary Objectives
a. Provide education , research and environmental            Rote of Mt. Canlaon in the maintenance of
monitoring                                                   biodiversity, water supply for drinking and
irrigation
b. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                    Agricultural activities at the foothills
c. Provide recreation and tourism                            See a and b under Primary Objectives
d. Protect scenic beauty                                     Margaha Valley, Hardin-Sang-Balo high
waterfalls , the tniavan Enchanted Falls,
caves. The park is an active volcano.
e. Contribute to rural development                           Ecotourism



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 9
2. NORTHERN SIERRA MADRE ATAfRE PARK
Primary Objectives                                            Features
Addressed
a. Preserve sampLe ecosystems in natural state               Extensive  and intact primary forests (lower
montane rainforest. lowland evergreen
rainforest. Limestone forest. ultra-basic
forest. riverine veaetation, freshwater Lake
forest, beach forest) seagrass formation,
coral reef formation
b. Maintain ecologicaL diversity                             Numerous endemic, rare, vulnerable and
economically important species of flora and
fauna including globally endangered forms
(26 birds and the Philippine eagle.
Philippine deer, giant monitor lizard.
estuarine. crocodile, green sea turtle.
dusong. forest trees such as the
dipterocarps, narra, kamagong. shrubs, vines
and herbs)
c. Preserve genetic resources                                See b above.
d. Provide education, research, and environmental            Park fertile ground for all kinds of
monitoring                                                   research on indigenous people (Agta), flora
and fauna and ecosystems vis-a-vis protected
areas.
e. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                    Agta people and lifestyle vis-a-vis
husbandry of forest-derived products.
f. Provide recreation and tourism                            See a, b and c above
g. Protect sites and objects of cultural, historicaL    See e above
or archeological heritage
Secondary objectives
a. Protect watershed                                         See a under Primary Objectives
b. Control soil erosion and sedimentation                    See a under Primary objectives
c. Produce protein from wildlife (marine)                    see e under Primary Objectives
d. Protect scenic beauty                                     See a under Primary Objectives
e. Contribute to rural development                           See f under Primary Objectives



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 9
3. SATANES LANDSCAPE AND SEASCAPE
Primary Objectives                                    Features Addressed
a. Protect watershed                                  Mount Iraya (Satan Island)
b. Provide recreation and tourism                     Scenic Landscapes and seascapes (verdant
volcanic peaks undulating terrains of
grassLands. guLLies and gentle vaLleys, rock
outcrops. uoLifted marine terraces, indented
embayments . sea cliffs, sea caves, white sandy
beaches)
c. Protect sites and objectives of cultural,          Unique houses, unique boats, unique handicraft
historical and archeological heritage                 (soot) , unique language (Austranesian)
d. Protect scenic beauty                              See b above
Secondery Objectives
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in natural state        lowland evergreen rainforest, midmontane
rainforest (Mount Irava)
b. Maintain ecological diversity                      Various terrestrial, wetland, marine and
coastal habitats inhabited by 90 species of
flowering plants and ferns, 35 birds, several
reptiles, 65 butterflies, 47 macrobenthic
algae, 3 seagrasses, numerous species of corals
and fish
c. Preserve genetic resources                         Endemic species of potential or actual economic
value (Phonenix hanceana var ohiliocinensis,
Lilium Dhiliocinensis. Podocarous sDo. Porohyra
suborbiculata. Turbo marmorata. corallum)
d. Provide education, research, and                   Generally unspoiled envirorwnent (terrestrial.
envirornmental monitoring                             wetland. coastal and marine)
e. Protect indigenous uses or habitation                See c under Primary objectives



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 9
4. SIARGAD WILDLIFE SANCTfLARY
Priimry Objectives                                            Features
Addressed
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in natural state               lowLand evergreen rainforest (dinterocaro
forest), extensive mangrove forest (7,014
hectares), coastal Lagoons (marine lakes),
seagrass beds (8 species), pristine coral
reef complex.
b. Maintain ecological diversity                             Five hundred thirty six species:108 flora
(49 flowering plants. 59 seaweeds) and 428
fauna (45 birds. 12 mammals. 10 reptiles. 3
amohibians. 105 butterflies.137 marine
mollusks and 38 aenera of corals)
c. Preserve genetic resources                                See b above  but especially 2 globally
endangered species (Dugong dugon. Crocodylus
porosus), 10 migratory birds, many endemic
species of birds, mammals and flowering
plants.
d. Provide education, research, and envirornental            Interactions among pristine lowland
monitoring                                                   evergreen rainforest, mangrove forest,
seagrasses and pristine coral reef complex.
e. Provide recreation and tourism                            See a above
Secrandry Objectives
a. Protect watershed                                         Forested area
b. Control soil erosion and sedimentation                    Forested area, mangrove forest area
c. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                    _
d. Produce protein from wildlife (marine)                    Fish and mollusks from surrounding marine
waters
e. Produce commodities for community use                     From mangroves : firewood, poles, roofing
materials, fish crustaceans, etc.
From marine waters: mollusks for shellcraft
industry
f. Protect scenic beauty                                     See a under primary objective
g. Contribute to rural development                           Sustainable  mangrove forest area activities
also in managed agricultural buffer.



ANNEX C
Page 5 of 9
5. BTAAN NATURE PARK
Primary Objectives                                            Features
Addressed
a. Preserve natural ecosystems                               Virgin and oLd growth lowland and lower
montane forests, riverine vegetation, and
mangrove swamps
b. Maintain biological diversity                             Numerous endemic species such as the
Philppine deer, macaca fascicularis, Troides
(so), gaLLus aallus, various species of
butterflies and reptiLes, lowland
dipterocarps, riverine vegetation
c. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                    The Aeta people and their forms of
LiveLihood within the forests.
d. Provide education, research, and environmental            The Lower portion of the Subic forest up to
monitoring                                                   the beach and some infrastructure which
provide an excellent locale for protected
area training.
e. Protect the watershed                                     Subic watershed provides the water supply to
the Subic Say Metropolitan area, OLangapo
and environs
f. Provide recreation and tourism                            About 10,000 ha of old growth forest
Secardary Objectives
a. Produce protein from wildlife                             The more common mammais in the area such as
sus sucrova and cervus unicolor which are
traditional Aeta fare
b. Produce commodities for community use                     Fuel wood, fiber, and construction materials
in second growth and logged over areas.
c. Protect scenic beauty                                     Old growth forest and mangroves
d. Contribute to rural development                           The logged-over areas for reforestation and
sustainable agriculture
e. Control soil erosion and sedimentation                    Grasslands and barren areas on higher slopes
of Bataan National Park



ANNEX C
Page 6 of 9
6. I0NT KATMNGLAD NATURE PARK
Primry Objectives                                            Features
Addressed
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in naturaL state              Pristine lowiand evergreen rainforest
1.250- 2.000 meters asl), midmontane forest
(2.001 - 2.500 meters asl), upper montane
forest (2.501-2900 meters asl)
b. Maintain ecological diversity                            Numerous flowering pLants, ferns,
bryophytes, 74 species of birds, 17 species
of marinals and 113 species of butterfLies.
c. Preserve genetic resources                               26 species of endemic and rare fLowering
plants, 25 species of endemic and rare birds
incLuding the Philippine eagle (
Pithecoohaga ieffryi) and a rare species of
mammal ( Mindanao qgm,ure)
d. Provide education, research, and environmental           New species
monitoring
e. Protect indigenous uses or habitation                    Higaonons, Manobos and Baguio migrants at
the base of the mountain
Secandary Objectives                      _
a. Protect watershed                                        Primary watershed distributing water through
Alanig River and Sawagan River for
Malaybalay, Manupali River for Valencia,
Tumatdong River for 3aungon, Agusan River
for Ibona, Creeks off Antapan and irrigation
canals for Manolo Fortich
b. Provide recreation and tourism                           See a, b, c and e under Primary Objectives
c. Protect sites and objects of cultural, historical   See a under Primary Objectives
and archeological heritage
d. Protect scenic beauty                                    WaterfaLLs, densely forested slopes,
volcanic peaks
e. Contribute to rural development                          Potable and irrigation water supply for
Central Mindanao.
Ecotourism



ANNEX C
Page 7 of 9
7. APO REEF PARINE NATIRE PARK
Primry Objectives                                           Features
Addressed
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in natural state             Atoll-formed coral reef formation
b. Maintain ecological diversity                           190 hermatypic scleractinian corals, 138
fish, many rare shells,porpoises, reptiles,
24 birds.
c. Preserve genetic resources                              Two globaLLy endangered species, Nicobar
pigeon (Caloenas nicobarica) and green sea
turtle (Chelonia mydas) and those enumerated
in b above.
d. Provide education, research, and environmental          Role of coral reef formations in marine
monitoring                                                 productivity.
e. Provide recreation and tourism                          See a, b and c above
f. Protect scenic beauty                                   See a above
Secondary objectives
a. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                  Fish habitat
b.Cnribute to rural deveLopmient-                      Ecotourism
8. MT. APO NATURE PARK
Primiry Objectives                                          Features
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _                      ~~~~ ~~~Addressed
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in natural state             Lowland evergreen rainforest, midmontane
forest , upper montane forest
b. Maintain ecological diversity                           more than 1000 species of wildlife (plants
| and animals)
c. Preserve genetic resources                              70 endemic, rare, unique or endangered
species, the most welt-known are the
Philippine eagle (PithecoIhaga jefferyi),
Philippine tarsier (Tarsius ohiliocinensis),
Mindanao gymnure (Pedoaymnura Truei)
d. Provide education, research, and environmental          Survival of the Philippine eagle in its
monitoring                                                 natural habitat
e. Protect watershed                                       9aiatukan River watershed
f. Control erosion and sedimentation                       See a above
a. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                  Lumads are the indigenous inhabitants
Secondary Objectives
a. Protect recreation and tourism                          See a , b, and c under Primary Objectives
b. Protect sites and objects of cultural,                  See a under Primary Objectives ,
historical, or archeological heritage                      representing important habitat of the
Philippine eagle
c. Protect scenic beauty                                   Pristine forests , sulfuric hot springs,
mountain lakes (Lake Aaco. Lake Venado._etc)
d. Contribute to rural deveLopment                         Ecotourism



ANNEX C
Page 8 of 9
9. AGUSAN MARSH AM WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
Primry Objectives                                             Features
Addressed
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in natural state               Various pristine, unique, extensive.,
imperfectly known habitat types            (open
water . flowing water. herbaceous
swamv.scrub swamw. sago forest. peat swamp
forest. terminalia forest, mixed swamw
forest)
b. Maintain ecological diversity                             High wetland biodiversity (31 species of
fLowering plants and ferns. 231 species of
fauna: 102 birds. 43 reptiles. 10 freshwater
fish. 65 butterflies)
c. Preserve genetic resources                                Endemic , rare, endangered wildlife (birds,
crocodiles), and those in b above
d. Provide recreation and tourism                            See a , b, and c above
e. Protect scenic beauty                                     See a above
Secondary Objectives                                                                          l
a. Provide education, research and environmental             role of wetlands in Wildlife conservation,
monitoring                                                   flow regulation, and food control , and
sediment retention , nutrient retention,
toxicant removal
b. Control soil erosion and sedimentation                    See under a above
c. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                    Sustenance fishing, sustenance agriculture,
floating houses
d. Produce protein from wildlife (marine)                    Freshwater fisheries
e. Produce commodities for community use                     Handicraft industry from aquatic weeds, food
production
f. Contribute to rural development                           See under e above



ANNEX C
Page 9 of 9
10. TURTLE ISLANDS MARIE NATURE PARK
Primry Objectives                                             Features
Addressed
a. Preserve sample ecosystems in naturaL state               Pristine coraL reef formations, nesting
sites of marine turtLes (sandy beaches)
b. Maintain ecological diversity                             487 species of plants and animals (seaweeds.
seagrasses.birds. mammals. fish) and 40
genera of coraLs
c. Preserve genetic resources                                Green sea turtles (CheLonia mydas) and all
those in b above
d. Provide education, research, and environmental            Conservation of globally endangered species
monitoring                                                   especially the marine turtles
e. Provide recreation and tourism                            Extensive white sandy beaches, crystal clear
marine waters, mud volcanoes and those in a,
b and c above.
f. Protect scenic beauty                                     Underwater coral reef formations and
associated fish resources
g. Contribute to ruraL development                           Ecotourism, sustainable turtle egg
production
Secondary Objectives
a. Protect indigenous uses and habitation                    Nesting grounds of the green sea turtLes
b. Produce protein from wildlife (marine)                    Fisheries resources in the marine waters
around the park






ANNEX D
Page 1 of 5
PHILIPPINES
Conservation of Priority Protected Areas
Livelihood Fund: Terms and Conditions of GEF SuDport
Introduction
1.        The Livelihood Fund is a portion of the GET grant to NIPA, Inc. to be
administered for purposes and on terms and conditions presented below. It is to
be used only to generate alternative livelihood activities for local residents,
including indigenous communities, living within the PA or buffer zone, and,
through recovery of subloans or profits on community enterprises, to generate
long-term income flows or a permanent endowment for the maintenance and
development of each protected area.
2.        An Integrated Protected Areas Fund (IPAF), an endowment fund for the
protected areas system, has been authorized by R.A. 7586 and its implementing
rules and regulations (DENR D.A.O. No. 25, Series of 1992) and would be
established as a trust fund supporting the management of the protected area
system. The Governing Board will be appointed by the Secretary of DENR, and is
to consist of the Secretary or his representative as Chairman, four
representatives of government, one from the Land Bank, two from established
conservation NGOs, and two representing indigenous cultural communities.
Although the Livelihood Fund is not an endowment fund and is not part of the
IPAF, recovered subloans would become part of the IPAF. Consequently the IPAF
Governing Board would be given authority to determine uses of the Livelihood
Fund, restricted by the specific objectives and procedures set forth below.
Scope of Support
3.        The scope would be limited to the equivalent of approximately US$ 10
million, augmented by interest earnings less management costs, and by such
proportion of repayments of principal and interest or equity distributions from
supported subprojects as shall be allocated for this purpose by the Protected
Area Management Boards (PAMBs) and Governing Board of the IPAF, subject to the
requirement of D.A.O. 25 that at least 75% of income generated locally be
reserved for local use. The scope of allocations to the Livelihood Component
from the GET Grant may be re-evaluated during the life of the project and
lessened or increased, as agreed among Government, NIPA, and the Bank.
Fund Management
4.         Eligibility for disbursement of the livelihood component would be
declared when a Governing Board has been appointed and met (following procedures
prescribed by DENR D.A.O. No 25, Series of 1992); has officially accepted a set
of rules and procedures, including accounting and auditing system, consistent
with those set forth below (submitting them to the Bank for review); and a
satisfactory MOA between NIPA and Land Bank has been signed. As subproject
proposals must be approved by Protected Area Management Boards (PAMBs) for each



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 5
individual protected area, there also would be no disbursement until PAMBs have
been appointed and approved projects. A Secretariat to the IPAF Governing Board
shall be formed of staff of NIPA and PAWB who are long-term employees of the
Project Coordinating Unit.
5.        The flow of funds in support of this component would be through an
account in the Land Bank of the Philippines, thence through an account in a
retail financial institution (RFI) to the ultimate subgrantee and/or subborrower.
Land Bank would participate in this component of the project, in the following
roles:
a)   monitor the viability of participating RFIs over the life of the
project, and annually report on same to the IPAF Governing Board;
b)   Through its representation on PAMBs and IPAF Governing Board, advise
on the financial viability of subprojects and creditworthiness of
subborrowers on the basis of reports provided by the respective
Secretariats and retail financial institutions, against the criteria
and guidelines approved by the IPAF Governing Board;
c)   Disburse in the form of advances or replenishments to the depository
accounts in LandBank of RFIs;
d)   Collect repayments from the RFIs;
e)   Maintain records of disbursements and receipts and prepare monthly
financial statements for the NIPA, which would provide the
consolidated report to the IPAF Governing Board.
6.        Land Bank would disburse only to retail financial institutions (RFIs)
which may included credit cooperatives, cooperative banks, private commercial
banks, or non-profit non-governmental organizationis (NGOs) with substantial
experience in management of retail credit. It would propose a list of suitable
RFIs based on accreditation criteria agreed with NIPA, and, for each project
site, NIPA would select one or more accredited RFIs.   If a suitable RFI is not
readily available, NIPA and LandBank would cooperate in developing such an
institution. LandBank or its associated technical assistance institutions may,
from time to time, be requested to provide training and evaluation services in
strengthening RFIs, and such services at a negotiated fee-for-service rate shall
be paid for out of the Livelihood Fund as part of administrative expense.
7.        Role  of  Retail  Financial  Institutions.    The  retail  financial
institutions (RFIs) designated for each site shall conclude a MOA with NIPA and
LandBank specifying respective duties, responsibilities, fees, and rates.  The
provisions of this MOA must, inter alia, be consistent with the lending and grant
procedures, criteria and guidelines for the use of the Livelihood Fund approved
by the IPAF Governing Board and the first MOA will be submitted to the Bank for
review before signing. The procedures to be followed by RFIs shall be detailed
in a Manual developed by or on behalf of NIPA and approved by the IPAF Governing
Board. For that portion of financing extended to beneficiaries as loans, the RFI
would be charged the 90-day Treasury Bill Rate by LandBank, and may be required



ANNEX D
Page 3 of 5
to obtain a loan guarantee from the Consolidated Agricultural Loan Fund (CALF).
The interest rate charged to the subborrower should be such as to cover the cost
of funds and credit risk to the RFI. Funds recovered (principal and interest
less fees) will be deposited to IPAF accounts in name of the local PAMB (75%) and
IPAF (25%) in the LandBank.
8.        Role of Host and Other NGOs.   The host NGO at each park shall hire
professional staff to assist in identification of suitable subprojects,
organization of mutual guarantee groups, preparation of appraisal reports, and
supervision of subproject implementation. Costs of these efforts are covered
from the technical assistance portion of the NIPA grant, and no charge against
the Livelihood Fund or its subgrants/subloans shall be made for these services.
Other social organizations are invited to prepare subproject proposals and assist
beneficiaries in meeting the standards prescribed by NIPA.   Documented and
reasonable expenses of preparation for organizations other than the host NGO may
be included in and compensated from the approved subloan/subgrant if approved by
the PAMB, to a limit of 3% of the value of the combined subloan/subgrant.
9.        Funds Flow.  A separate U.S. Dollar Special Account would be opened
in the Land Bank of the Philippines as the Livelihood Fund with one or more
authorized representatives of NIPA as joint signatories within six months from
effectiveness of the GET grant. The Bank would make an initial deposit of US$
750,000  equivalent  to  this  account,  equivalent  to  about  six  months'
reimbursements for eligible expenditures.
10.       Funds may be disbursed from this account to second-generation special
accounts of Land Bank branches/offices or RFIs, which will in turn disburse
against expenditure documentation on behalf of beneficiaries of subprojects
selected according to the criteria listed below and approved by the initiating
PAMB and, for subprojects in excess of P100,000, by the IPAF Governing Board.
(The maximum approval authority of the PAMB may be changed by decision of the
IPAF Governing Board.) A management fee of 2% on subloans or combinations of
subgrants and subloans disbursed would be charged by Land Bank; earnings from
investments of the trust account would be credited to the account as receipts of
the Livelihood Fund.   Land Bank would also be entitled to a fee of 2% on
collections of principal and interest from subloans.
Subproiect Selection Process
11.       Contractual field staff of the host NGO at each PA would identify
options for livelihood subprojects, document their apparent advantages and
disadvantages, and, following guidelines prepared by NIPA, prepare feasibility
studies, evaluating the financial viability of the project, the creditworthiness
or collateral of the beneficiary, and assessing the environmental impact, and
recommend the appropriate scope and terms of support (grant and/or loan). NGO
staff would also organize cooperatives or joint-liability groups, provide
technical assistance to beneficiaries during subproject implementation, and
assist in loan recovery. The feasibility studies will be presented to the PAMB
for final approval of projects under P100,000 in size, and otherwise for
endorsement to the IPAF Governing Board.   NIPA would appraise the proposed
subprojects,  advising the IPAF Governing Board on their merits.   The IPAF



ANNRX D
Page 4 of 5
Governing Board will decide whether to approve or disapprove each proposal, and
the terms of financial support. Projects in excess of P1.4 million would also
be approved by the Bank (as Trustee of GET) on a "no objection" basis.
Eligibility Criteria
12.       Projects  which  expand  employment  and  generate  income  without
destroying  or  degrading  the  protected  area,  such  as  ecotourism  support
facilities,  agroforestry,  mariculture/aquaculture,  conservation agriculture,'
handicrafts, manufacturing or repair workshops, marketing, and (where towns are
included in or adjacent to a PA) employment-generating infrastructure, will be
eligible for consideration.
13.       Proponents  of  projects  and  direct  beneficiaries  of  financial
assistance may include cooperatives, joint-liability groups of individuals, not-
for-profit NGOs,  and other social organizations.   Beneficiaries  (or their
membership) must be registered local residents included in the Census of
Occupants of the protected area or delineated buffer zones.
14.       Projects  (other  than  for  public  infrastructure)  which  are  not
appraised as sustainable are not eligible. A project is considered sustainable
if expected annual revenues exceed annual operating (recurrent) costs (including
labor evaluated at local market wage rates, and any fees, taxes, financing
charges,  and depreciation) .   Projects which would be sustainable only if
financing charges were reduced or eliminated may be eligible for a mixture of
grant and loan support, provided that such projects rank high in overall priority
(see below).
1s.       Projects which are unable to repay the full amount of financing with
interest and which do not directly or indirectly create long-term part- or full-
time jobs should not be considered eligible. (Infrastructure construction which
opens up new economic opportunities for the community as a whole may indirectly
create new jobs.)
16.       Priority Rankinc.   The Livelihood Fund has two major objectives:
generating viable and sustainable livelihood opportunities which reduce pressure
to degrade the PA, and creating long term sources of financial support to
maintain and improve the protected areas.  Projects which serve both objectives
(projects which are both profitable enough to repay loans and create many long-
term jobs) would clearly have highest priority.  However, these objectives will
not always be consistent, in which case it is up to the IPAF Governing Board and
the individual PAMBs to weigh these and any other objectives, such as balancing
the portfolio among subprojects with short-run and long-run, direct and indirect,
small-scale and large-scale benefits.
17.       Terms of Financial Suiport.  The form and terms of support for each
project shall consider the nature, scale, and expected financial results of each
subproject, following these general principles: (a) grants should be extended
in amounts not to exceed P5,000 per direct beneficiary or per job directly or
indirectly created; (b) loans should be extended in amounts not to exceed P55,000
(US$2,000) per direct beneficiary or per job, with an overall limit of PS.5



ANNEX D
Page 5 of 5
million (US$200,000) on subloan size; (c) fixed term loans bearing interest rates
sufficiently above the 90-day Treasury Bills rate to cover RFI costs and risks
and with grace periods appropriate to the gestation of the project should
normally be extended to cooperatives, joint-liability groups, NGOs, or other
social groups;  (d) a combination of grant and loan,  or grant followed by
subsequent loan, may also be extended; (e) grants or loans should not be extended
to beneficiaries not in good standing (partially or totally defaulted on other
loans from this or any Government sponsored program) ; and  (f) there is an
aggregate limit of P3 million from any rural financial  institution to an
individual or group.
18.       Grants are to be extended as a partial substitute for loans in cases
where projects are meritorious and otherwise eligible, but are not appraised as
being able to repay the full extent of loan financing, including principal and
interest.   The size of the grant should be the minimum required to ensure
financial viability and sustainability; the remaining financing should be loan
at normal interest rate. The PAMB or IPAF Governing Board where possible should
secure recovery of loan principal and interest through devices such as property
collateral, joint-liability agreements, lien on recoverable equipment or
buildings, or pledges of revenues from taxes or fees.
19.       The grant/loan agreement  shall provide  that a journal  recording
subproject receipts and expenditures shall be kept by the staff of the host NGO
or the LBP loan officer, along with evidence of all previous expenditures and
receipts, in order to justify beneficiary requests for further disbursement or
loan account replenishment.   Loan officers and beneficiaries must agree to
cooperate with any audit authorized or required by the PAMB or NIPA. A rolling
sample audit by a qualified private auditor, under contract to the NIPA, shall
be conducted of subproject accounts at random times and places, and submitted to
the Bank to verify that funds were used for the purpose applied for and uses are
adequately documented.   Subprojects where the total approved grant and loan
exceeds P100,000 shall be audited annually.
Cost Recovery
20.       Recovery of principal and interest from loans, net of management fees
paid to LBP (2%r on recoveries) and RFIs, shall accrue as revenues to the
protected area system, and be collected and disposed of as prescribed by D.A.O.
25 and decisions of the IPAF Governing Board. The responsible loan officer remit
such moneys directly to the PAMB and IPAF accounts in the prescribed proportion,
providing statements of amounts collected to the Protected Area Superintendent
or the PAMB, as the latter may decide.






ANNEX K
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPINES
Conservation of Priority Protected Areas
Proiect Implementation Schedule:
NGOs for Integrated Protected Areas. Inc.
Introduction
1.        A  National  Integrated  Protected Areas  System  (NIPAS)  has  been
authorized by R.A. 7586 and its Implementing Rules and Regulations (DENR D.A.O.
No. 25, Series of 1992) and would be supported over a period of seven years by
a Project financed by the Global Environment Trust Fund. The design and overall
budget of the Project is detailed in Sections  II-IV and Annex A.   Non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) will assist DENR in the functions of project
coordination, monitoring and ecological research, and provision of technical
assistance in protected area management, community organization, and livelihood
development.   Twelve national or umbrella NGOs involved in environmental and
community development activities in the Philippines have established a Consortium
for the purpose of supporting implementation of Republic Act No. 7586 (NIPAS Act)
and participation in this project, and registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission of the Philippines as a non-profit corporation under the name
"NGOs for Integrated Protected Areas, Inc." (NIPA).  NIPA has been designated by
Memorandum of Agreement between Government and NIPA as the lead NGO for
implementation of the project, and GOP has requested that GET support for all
activities to be carried out through the assistance of NGOs, including the
Livelihood Fund, be extended through a direct grant to NIPA, which will in turn
f inance other specified NGO activities through contractual agreements.   The
objectives, methods and procedures, organizational roles, and budgetary
constraints by which NGO assistance is to be guided are provided jointly by R.A.
7586, D.A.O. 25, the project Technical Report, the MOA among DOF, DENR and NIPA,
an MOA between NIPA and Land Bank, and this Implementation Schedule.
2.        Contractinq.    NIPA  may  contract  with  other  organizations  or
individuals to carry out any part of the responsibilities and tasks itemized
below. However, this shall not reduce or change in any way the responsibilities
of NIPA to meet all terms and conditions of this Implementation Schedule.
Maior Tasks
3.        NIPA shall:
(a) Establish and equip a National Project Coordination Office in a common
facility with staff seconded to the Project or responsible for NIPAS
Management under the Protected Area and Wildlife Bureau (including
counterpart and support staff);
(b) Establish and maintain separate Special Accounts in the Land Bank of
the Philippines or such other bank as may be subsequently agreed for



ANNEX H
Page 2 of 10
the Technical Assistance and Livelihood Fund components of the GET
Grant;
(c)  Hire on a long-term basis such staff as are described below;
(d)  Assist the NIPAS Steering Committee in identification and selection
of local "host NGOs" to provide support for individual Protected Areas
(Pas) (as described below), selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines  on  consulting,  by  compiling  short  lists,  developing
evaluation criteria and selection process, soliciting proposals, and
participating on any evaluation or selection committees;
(e)  With  the  selected NGOs:  draft,  negotiate,  and sign  contractual
agreements; establish a uniform system of financial management,
including accounting and auditing, acceptable to the Bank; manage
payments to contracting NGOs against appropriate documentation of
reimbursable expenses or billings; and consolidate and provide to the
Bank such documentation as may be required to establish the
eligibility of expenditures for reimbursement from the GET grant;
(f)  Carry out assigned responsibilities to procure equipment in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines; and ensure that title to all
equipment procured and works completed is transferred to the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources or such national or
local government agencies as DENR designates at project closure;
(g)  Draft, for review and approval by the Director of PAWB and the Bank,
guidelines, plans, and methodologies for monitoring and evaluation of
project   implementation   and   of   biodiversity   trends   under
implementation, and for evaluating impacts of proposed activities
within Pas; and develop contractual agreements with NGOs (including
local universities and research institutions) to implement the plans;
contract for mid-project (4th year) aerial re-surveys to evaluate land
use changes, insofar as appropriate;
(h)  Assist the PAMBs and PAWB in drafting and consolidating annual budgets
and proposed work programs;
(i)  Assist  PAWB  in  screening  and  coordinating  ecological  research
activities and finance such studies relating to ecology, park
management, and livelihood generation as are considered of high
priority to NIPAS implementation but cannot find other donor support;
(j)  Maintain and improve GIS and management  information systems and
transfer their use to local PA administrations and support groups on
demand;
(k)  Assist PAWB in the process of legal gazetting of PAs,  compiling
(through local PA administrations and support NGOs) the field
information and documentation required to satisfy legal requirements
for reporting to the President and Congress;



ANNEX Z
Page 3 of 10
(1) Assist PAWB in serving as Secretariat to the Integrated Protected
Areas Fund (IPAF) Governing Board and by evaluating proposed
livelihood projects for GET support, and establishing and managing a
system for approving and monitoring disbursements, repayments, and
progress of subproject implementation;
(m)  Develop and,  using mainly staff  resources,  implement  a training
program for staff of local support NGOs to improve their project
implementation capabilities; and assist local NGOs in developing their
training programs for PAMB and DENR PA staff through provision of
training materials and trainers; and
(n) Arrange for annual and rolling audits by a private auditing firm
acceptable to the Bank of all project accounts (NIPA, PRRM, and local
host NGO) and, in addition, the accounts of all subprojects funded
under the IPAF Livelihood Fund where the total approved grant and loan
exceeds P100,000; such annual audit reports to be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year. In addition
to annual audit, a rolling audit of journal entries for a random
sample of sites will be conducted, with findings reported immediately
to the NIPA Board and semi-annually to the Bank/1;
Approvals
4.         NIPA shall submit to the World Bank and the GOP for review and
approval prior to finalization (2 copies to each):
(a) lists and resumes of Individual Experts proposed for hiring at the
national level;
(b) shortlists, evaluation reports in selection, and draft contracts
(including Terms of Reference) for host NGOs at the PA level and for
any other contractual agreements for which estimated cost exceeds US$
50, 000;
(b) draft plans for monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity and project
implementation, and terms of reference for studies to be funded from
the Grant; and
(c) such other plans or proposals as are directly applicable to the
requirements of the Implementation Program as the Bank or GOP may
request from time to time.
Reports
5.        NIPA shall prepare and submit to the GOP and the World Bank the
following reports (2 copies to each):
/1 Such that each accounting unit will be subject to one spot audit of the prior
month's journal entries at a random time during any two year period.



ANNEX E
Page 4 of 10
(a)  Semi-annual Progress Reports, for the periods ending June 30th and
December 31st of each year of the Implementation Program.   Such
reports shall be submitted within 30 days of the end of the reporting
period. Each report shall include:
(i) progress to date in completing the tasks as described in this
Program, including a description and analysis of problems,
constraints, and recommended solutions;
(ii) a summary of all training and technical assistance activities
during each reporting period, including a discussion of results
and required follow-up activities;
(iii) a status summary of commodity procurement activities;
(iv) a list of recommended actions to be undertaken by NIPA, GOP
and/or the Bank to overcome constraints or to alter the course of
the program.
(b)  To complement the semi-annual reports, brief summary reports for the
periods ending March 30th and September 30th of each year of the
Implementation Program. These reports shall be submitted with 30 days
after the end of the reporting period.
(c)  Quarterly Financial Reports, included in the semi-annual and summary
reports, reflecting current and cumulative expenditures by the line
items set forth in the budget. These reports will be submitted within
30 days after the end of the respective quarters for each year of the
Implementation Program.
(d)  such other plans or proposals that are directly applicable to the
requirements of the Implementation Program as the Bank or GOP may
request from time to time.
Individual Experts
6.        NIPA shall directly hire or contract with individuals for personal
services of Individual Experts, whose qualifications and responsibilities are
described below.  Any replacements of these individuals over the life of the
Implementation Program shall be first agreed with the Bank. NIPA may propose
additional personnel requirements or adjustments to length of service, and the
Bank will review and approve such changes on their merits, provided that the
total budget of the National Technical Assistance component is not exceeded.
(a)  Program Administration/Trainer (6 mm). Responsible for defining the
administrative structure of contract administration and control
structure for disbursements and reimbursements applicable to all
contracts issued and funds disbursed under the Grant; and for training
staff of contracted NGOs in administrative procedures and funds



ANNEX K
Page 5 of 10
administration. Qualifications: university degree and at least five
years experience in program management;
(b) Park Design Expert (12 mm) . Responsible (with the assistance of other
staff) for directing the process of preparation/validation and for
reviewing and refining individual PA management plans before and after
presentation, review, and approval by each PAMB, and advising local
PAs and PAWB on procedures  for implementation.   Qualifications:
advanced degree in a relevant discipline and at least ten years of
experience in senior management positions in the field of protected
area management, within which at least three years in positions with
responsibility for design and/or implementation of protected area
development programs.
(c)  Pro-ect Manager (84 mm) : Responsible for day-to-day management of the
overall Project and the PCU, and coordination with the NIPAS Steering
Committee, DENR in general, and PAWB in particular. Responsible for
drafting monitoring and evaluation plans and procedures, and compiling
and editing periodic monitoring reports.   Authorized signatory for
disbursements or reimbursements from the Livelihood Fund Special
Account and Technical Assistance Special Account.   Qualifications:
advanced degree in a relevant discipline and at least three years of
successful experience managing a project of similar complexity.
(d)  Resource  Economist  (36  mm):   Responsible  for  advising  on  and
supervising (i) the identification, preparation, review, and approval
process for livelihood projects and PA development or rehabilitation
expenditures and (ii) the process of impact evaluation for zoning and
specific activities proposed for individual PAs. Provides training
and advice for local NGO staff in these areas; develops TORs for
contractual studies and preparation work; screens proposals and
advises the IPAF Governing Board, with relevant input from other
specialists. Qualifications: advanced degree in economics, including
training in environmental or resource economics and project analysis
methodology; substantial practical experience with development project
analysis techniques.
(e)  Infrastructure Specialist (36 mm):  Responsible for review, advice,
training, and supervision over infrastructure components of the
project, including basic site infrastructure, PA development, and
infrastructure included in livelihood projects. Exercises oversight
over design and over the process of contractual or labor-based force
account construction. Qualifications: civil engineering degree and
at least three years' practical experience in a managerial position.
(f)  Training/IEC  Specialist  (36  mm):   Responsible  for  design  and
coordination of project-related training programs in support of local
NGO staff, PA staff, and central PAWB staff, drawing on PCU staff and
others as training resources, and otherwise managing contracts for
training. Responsible for assisting PAWB in developing an educational
outreach program in support of the NIPAS system, to develop public



ANNEX Z
Page 6 of 10
support.  Qualifications:   a B.A. degree and at least three years'
experience demonstrating competence in training and/or IEC work.
(g)  Legal Adviser  (36 mm):  Responsible for advice,  coordination,  and
supervision of programs for issue of resource management instruments
(including community and individual stewardships), and coordination
with relevant sections of DENR; assistance in resolving disputes over
property, boundaries, or access rights which arise at the PA level;
and drafting of legal instruments for gazetting PAs. Qualifications:
law degree and three years' practical experience demonstrating
relevant skills.
(h)  Community Development Specialist  (84 mm):  Responsible for advice,
coordination, and supervision of local NGO community organizing work,
the process of selection of PAMB, and establishment of a smoothly
functioning community-based management mechanism.   Qualifications:
B.A. degree and three years' practical experience in a capacity of
managing community organizing programs, and two years' experience in
field-level CO work.
(i)  Financial/Budget Specialist (84 mm): Responsible for overall design
and management of financial budgeting, reporting, disbursement, and
financial monitoring for the project.   Qualifications:   B.A.  in
business or accounting and at least five years' experience as
financial manager of complex foreign-donor-financed government
project.
(j)  Agribusiness/Marketinc Specialist (36 mm): Responsible for advice and
assistance in identifying economically viable and sustainable
livelihood activities for communities in or around PAs, and
establishing marketing linkages with private sector firms or other
organizations on behalf of local NGOs or PAMBs. Qualifications: at
least five years' successful experience in diversified business or
trading activities mainly involving rural products.
(k)  Computer Programmer (42 mm):  Responsible for updating the existing
GIS databases as further information is generated, and providing
training and assistance to the local NGOs or PAMBs in GIS
applications; for selection and installation of software applications,
and training of users in the PCU; troubleshooting and maintenance of
systems installed at headquarters and in the field; and design
specification for all computer-based management information systems.
Qualifications: degree in computer-related discipline and a minimum
of three years' experience in computer applications for management
purposes.
Local Protected Area Host NGOs
7.        NIPA shall make cooperative agreements or contracts with one qualified
"host NGO" for each of ten PAs included in the scope of the project. The host



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
NGO  will assist in the management of the PA through provision of technical
assistance in the implementation of the Project, based on the objectives, methods
and procedures, organizational roles, and budgetary constraints collectively
provided by R.A. 7586, D.A.O. 25, the project Technical Report, and the
provisions herein.
8.        Oualifications of NGO.  The host NGO will be selected from a shortlist
of qualified NGOs, consisting of incorporated not-for-profit public organizations
with a charter, board of directors and officers, and at least three years of
operational history; or it may constitute a duly-registered consortium of
shortlisted NGOs. Facilitating grass roots community economic development among
impoverished groups should be central to the NGOs objectives and experience, with
protection of the environment at least a secondary concern.   In the case of
competitive selection of one from among a short list, NGOs shall be invited to
prepare a proposal consistent with paras. 9-12 and taking the goal of reconciling
the community development and environmental preservation objectives as the
principle thrust of involvement in the project.   Selection of a lead NGO for
project coordination at the level of the individual protected area (PA) will be
based on the proposals, rated according to their demonstration of (i) the
qualifications and experience of the NGO (30%), (ii) the qualifications and
experience of the specific individual candidates proposed for key staff, positions
(50%), and (iii) the competence and insight demonstrated by a proposed work plan
(20%). In case a consortium is designated, the consortium will be required to
nominate three candidates for each key staff position and document the competence
of each candidate, and selection will be based entirely on qualifications of
individuals. Evaluation of proposals, candidates, NGOs shall be conducted by a
committee of individuals representing the Government and NGO communities,
appointed by the Secretary of DENR; and representatives of NIPA shall participate
on this committee. The evaluation report shall be submitted jointly to the Bank
and the Secretary of DENR for approval.
9.        An NGO may make proposals for one or more than one PA, with different
candidates proposed for positions at each PA. Individual candidates proposed
need not be officers or members of the proposing NGO or any other NGO, and the
same candidate may be proposed by more than one NGO; but it will be assumed that
any candidate whose name and resume is included in a proposal has agreed to work
for the proposing NGO, should the latter's proposal be accepted.   After the
selection of a host NGO, NIPA should reserve the right to reject one or more
specific candidates as insufficiently qualified and negotiate a replacement.  The
chief officers of the lead NGO may be disqualified from appointment to PAMB as
NGO representatives, to prevent conflict of interest; or else will be expected
to abstain from voting on matters relevant to the contractual service of the host
NGO.
10.       Maior Tasks.  The host NGO shall:
(a)  Establish and equip an office in or adjacent to the PA to serve as a
base for PAMB and NGO operations in support of the PA, which may be
rented or constructed, together with or separate from the PA
administrative offices, whichever may be suitable;



ANNEX N
Page 8 of 10
(b) Provide for seven years the services of such staff as are described
below;
(c) Be accountable for management of all project funds under the
procedures and rules established by NIPA, maintain project accounts
and keep them open to inspection by representatives of the PAMB, NIPA,
or the Bank, and submit to external audit as prescribed by NIPA or the
Bank;
(d) Facilitate the establishment of a PAMB, including the organization of
all interested parties/groups to select their common representatives;
and serve as Secretariat to the PAMB after its establishment;
(e) With the assistance of NIPA and its experts, review and revise a draft
PA Management Plan for presentation to and approval by PAMB; and
thereafter, as agent of PAMB, assist the PA Superintendent in turning
the Plan into feasible annual work programs and budgets;
(f) While taking a leadership role in relationships between the PA
administration and the community, accept the authority of and seek the
approval of the PA Superintendent in all matters of day-to-day PA
administration, as prescribed by D.A.O. 25 (Series of 1992), and in
matters of policy and planning, seek the guidance and accept the
direction of the PAMB;
(g) Solicit from other, locally-based NGOs and People's Organizations
proposals for livelihood and other activities consistent with the
objectives of the Project; prepare such proposals for consideration
and approval by PAMB and review by NIPA, the IPAF Governing Board,
and/or DENR following methods and procedures agreed with Recipient;
and take responsibility for monitoring and supervision of such
activities as are included within the scope of Project financing,
including repayment of loans;
(h) Carry out assigned responsibilities to procure equipment in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines and procedures agreed with NIPA;
(i) Identify residents in or immediately around the PA who are suitable
candidates for long-term or casual employment in Project-supported
activities, and, where such employees are not directly employed by the
Government, manage their salaries, wages and benefits;
(j) Develop and (using a combination of local and NIPA staff resources and
external hires) implement a training program for PAMB members, DENR
PA staff, contractual hires, and NGO staff involved in the project;
and
(k) Assist duly authorized external contractors in the implementation of
their responsibilities, whether involving provision of project
implementation services, research, or monitoring.



ANNEX E
Page 9 of 10
11.       Individual Experts.  The following basic qualifications are expected
to be met by the key staff commonly required by most PAs; additional supporting
staff may be provided for in each PA's individual Terms of Reference.  The names
and resumes of proposed candidates, with references to verify qualifications, for
each and every one of the key staff must be included in the NGO proposal, else
a proportionate amount of evaluation points will be deducted from the evaluated
score of the proposal.   Local residents  (of the same province)  shall reci.re
point preference in selection of host NGOs and working knowledge of principal
local language/dialect is required of every candidate.
(a)  Prolect Coordinator:  Administrative manager for the GEF project at
the PA level.   Qualifications:   at least three years' successful
experience as day-to-day project manager or site manager in community-
based rural development projects, responsible for an annual budget of
at least P1.3 million;
(b)  Accountant:     Financial  manager  at  the  PA  level,  supervising
disbursement, maintenance of accounts, preparation of financial plans
and budgets, and disbursement of funds. Qualifications: minimum of
a reputable B.A. in accounting or similar discipline and at least
three years' successful experience in financial management of project
or subproject with an annual budget of at least P1.3 million;
(c)  Training Coordinator:   Responsible for designing and managing all
training programs, with the advice and assistance of the NIPA
training/IEC specialist and drawing on internal or external expertise
as trainers. Qualifications: reputable B.A. degree and at least two
years, successful experience in a training/IEC position with relevance
to the thrusts of this project; demonstrated knowledge sufficient to
serve as a trainer in one or more relevant skills area;
(d)  Information Officer:  Responsible for designing and implementing an
IEC program in support of community relations and protected area
management.   Qualifications:   reputable B.A. degree in journalism,
broadcasting, advertising, or similarly relevant fields, and at least
two  years'  successful  experience  in  an  IEC-type  position  with
relevance to the thrusts of this project;
(e)  Agro-forestry/Uoland  Agriculture/Coastal  or  Marine  Resource  Spe-
cialist:    Responsible  for  identification,  design,  and  technical
extension work or guidance in implementation of site restoration and
livelihood projects involving agro-forestry, upland agriculture,
coastal or marine resources. Qualifications: reputable B.A. degree
in forestry with training in social forestry/agro-forestry, or in
agriculture with emphasis on upland agriculture/tree crops, or in
marine resources or related disciplines, and at least two years'
successful experience in field-level technical design, management, and
supervision of forestation, social forestry, or upland agricultural
development programs, or coastal/marine resource management;



ANNEX E
Page 10 of 10
(f)  Community Orcanizers:   Responsible for facilitating all aspects of
project implementation with the local community and selection and
organization of the PAMB, working closely with community leaders and
staff of other NGOs; and (with assistance from other staff and NIPA)
identification, preparation, and supervision of implementation of
livelihood and other project activities. Qualifications: minimum of
four years' successful experience in site-level CO work, preferably
among the same cultural groups which constitute the PA local communi-
ty.
12.       Form of Agreement/Contract.  The agreement/contract will be concluded
between NIPA and the selected NGO for an initial one-year trial period, which
shall apply to each key employee individually as well as the NGO as lead
organization. Thereafter renewal by NIPA for two-year periods will be subject
to the agreement of the PAMB. A 10% overhead rate will be allowed on the wages
and salaries of all staff directly hired and administered by the NGO, in addition
to welfare and fringe benefits; and on all material or equipment procurements
authorized. The agreement/contract will specify the minimum services required,
with expansion subject to agreed and approved work plans and budgets and
financing availability.
Monitoring and Ecological Research
13.       The NIPA grant includes a sum designated as a budget for Monitoring
and Ecological Research over the course of the project. This budget may be used
(subject to para. 4 above) by NIPA only for studies, special monitoring
exercises, or research including, but not limited to, the following, and only to
the extent that such studies are not within the capabilities of long-term project
staff, are not specifically budgeted for in the Project Technical Report, and
have poor prospects for finance from other donors:
(a)  project  implementation  monitoring  studies  by NGOs  not  otherwise
participating or benefiting from the project;
(b)  aerial surveys for monitoring purposes;
(c)  regular monitoring of bio-diversity status in PAs;
(d)  feasibility studies for livelihood projects; and
(e)  mid-term project evaluation studies.



Annex F
Page 1 of 24
PHILIPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER)                               June 29, 1992
No. 25
Series of 1992                   )
SUBJECT: NATIONAL INTEGRATED PROTECTED AREAS SYSTEMS (NIPAS) IMPLEMENTING
RULES AND REGULATIONS
Pursuant to Section 10(d) of Republic Act No. 7586 otherwise known as the
"National Integrated Protected Areas System Act of 1992" (the Act), this
Administrative Order setting forth the rules and regulations governing
implementation of the Act is hereby promulgated.
The purpose of this Order is to set forth in detail the processes by which
DENR and other concerned institutions and agencies will establish, administer and
manage the NIPAS, focussing particularly on the twin objectives of biodiversity
conservation and sustainable development.
For the purposes of this Order, the categories of protected areas and the
definitions of terms are those provided in Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
Chapter I
Basic Policy
Section  1.   The policy of the State provides  that  the management,
protection, sustainable development, and rehabilitation of protected areas shall
be undertaken primarily to ensure the conservation of biological diversity and
that the use and enjoyment of protected areas must be consistent with that
principle. It is further acknowledged that the effective administration of the
NIPAS will require a partnership between the Government, through the DENR, and
other interested parties including the indigenous cultural communities.
Chapter II
Scope
Section 2.   This Order shall apply to all areas that, prior to the
effectivity of the Act on June 1, 1992, have been designated or set aside,
pursuant to a law, presidential decree, presidential proclamation or executive
order as a national park, game refuge, bird and wildlife sanctuary, wilderness
area, strict nature reserve, watershed, mangrove reserve, fish sanctuary, natural
and historical landmark, protected and managed landscape or seascape as well as



Annex F
Page 2 of 24
to identified virgin forests. It shall also apply to other protected areas that
may later be established pursuant to the Act.
Chapter III
The Establishment of NIPAS Areas
Establishing Initial Components of the System
Section 3. The first stage in the establishment of the initial components
of the NIPAS will involve a four-step process for the DENR.   The steps will
include: (i) compiling technical descriptions and maps of the areas designated
in Section 2; (ii) an initial screening of these areas for their suitability for
inclusion in the NIPAS; (iii) studies and public hearings to build a case for
formal establishment of suitable areas in this group as protected areas; and
(iv) preparing final recommendations for the President and the Congress. The
DENR Regional Office under the direction of the Regional Executive Director (RED)
shall undertake or cause to undertake the activities from (a) to (i) below, as
a preparatory stage for the establishment of the initial components of the NIPAS:
(a) Compilation of Maps and Technical Descriptions of Protected Areas.
Within ninety (90) days from effectivity of this Order, compile and
submit to the Secretary, maps and corresponding technical descriptions
of all areas under the jurisdiction of the Region that are covered
under Section 2 of this Order. These materials shall be submitted to
the Congress by the Secretary within one (1) year from effectivity of
this Order and constitute the official documents representing the
initial component of the NIPAS. Areas so documented shall be governed
by existing laws, rules and regulations consistent with the Act.
In developing technical descriptions for identified virgin forests, include
mossy forests as well as any contiguous residual forest of good quality that is
above 1000 meters in elevation or on slopes greater than fifty (50) percent.
(b) Initial Screening. - After the maps and technical descriptions of the
initial NIPAS components have been compiled, evaluate the suitability
or unsuitability of each area for inclusion in the NIPAS under one or
more of the existing protected area categories provided in the Act.
Criteria and guidelines for the evaluation shall be provided by the
Secretary.   Areas regarded as unsuitable shall,  together with the
rationale for that decision, be reported to the Secretary within nine
(9) months from the effectivity of this Order.
(c)  Public Notification.  The general public, local government units, non-
government  organization,  indigenous  communities  and  all  other
concerned institutions and agencies shall be informed through the
various media of: (i) the presence of protected areas within their
locality; (ii) the result of the initial screening by the DENR,
(iii) the NIPAS Law, (iv) this order, and other relevant documents
pertaining to the NIPAS. The maps and technical descriptions of areas
covered under Section 2 shall be made available to the public at
RENRO, PENRO and CENRO offices and posted in municipal and/or barangay
halls and other conspicuous public places near the said areas.



Annex F
Page 3 of 24
A national information and education program shall also be undertaken by
DENR to inform the general public of the existence of the NIPAS and its goals,
objectives and activities.
(d)  Initial Consultation.   Organize consultative meetings at locations
within or near the areas identified for possible establishment as
protected areas, providing at least thirty (30) days notice to the
public prior to such meetings.   Among the topics  that shall be
presented and discussed in said public meetings are:  (i) the effects
of   forest   destruction;   (ii) the   importance   of  biodiversity
conservation and watershed protection; (iii) the NIPAS Act, this Order
and  other  relevant  regulatory  documents;  (iv) the  role  of  the
Protected Area Management Board; (v) strategies for recognizing
ancestral domain and addressing other tenure issues; and (vi) the
relationships of biodiversity conservation to livelihood in protected
areas.    Records  on  the  consultation  as  well  as  the  names  of
participants and any written comments presented shall be submitted to
the Secretary.
(e)  Census and Registration of Protected Area Occupants.   Undertake a
census of persons living in the proposed protected area and buffer
zones or otherwise utilizing them, using the format provided by the
Secretary.  These activity should establish basic census data, the
ethnographic and tenure status of migrants and indigenous communities
as well as provide a basis for planning buffer zones and alternative
livelihood activities. In the ten initial sites funded by the GEF,
the NGO and DENR site staff shall participate in the data collection
under the direction of a competent NGO or consultant as a means of
becoming better acquainted with the site and its people. Copies of
any previous forest occupant census conducted in the area should be
obtained for the purpose of corroborating claims of tenure.   This
shall be completed within a period of six (6) months after the
deadline set in Section 3.a.
(f) Resource Profiling. Gather and compile relevant information on the
biophysical features of the area, including topography, unique
geological features, soil type, existing vegetative cover and flora
and fauna, particularly threatened and endangered species, as well as
important nesting and/or breeding sites. Present the results using
a standard format provided by the Secretary. A brief history of man-
made disturbances and ongoing programs/projects, research and other
development activities shall also be included. This activity shall
be completed within a period of twelve (12) months after public
notification on the existence of the initial components of NIPAS.
(g)  Initial Protected Area Plan.   Compile information developed in the
studies and from other available sources. If the area is still judged
to be suitable for inclusion in the NIPAS, develop a land use plan for
each proposed protected area in coordination with the Regional
Development Council.   Involve indigenous cultural communities and
tenured migrants within the proposed protected area and others within
adjoining buffer zones and nearby communities as partners in this
planning process.   The finished plan shall include:   (i) the basic



Annex F
Page 4 of 24
rationale for the protected area; (ii) proposed boundaries including
buffer zones; and (iii) an initial designation of management zones,
including buffer zones, with purposes, strategies and allowable uses
specified for each.  Boundaries and management zones shall also be
indicated on maps of 1:50,000 scale or larger.
(h) Public Hearings. Conduct public hearings on the proposed inclusion
of each area under the NIPAS.  The DENR shall:  (i) notify the public
of proposed establishment of the protected area under the NIPAS Act
through publication in newspapers of general circulation and such
other means deemed necessary in the vicinity of the affected land at
least 30 days prior to the public hearing, ensuring that all affected
local government units (LGUs), concerned national agencies, indigenous
community people's organizations and NGOs are properly notified;
(ii) conduct public hearings at locations nearest to the affected
land; (iii) present the basic rationale for establishment and for the
proposed boundaries including the buffer zones, giving particular
emphasis to the issues of the basic management plan, the recognition
of indigenous community rights, tenure and livelihood potential that
would be allowed and/or provided; (iv) make a written record of the
names of those in attendance and of the proceedings; (v) allow all who
are present an opportunity to state their views and/or submit them in
writing;  and  (vi) allow  the  further  submission  of  views  etc.,
following the hearing date.
(i) Regional Review and Recommendation. Following the public hearings,
make any modifications of the boundary and/or management plan that may
be warranted and, if sufficient public support for inclusion of the
area under the NIPAS is evident, prepare and submit to the Secretary
a report that includes a draft Presidential Proclamation designating
the area as a protected area, a statement summarizing the rationale
for establishment, the basic management approach, photographs, a map
and technical description that includes buffer zones, a record of the
public hearings and such other documents as may be required, using a
format provided by the Secretary. For the initial components of the
system, this must be completed within two-and-one-half (2.5) years
from the effectivity of the Act.
(j)  National Review and Recommendation.   Within three (3) years of the
effectivity of the Act, the Secretary, based on the review of
recommendations made by the Regional Offices, shall recommend to the
President the areas for inclusion as initial components under the
NIPAS.  The Secretary shall likewise recommend to the President for
endorsement to the Congress the disestablishment of areas from the
initial components that, after study and review, are deemed unsuitable
for inclusion under the NIPAS (see Section 5 below).
(k) Presidential Proclamation. Upon receipt of DENR recommendation and
supporting  documents,  the  President  shall  issue  a  Presidential
Proclamation designating the recommended area as a protected area and
providing for protection measures until such time as Congress shall
have enacted a law declaring the area as part of NIPAS.



Annex F
Page 5 of 24
(1)  Congressional Action.   For areas recommended by the Secretary and
proclaimed by the President, a law, pursuant to Section 5 (e and f)
of the Act, establishing the areas as part of the NIPAS shall be
enacted by Congress.
(m)  Demarcation.   Upon enactment of a law defining and establishing a
protected area, the boundary of the said area shall be established and
demarcated on the ground with concrete monuments or other prominent
physical landmarks or features. Index and station numbers shall be
engraved on the monuments or markers to serve as reference. In the
case of marine protected areas, boundaries shall be marked where
practicable, with internationally-accepted buoys.
Later Components of the NIPAS
Section 4. Establishment of Additional Protected Areas. Notwithstanding
the establishment of the above initial components of the NIPAS additional
protected areas may be proposed by the Secretary following the provisions of
Section 5 (d) of the Act and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
3(c)-3(j) of this Order.  In this instance, Sections 3(a)-3(b) would be replaced
by an initial reconnaissance survey to verify the area's biodiversity or other
special features and to identify probable boundaries, mapping at a scale of
1:50,000 and a written rationale for proposing the area for inclusion in the
NIPAS.
Section 5. Disestablishment of Protected Areas Including Alterations of
Boundaries.    Pursuant to Section 7 of the Act,  a protected area may be
disestablished or its boundaries modified in accordance with the following
procedures:
(a) The basis for recommending for disestablishment or boundary
modification of an established protected area shall be warranted by
a study prepared for the purpose. Such a study shall be undertaken
by the pertinent regional office under the direction/supervision of
the RED;
(b) Results of the study and recommendations for disestablishment or
boundary modification shall be presented at public hearings prior to
submission to the Secretary.   Provided, that if the area has been
previously established under the Act, the recommendation shall be
supported by a majority of members of the Protected Area Management
Board (See Chapter V);
(c) The DENR Secretary shall then advise and submit to Congress his
recommendation together with relevant supporting documents;
(d) Recommended disestablishment or boundary modification pursuant to
Section 7 of the Act shall only take effect after Congressional
Action;
(e) Areas disestablished by Congress shall revert to the category of
public forest unless otherwise specified under the law providing for
disestablishment.    This  shall  not prejudice  existing or  future
delineation of the area as ancestral domain.



Annex F
Page 6 of 24
(f)  The   Secretary may recommend the transfer of disestablished areas to
other government agencies for the implementation of priority programs
serving the national  interest.   Provided,  that where applicable,
ancestral claims shall be accorded the highest priority.
(g) The public shall be duly notified of above actions following the
procedure in Section 3 of this Order.
Section 6. Establishment of Buffer Zones.   Buffer zones are intended to
provide an extra layer of protection around the protected area while also
providing livelihood opportunities based on sustainable resource utilization.
The major goal is to encourage buffer zone residents and/or managers to establish
a strong social fence that will prevent encroachment into the protected area by
others, that is, to provide sufficiently strong incentives so that buffer zone
users will help to protect the protected area.   This will,  in nearly every
instance, require a process of community organization and development to succeed.
The following general guidelines are provided pending the promulgation of a more
specific set by the Secretary.
(a) Buffer zones must be established by law in the same manner that a
protected area is established.  Therefore, every effort shall be made
to   include   the   appropriate   buffer   zones   in  the   original
recommendations for establishment.
(b) When buffer zones are established after the protected area has been
established, the procedures to be followed are those set forth in
Section 4 of this Order.
(c) The PAMB and the PAS shall exercise authority over buffer zones on
behalf of the DENR (Section 8 of the Act) in cooperation with NGOs and
other government agencies.   Management and land use practices for
buffer zones shall be prescribed in the management plan.
(d) The range of resource management activities that may be allowed in
various portions of the buffer zone must be broad so as to give
maximum management flexibility. If very limited resource access is
contemplated, the area should be considered for inclusion in the
protected  area.      In  cases  where  there  is  conflict  in  the
classification of buffer zones such classification shall not impair
the traditional livelihood of cultural communities.
(e) Those who will manage buffer zone areas; indigenous cultural
communities, tenured migrants and others must play a prominent role
in developing the plans, policies and rules for buffer zone
management.
Chapter IV
Management Plan Preparation, Approval and Adoption
Section 7. Two-tiered Management Planning. NIPAS site management planning
and implementation shall be undertaken by protected area staff, which may include
an NGO component, technical specialists and representatives of local communities



Annex F
Page 7 of 24
within and near the site following general planning strategy prepared at the
national level. The protected area management plan shall be contained within a
management manual as provided by Section 9 of the Act. Protected area management
shall be under the direction of a site specific Protected Area Management Board
as provided in Chapter V of this Order and NGOs are expected to play an important
role in area management along with DENR staff.
The General Management Planning Strategy (GMPS)
Section 8. GMPS Preparation. Within one (1) year after effectivity of the
Act, the Protected Areas and Wildlife Bureau (PAWB) under the technical direction
of the Undersecretary for Environment and Research shall prepare the General
Management Planning Strategy.   This document shall serve as a guide in the
formulation of site specific management plans, including buffer zones. The GMPS
shall, at the minimum, address the following:
(a) Promoting the adoption and implementation of innovative management
techniques such as: management zones; buffer zones for multiple use
and protection; habitat conservation and rehabilitation; biodiversity
management; community organizing; socioeconomic and scientific
researches; site-specific policy development; pest management and fire
control;
(b) Providing for the protection of indigenous cultural community domains
and interests and for the rights of tenured migrants; and
(c) Creating closer coordination between and among the DENR, local
government, the private sector and the general populace.
In addition to contributions from various technical experts in protected area and
biodiversity management, the PAWB shall solicit the assistance of NGOs in GMPS
preparation in the areas of community-based resource management and indigenous
cultural community concerns.
Section 9. GMPS Adoption. Within thirty (30) days after submission of the
final draft of the GMPS by the PAWB, the same shall be adopted by the NIPAS
Policy and Program Steering Committee and issued by the Secretary as a Department
Administrative Order.
Management Zones
Section 10. Protected Area Management Zoning. To provide flexibility in
management, each protected area and its attached buffer zones shall be divided
into one or more of the categories listed below. Cultural communities, tenured
migrants, other existing protected area users and local governments shall be a
part of the decision making process in zone establishment and management
planning. Management objectives and strategies shall be developed for each zone
and specific approaches and technologies identified and implemented in accordance
with the strategy to meet those objectives.   Provided, that the zoning of a
protected area and its etc., zones shall not restrict the rights of indigenous
communities to pursue traditional and sustainable means of livelihood within
their ancestral domain, unless they so concur.



Annex F
Page 8 of 24
For the purposes of this Section, the word "sustainable" shall mean not
causing permanent or long-term diminishment or qualitative degradation of
biological species or of other resources extracted or disturbed; "traditional"
shall mean using no power machinery in the extraction process and consistent with
historically customary techniques of production; and "commercial" shall mean
involving market sale in volume or value in excess of that required to maintain
a basic subsistence for workers and their dependents.
(a)  Strict Protection Zone.   Areas with high biodiversity value which
shall be closed to all human activity except for scientific studies
and/or ceremonial or religious use by indigenous communities.
(b)  Sustainable Use Zone.   Natural areas where  the habitat and its
associated biodiversity shall be conserved but where, consistent with
the management plan and with PAMB approval; (i) indigenous community
members and/or tenured migrants and/or buffer zone residents may be
allowed to collect and utilize natural resources using traditional
sustainable methods that are not in conflict with biodiversity
conservation requirements; (ii) research, including the reintroduction
of indigenous species, may be undertaken; and (iii) park visitors may
be allowed limited use. Provided, no clearing, farming, settlement,
commercial utilization or other activities detrimental to biodiversity
conservation shall be undertaken. The level of allowable activity can
be expected to vary from one situation to another.
(c) Restoration Zone. Areas of degraded habitat where the long-term goal
will be to restore natural habitat with its associated biodiversity
and to rezone the area to a more strict protection level.  Initially,
natural regeneration will be assisted through such human interventions
as fire control, cogon suppression and the planting of native species
including indigenous pioneer tree species as well as climax species.
Exotic species (not native to the site) shall not be used in the
restoration process. Existing houses and agricultural developments
may be allowed to remain initially but would be phased out eventually.
(d) Habitat Management Zones. Areas with significant habitat and species
values where management practices are required periodically to
maintain specific non-climax habitat types or conditions required by
rare,  threatened or endangered species.   Examples would be forest
openings for the tamaraw or brushy forest for the Philippine tarsier.
Human habitation and sustainable use may be allowed if they play a
habitat management role.
(e)  Multiple-Use  Zones    Areas  where  settlement,  traditional  and/or
sustainable land use, including agriculture, agro-forestry, extraction
activities and other income generating or livelihood activities, may
be allowed to the extent prescribed in the management plan.   Land
tenure may be granted to tenured residents, whether indigenous
cultural community members or migrants.
(f) Buffer Zone. Areas outside the protected area but adjoining it that
are established by law (Section 8 of the Act) and under the control
of the DENR through the Park Area Management Board.   These are
effectively multiple-use zones that are to be managed to provide a



Annew F
Page 9 of 24
social fence to prevent encroachment into the protected area by
outsiders.   Land tenure may be granted to occupants who qualify.
Buffer zones should be treated as an integral part of the protected
area in management planning.
(g) Cultural Zones. Areas with significant cultural, religious, spiritual
or anthropological, values where traditional rights exist and
ceremonies and/or other cultural practices take place.
(h) Recreational Zones. Areas of high recreational tourism, educational,
or environmental awareness values where sustainable eco-tourism,
recreational, conservation education or public awareness activities
may be allowed as prescribed in the management plan.
(i) Special Use Zone. Areas containing existing installations of national
significance, such as telecommunication facilities, irrigation canals
or electric power lines. Such installations may be retained subject
to mutual agreements among the concerned parties, provided such
installations will not violate any of the prohibitions contained in
Section 20 of the Act.
(j) Other management zones as may be used in the management plan and
approved by the Secretary.
The Management Plan and Management Manual
Section 11.  Preparation.  A Management Manual which contains the protected
area Management Plan and supporting data shall be prepared in accordance with
Section 9 of the Act. The Management Plan shall serve as the basic long-term
framework plan in the management of the protected area and as a guide in the
preparation of the annual operations plan and budget.   The Management Manual
shall be drafted with the assistance of experts in such fields as socioeconomic
planning, ecology and protected area management, reviewed and endorsed by the
PAMB, and approved by the Secretary.
Section 12. Content. The content of the Management Manual shall include
the following:
(a)  Executive Summary:
(b) Description of the Protected Area:
(i)  Historical background
(ii)  Biogeographic Setting
(iii) Regional and Local Setting
(iv)  Topography, Geology and Soils
(v)  Climate
(vi)  Boundaries and the Rationale for Their Location
(vii) Flora and Fauna, Habitats and Ecosystems
(viii) Human Population and Current Land Use
(ix)  Legal Status and Regulations
(x)  Current Management Activities and Research
(xi)  Initial Environmental Examination Report



Annex F
Page 10 of 24
(c) Issues:
(i)  Conservation Value
(ii)  Biodiversity Concerns
(iii)  Habitat Rehabilitation Needs
(iv)  Management Constraints
(v)  Local Interest, Rights and Concerns
(vi)  Development Potential, including Tourism
(vii)  Changes Required in Legal Status
(d)  Management Plan.   This section will draw upon the background and
issues to justify the goals,  objectives,  strategy and management
activities to be used.
(i)  Goals:  long-term
(ii)  Objectives:   to be achieved within the life of the project or
plan, quantifiable to the extent possible.
(iii)  Key management
(iv)  Site Management Strategy:  what is the plan that will integrate
management activities to address key management issues to meet
the objectives.
(v)  Management Activities:  an overall strategy is needed as well as
zone specific strategies and management activities. Buffer zones
shall be treated as an integral part of the protected area when
planning.
a. community organization
b. ancestral domain and rights
C. tenure for tenured protected area and buffer zone residents
d. boundary demarcation
e. management zone boundaries and the rationale for each
f.  protection program:  by wardens and by the community
g. habitat rehabilitation
h. habitat management
i. sustainable use
j. infrastructure, including maintenance
k. visitor program and accommodations
1. specific management plans for each management zone, including
buffer zones.
(e)  Bio-inventory and Research Program
(f)  Special Studies
(g)  Monitoring and Evaluation
(h)  Management Information Data Base Development
(i)  Administration
(i) Staffing
(ii) Work Program
(iii) Budget
(j) Annexes
(i) Maps (1:50,000), pictures, aerial photographs
(ii) Species lists, etc.



Annex F
Page 11 of 24
(iii) References
Section 13. Public Consultations and Hearings. In preparing the management
plans, an iterative process of public consultations and hearings with the local
communities, non-government organizations and people's organizations operating
in and/or familiar with the conditions in the concerned protected area, local
government units and concerned national government offices shall be undertaken
to the fullest extent possible. The goal is a workable plan strongly supported
by the local community. It shall be the responsibility of the Regional Executive
Director (RED) to ensure compliance with this provision.
Section 14.   Endorsement and Adoption.   The Management Plan shall he
endorsed to the Secretary for his approval and officially adopted by the PAMB in
their capacity as representatives of the local communities in the concerned
protected areas.
Section 15.  Implementation.  The Management Plan shall be translated into
an annual work program and supporting budget by the protected area staff under
the direction of the PAS following the government budgetary cycle.  The work
program and budget shall be approved by a majority of the PAMB but may be
modified from time to time as the situation demands.
Section 16. Review and Update. The Management Plan shall be reviewed and
updated on a regular basis, at least once every three (3) years. However, in
cases, where significant physical developments occur within the protected area
or critical resource constraints prevent implementation of important
programs/projects, the Plan or some components thereof may be revised/modified.
Any modification or revision of the Plan shall, however, be approved by a
majority of PAMB members.
Section 17. National Review of Management Plans. To ensure consistency
of individual Management Plans with the philosophy, spirit and objectives of the
Act and with the guidelines set forth under the General Management Planning
Strategy and as provided under Section 10(c) of the Act, the Secretary shall
reserve the right to review all plans and proposals for the management of
protected areas. In the exercise of this authority, the Secretary shall delegate
the review to the IPAS Technical Coordinating Committee in coordination with
PAWB.   Based on the outcome of the review,  the Secretary shall issue the
pertinent directives/instructions to concerned implementing units.
Chapter V
The Protected Area Management Board
Section 18. Duties and Functions of the Board. Each established protected
area shall be administered by a Protected Area Management Board (PANB). The
Board shall by consensus or majority vote, approve or take any necessary actions
to:
(a) Decide matters relating to planning, resources protection and general
administration of the area in accordance with the General Management
planning Strategy (GMPS).



Annex F
Page 12 of 24
(b) Approve proposals, work plans, action plans, guidelines, for
management of the protected area in accordance with the approved
Management Plan.
(c)  Delineate and demarcate protected area boundaries,  buffer zones,
ancestral  domains,  and  recognize  the  rights  and  privileges  of
indigenous communities under the provisions of the Act.
(d) Promulgate rules and regulations to promote development programs and
projects on biodiversity conservation and sustainable development
consistent with the Management Manual of the protected area.
(e) Ensure the implementation of programs as prescribed in the Management
Plan in order to provide employment to the people dwelling in and
around the protected area.
(f) Control and regulate the constitution, operation and maintenance of
roads, trails, water works, sewerage, fire protection and sanitation
systems and other public utilities within the protected area.
(g) Monitor and evaluate the performance of protected area personnel, NGOs
and the communities in providing for biodiversity conservation and
sociocultural and economic development and report their assessments
to the NIPAS Policy and Program Steering Committee (NPPSC) and the
IPAF Governing Board.
Section 19.   Composition of the Board.   Membership of the PAMB shall
comprise the following:
(a) The DENR Regional Executive Director (RED) as Chairman and advisor in
matters related to the technical aspects of protected area management.
When there are two or more REDs on the Board, the Secretary shall
designate one of them to be Chairman.
(b) One representative of the Autonomous Regional Government, where this
is applicable.
(c) The Provincial Development Officer from each province with territory
within the protected area.
(d)  One representative  from each Municipal Government with territory
within the protected area.
(e) One representative from each Barangay with territory within the
protected area.
(f) One representative from each tribal community residing within the
protected area, if applicable.
(g)  At least three (3) representatives from local NGOs and community
organizations, including people's organizations, church or civic
organizations.   These representatives  shall be based in or near
protected area.



Annex F
Page 13 of 24
(h) One representative, if necessary, from other national government
departments that may be involved in protected area management.   In
situations wherein two or more such departments are involved, the
representative shall be chosen by and among themselves.
Section 20. Selection and Appointment of Board Members. The Secretary
shall formally appoint the Board members. The RED(s) and Provincial Development
Officer(s) serve ex-officio. Representatives of municipalities and barangays
shall be recommended by the head of the local government unit they represent.
Each tribal community within the protected area shall nominate its
representative. Concerned NCO/local community organizations based in the area
or with recognized interests in protected areas shall choose their
representatives by and among themselves.
Section 21. Term of Office and Compensation. Board members shall serve
for a term of five years without compensation, except for actual and necessary
traveling and subsistence expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Provided, that whenever a vacancy occurs during the term of a member, a new
member shall be appointed in the same manner as the original appointment in order
to complete the unfinished term of the said vacancy.
Section 22.   Executive Committee.   In view of the large size of the
Management Board expected in some NIPAS sites, the PAMB may create an Executive
Committee to be composed of the RTD as Chairman, and at least two representatives
each from local government, concerned NGOs and indigenous cultural communities
if applicable. The Board shall determine the authorities to be delegated to the
Executive Committee.
Section 23. Meetings. The PAMB shall meet monthly. Provided, that the
Executive Committee, when established, may meet in lieu of the full PAMB,
provided. Further that the PAMB shall meet en-banc at least twice yearly. A
quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the group meeting.  The
Chairman may call special meetings  as deemed necessary.   The Board shall
formulate guidelines on calling special meetings and how they should be
conducted.
Section 24. Minutes of Meetings. Minutes of Board and Executive Committee
meetings shall be prepared by the Secretariat (Section 26) and sent to the
Secretary by the Chairman within seven (7) days of the meeting.
Section 25. Authority of the RED to Delegate the PAMB Chairmanship. The
Secretary shall authorize, as he hereby authorizes, the RED to designate his RTD
to represent him as Chairman of the PAMB whenever the RED cannot personally
attend Board meetings.
Section 26.   Secretariat.   The protected area staff shall serve as the
secretariat to the PAMB under the direction of the Protected Area Superintendent.
Section 27.   Removal.   A member of the PAMB may be removed for cause
including the following:
(a) More than three (30 unexcused absences during regularly scheduled
Board meetings;



Annex F
Page 14 of 24
(b) Commission of acts prejudicial protected area management as embodied
in Section 20 of R.A. 7586 or other existing rules and regulations
governing protected areas;
(c) Graft and corruption; and
(d) Conviction on criminal acts.
Section 28. Interim PAMB. The Act provides for a PAMB for each established
IPAS site. In case where initial components have been identified and funding made
available, the Secretary may create an interim PAMB using the procedures found
in Sections 18 through 21 of this Order.
Chapter VI
Administration of the NIPAS
Section 29. Administrative Authority. Section 10 of the Act places the
NIPAS under the control and administration of the DENR and creates a Protected
Areas and Wildlife Division (PAWD) under the supervision of a Regional Technical
Director in regions where protected areas have been established. Parts (a)-(p)
of Section 10 define the Secretary's powers to carry out the mandate of the Act,
including the authority to delegate those powers. Section 11 of the Act then
provides for a Protected Area Management Board as a vehicle for representative
management on site.  And, consistent with the twin objectives of delegating
management authority and responsibilities to the pertinent level of operations;
and, enhancing effecting partnership between government and affected local and
indigenous communities, the following management and administration levels are
defined with their corresponding functions and responsibilities to make
operational the intentions of the Act.
Central-Based
Section 30.  The Secretary.  The Secretary shall be responsible for the
supervision, management and administration of the NIPAS. In the performance of
this function, the Secretary shall create an inter-agency committee. For this
purpose, the Secretary may create a NIPAS Policy and Program Steering Committee
under his chairmanship in order to enhance policy and program coordination within
DENR with other government agencies, NGOs and other elements of the private
sector.
Section 31. The Undersecretary. Serving the Secretary as technical advisor
and performing the above functions in his absence shall be the Undersecretary for
the Environment and Research or the Undersecretary for Field Operations, as the
Secretary may so decide.
Section 32. Protected Areas and Wildlife Bureau (PAWB). The PAWB shall,
under the leadership of its Director, serve as the lead unit for system-wide
planning, technical assistance coordination and monitoring. For the purpose of
providing the coordination among DENR programs/projects and availing of expertise
from other DENR Staff Bureaus, an IPAS Technical Coordinating Committee under the
Chairmanship of the PAWB Director shall be created.



Annex F
Page 15 of 24
Section 33. Additional Responsibilities of the Secretary. The secretary
is charged by law with the following additional responsibilities:
(a)  Annual ReRort to Congress.   Pursuant to Section 17 of the Act the
Secretary shall report to the President, for transmission to Congress
on the status of the NIPAS, regulations in force and other pertinent
information and recommendations.
(b) Markers for Protected Areas. A uniform marker for NIPAS, including
an appropriate and distinctive symbol for each category in the system,
in consultation with appropriate government agencies and public and
private organizations, shall be established by the Secretary.
(c) Specification of Facilities for Protected Areas. The specification
of the class, type and style of buildings and other structures to be
constructed in protected areas and the materials to be used shall be
approved by the Secretary.
Rezion-Based
Section 34. Regional Executive Director (RED). The RED, as Chairman of
the PAMB, shall:
(a) enforce policies, rules and regulations adopted by DENR and the PAMB
for protected areas under his jurisdiction; and
(b) represent the interests and concerns of local and indigenous
communities and ensure that these are addressed by DENR central-based
management.
Section 35.  Regional Technical Director (RTD).  The RTD shall assist the
RED and provide technical direction and supervision over the Protected Areas and
Wildlife Division. In the absence of the RED, the RTD shall assume the RED's
responsibilities over the protected areas.
Section 36. Protected Areas and Wildlife Division (PAWD). A PAWD shall
be created in each region where protected areas have been established. The PAWD
shall include subordinate officers, clerks and other employees who shall
coordinate and monitor the activities related to protected area management and
wildlife resources conservation within the Region.
Site-Based
Section 37. Protected Area Management Board (PAMB). The PAMB shall perform
its functions in accordance with Section 18 of this Order.
Section 38. The Protected Area Superintendent (PAS). The PAS who shall
be residing inside the protected area shall be the chief operating DENR officer
at the site. As such, he shall be directly responsible to the PAMB and the RED.
His duties and responsibilities shall include the following:



Annex F
Page 16 of 24
Administrative
(a) Serve as chief administrative officer of the protected area for the
purpose of implementing the Management Plan as detailed in the annual
work program.
(b) Establish a productive partnership with the local community, including
tribal groups, in the planning, protection and management of the
protected area.
(c) The performance and good morale of his staff.
(d) The proper utilization of annual budget allocations and the proper
disposition of fees and other funds generated within the protected
area.
(e) Develop and implement a park information, education and visitor
program.
(f) Develop and implement a natural history documentation program and to
oversee research that may be conducted within the area.
(g)  Integrate the roles of NGO and DENR staff in the operation of the
area.
(h) Document the processes involved in the establishment and management
of the protected area, with particular reference to the development
of relationships with cultural communities, tenured migrants, buffer
zone residents and others in establishing effective protection of the
area. Glean the lessons learned from this documentation and use them
in future planning.
Regulatory
(a) To act as peace officer for the purpose of maintaining peace and order
within the protected area. As peace office, he shall exercise police
supervision therein, and may arrest any person found in any place
within protected areas who is committing, has committed, or is about
to commit an offense against the provisions of the Act or this Order.
(b) Enforce the rules and regulations established to protect the area and
preserve the protected area from trespass, damage, injury and illegal
occupancy.
(c) Require, when necessary, any person entering or passing across through
or any part of the protected area under his jurisdiction, to give the
following information: name, address, the proposed duration of stay
inside the protected area and the portion which he intends to visit
or has visited and such other information of a similar nature as may
be referred to him.
(d)  Summarily remove or eject from the area persons who have rendered
themselves obnoxious by disorderly conduct or bad behavior or who have
violated any of the regulations on the protected area;



Annex F
Page 17 of 24
(e) Require persons cutting and/or gathering forest products or hunting
or fishing within the protected area to produce, upon demand,
authority or permit to do so.
(f) Seize and confiscate timber or other forest products, game birds,
animals and fish including instruments, tools and conveyances used
inside the protected area by unlicensed persons, or if licensed, in
violation of protected area laws, rules and regulations; and, to
report them in accordance with the present rules, regulations and
guidelines issued by the Secretary concerning confiscation, seizure
and disposition of illegally cut, gathered and transported forest
products, and other natural resources and confiscated wildlife.
(g) Perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be
prescribed by higher authorities.
Section 39. Delegation of Authority. The PAS may, as necessary, delegate
the authority granted in Section 24 to his staff.
Section 40. Other Protected Area Personnel. The PAS shall be supported
by a suficient number of personnel who shall be performing day-to-day management,
protection and administration of the protected areas. Subject to DBM approval
of requested positions and availability of funds, such staff shall include the
following:
(a) Assistant Protected Area Manager/Head Protection Officers
(b) Protected Area Wardens/Rangers
(c) Community Relations Officer
(d) Biologist/Research Workers
(e) Administrative Officers
(f) Office Clerks
(g) Protected Area/Field Maintenance Workers
(h) Others as may be required and approved.
At least fifty (50) percent of site-level staff shall be recruited from
residents living in the immediate vicinity of the protected area or be natives
of the area.
Section 41. Budget. Facilities and Allowances for Site-Based Personnel.
The DENR shall exert all efforts to provide each protected area with its own
budget for salaries, uniforms, fuel, house feed, travel allowances and others as
prescribed in the Management Plans. As such, the following shall be provided
subject to the availability of funds:
(a)  Uniforms.  All protected areas staff shall be provided by DENR with
three (3) sets of uniforms replaceable annually.
(b) Housing. The DENR shall provide housing for all protected area staff
required to reside inside the protected area.
(c) Hardship Allowances. All protected area staffs shall be provided with
twenty five (25%) percent of their salary as hardship allowance
provided they reside at the site.



Annex F
Page 18 of 24
(d) Other Facilities and Allowances. The DENR shall provide as necessary,
or as recommended by the PAS or Management Board any additional
facilities or allowances.
Section 42. Park Management Board. Within one year after the effectivity
of the Act, the Secretary shall create a PAMB for each of the protected area.
Chapter V above provides the details of the functions, composition, selection,
appointment procedures and other matters pertaining to the Board.
Section 43.  Non-Government Organizations (NGOs).   NGOs are expected to
play a significant role in the establishment and management of many protected
areas, particularly in the development community-based mechanisms related to area
protection. These would include the development of good community relations,
community participation in planning, conflict resolution, the establishment of
sustainable resource-based livelihood activities and developing the basis for the
issuance of tenure instruments.
Chapter VII
Indigenous Culture Communities
Section 44. Recognition of Ancestral Domain. Ancestral domain and other
customary rights and interests of indigenous communities shall be accorded due
recognition in protected areas. Moreover, the preservation of ancestral domain
and customary rights within protected areas shall be a management objective.
Section 45.   Identification of Indigenous  Cultural Communities.   The
protected area staff shall immediately locate any indigenous cultural communities
that may exist in or near the site and identify themselves to the tribal leaders.
Section 46. Determination of Ancestral Claims. The evaluation of ancestral
domain claims shall follow the procedures set forth in DAO 61 Series of 1991.
The PAMB, in coordination with the Indigenous Community Affairs Division of the
DENR and other concerned groups, shall undertake this evaluation. The proof of
ancestral domain claims shall include, the following evidences:
(a)  Tax declarations and proof of the payment of taxes:
(b)  Survey plans and/or sketch maps;
(c)  Spanish documents;
(d)  Historical accounts;
(e)  Anthropological data;
(f)  Ancient documents;
(g)  Burial grounds or pictures thereof;
(h)  Written records of customs and traditions;



Annex F
Page 19 of 24
(i) Old improvements such as planted trees, stone walls, rice fields,
water systems, orchards, farm monuments, houses and other old
structures, or pictures thereof;
(j) Written and oral testimonies of living witnesses made under oath;
(k) Traditional structures of indigenous social and government systems,
with names of recognized leaders;
(1) Religious sites and/or artifacts found in the area;
(m)  Genealogical surveys; and
(n) Other documents attesting directly or indirectly to the long-term
occupation of the area that show possession since time immemorial, or
through their predecessors-in-interest, in the concept of owners and
in accordance with their customs and traditions.
(o) Other criteria that may be set by the Secretary or prescribed by law.
Section 47. Delineation and Demarcation. When a claim of ancestral domain
is accepted, following the procedures identified in Section 46 of this Order, the
Secretary shall direct the delineation and demarcation of the same by concerned
DENR offices in coordination with the PAMB. This process shall terminate with
the issuance of a Certificate of Ancestral Domain Claim and/or a Community Forest
Stewardship Agreement until such time as Congress provides other forms of
recognition for ancestral domain.
Section 48.   Other Forms of Tenure.   Members of indigenous cultural
communities may avail of other forms of land tenure if they so qualify.
Section 49. Plans. Policies and Rules for Land and Resource Use Within
Ancestral Domain. The formulation and implementation of plans, policies, rules
and guidelines governing land and resource use within the territorial domain of
indigenous cultural communities shall be done in partnership, with the affected
indigenous cultural communities.   Such plans, policies, rules and guidelines
shall take into consideration:   (a) the maintenance of indigenous community
rights over livelihood sources; (b) their desires to maintain their sociocultural
and spiritual integrity; (c) prevention of degradation of the areas; and
(d) encroachment by any development activities or outside people. Therefore, the
prohibitions found in Section 70 of this Order shall not be enforced for members
of indigenous cultural communities until this process has been completed.
Chapter VIII
Tenured Migrants
Section 50.   Recognition of Tenure.   Any person who has actual and
continuously occupied an area for five (5) years prior to its designation as part
of a protected area in accordance with the Section 5(a) of the Act and is solely
dependent on that area for subsistence shall be considered a tenured migrant.
As a tenured migrant he shall be eligible to become a steward of a portion of
land within the multiple use management or buffer zone of the protected area, and



Annex F
Page 20 of 24
from which he may derive subsistence. Provided, however, that those migrants who
would not quality for the category for tenure shall be resettled outside the
protected area.
Section 51. Evidence of Tenure. The PAMB shall consider the following as
evidences in support of tenured migrant status:
(a) cultivated trees at their fruit-bearing stage;
(b) physical structures in the area indicating prolonged occupancy;
(c) tax declaration receipts;
(d) certification from the barangay captain or any two respected members
of the nearest community attesting to occupancy; and
(e) other relevant data (e.g. previous census reports) that may be
accepted by the PAMB.
Section 52. Security of Tenure. The DENR shall develop a tenure instrument
consistent with the conservation goal of IPAS. Such instrument shall be prepared
within 12 months of effectivity of the Act.
Section 53.   Restrictions on the Activities of Tenured Migrants Within
Protected Areas and Their Buffer Zones. The rights, interests and activities of
tenured migrants within protected areas and their adjoining buffer zones shall
be governed by the principles of biodiversity protection and sustainable
development and by the guidelines prescribed in the management plan as well as
the prohibitions set out in Section 20 of the Act. Provided, that all plans,
policies and guidelines affecting tenured migrants shall be developed and
implements in partnership with them.
Chapter IX
Special Uses and Concerns
Section 54. Energy Exploration. Consistent with Section 14 of the Act,
surveys for energy resources within the protected areas may be conducted only for
the purpose of gathering information on energy reserves in accordance with the
management plan.  Provided, however, that no surveys or exploration shall be
allowed in strict nature reserves and natural parks.
Section 55. Facilities of Other Government Institution (GO). NGOs and
Private Companies Inside Protected Areas. Existing facilities of GOs, NGOs and
private institutions that are found inside the protected area shall be assessed
in terms of their significance to national interest and their impact on the
protected area; provided that on those facilities found significant to national
interest, a contract shall be negotiated and payment of fees for the use of the
land shall be based on a profit-sharing agreement or other measures in accordance
with law; provided further, that those facilities whose purpose are found
inconsistent with the goals of the protected area management shall vacate such
area at the earliest possible time.



Annex F
Page 21 of 24
Section 56. Environment Impact Assessment. Proposals for activities which
are outside the scope of the management plan for protected areas shall be subject
to an environment impact assessment as required by law before they are adopted,
and the results thereof shall be taken into consideration in the decision-making
process. No actual implementation of such activities shall be allowed without
the required Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) under the Philippine
Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) System.  In instances where such activities
are allowed to be undertaken, the proponent shall plan and carry them out in such
manner as to minimize any adverse effects and take preventive and remedial action
when appropriate. The proponent shall be liable for any damage due to lack of
caution, or indiscretion.
Chapter X
Protected Area Funds
Section 57.  Integrated Protected Areas Fund (IPAF).  The IPAF has been
established by the Act for the purpose of promoting the sustained financing of
the System.  The fund may receive revenues generated within protected areas,
donor support and other funds as provided by law, and disburse the same to
finance projects of the NIPAS.
Section 58.   IPAF Income Sources.   IPAF income shall be deposited in a
Special Account under the name of the Fund with a qualified Philippine Government
Bank. The following income has been allocated under the Act for the IPAF:
(a) Taxes for the permitted sale and export of flora and fauna and other
resources;
(b) Proceeds from the lease of multiple use areas, including tourism
concessions;
(c) Contribution from industries and facilities directly benefiting from
the protected area;
(d) Fines and fees, including protected area entry fees, collected and
derived from operation of the protected area;
(e) Contributions, donations, endowments and grants from any source; and
(f) Such other revenues as may be derived from the operation of the
protected areas.
Section 59.   Fixing of Fees and Charges.   The Secretary,  pursuant to
Section 10(f) of the Act, shall fix and prescribe reasonable fees to be collected
from government agencies or any person, firm or corporation deriving benefits
from the protected areas. Such fees and charges are currently prescribed under
DAO 05, Series of 1991. Any changes in the prescribed fees and charges shall be
approved by the Secretary upon the recommendation of PAWB through the
Undersecretary for the Environment and Research.
Section 60.   Collection of Monies.    The  PAS  or his  duly appointed
representative shall collect pertinent fees, charges and donations at the site



Annex F
Page 22 of 24
and be responsible for depositing the same in the Special Account. The PAS shall
submit a statement of amounts collected during the preceding quarter within the
first 15 days of each quarter to the PAMB, who in turn shall submit same to NPPSC
through the PAWB, with an extra copy for the Secretary. The PAS shall also remit
the required percentage of the collections to the central IPAF account as
provided for in Section 61 of this Order.
Section 61.   Fund Administration.   An IPAF Governing Board shall be
established to administer the Fund and to decide on fund allocation among the
protected areas. This shall include the creation of subfunds or accounts for:
(i) each  protected  area  to  receive  revenues  generated  by  that  area  or
contributions specified for that area; and (ii) contributions or other funds
specified for a particular activity that may involve more than one area.
Allocations for any protected area shall be managed by its respective PAMB
subject to guidelines established by the Board. Provided, that at least seventy-
five (75) percent of the revenues generated by a protected area shall be retained
for the development and maintenance of that area and utilized subject to the IPAF
Board guidelines cited above, with the balance being remitted to the Central IPAF
Fund.
Pending the actual creation of the Board, the NIPAS Policy and Program
Steering Committee shall provide the: (i) guidelines for the establishment of
a Trust or Endowment Fund shall be prepared in consultation with pertinent
government agencies, and (ii) the allocation criteria and the expense outlays for
which the Fund may be appropriately used. In such deliberations, the views of
pertinent NGOs shall be taken and considered.
Section 62. Composition of the IPAF Governing Board. The Governing Board
shall be composed of seven (7) members: the Secretary or his duly authorized
representative as ex-officio Chairman of the Board; two (2) from the DENR or
other government agency; two (2) from duly accredited NGOs which have proven
track records in the field of conservation management; and two (2) representing
indigenous communities. The NGO an indigenous community representatives shall
be nominated by and among themselves.
Section 63. Appointment. Members of the IPAF Governing Board shall be
formally appointed by the Secretary on the basis of above nominations and
endorsed to him by NIPAS Policy and Steering Committee.
Section 64.  Terms of Office.  IPAF Governing Board members shall serve for
a term of three (3) years without compensation from the government, except for
travel and other actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and
responsibilities.  After the lapse of three (3) years, a new appointment by the
Secretary is necessary to enable any member to continue his functions.   Any
vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment and
maintain the specified balance in representation. If the vacancy occurs during
a regular term of office, the replacement shall serve only the unexpired portion
of the original appointment.
Section 65.  Functions of the IPAF Governing Board.  The Governing Board
shall perform the following functions:



Annex F
Page 23 of 24
(a) Determine and decide procedures on the management, allocation and
disbursement of the IPAF and decide by a majority vote, on issues and
problems concerning the same.
(b) Issue guidelines to account and audit the funds released and disbursed
to ensure the protection and maximum utility of the IPAF.
(c) Issue guidelines to govern the conduct of its business.
Section 66.  Disbursements.   Disbursements from the Fund or any of its
subfunds shall be made solely for the protection, maintenance, administration and
management of the NIPAS and duly approved projects endorsed by the PAMBs, in the
amounts authorized by the Secretary or his duly designated representative.
Section 67. Meetings. The Governing Board shall meet the first Monday of
each quarter of the year to discuss its business. Any member of the Governing
Board may, by written requests, call a special meeting on any other date.
Section 68. Ouorum. A majority of the Board membership shall constitute
a quorum.
Section 69. Removal from Office. The Secretary may remove and replace any
member for cause, including the following:
(a) Commission of graft and corruption.
(b) Commission of acts prejudicial to the Fund.
(c) Incurring more than three (3) consecutive absences.
Chapter XI
Prohibited Acts and Penalties
Section 70.   Prohibited Acts.   Pursuant to Section 20 of the Act and
Section 48 of this Order, the following are prohibited acts inside protected
areas:
(a) Hunting, destroying, disturbing, or mere possession of any plant or
animal or products derived there from without a permit, specifically
authorizing such activity, from the Board or in the case of indigenous
cultural communities without a mutually agreed policy:
(b) Dumping or otherwise disposing of any waste products detrimental to
the protected area or to the plants and animals or inhabitants
therein;
(c) Use gof any motorized equipment without a permit;
(d) Mutilating, defacing or destroying objects of natural -beauty, or
burial grounds, religious sites, artifacts or other objects belonging
to cultural communities;



Annex F
Page 24 of 24
(e) Damaging and leaving roads and trails in damaged condition;
(f) Squatting, mineral exploration, or otherwise illegally occupying any
land;
(g) Constructing or maintaining any kind of structure, fence or enclosures
and conducting any business enterprise without a permit;
(h) Leaving in exposed or unsanitary condition, refuse or debris, or
deposing wastes in bodies or water;
(i)   Altering, removing, destroying or defacing boundary marks or signs.
Section 71. Penalties. Any person found guilty of any offense enumerated
above shall, pursuant to Section 21 of the Act, be fined in the amount of not
less than Five Thousand Pesos P 5,000.00) or more than Five Hundred Thousand
Pesos P 500,000.00), exclusive of the value of the thing damaged, or imprisonment
for not less than one (1) year but not more than six (6) years, or both as
determined by the court. Provided, that if the area requires rehabilitation or
restoration as determined by the court, the offender shall also be required to
restore or compensate for the restoration of the damage; provided further, that
the court shall order the eviction of the offender from the land and the
forfeiture in favor of the government of all mineral, timber or any species
collected or removed including all equipment, devices and firearms used in
connection therewith, and any construction or improvement made thereon by the
offender.   If the offender is an association or corporation the president or
manager shall be directly responsible for the act of his employees and laborers.
Provided finally that, the DENR may impose administrative fines and penalties
consistent with this Act.
Chapter XII
General Provisions
Section 72. Amendment. This Order may be amended wholly or in part by the
Secretary through public notification.
Section 73.   Repealing Clause.   The order repeals, modifies or amends
accordingly all previous orders, memoranda, circulars and other issuances
inconsistent herewith.
Section 74. Effectivity. This Order shall take effect fifteen (15) days
after its complete publication in newspapers of general circulation.
FULGENCIO S. FACTORAN, JR.
Secretary



IBRD 23920R
*16-                               120'                               12-                                 I
PHILIPPINES
Boator,s Protected    CONSERVATION OF PRIORITY
BIO-GEOGRAPHIC ZONES                  Landscope and Seascape           PROTECTED  AREAS
20     A SATANES             I CENTRAL VISAYAS                                                                         2r
B CORDILLERA            CALAMIAN                 eATANES                       PROJECT SITES(PARKS)
* NATIONAL CAPITAL
C SIERRA MADRE       K  PALAWAN
BIO-GEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES
D SOUTHERN LUZON L SULU                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAIES
E ZAMBALES           M  ZAMBOANGA
F MINDORO   > MINDANAO              /       sKILOMETERS 0     100      200     300
F MINDORO            N  MNAA
GWESTERN VISAYAS   a LIGUASAN                   (B     /      ,           MILEs o    So    100   150   200
#North.rn Sierra Madre
Nature Park
H EASTERN VISAYAS
16-                                                                                                                   16'
C
L U Z 0 N
E\
Bataan   l   ,   XNILA                PH ILIPPIN E     SEA
Botoan                  L
Nature Park
Dl
Apo Reef MarinD
Naturo Park
F
12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
G
V I S A YA    / 
The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any                 K
other information shown                       //oo sg; '    Siargo Wildlife
on this mop  dor not                                                                                     -.ocur
imply, on the port of
The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal                           S      c                             M /   g_   , o
status of any territory,                              '- Mtr Park
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such  ,
boundariesn.                                                                                         Agusan-Wildlife
-e-                            /                                 /             ,    /            N  q Sonctfary         r
CHINA                                                     /wl,     AIN A O
HONGJ
KONG.
'MAU.K.                                                                             0U
PHILIPPINES                                                                        N 
NAM  UNeRJ*I                                           SuLu           Celebes Sec,                  /
Turtle lslond Marine
MALAYSA                         Nature Park
I N D 0 N E S I A
120' -
JUN4E 199









@      Printed on recycled paper



