6-Al  S S bC~-* rit.
Documat of
The World Bank
Z Z 77 - P/tt
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqirt No. P-5452-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$158 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 50 MILLION (US$66 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MAY 29, 1991
thr docil dbieas a Ite cted dWibution and may  be usisosd whopients ody i the peatormati on
their offida duie  Its conteTs way not otherwbe be dbdksed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal (May 1990)
US$1.0 = P21   P1.0  US$0.047
Current (May 1991)
US$1.0 - P28   P1.0 - US$0.036
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS
A&D       -  Alienable and Disposable
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BFAR      -  Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (DA)
CARP      -  Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
CBRM      -  Community-Based Resource Management
CFLA      -  Community Forest Lease Agreement
CFSA      -  Community Forest Stewardship Agreement
CG        -  Consultative Group
CSC       -  Certificate of Stewardship Contract
CVRP      -   Central Visayas Regional Project
DA        -  Department of Agriculture
DAR       -  Department of Agrarian Reform
DENR      -  Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOD       -  Department of Defense
EFF       -  Extended Fund Facility
ffARM     -  Philippines Forestry, Fisheries and Agricultural
Resource Management (Study)
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GEF       -  Global Environment Fund
GET       -  Global Environment Trust Fund
COP       -   jovernment of the Philippines
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
IFC       -   International Finance Corporation
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
IPAS      -   Integrated Protected Areas System
ISF       -   Integrated Social Forestry
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
MLT       -  Medium-Long Term
NEDA      -  National Economic Development Authority
NGO       -  Non-government Organization
OECF      -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M       -  Operations and Maintenance
OPSF      -  Oil Price Stabilization Fund
PSSD      -  Philippine Strategy for Sustainable Development
RRDP      -  Rainfed Resources Development Project
SOE       -   Statement of Expenditure
TLA       -  Timber Licensing Agreement
TPSA      -  Timber Production Sharing Agreement
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
WID       -  Women in Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UZLZZZM
NVIRONNENT AD NATURAL RSUERCES OSECTR ADJUSTNENT pROGRAM
Table of Contents
Pag2 No.
LOAN AND CREDIT SUZMOARY ...     .................................... i
I.   COgNTY POLICIES AND AM  GROUP ASSISTCE ST           ..........T.. 1
A.  Introduction . ............................................. 1
B. Recent Economic Developments ............................... 2
C. Medium-Term Strategic Framework ............................ 2
D.  Bank Group Assistance Strategy ............................. 4
E. Aid Coordination and External Financing .................... 11
F.  IFC Operations ........................................... 11
G.  Summary .................................................,.11
II.  THE ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECR .................. 12
A. Overview .........                                           12
B. Rural Natural Resources Management Issues .................. 13
C. Institutional Issues ........................................ 16
III. THE SETOAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .............................. 19
A.  Perspective and Objectives .........     ...................... 19
B. The Program ..............................................  21
IV.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT .......................................... 28
V.  REC.3D.ATION ............................................... 40
Annex A.  Key Economic Indicators
Annex B.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Annex C.  Policy Agenda Action Matrix
Annex D.  Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Annex E.  Description of Global Environmental Facility Component
Annex F.  Estimated Costs and Financing
Annex G.  Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
Annex H.  Letter of Sectoral Policy
Hans: IBRD 22867, 22869
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Philip-
pines in May 1990. Mission members included T. Wiens, W. Magrath, J. Smyle,
R. Sedjo, and R. Aquino. Task Manager for this project was T. Wiens, and
reviewers included A. Contreras and R. Burcroff. The project was cleared by
D. M. Dowsett-Coirolo, Division Chief and G. Kaji, Dbe'ctor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rfoipe.tis only in the performance
I of their offlcial duties. Its entents may not otherwise he dLsclosed without World Rank authorimtion.



THE PHILIPPINES
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
LoAn and Credit SUmmary
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines.
Amount:           Loan:  US$158 million equivalent.
Credit: SDR 50 million (US$66 million equivalent).
Terms:            Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Descrigtion:      The project would be a hybrid operation, consisting of a
quick-disbursing sector adjustment program based on policy
and institutional reforms, and an investment project in
support of institutional strengthening and regional communi-
ty-based resource management activities. The objectives of
the sector adiustment Drogram are to preserve what remains
of the biological diversity of the Philippines; where these
resources have been degraded or destroyed, to reestablish
them wherever practicable and financeable; and elsewhere to
introduce sustainable land use practices. The means to
these objectives, as pursued in the program of legislation,
administrative action, and studies, are primarily to: (a)
determine what areas of the Philippines must be preserved
undisturbed and introduce an effective management syitem;
(b) impose user fees for public resources which discourage
rent-seeking behavior; (c) improve enforcement of logging
regulations; (d) provide secure tenure rights to users in
return for sustainable resource use; (e) provide extension
services to upland populations; and (f) establish mechanisms
for support of community-based resource management and
livelihood projects.
The investment component, implemented over a seven-year
period, would finance: (a) the design of an Integrated
Protected Areas System, including a suitable legislative
framework; (b) program support for management of ten priori-
ty protected areas; (c) improved monitoring of logging
operations and enforcement of forestry laws and regulations
through provision of equipment, training and technical
assistance to selected DENR regional and local offices; and
(d) development in four regions of the capacity of local
governments and line agencies to generate and service small-
scale community-based resource management and livelihood
projects in watershed areas, combining community organizing
and pre-cooperatives development; improvements in tenure and



e ii 
resource management; introduction of sustainable means of
livelihood; and improvement of infrastructure and services.
Benefits:         The loan and credit would support the efforts of the Govern-
ment to introduce sustainable development policies and
institutional reform. As a result, incentives and opportu.
nities for depletion and degradation of tropical forest and
erosion of hilly areas would be reduced; incentives and
resources for introduction of sustainable upland land uses
and protection of natural forests and biodiversity would be
expanded; a sound institutional basis for the preservation
of the biological diversity of the Philippines would be in
place; local governments and field staff of line agencies in
about 48 municipalities, 26 provinces, and four regions
would have the training, experience, and organizational
framework to deliver support to rural communities in the
uplands; and the livelihood and tenure status of about
20,800 families from among the poorest segments of the
Philippines population would be directly enhanced. Improved
public recovery of rents would provide the means of financ-
ing long-term environmental protection.
Risks:            The risks arise mainly from possible delays, inadequate
implementation, or non-sustainability. The principal con-
cern is that legislative action could be unduly delayed,
prove deficient when completed, or be ineffectively imple-
mented. However, key legislative drafts have been submitted
to Congress, and the most critical has already passed both
the House and Senate in satisfactory form, .o that early
passage of a reconciled bill is very likely. Government's
commitment to carry out the needed reforms is very high, and
a significant number of prior actions have already been
taken. The implementation of the investment component is
also subject to risks due to institutional weaknesses and
possible reluctance of beneficiaries to adopt recommended
practices. The emphasis of project design on long-term
institutional strengthening and incorporation of lessons
from prior projects will mitigate these risks.
Financing Plan:
--- (US$ million) ---
IBRD                                26.0  132.0  158.0
IDA (US$ equivalent)                 0.0   66.0   66.0
OECF                                 0.0  100.0  100.0
GEF                                 10.5    9.5   20.0
Japan-WB TA Grant                    3.3    1.3   4.6
NDF                                  0.0    1.0   1.0
Gov't and beneficiaries             19.4    0.0   19.4
309.8  369.O
Apuraisal Report: Not applicable.
Maps: IBRD 22867, 22869



REPORT AND RECO1MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AND
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAH
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$158 million and a proposed IDA credit of SDR 50
million (US$66 million equivalent) to the Republic of the Philippines to support
an Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Program.  The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, and the IDA credit would be on standard terms,
with 35 years maturity. Part I of this report assesses the medium-term
strategic framework and Bank/IDA country assistance strategy. Part II dis-
cusses sectoral issues, and Part III presents the sector adjustment program.
I.  COUNTRY POLICIES AND BA1N GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.  Introduction
1.1        As a result of stabilization and adjustment measures undertaken in
the latter half of the 1980s, the Philippines economy registered a remarkable
recovery during 1987-89. The fall of the Marcos administration and the return
to democracy under a new administration led by President Corazon Aquino since
March 1986 generated significant international goodwill for the country and a
sizeable increase in official development assistance. As a result of this
assistance and the Government's economic adjustment efforts (at both the
macroeconomic and sectoral reform levels), economic growth averaged about 61
per annum in 1987-89 and key macroeconomic balances improved (the fiscal
deficit and current account showed substantial improvements in 1987-88).
However, several underlying structural problems were not solved; these includ-
ed a still high level of public sector deficit, low levels of savings and
investment, a resultant large external and internal public debt, an overvalued
exchange rate, and high levels of poverty and unemployment.   By the end of
1989, the current account deficit had widened to 3.31 of GDP, compared to 11
in 1988, and the consolidated public sector deficit stood at 41 of GDP, com-
pared to 3.1X the year before (Annex A). The Philippines economy was thus in
a vulnerable position when it was hit in 1990 by a series of exogenous shocks,
most notably the Gulf crisis.
1.2        The updated Country Brief was distributed on January 4, 1991.  A
Report entitled Country Economic Memorandum:  Issues in Adjustment and Compet-
itiveness was distributed on October 31, 1990. In addition, a Memorandum on
IDA Eligibility of the Philigpines was distributed on April 12, 1991
(IDA/SecM91-124).



-2-
B. Recent Economic Developments
1.3         Despite the deterioration ef the fiscal situation and the weaken-
ing of the current account, economic growth continued in 1989 (GDP grew by
5.6X). Private investment registered reasonably strong gains and public
investment in infrastructure -- although rising -- was insufficient to offset
the deterioration of the capital stock, itself caused by inadequate operations
and maintenance (O&M) systems. Consequently, transportation and energy infra-
structure, as well as the services sector, came under increasing pressure,
resulting in breakdowns in transport deliveries and power supply. During 1990
a series of exogenous shocks and setbacks weakened the fragile economic recov-
ery that had begun in 1987. Policy slippages compounded the situation, and a
slowdown in growth resulted. GDP grew by only 2.51 in 1990 (which implies
stagnant per capita income) and inflation accelerated to 14X, compared to
average real growth of 6X and inflation of 10 per annum in 1987-89.
1.4          The downturn began in early 1990 with a prolonged drought that
stretched through the first half of the year. The drought curtailed agricul-
tural production and, as a result of inadequate water resources, serious power
shortages soon followed. In July 1990, a devastating earthquake caused severe
physical and human loss: nearly 1,600 persons were killed and assets valued at
about 1 of GDP were destroyed. The earthquake was soon followed by another
equally strong shock--the Gulf Crisis, which placed severe pressures on the
balance of payments. In 1990 alone, the cost of oil imports rose by US$400
million and workers' remittances declined by US$50 million. All of these fac-
tors undermined confidence that the economic recovery could be sustained, and
both manufacturing output and private investment faltered as a result.
1.5        These exogenous shocks were initially compounded by hesitant domes-
tic policy.  In reaction to developments in September, the Government raised
domestic oil prices by an average 331, which was insufficient to prevent the
deficit in the Oil Price Stabilization Fund from growing. Meanwhile, Govern-
ment expenditures continued to grow, especially capital expenditures as a
result of a pick-up in project implementation, but 'rre not compensated by
increased revenue mobilization. Monetary policy showed large fluctuations,
particularly in the uecond and third quarters, in response to fiscal pres-
sures. By October 1990, the program supported by the IMF's Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) was substantially off track.
C. Medium-Term Strategic Framework
1.6          The Government's economic program in the medium term consists of
three main parts: (a) a stabilization program; (b) concerted efforts to deepen
the economic adjustment program and thereby to achieve sustainable growth; and
(c) programs to alleviate poverty.
1.7         Stabilization.  In November 1990, the Government took several
actions that were most urgently needed: it devalued the exchange rate, result-
ing in a nominal depreciation in the value of the Peso to the US Dollar of
about 251 in 1990, thus eliminating the real appreciation that had occurred in
1988-89; it convened a "Budget Summit" between the Executive and Legislative
branches, which resulted in an agreement to limit the 1991 budget in nominal
terms to the 1990 levels (a decline in real terms); it raised oil prices by an
additional 33% in December, which stemmed the erosion of the OPSF deficit; it



adopted an import surcharge of 91 (as a temporary measure to increase fiscal
revenues); and it raised the Central Bank's resprve requirements from 211 to
25X.
1.8          As a next major step, in January-February 1991 the Gavernment
formulated and agreed with the IMF on a Stabilization Program, aimed at
improving the fiscal balance and controlling the money supply. The program is
supported by a Standby Arrangement which was approved by the laP's Board on
February 20, 1991. Principal objectives of the stabilization program are: (a)
to reduce the fiscal deficit from 5.21 of GNP in 1990 to 3.51 GNP at end-1991
and 2.51 by end-1992; (b) to reduce the annual rate of inflation from 141 in
December 1990 to around 91 by the end of 1991 and to 71 by end-1992; (c) to
reduce the current account deficit from 5.81 of GNP in 1990 to 4.51 In 1991
and to below 41 in 1992; (d) to reconstitute official reserves to the equiva-
lent of 2-1/2 months of imports by end-1992; and (e) to promote a gradual
recovery of growth from 1-21 in 1991 to 3-4X in 1992. To achieve these objec-
tives, the Government undertook to reduce the public sector borrowing require-
ments; to limit the supply of base money; to place a ceiling on short-term
external debt; to eliminate the OPSF deficit by August 1991; and to increase
international reserves. Attainment of these objectives is expected to lay the
basis for restoration of fiscal health and external viability. GDP growth is
projected to increase gradually to 5-6Z per annum, the investment savings gap
to narrow, and the current account and external debt position to improve as
shown in Table 1 below.
Tabt 1: StERY INDICATS
(In Percentages)
190iaL......  ..raif          Projected
1980   1986   1989  1990  1991  1992 1993 1994  1995
Relt GDP Growth Rate       5.3    1.4    5.6   2.6  2.5   3.9  5.0  5.3   5.3
Real per Capita Growth Rate
Total Coneuvption         1.6   -1.0    4.8   0.8  -2.7  -1.0  0.6  2.0   3.0
Share of GDP:
Gross Investoent         31.4   12.1   18.6  18.1  18.9  20.9 22.6  23.3  23.3
DCesstic Savings         23.1   16.2   16.0  13.7  16.6  19.4 21.3  21.7  21.7
current Account Batance  -5.4    3.1   -3.3  -5.?  -4.0  -2.9 -2.5  -2.7  -2.9
Total Debt Outstanding
Disbursed                49.5   92.2   65.1  65.6  73.3  73.3 69.6 68.9  66.2
Growth Rate:
GDP Deflator             15.6    0.9   10.6  14.2  12.0  10.0 10.0  10.0  10.0
1.9        AdJustment and Growth. At the Philippines Consultative Group (CG)
meeting in Hong Kong in February 1991, the Government elaborated on its stabi-
lization program and articulated the need to deepen its adjustment efforts.
Foreign donors expressed strong support for the economic policies now in place
and stressed the cr'ical need for the Government to adhere to the stabiliza-
tion program. Donors agreed to provide about US$3.3 billion of assistance in
1991, about the same level as was pledged during the previous CG meeting held
in Tokyo in July 1989.
1.10       The Government's objective for the medium term is to restore
sustainable economic growth, led principally by the private sector, through a



- 4 -
labor-intensive, export-led strategy, while attempting to reduce high levels
of poverty through income generation and targeted programs. In order to meet
the growth objective, a substantial upgrading and renewal of the capital stock
in Infrastructure is required. At the same time, the Government recognizes
that efficiency improvements across the economy are needed urgently. The
Government also plans to make a substantial impact in improving the economic
conditions and opportunities of the poor in both the urban areas and the many
small towns and villages that dot the Philippines archipelago. Nearly half of
all families, or some 30 million persons, live below the poverty line in the
Philippines and while there has been some progress in recent years, this may
be reversed if slow economic growth persists. Thus, a vital part of the
Government's medium-term strategy--on both p-oductivlty and equity grounds
--is to restore economic growth to at least 5-6X per annum.  This would allow
a reasonable rate of per capita income growth.
1.11       Pgv_MrX Alleviatign.  The Government is deeply concerned about
income distribution issues, to which it has directed special efforts in the
past, such as agrarian reform, vocational training, and health and nutrition
programs. Poverty in the Philippines is concentrated in the rural areas -- it
is estimated that 571 of the population lived below the poverty line in 1985,
and since then there has been only modest improvement. Overall, approximately
seven million persons were added to the ranks of the poor between 1979 and the
present. Pockets of poverty and deprivation are also growing in the congested
and deteriorating urban areas: expenditures on rural infrastructure and serv-
ices have declined steadily since the 1970s, and agricultural productivity in
staple crops is low. An essential element of the Government's strategy in-
volves developing rural projects complemented by initiatives in environmental
management, which have a significant poverty impact. Emphasis is being placed
on rural infrastructure development; irrigation investment; agricultural
research and revitalization of the national extension service; credit, infra-
structure and extension for poor upland communities; rehabilitation of the
rural credit system nationally; and development of the small coconut farm
subsector.
D. Bank Group Assistance Strategy
1.12          The Bank Group's assistance strategy in the Philippines is to
support the medium-term framework that is being put in place, first through
assistance in macroeconomic policy reforms and, second, through support of
lasting sectoral reform programs. The economic and political sustainability
of this medium-term strategy depends upon actions regarding a number of struc-
tural issues facing the country. At the minimum, the following elements are
needed in order to achieve these goals: firm macroeconomic management;
increased domestic resource mobilization; increased efficiency in public
investment; increased efficiency in private investment through improvements in
the regulatory framework; and continued efforts to reduce the debt burden,
with a view to regaining creditworthiness.
1.13         Over the long term, in order to reduce poverty and ensure sus-
tainability of economic and social progress, the reform and adjustment program
should include: widespread provision of family planning services; continued
efforts to protect the natural resource base; a concerted attack on inequali-
ty through a strengthened land reform program; and targeted interventions in
supplying social services.



- 5 -
1.14         Key constraints to future growth and development remain and need
to be tackled. These are:
(a) low levels of domestic resource mobilization (low savings
and inadequate tax effort), exacerbated by the large exter-
nal debt and adverse balance of trade developments;
(b) limitations in basic infrastructure, particularly in genera-
tion and distribution, transport (roads and ports), and
telecommunications, as well as inadequate maintenance of
existing capital stock;
(c) institutional weakness in the public sector, over-centrali-
zation, inadequate guidelines and procedures for administra-
tion delegation; and
(d) continued high population growth (2.3X), which results in
over 750,000 new entrants to the labor force annually and
poses an enormous challenge to job creation.
1.15          The outlook for achieving sustainable growth and  confronting
social inequality hinges upon the ability of the society to develop a consen-
sus regarding the many challenges facing the economy. The past five years have
seen major changes in the functioning of the executive-legislative-judicial
institutions. While this broad participation has not been an easy task, it
has become a central feature to developing this consensus.   As the country
prepares for national elections in mid-1992, progress on the economic reform
agenda is likely to remain a dominant issue.
1.16         Past Assistance. As of March 31, 1991, the Philippines had re-
ceived 124 Bank loans (of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to
US$6,536.2 million and six IDA credits amounting to US$105 million (Annex B).
The last IDA credit was approved on June 27, 1979.   IFC's total gross invest-
ments as of March 31, 1991, amounted to US$417.6 million and investments held
by IFC (outstanding) totalled US$172.6 million. The share of the Bank Group
in total MLT debt disbursed and outstanding is currently about 15X, and its
share in total debt service (after rescheduling) is about 20X. These ratios
are expected to decline gradually, while net flows are projected to remain
positive in 1991-95.
1.17         Bank lending to the Philippines grew from an annual average of
about US$90 million a year in the early 1970s to about US$420 million and
seven loans in FY8O-84. However, the lending program decreased sharply in
FY85 and FY86, because of the limited scope for policy-based or project lend-
ing amidst the political and economic turmoil that prevailed. Economic recov-
ery and reorientation of Government policies after March 1986 facilitated a
return to a normal volume of Bank lending. In FY87, lending totalled US$332
million, mainly accounted for by the Economic Recovery Loan. In FY88, lending
increased to US$483.5 million, and remained at about the same level in FY89
(US$495.6 million). In that year, a project for health development expanded
the Bank coverage of social sector issues.  In FY90, lending increased to
US$941.8 million, partly on account of the Debt Management Loan of US$200
million, which supplemented the Bank's regular assistance program for that



-6-
year. Other loans supported energy, municipal development, industrial invest-
ment, urban water supply and small coconut farms development.
1.18          The Bank Group has financed projects in most sectors of the
economy, with particular emphasis on agriculture, which accounted for almost
one-third of total Bank/IDA lending prior to 1985. Lending for SECALs, ener-
gy, water supply and sewerage, and social sectors have been growing in impor-
tance, as can be seen in their shares in Table 2 below.
Tebt* 2: OISTRIUUTION Of 80i LENDING BY SECTOR, FY83-90
(us$ sit tlams an percentage)
Suetor                                    At   I
Agriculture        250.0   2?   45.0   5   121.8   8
(2)          ()(1)
Induetry/DFI         4      -      -   -   65.0   4
(1)                     (1)
Power/Energy        73.5    8    100  10  455.5  32
(3)          (1)        (2)
frwrwt               102   11    114  11      -
T1)         (2)
UrbanwVter Suppty &    168.1   18    229  23    225  16
Sewerage         (4)          (2)        (4)
EdcRationVHeatth/Popul   24.4    3  -   e    70.1   5
(1)                     (1)
SALs/SECALs/       302.3   33    500  51    500  35
Debt Reduction       (1)          (2)        (2)
Total                            0 vI    143v*4  100
NOTE: The rmfer of projects is shown in parentheses.
1.19           The Dolicy-based loans, which began as early as 1980 with structural
adjustment lending and continued with a policy loan for agriculture inputs,
have been particularly important in helping to launch the economic recovery,
to tackle the heavy external debt burden, to help reform public sector enter-
prises and to assist the reform process in the energy and financial sectors.
The objectives of these loans are summarized in Table 3.
1.20        Current and Future Assistance.  In FY91 to date, five loans have
supported elementary education, communal irrigation, emergency earthquake
reconstruction, industrial restructuring and cottage enterprises.
1.21        The Bank Group's assistance strategy for future lending will be
centered upon six areas:
(a)  DeeRening the Adjustment Program: One or two operations to
strengthen the structural adjustment that was initiated in
the 1980's will be pursued. The next stage is to take the
program several steps further by focussing on reforms in
trade policy and removal of remaining anti-export bias.
Attention will also be paid to the debt overhang and measures
to reduce the debt burden;



-7-
Teble 3: BANK GROUP ADJUSTMENT LENDING SINCE 1983
Loan               vate       Amount                 POticy Focus
(USS N)
SAL-1                1980         200      Tariff reform, begin removal of quantitative restrictions on
imports and Improve export frsnework.
SAL-11               1983         302      Restructured investment incentives, reduced sales nd eXcise
taxes on imports.
Agriculturat         1984         150      Removal of price and other controls on agricultural outputs
Inputs                                     and ir4uts and break up of the Sugar and Coconut nnopoltles.
Economic             1986         300      Reforms of pubtic financial institutfons, trade restrictions.
Recovery                                   public Loan investment, and tax system.
Reform Program       1987         200      Restructured controls on public corporations, mplemented
Goverrnent Corps.                          program of privatization and ctosure for over 200 corporations
Financial Sector     1989         300      Reformed Central Sank regulation and control of prfvate banks
improved legal system, conpetition ong banks, depositor pro-
protection, interest rates.
Debt Management      1989         200      Supported buyback of USS1.33 bittion of external debt
Loan                                       at a cost of US665 million; iprovement In debt menagement
system.
(b) Furthering the Role of the Private Sector:   Building on
the progress achieved under the Reform of Government Corpo-
rations Loan, the Bank Group will continue to assist the
Government's efforts to privatize large public enterprises.
These efforts will encompass rationalization of investment
incentives, simplification of the regulatory framework and
other measures to improve private Investment;
(c) Exnanding and URgrading the Infrastructure:  Projects in
telephone system expansion, geothermal development, rural
electrification, irrigation operations and maintenance, and
municipal development (water supply and sewerage) are
planned;
(d) DeveloRing  Human Resources:   Projects for vocational
training, and expansion of engineering and science education
are planned;
(e) Environment and Natural Resource Management:  The Environ-
ment and Natural Resource Adjustment Program will have a
major impact on the management of scarce natural resources
in the country and will also help to combat poverty in the
outlying regions and preserve biodiversity. Other initia-
tives on the environment may also be undertaken, such as
solid waste disposal systems; and
(f) Alleviating Poverty:   Projects for rural infrastructure
and provision of rural finance are under preparation. A
project on family planning and population might be consid-
ered, focussing on the health aspects, if the Bank Group
considers that there is a firm enough base to move ahead in
this area. The Bank Group's efforts to support poverty



* 8 -
alleviation will continue to be broad-based through both
self-standing operations and appropriate targeting within
the framework of other sectoral projects.
1.22        The overall level and pace of Bank assistance to the Philippines
will depend upon a stable situation existing and the success of policy makers
in the Philippines to strengthen the macroeconomic framework and to deepen the
adjustment program. In order to support economic growth, the Bank plans to
concentrate on investment lending in infrastructure -- power and transport --
and human resource development. Policy-based lending would focus on reforms
of the regulatory framework and private sector development. A lending level
of US$500-$600 million per year is planned for such normal operations. Addi-
tional lending for debt reduction and for long-term sustainability issues,
such as poverty and population, will be considered. Regarding IDA, on the
basis of the Philippines' limiced creditworthiness, its low level of per
capita income (which has declined to US$645), and its high incidence of pover-
ty, the Management has determined that the country is eligible for IDA re-
sources, given that the macroeconomic framework has now been strengthened.
1.23       At the same time, unless the Philippines can work itself out of
its heavy external debt burden and mobilize additional resources, its develop-
ment program will not be sustainable. Among East Asian countries, the
Philippines is the only one with such a formidable constraint. To date the
Philippines has pursued a debt strategy built around preserving its good
relationships with all creditors, while at the same time taking steps to
improve its debt structure. To this end, the Government has obtained resched-
uling of Paris Club and commercial debt, and has retired part of its commer-
cial debt through buybacks and debt-equity swaps.  The Bank's role and
its dialogue with the Government has been particularly useful with respect to
debt management and the mobilization of external resources, most of which
comes from official sources. Indeed, Bank advice and support on debt
issues will be critical in the long process of reestablishing commercial
creditworthiness, which is likely to take at least five years, defined as the
country's being able to attract new borrowings on a voluntary basis from
commercial sources.
1.24        Since the country assistance strategy hinges largely on two funda-
mental aspects -- growth and poverty alleviation -- the strategies in these
two vital areas are elaborated below.
1.25        SuDoorting Growth.  The past assistance strategy encouraged ef-
forts to engender growth and ensure the distribution of related benefits, as
reflected in the active lending program throughout the 1970s. The effective-
ness of Bank assistance was, however, constrained by overall policy distor-
tions and the subsequent political upheaval. In recent years, the need to
encourage efficiency has become paramount. The Bank has focussed upon:
supporting macroeconomic reforms (domestic resource mobilization, export
competitiveness, financial sector reform); correcting price signals and remov-
ing trade distortions; rationalizing the investment regime; supporting the
Government's Privatization Program and assisting the reform of public enter-
prises.  Clearly, if the Philippines is to attract a greater share of the
substantial flow of foreign investment funds now moving into neighboring East
Asian countries, it needs to offer a comparable policy environment to private
investors.



1.26        Regarding the grivate sector, the Bank will continue to follow a
multi-faceted approach designed to improve the operating environment. Criti-
cal to private sector performance will be continued movement by Government
toward further deregulation of economic activity.  There has been major
progress toward deregulation, and simplification of procedures in iny sec-
tors, including agriculture, finance, trade, power generation and telecommuni-
cations, within the frameworks established under a series of Bank-supported
programs. Howev3r, there remains considerable scope for further action and
deregulation in the critical areas of transport (both road and maritime), and
industry.
1.27        Regarding the public sector, it is essential to increase the
capacity of the infrastructure and services sectors to supply inputs required
by private enterprises. Again, the need to obtain efficiency improvements in
the public sector will continue to guide the assistance strategy. Attention
will be given to improving the level, content, and process for allocating
public investment and expenditures. Studies undertaken under the Debt Manage-
ment Loan will help to provide the basis for future action on O&H expendi-
tures.
1.28        The Bank will continue to encourage efforts to improve domestic
resource mobilization. Support will take the form of technical advice (on
taxation), through economic and sector work and policy support, as well as
through investment vehicles to improve cost recovery and rationalize user-
charges in major sectors. There is considerable scope, and great need, for
increased internal cash generation from public entities. Another area with
potential is local revenue generation: a study of the fiscal aspects of local
government is underway, associated with a review of the Government's plans for
decentralization.
1.29        Poverty Alleviation.  The Bank's assistance strategy in the
poverty area draws from the Government's program (para 1.11), as well as a
Bank study of the poverty issue in the Philippines, which was distributed to
the Board (Report No. 7144-PH, dated October 17, 1988). The proposed agenda
has three main elements: sustainable rural development (incorporating both
land reform and addressing the linkages between poverty and environmental
degradation); family planning; and expanded, rationalized, social sector
support. In all three areas there will be a need to involve and support
private voluntary and non-governmental organizations: the Philippines is
relatively well-endowed with such institutions, and government policy is
conducive to their integration in service delivery. In mid-1990 the Govern-
ment launched a poverty alleviation program, PRO-POOR, comprising line agency
programs targeted for the poorest municipalities in the country; the public
works infrastructure component is the most significant in terms of expendi-
tures.
1.30       All of these efforts will be supportive of, but not dependent on,
Government's implementation of the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
(CARP), on which progress has been slow, due to lack of financial resources,
inadequate infrastructure, and weak institutional systems. The Government
feels that to redistribute land without adequate services only builds frustra-
tion. Thus, the importance of rural infrastructure projects is again under-
scored.



- 10 -
1.31        Family Planning Program.  The current level of population growth
is straining the country's already over-burdened natural resource base and the
Government's ability to mobilize adequate resources for the provision of
social services. Vigorous implementation of a broad-ranging strategy is
needed to provide family planning education and services as well as improved
maternal and child care. The Government has taken initial steps in this
direction and the Bank is assisting with technical advice.
1.32        Human Resource Development.  Per capita expenditures on social
services have declined in real terms from the levels attained in the 1970s.
Despite expanded access to education, quality has fallen. There are also
substantial unmet needs in vocational and technical training, as well as
informal training; improved skills in science and engineering are needed to
support industrialization and technology transfer, and to strengthen the
national technical capacity for environmental management. In health and nutri-
tion, standards of service delivery have similarly declined, with a consequent
rise in disease. The absolute number of persons lacking access to clean water
and sanitation facilities has increased substantially over the last decade.
In all these areas the poor suffer a disproportionate share of the decline.
The Bank's strategy is to address the problems at two levels: by targeting
increased expenditures to critical areas (primary education, vocational train-
ing, urban health, nutrition, basic urban infrastructure), and by encouraging
more efficient use of the resources now allocated through rationalization and
reorientation of policies. Improving access of the poor to adequate curative
care should be a key element in the strategy. The Bank's human resource
strategy will involve major changes in the areas of health and education, and
structured support of the already large, but inefficient, private sector role
in service provision.
1.33        Regarding Women in Development (WID), a Bank assessment on the
Philippines was completed in 1989. While the indicators showed that women
have reasonably good access to education, employment opportunities and serv-
ices, the main areas identified for improvement involve maternal health and
family planning services. In addition to the family planning initiatives, the
Bank will continue to include WID components in suitable projects aimed at
improving the economic conditions of the urban and rural poor.
1.34        Economic and Sector Work.  As mentioned above, the Bank is engaged
in a number of economic and sector studies which will help to underpin the
macroeconomic dialogue and to define development issues and future lending
strategies in key sectors. The last economic report focussed on issues of
competitiveness, in the context of macroeconomic policy and industry and trede
issues. The next economic report will focus on domestic resource mobilization
and management, including budget systems, and selected public and private
investment issues.    Reports on poverty alleviation, natural resource manage-
ment and the environment, energy, financial and education sectors have been
completed over the past two years. Their findings formed the basis for cur-
rent lending operations in those areas. Other economic and sector work in
progress, or planned, includes studies of the capital markets (including the
social security system and pension funds), regionalization and decentraliza-
tion, employment (focussing especially on the informal sector), family plan-
ning, and irrigated agriculture programs.



- 11 -
1.35        Coordination with the IMF.  There i8 extensive coordination be-
tween the Bank and the IMF, both in developing and in monitoring progress
under the economic reform program. Staff frequently cross-partieipate in each
other's missions. Various Fund agreements have supported programs initiated
by the Bank, including reforms in the public, corporate, and financial sec-
tors, and improvements in public investment and expenditure allocations.
Likewise, Bank operations have supported reforms which have been primarily
under the guidance of the Fund, including tax and exchange rate reform. Some
issues, such as trade liberalization and the removal of marketing monopolies
in agriculture, have been jointly developed and supported. The work on capi-
tal markets is being closely coordinated, so as to mesh with the objectives of
the stabilization program.
E. Aid Coordination and External Financing
1.36        Successful implementation of the country assistance strategy will
require continued close coordination with the donor community. The Bank
is well placed to continue this role, through its Chairmanship of the Philip-
pines CG. At the CG meeting held in Tokyo in July 1989, the Multilateral
Assistance Initiative (MAI) for the Philippines was launched. The February
1991 CG meeting held in Hong Kong reviewed progress under the MAI and
concluded that it was generally good. The next CG meeting is tentatively
scheduled for early 1992.
1.37       The support of the international community will continue to be
critical for the Philippines to meet its external financing requirements. The
unidentified financing needs for the 1991-92 period have been estimated in
excess of US$2 billion under the conservative assumptions that GDP growth will
average 2.5X over the rext two years and that two crucial variables, oil
prices and international interest rates, will remain about at their current
level. The support pledged at the recent CG is expected to contribute sub-
stantially towards meeting the Philippines external financing needs. In
addition, continuing good relations with bilateral and commercial creditors
are expected to contribute to this end by means of further debt rescheduling
and restructuring, as well as provision of new loans.
F. IFC Operations
1.38       The size of IFC's portfolio was mentioned in para. 1.16.  IFC's
assistance revolves around promoting the development of competitive upstream
industries to help broaden the country's industrial base.  New investment
opportunities in the Philippines are emerging as firms currently based in
Korea, Taiwan and Japan look offshore for lower-cost production sites. IFC is
assisting this process by liaising between foreign sponsors and potentially
suitable local firms. Changes in trade, investment and financial policies are
also opening up new opportunities to local business, and here too IFC is
facilitating new ventures through its extensive overseas contacts. In addi-
tion, new vehicles for promoting long-term financing, such as guarantee facil-
ities for local currency loans, are being developed by IFC.
G. SUmmam=
1.39        In the past five years, the Philippines has experienced economic
recovery, strong growth and, more recently, some setbacks that resulted in a



- 12 -
slowdown of growth. However, starting in November 1990, the Government has
taken actions and formulated a stabilization program that offers the prospect
of improved fiscal health and a return of external viability. The
Government's medium-term framework consists of the stabilization program, a
deepening of the adjustment program, and poverty alleviation measures. If
sustainable growth is to be restored, it is essential for the Government to
pursue further economic reforms that lead to a substantial improvement in
macroeconomic balances and in efficiencies across sectors. On the assumption
that macroeconomic performance continues to be satisfactory, a level of Bank
lending of around US$500-600 million per year is planned, aside from special
initiatives in such areas as debt reduction, environment, population and
poverty (para. 1.22). Criteria for judging performance will include progress
under the stabilization program (para. 1.8) and progress in deepening the
adjustment effort (paras. 1.21-28).
1.40       The Bank's activity will focus on supporting both macroeco-
nomic and sectoral reform programs. Investment lending to stimulate growth
through financing of key projects in the energy, transport, infrastructure,
agriculture and social sectors will feature in the Bank's program, as
will operations to support the private sector through appropriately priced
funds for investment and through actions to rationalize the trade and invest-
ment regimes facing potential investors. Special emphasis will be given to
poverty alleviation initiatives through developing the rural infrastructure
and through support for such activities as family planning. The latter would
also have a beneficial impact on women in development. Regarding the external
financing outlook, it is likely to take five years at least, before the Phil-
ippines will be able to attract voluntary new borrowings from commercial
sources, so that continued work on debt reduction measures or instruments will
continue to be an important area of Bank involvement.
1.41       The Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Program
presented below is directed towards protection of the natural resource base,
but would also primarily affect inequality and poverty, mobilize additional
tax revenues, and improve private investment efficiency by reducing incentives
to extract economic rent from exploitation of public resources.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCE SECTOR
A. Overve
2.1         Economic "sectors" are usually defined as a set of distinguisha-
ble institutions contributing to the economic product of society. The envi-
ronment and natural resource "sector" is better defined as a set of processes
of enhancement, depletion or degradation of the stock of social capital which
either foster or threaten the sustainability of economic development. In the
Philippines, certain processes have been judged of greatest economic signifi-
cance to the economy, where policy changes and other interventions could
achieve significant enhancement of natural resource management and thus make a
substantial contribution to the country's prospects for sustainable develop-
ment. These processes include the disappearance or degradation of forests,
which once covered nearly one-half of the Philippine land area; the erosion
and changes in hydrological regimes which result from the conversion of forest
to other land uses, notably shifting cultivation and pasture; the conversion



- 13 -
of mangrove swamps to fishponds; degradation of coral reefs; and depletion of
nearshore fisheries through overfishing and destructive techniques. These
problems are linked in three ways:  (a)  all involve use of common access
resources which in theory are publicly-owned and managed, but in practice have
been subject to nearly unrestrained private exploitation; (b) all involve the
livelihood of a large, impoverished, and largely neglected segment of the
rural population, including upland farmers and small-scale coastal fishermen;
and (c) all are related to each other through the physical or biological links
of common ecosystems.
2.2       Other processes, such as depletion of mineral resources and air and
water pollution, exist in the Philippines and are serious in particular areas,
but have been regarded as less significant economically. The causes of these
problems are relatively obvious, most frequently arise from point sources, and
strategies for solution involving a combination of regulation and investments
are more readily identified, even if their implementation remains beyond the
capacities of the Philippine government at present.  The proposed Program
discussed below deals with rural resource management issues.    Industrial
pollution will be the target of another Bank operation under preparation, and
efforts are being made, particularly in energy and power projects, to
strengthen environmenta-l procedures and oversight capacity.
B. Rural Natural Resources ManaFement Issues
2.3          Rural natural resources play an important part in the Philip-
pines' economy. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries together employ half the
labor force, earn one-fifth of export revenues and contribute about one
quarter of GDP.   In addition, over 60X of the populace live in rural areas.
In terms of national comparative advantage, the agricultural sector has been
shown to be a more efficient earner and saver of foreign exchange than the
industrial sector. However, a long-term process of resource degradation and
depletion threatens the sustainability of this economic role, as follows.
2.4         In the Philippines, half the land is classified as "Alienable and
Disposable" (A&D), which may be privately owned, and the other half, mostly
above the 181 slope, as public "Forest Land". Of the 15 million ha of Forest
Land, only six million ha have significant tree cover, and only one million ha
is productive, old-growth forest. Government underpricing of rights to har-
vest the public forest has induced excessive logging, and discouraged interest
in reforestation or plantation forestry. Logging in the uplands has opened
new areas for settlement through road creation and partial clearing of for-
ests. It has also reduced to critically low levels the forest habitat of the
many species of flora and fauna endemic to the Philippines, and directly
contributed to short-run soil erosion problems. It is mainly due to logging
(licensed or illegal) that the old-growth dipterocarp forests, the most valu-
able commercially, have shrunk from ten million ha in the 1950s to only one
million ha today.
2.5         Rapid population growth, resulting diminution of unoccupied arable
lowland, inequitable land distribution and landlessness, and general impover-
ishment create a pressure for migration. Because of the availability of
semi-cleared land in the uplands, on which immigrants can build a better
livelihood, the direction of migration is to the uplands, as well as to the



- 14 -
urban areas. As a result, today about 18 million people, one-third of the
total Philippine population, live in upland areas, of which perhaps 8-10
million are farming on Forest Land. The annual per capita incomes of such
upland farmers average about P2,000 (US$95), less than half the official
poverty line for rural residents. Continuing immigration accounts for the
high rates of growth in upland population, as much as 3.5X in logging conces-
sion areas, compared with a national average of about 2.41. However, a high
proportion of forest inhabitants are members of (non-hispanicized) ethnic
minorities, whose claims to "ancestral lands" often predate Span:sh occupa-
tion.
2.6        Immigrating farmers, as well as most long-established upland popu-
lations, employ extensive subsistence farming techniques (mainly shifting
cultivation of rice, corn and root crops). Shifting cultivation is employed
because it minimizes labor and cash input requirements by substituting land
for labor and fertilizer.  In areas of open access, which applies de fac   to
most upland areas including all the newly settled land, lack of secure tenure
or titling provides no incentive for land improvement or nutrient maintenance
as the viability of shifting cultivation diminishes. These farming techniques
tend to promote very high rates of erosion on some four million ha of land al-
ready occupied. (This is not true of all upland farmers - long-established
indigenes frequently employ sensible conservation techniques, and in general
display more concern for the land and local environment than immigrant
groups.)
2.7           In the upstream areas of watersheds, erosion leads to direct
loss of soil and nutrients, abandonment of fields and compensatory conversion
of further forest areas to cultivation. Downstream, erosion and unchecked
rainfall runoff contributes to siltation, causes alternate floods and water
shortage, and critically reduces the efficiency of water use. In combination,
these effects are damaging to water conservancy systems in the lowlands,
reducing productivity and increasing costs of maintenance and restoration of
the irrigation and hydropower systems. For example, an upstream sheet erosion
rate of about 50 t/ha/year in the Magat watershed has reduced to 25 years the
effective life of a reservoir originally designed to last 100 years. Deterio-
rating productivity in the lowlands contributes to the migratory "push"
(completing a vicious circle). The degradation of the uplands thus entails
high social costs.
2.8         Like the uplands, coastal and near-shore fisheries are a public
resource, the open-access nature of which has attracted the most impoverished
elements from adjacent agricultural and coastal areas and induced them to use
non-sustainable extraction techniques. Most of this population (a labor force
of around 770,000 persons) is dependent on the near-shore (municipal) fisher-
ies, which are extremely sensitive to two habitats which figure in different
parts of the life cycles of various fish, namely the mangrove forests and the
coral reefs. The accelerated cutting for fuelwood and conversion of mangrove
areas to brackish water fishponds have reduced the 450,000 ha of mangroves
thought to exist in 1918 to 240,000 ha in 1980 and 150,000 ha today. Coral
reefs have been destroyed by the cutting and export of coral and severely
damaged by certain fishing techniques. Only 30X of the remaining reefs are
considered to be in good to excellent condition. Near-shore habitats are also
ecologically linked with the inland and upland areas: increased water turbid-
ity and reduced light penetration due to soil erosion reduces growth, or even



* 15 -
kills through smothering, the off-shore coral reefs and seaweed beds.
Destruction of coastal mangrove forests opens interior areas to increased
typhoon damage, creating a backwards linkage.
2.9         Most of the population employed by the fishing industry are poor,
and have few livelihood alternatives which do not add to excessive pressure on
the resource base. Overfishing beyond the sustainable yield and use of
destructive fishing methods are general consequences.  Competition between
commercial fisheries (mainly larger boats, supposed to keep well off-shore),
and the small-scale "municipal fisheries" (with boats under three tons), is
also severe, even in the near-shore areas. The municipal capture fisheries
account for 75% of employment in fisheries and for 50% of annual production,
while the commercial fisheries employ only 6X of the workers but catch 26X of
the fish (the remainder being aquaculture).
2.10        Macroeconomic Consequences.  The likely consequences of a "policy"
of inaction on these issues are quite clear: the primary forest will disap-
pear within a few years, as 7-8 million cu m are extracted each year (under
license or illegally). The residual, left in poor shape from the first cut,
will be further degraded as continued migration from the lowlands and upland
population growth adds to the existing pressure. By the year 2000, perhaps
one-fourth of the residual will remain, but with little commercial value; the
remaining area will be under shifting cultivation, grassland, and brush.
Possibly 30 years from now, long before hardwood forests planted today could
mature, timber suitable for furniture or construction use will have been
exhausted, and fuelwood and pulpwood will be in short supply. Fuelwood de-
mands will long since have depleted the remaining mangroves, and the areas
will have been converted into fishponds to partially offset the expected
decline in the coastal fisheries, due to excessive fishing pressure and reef
destruction.
2.11        The economic losses arising from this scenario (within the span of
a single generation) include relative losses to the future Philippine popula-
tion arising from excessive exploitation of resources by the current popula-
tion, as well as absolute losses arising from unproductive or destructive uses
of resources. Even rough quantification of these costs is quite difficult,
because: (a) understanding of some of the biophysical processes involved in
degradation remains incomplete; and (b) insufficient monitoring of various
forms of degradation in the Philippines prevents extrapolation from individual
cases or pilot studies. Nevertheless, the magnitude of social costs is cer-
tainly enough to justify serious concern.
2.12         For certain losses to the future population, it is possible to
cite indicative magnitudes. It is clear that soil erosion is leading to
significant losses of fertility in seven to eight million ha of upland area
which will eventually be needed for crops or tree plantations. In areas of
overgrazed grassland, as in the Magat Watershed, annual losses of soil and
nutrient may cost more than P 1,000 (US$50) per ha, on a replacement cost
basis. There are about two million ha of open grasslands nationwide, indicat-
ing an annual loss approaching P 2 billion (US$100 million). Downstream
losses - drastically shortened life of dams, increased maintenance and reha-
bilitation costs for irrigation facilities, and loss of crops due to flooding
or decreased dry season water availability - are also significant. Estimates
of current and future annual losses to fisheries arising only from excessive



- 16 -
fishing pressure (excluding destructive methods) are in the range of P 1.0-1.8
billion (US$50-90 million). Loss of the remaining habitats which harbor the
diverse and often unique flora and fauna of the Philippines entails future
losses of potential tourist revenues (an industry whlich now annually generates
over US$600 million in receipts, and which has been growing at 17X p.a.), and
Incalculable losses associated with the potential development of medicines,
pharmaceuticals, various biochemical products and planting materials based on
the genetic pool now preserved in tropical forests and coral reef environ-
ments. On the other hand, protection of resources from rapid depletion will
also entail significant costs, For example, as a measure to relieve excessive
harvesting pressure on domestic forests, the Government has recently liberal-
ized imports of logs. In 1989, the first year of liberalized imports, report-
edly about 600,000 cu m of logs were imported, at a foreign exchange cost of
over US$130 million.
2.13        There are also significant fiscal implications:  full rent recov-
ery on timberlands alone would yield additional annual Government revenues of
up to P3.5 billion (US$125 million), or 0.4X of GDP, equivalent to nearly 3X
of National Government tax revenues. Not all of this would be collectible,
however: conversion of production forests to protected status, which should
result from legislation in Congress or administrative decision by DENR, would
involve a sacrifice of potential tax revenues, if domestic log production were
decreased. The ban on log and lumber exports already imposed, by shifting
potential rents downstream to the processing and manufacturing sector, has
also made it more difficult to extract rents from the logging industry.
C. Institutional Issues
2.14         The 1987 Constitution gives explicit recognition to management of
the environment, linking the better use of natural resources to the goals of
expanded productivity, sustainability and equity through open democratic
processes and distributive justice. The agencies with the most direct respon-
sibility for the achievement of these ideals are the Department of Environment
and Natural Resources (DENR), the Department of Agriculture (DA) and the
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR). The establishment of DENR represents a
major effort to create a natural resource and environmental lead agency. DENR
is responsible for management of public lands, including forest land and
coastal mangroves, whereas DA's efforts are confined to A&D ltAnd. Management
of coastal fisheries by default falls largely within the authority of DA's
Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR), although in principle small-
scale, near-shore fisheries are supposed to be under municipal control. DAR's
focus has been on agrarian reform in rice and corn areas and limited areas of
resettlement in the uplands, although it is now charged with overall coordina-
tion of CARP, which is scheduled to distribute some seven million ha of public
land over the next few years.
2.15         At the national level, the most significant organizational issues
relating to natural resource management stem from the inappropriate mandates,
resource limitations, confusion arising from reorganization, and potential
for corruption of the line agencies charged with managing natural resources,
and from the ineffectiveness of local governments and user groups which still
need to be empowered. DENR's predecessor was primarily a regulatory agency
rather than a developmental one, although it was ineffective in performing



- 17 -
even this more limited role. It viewed the management of the public Forest
Land as its exclusive responsibility, was unwilling to recognize ancestral
land rights of indigenous Filipinos and the de factp rights of recent immi-
grants to the uplands, and resisted attempts by other agencies to service the
upland population. However, DENR has begun to take a developmental role,
which has been well articulated in its Philippine Strategy for Sustainable
Development, corresponding Action Plan, and presentations to international
donors at a Mini-Consultative Group Meeting on the Environment held in Manila
in February 1990. Nevertheless, the DENR remains poorly staffed and equipped
to provide the range of services required under its current mandate, both in
meeting the needs of upland farmers and its traditional regulatory role. The
nucleus of a service program exists within DENR's Integrated Social Forestry
(ISF) program, but it requires strong leadership, training, and the resources
for a major expansion. Poor mobility and communications limit the ability of
DENR field staff to perform their traditional functions as forest managers,
much less provide services to agricultural communities in which they have no
comparative advantage. DENR is also handicapped in some important respects by
inadequate legislation and regulations.
2.16      Conversely, DA, although long developmental in orientation, has con-
centrated on the lowlands and lacks the expertise (not to mention the staff,
travel budget, transport and communications equipment) required to contribute
to agricultural development in rainfed hilly lands. It has recently initiated
a new thrust toward support of upland agriculture, but is not yet equipped to
challenge DENR's monopoly on service provision to populations occupying public
land. The field organization absorbed from 3FAR suffers from the same defi-
ciencies in relation to the artisanal fisheries. In general, the services
which are required in the uplands and coastal communities include: (a) commu-
nity organizing; (b) assistance in securing or improving resource tenure; (c)
research on and extension of appropriate production technologies; and (d)
modest provision of credit or equivalent inputs. DAR, despite its focus on
land tenure issues and coordinative role in CARP, is directly involved mainly
with land classified A&D. DENR has the legal mandate to issue the limited
tenure instruments (renewable 25-year leases) that are constitutionally au-
thorized for utilization of public Forest Land.
2.17       Effective provision of such services can only occur at the communi-
ty level, yet power and authority in the Philippines have traditionally been
concentrated at the apex of the administrative hierarchy. Hence, the ongoing
government reorganization, which has involved a commitment to regionalized
management of line agencies, increased empowerment of local governments, and
improved collaboration between government and private organizations (NGOs) at
all levels is a positive development. Nevertheless, actual devolution of
power has been slow and effectively resisted by vested interests. Genuine
empowerment of local government awaits provision of a local revenue base, as
well as some revisions in legal codes. Although the most effective measures
to build local capacity for resource management have been associated with NGOs
working from the bottom-up, the numbers of NGOs with effective field capabili-
ties are few, and fewer still are the NGOs able to serve and strengthen other
NGOs.
2.18         The potential for corruption is particularly high in those agen-
cies directly responsible for allocation, management or regulation of natural
resources use. Lacking proper pricing of access rights, profit or rent from



- 18 -
obtaining and maintaining such rights is sufficient to support high levels of
illegal payments. Imposition of onerous rules and regulations, interpreted
with administrative discretion, gives officials the power to command such
payments.  Unless the system for allocation, management and regulation of
resource use is first changed to reduce reliance on rules and administrative
discretion and also to increase mandatory resource user fees to levels commen-
surate with economic rents, government decentralization programs may simply
decentralize the locus of corruption.
2.19       Of course, incentives for unlicensed access, illegal exploitation,
and nonpayment of user fees would remain and possibly even increase--conse-
quently there is no escaping the need for thorough monitoring and enforcement
programs. This need is increasing as public policy in the forestry sector is
shifting from an emphasis on regulation of production to protection from
exploitation. Although the extent of illegal logging is a matter of conjec-
ture, it is possible that the volume of logs removed illegally (including
illegal practices of licensed concession holders) approaches in size the legal
harvest. Even though DENR has broad police powers, there is insufficient
disincentive for illegal practices because:
(a) DENR has neither arms, vehicles, nor communication systems to
match those of illegal operators, nor does it get systematic
police or military support;
(b) DENR must prosecute cases of violations in court, yet is
unable to obtain convictions due to insufficient and poorly-
paid legal staff, unsympathetic courts, and a legal system
offering many opportunities to the defendant;
(c) DENR's monitoring is confined to transport arteries; it is
not equipped to monitor on-site logging activities or lumber
mills; and only succeeds in identifying and prosecuting low-
level operatives; and
(d) DENR's monitoring systems are not designed to minimize lower-
level staff collusion in illegal activities.
2.20       The legal and regulatory framework which supports the activities
of Governmental institutions is too frequently ineffective, outdated, unreal-
istic, or inconsistent with sound policies. Laws too often were written with
no consideration of enforceability, or have never become enforceable due to
lack of implementing regulations or necessary budgetary appropriations. On
certain issues, the problems with the legal framework appear virtually intrac-
table. For example, Philippine land law has both formal and local common law
components, which are often mutually inconsistent and provide (for instance)
no basis for recognition of communal property rights, however ancient in
origin. Moreover, the Constitution and other laws flatly forbid any aliena-
tion of "Forest Reserves", and limit administrative powers to reclassify such
land for non-forest uses, no matter what actual uses prevail. In other in-
tances, the law is mainly obsolete: for example, the National Parks enabling
legislation dates from 1932 and has been modified by a large number of acts,
executive orders, proclamations, and presidential decrees since that time.
Both enabling legislation and the gazetting legislation require a complete



- 19 -
overhaul. The legal backing for DENR's powers to protect the forests is also
flawed: e.g., DENR is given nominal police authority, but not the authority
to bear arms or to draft the services of law enforcement agencies; fines and
penalties prescribed by earlier laws have been trivialized by infla^.on; and
liability and penalities for violations are focussed on the cutting and trans-
port of forest products, rather than marketing and processing points; and on
individual violators rather than the sponsoring corporate organizations.
III. THE SEgTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Perspective and Oblectives
Reforms in Pers2ective
3.1         The Bank's concern with rural environmental degradation in the
Philippines dates from the late 1970s, when, in order to protect downstream
irrigation infrastructure from watershed degradation, it flnanced a Watershed
Management and Erosion Control Project (Ln. 1890-PH).  The design of this
pioneer effort was flawed in several respects, and the Bank's understandlng
and concern for the problems of environmental degradation did not mature until
the 1983 Agricultural Sector Memorandum (Report 4318-PH), which placed halting
environmental deterioration In forestry and fisheries at the core of future
Bank lending strategy in Philippine agriculture. The Central Visayas Regional
Project (Ln. 2360-PH), an innovative and experimental area development program
targeting the links between poverty and environmental degradation in the
uplands and coastal zones, was the first result. Experience with implementa-
tion of this project in turn contributed to recognition that the root causes
had to be addressed through modifications of national policy requiring insti-
tutional and legislative change and cutting across entrenched interests.
Parallel growth of public consciousness in the Philippines, along with the
change of Government and subsequent institutional reorganization, facilitated
initiation of a major strategy study in 1986, the Forestry, Fisheries and
Agricultural Resource Management (ffARM) Study (Report No. 7388-PH, January
17, 1989). The DENR followed up with formulation of the Philippine Strategy
for Sustainable Development (PSSD), which was endorsed by the Cabinet in
November 1989 and presented to the donors at a Mini-Consultative Group Meeting
in February 1990. The proposed Sector Adjustment Program results from discus-
sions of the ffARM Study and PSSD with Government.
3.2        Involvement of Other Donors.  Technical and financial assistance
from other multilaterals and various bilaterals in recent years has increas-
ingly focussed on rural environmental degradation and related poverty prob-
lems. The ADB has initiated a major Forestry Sector Program Loan centered on
reforestation and a Forestry Master Plan study, with matching funding by
Japan's OECF; a Fisheries Sector Program Loan; a Low Income Upland Communities
Project; and preparation of new projects in mangrove replanting and industrial
tree plantations. New Zealand has begun to implement an industrial tree
plantation project. USAID has completed an upland agricultural project, and
has recently initiated a major program of assistance, including debt-for-
nature swaps, in the environment and natural resource sector. Technical
assistance by ferm=  in concluding a forest inventory, AbtralLa in land
resource planning and data base construction, Sweden in a SPOT-satellte
mapping of land uses (through the World Bank's ffARM Study, which was also



- 20 -
assisted by Canada and MMDZ), the United States in an NGO-implemented study of
biological diversity issues, and the FrA Foundation ln development of agro-
forestry, have helped establish the bases for future programs. There have
been frequent exchanges of views among donors, and three consultative meetings
with donors have been organized by DENR (June 1989, February 1990, and October
1990), with the result that donor programs in the sector are reasonably well
coordinated.
Objectives of the AdJuStment proram
3.3         Based on the strategy for improved management of natural resources
recommended by the ffARM Study, the Bank has been working closely with DENR,
DA and DAR to develop a Program combining policy and institutional reform and
a redirection of administrative attention and effort. Because the ADB program
loan for fisheries and a project for replanting mangroves deal adequately with
these areas, policy measures involving management of small-scale capture fish-
eries and mangrove areas have been excluded from this Program, and elements
involving forestry have been defined to be complementary to the ADB Forestry
Sector Program Loan and follow-up operations under preparation, which empha-
size production forestry, processing efficiency and reforestation. The broad
objectives of this Program are to preserve what remains of the biological
diversity of the Philippines; where these resources have been degraded or
destroyed, to reestablish them wherever practicable and financeable; and
elsewhere to introduce sustainable land use practices. The means to these
objectives, as pursued in this Program, are primarily to:
(a) determine what areas of the Philippines must be preserved
undisturbed and introduce an effective management system;
(b) introduce user fees for public resources which discourage
rent-seeking behavior;
(c) improve enforcement of logging regulations;
(d) provide secure tenure rights to users in return for sustain-
able resource use;
(e) provide extension services to upland populations; and
(f) establish mechanisms for support of small-scale, community-
based resource management and livelihood projects.
3.4        The Government has expressed a commitment to implement a program of
policy and institutional reform in the environment and natural resource sector
consistent with these objectives. The 1987 Constitution provided a firm
mandate, which has been reinforced by growing public awareness of environmen-
tal problems (especially deforestation), corresponding initiatives in Con-
gress, and the concern of external donors. Significant actions have already
been taken, unilaterally as well as in the context of the externally-supported
programs. The Government has formulated a Philippine Strategy for Sustainable
Development as a broad policy statement, which has been discussed and formally
approved by the Cabinet. This is supplemented by an Action Plan, under which
legislation has already been submitted to Congress, various task forces and
studies have been initiated, and new administrative actions have been taken.



- 21 -
The nature of the problems requires a comprehensive approach to solution,
combining legislative and administrative actions with public investment and
institutional strengthenitvg. Variations in the content of the actions is
possible; indeed, flexibility is necessary in dealing with highly-charged
issues involving serious tradeoffs between private and public interests. The
program described below was developed in response to these considerations.
B. The EXogrm
Preseryation of Biological Diversity
3.5        The objective is to protect for the benefit of future generations a
representative selection of the critically-limited remaining areas of rela-
tively undegraded habitats for flora and fauna native to tropical forests,
mangrove swamps, and coral reefs. Actions required include:
(a) submission and passage of enabling legislation which defines,
establishes, and makes provisions for proper management of a
national protected areas system;
(b) identification of appropriate sites for preservation, based
mainly on considerations of biodiversity, size, ability to
protect from degrading activities, and tourism value;
(c) provision of the budgetary funds and programs to gradually
upgrade management of parks and reserves, beginning with a
small number of high-priority sites; and
(d) protection of priority sites from degradation ty existing and
new occupants, largely by prevention of illegal logging,
shifting cultivation, forest fires, and hunting and gathering
activities (including fishing, within marine reserves).
3.6        Surveys of the conditions of the 60 existing parks and reserves are
now underway, and candidate sites will be identified which could fill gaps in
or better serve the purposes of a protected areas system. Representation of
lowland forests, freshwater swamp, mangrove, tropical pine forest, and the
marine environment would be given special consideration; and existing reserves
in degraded condition or which serve no legitimate purpose would be disposed
of. Based on a prioritization of sites, and detailed estimates of budgetary
costs for adequate development and maintenance, including a program to obtain
support from existing occupants, a development program for an Integrated
Protected Areas System (IPAS) would be formulated.   Satisfactory enabling
legislation to establish a legal foundation for IPAS has been drafted and
submitted to Congress. Passage of this legislation would be followed by
completion of implementing guidelines and regulations and submission to Con-
gress of budgetary requests based on management plans for an initial develop-
ment program encompassing a core of high-priority protected areas.
3.7         Pasture Leases.  Commercial grazing on steep slopes has been a
major source of erosion and a cause of forest fires in the Philippines. A
medium-run target would be to eliminate such leases from parks, reserves,
critical watersheds, and all areas with slopes over 50X. DENR would conduct a



- 22 -
review of the locations of existing leases in relation to these criteria;
would cease to renew or issue pasture leases in such areas and cancel leases
Insofar as its authority permits (barring wholesale legislative authorization,
which is unlikely, tlme-consumlng documentation of contract violations will be
required to provide sufficient cause for cancellation of such leases). As a
first step, a review has been completed of pasture leases in the Magat Water-
shed in Luzon, where pastoral activities are the primary cause of degradation,
and leases on lands draining into the Magat River have been cancelled. Simi-
lar steps would be taken in the near future for ten priority protected areas
and an additional critical watershed.
Rent Reeover
3.8        Increasing the level of fees or charges for use of public resources
to recover a high proportion of economic rents is intended to reduce the
incentive to exploit these resources and increase pressure for more efficient
utilization; reduce the scope for administrative abuse; and provide signifi-
cant additional budgetary revenues for Government. Current forest charges
mainly constitute a legislated fee of P30 (US$1.42) per cu m of roundwood
extracted; previous to the log export ban, about 20X of the export value was
captured by an export tax (however, a large volume of undeclared or misde-
clared exports escaped this tax).   Current estimates of average economic rent
(domestic market value of stumpage less extraction costs and "normal" profit)
in prevailing market conditions (influenced by the log export ban) range from
P 210-1,500 per cu m, or between 101 and 401 of wholesale value, depending on
log quality, costs of logging in varying conditions, etc.   If exports were
allowed and border prices prevailed, then rent would approach two-thirds of
the border price--in other words, with the export ban, some of the rent is
sacrificed as a subsidy to domestic processing. The approach to capturing a
higher proportion of economic rent would differ as between existing and new
licenses. The area under new licenses, including anything which replaces
cancelled or expired concessions, ls likely to be fairly small. However, a
strategy of protecting primary forests and opening up residual forests to
logging has been accepted in principle by DENR as part of a Master Plan for
Forestry Development. If this proves technically and politically feasible to
implement, most existing concessions would be cancelled, and large areas not
now under concession management would be newly licensed.
3.9         Existing Licenses.  Government charges are governed by existing
legislation and outstanding leaseholds (TLAs). DENR has administrative power
to set fees commensurate with the costs of specific services, but no legal au-
thority to set tax rates. DENR has nevertheless used its limited mandate to
require of all concessions a refundable "reforestation deposit" of P10,000
(US$476) per logged hectare (about one-half the official compensation rate for
contract reforestation). Presidential Memorandum Order No. 298 issued in June
1990 under the President's emergency powers further authorized DENR to collect
from concessions an Environmental Fee, which was promptly set at P500 per cu m
of logs; although the legality of this charge has been challenged, DENR has
begun collecting it. New legislative bills have passed the House and Senate,
requiring an increase in the Forest Charge to 20% or 401, respectively, of the
Manila wholesale price of roundwood (this would apply to both new and existing
timber concessions). The bills are presently in Bicameral Committee for
reconciliation, which is expected to involve choice of a compromise figure
(probably 301).  Estimated to yield P 600-1,200 per cu m for different grades



- 23 -
of log, the new level of Forest Charge should capture at least 75X of avail-
able economic rent in logging, about 100l for medium quality logs under aver-
age logging conditions, and would make logging of steep slopes unprofitable.
DENR would monitor the level of economic rent and recommend future adjustments
in legislation. As changes in laws and regulations affecting logging and
processing may affect the level of rents and their distribution among subsec-
tors, DENR would also conduct a study examining the effects of measures such
as the current bans on export of both non-plantation roundwood and lumber to
indicate their impact on both efficiency and rent recovery.
3.10         New Licenses.  The 1987 Constitution effectively abolishes the
concession system, as applying to new licenses, and requires instead "co-
production" or joint ventures between Government and private loggers, known as
Timber Production Sharing Agreements (TPSAs). Since the only asset the Gov-
ernment contributes to such ventures is the stumpage, this provision effec-
tively mandates full rent recovery and provides a legal basis for close moni-
toring of logging costs and profits of new licenses. As a first step in this
direction, a DENR administrative order applied to expired or suspended con-
cessions provisionally imposed a "forest management fee" of P250 (US$11.90)
per cu m. Subsequently, guidelines were issued for TPSAs requiring a public
bidding process, which would be the best approach for recovering full economic
rent. Although, prior to these guidelines, three pilot TPSAs were initiated
as experiments, Government's share was negotiated rather than bid, and yielded
revenues of only about 20X of wholesale log prices. Full implementation of
the TPSA program has been stalled due mainly to uncertainty over the impact of
impending Congressional action on logging bans.  DENR has inventoried a number
of expired concessions, however, and during 1991, it plans to expand imple-
mentation of TPSAs beyond the pilot level, employing competitive bidding for
at least two logging areas and applying the Community Forest Management Agree-
ment (CFMA) concept to a third. Market prices and logging cost data developed
from co-production arrangements would be used in estimating the level of
economic rents and targeting legislative changes in fees for existing conces-
sions.
3.11         Mangrove Areas.  A study supported by the ADB Fisheries Sector
Program Loan will determine an appropriate rental fee for use of mangrove
areas converted to fishponds. DENR would review this study and support action
by DA to increase the rental fee, in order to increase pressure for abandon-
ment of unproductive fishponds and reduce incentives to make new conversions
of mangrove areas to fishpond use. A new DENR-DA administrative order, ap-
proved by DENR and pending approval by DA, provides that mangrove areas in
which fishponds are idle or abandoned revert to DENR control as forest reserve
and be made available for re-establishment of mangrove forest under appropri-
ate Stewardship Contracts. A survey financed by the ADB Program Loan would
also establish the locations of idle or abandoned fishponds, and DA would take
administrative action to revoke licenses and ensure reversion. DA's actions
above are conditions for the second tranche release (projected for June 1991)
of the ADB loan; DENR, through its membership in the Coastal Zone Resources
Management Committee, would support these actions.
Enforcement of Forestry Law and Regulations
3.12        DENR would implement a strategy for improved enforcement, applied
initially in selected areas where illegal operations have been identified as



- 24 -
prevalent. This would seek, in the short run (1991-92), to increase the
effectiveness of enforcement by concentrating efforts on a few critical points
and activities, and removing current constraints on monitoring and enforcement
activities.  In the long run, DENR would seek to intensify direct management
presence of its foresters within the forests, particularly where TLAs are
cancelled, primary forests are given protected area status, and TPSAs or CFMAs
are extended. A satisfactory plan for an intensive monitoring and enforcement
program has been developed, and terms of reference for technical assistance in
its implementation have been agreed. Major features of the short-run program
would include:
(a) cooperation with the Department of Justice to speed up prose-
cutions and reduce obstructionism of local courts, through
appointment of special courts and particular fiscals (prose-
cutors) to have jurisdiction in forestry cases, and through
training of judicial personnel in forestry law and conse-
quences of environmental degradation;
(b) cooperation with the Department of Interior and Local Govern-
ment to assist in apprehensions, requiring, in addition to a
Memorandum of Agreement between DENR and DILG, detailing of a
small, mobile strike force for selected joint enforcement
operations; and involvement of the Philippine National Police
in monitoring committees at all levels;
(c) introduction of a multiple-point monitoring system including
direct surveillance at lumber mills, aerial surveillance of
primary and selected residual forests to identify illegal
cutting and small-scale processing activities; and ground
surveillance of access and transport routes, equipped with
adequate communications systems;
(d) program monitoring by committees at central, regional, and
provincial levels including DENR, local government, military,
church, and other NGO representation, the committees to
receive regularily published indicators of performance such
as volume of confiscated logs and other property, mill clo-
sures, cancellation of TLA concessions, and legal prosecu-
tions; to review enforcement-related DENR programs and dis-
cuss major violation problems; and to serve as the entry
points for monitoring information provided by NGOs;
(e) legal services to ensure well-prepared court cases, through
contract hiring of lawyers and assistance in prosecutions;
(f) provision of adequate transportation and communications
equipment to field personnel responsible for enforcement; and
(g) programs to win community support and defuse the livelihood
issue, such as targeting various existing Government programs
to generate constructive means of livelihood.



- 25 -
Tenure RISA
3.13        Certificate of Stewardship Contracts (CSCs). Due to constitution-
al provisions, the only form of tenure open to occupants of public Forest Land
at present consists of renewable 25-year leaseholds, mainly the CSCs issued to
existing occupants in areas designated for the Integrated Social Forestry
Program. These include both individual and collective (Community Forest
Stewardship Agreement) contracts. In the past, CSCs had limited tenure value,
as they were not clearly heritable, renewable, or transferable. A recent
administrative order and revised contract document ensure that CSCs are her-
itable, renewable, and transferable (with restrictions to prevent development
of absentee pseudo-landlords), on terms that give them substantial tenure and
collatoral value in the eyes of recipients.
3.14        Manglr_v   CSCs. A version of the CSC contract appropriately modi-
fied to provide exclusive tenure for individuals or groups of residents will-
ing to replant and manage mangrove areas for livelihood purposes on a sus-
tained yield basis has been approved and issued.
3.15        Indigenous Communities.  As many as five million members of in-
digenous or minority communities have land occupancy claims predating the
introduction of Spanish or American land systems of property rights. Many are
upland cultivators or forest occupants, and the logical targets of efforts to
extend conservation-oriented land and forest management techniques. However,
their cooperation is discouraged by the fact that neither Government nor
established law, which regards them as 'squatters' on public land, recognize
their claims to collective or individual land tenure, although the 1987 Con-
stitution authorizes the recognition and protection of "ancestral domains".
An important legal precedent exists in the form of an early Supreme Court
decision which states, in effect, that land subject to documented claims
predating Spanish and American property rights law is not subject to that law.
Legislation is now before Congress which would set up a Commission to deline-
ate and adjudicate such claims. Although the difficulties of documenting
claims and presence of conflicting claims will make this a slow and difficult
process at best, initiating the process would in itself discourage further
encroachment on ancestral lands and encourage cooperation from indigenous
groups. DENR has supported this interpretation and approach, and submitted
parallel legislation providing better administrative mechanisms for dealing
with the interests of indigenous communities pending the work of this Commis-
sion. Without waiting for the passage of this legislation, DENR has set up a
task force to delineate ancestral claims and provide land titles when claims
are uncontested to indigenous cultural communities in the Cordillera Adminis-
trative Region. It has also expanded the use of the Community Forest Steward-
ship Agreements (CFSA) program, to turn over resource management rights to
increasing numbers of such communities, with no prejudice to their land rights
as defined in the future.
3.16        Local Communities.  Of the 15 million ha of public land currently
reserved for forest use and managed by DENR, only about 6-7 million are actu-
ally forested, and substantial remaining areas may be reforested as financial
resources permit. Present "contract reforestation" programs cover only the
establishment period (three years), after which the seedlings and their even-
tual timber production become Government property. As such, they are likely
to be damaged or destroyed by local residents seeking to use the land for



- 26 -
other purposes. To create an incentive for community maintenance and manage-
ment, DENR has devised and issued a new contractual instrument, the Forest
Land Management Agreement, providing a substantial share of benefits at matu-
rity (including selective harvesting rights) to registered groups of local
residents in return for the obligation to sustainably manage the reforested
area.
3.17        Sound management of critical watersheds, national parks, and
nature reserves is now often compromised by the presence of occupying popula-
tions, often predating the legal establishment of such public reserves and
often with substantial tenure claims. Where such populations cannot be reset-
tled or evicted or the boundaries of the reserve defined to exclude them, an
alternative strategy is to involve these populations in the protection and
management process while legitimizing and supporting livelihood activities
which can be reconciled with this process. However, DENR's current legal
instruments, such as the CSC and CFSA, and the related developmental programs
are based on laws excluding use of such instruments from critical watersheds,
national parks, and nature reserves. The draft IPAS legislation submitted by
DENR seeks legislative authorization for extension of limited tenure instru-
ments to protected areas in instances where the corresponding Management Plan
finds such residence can be made consistent with general management objectives
and where a long-term protective management program defining corresponding
community and individual obligations has been established and funded. This
legislation would also define a role for protected area management personnel
in developing buffer zones around protected areas.
Extension Services
3.18        In areas where land use conversion has occurred and where farming
is potentially sustainable, the objective is to induce adoption of sustainable
and conservation-oriented farming techniques, which requires a Government-led
effort to develop community organization, provide tenure security, and extend
agro-forestry technology. Previous extension efforts in the uplands have been
characterized by a small but relatively complete program led by DA, mainly
among communities of indigenes, a larger (ISF) program led by DENR focussed
mainly on issue of CSCs, and a large number of pilots conducted by NGOs active
in the uplands. Larger scale externally-funded projects such as the Bank's
CVRP and USAID's Rainfed Resources Development Project have drawn heavily on
NGO techniques. Both publicly and NGO-sponsored programs have had a measure
of success in obtaining adoption of sustainable farming techniques, and the
techniques and principles have been proven to increase farm incomes while
reducing environmental degradation. However, delivery of extension and commu-
nity development services in the uplands has only begun to go beyond pilots
and demonstrations. Although CARP targets only a fraction of upland resi-
dents, its implementation has greatly expanded the number of clientele slated
to receive services. ISF is DENR's lead program for increasing the sustain-
ability of livelihood of communities residing on public forest land. With
support from CARP and external donors, DENR has already taken steps to give
ISF new administrative independence and prominence, and to enlarge and enrich
the objectives and capabilities of this program under recently-issued guide-
lines. An entirely new category of civil service positions (Social Forestry
Technicians) has been created, and so far about 1,000 staff have been recruit-
ed and trained to serve the non-traditional functions mandated by the new
guidelines.



- 27 -
3.19        The objective of the adjustment program is to further develop a
pollcy framework and organizational structure appropriate for a much-expanded
upland extension program. DENR has recognized, through statement of policy
and program implementation, that the population presently residing on public
Forest Land is in large part there to stay; that earlier policies of ignoring
or evicting them were counterproductive; and that, in the interest of utillz-
ing them as a positive force in resource conservation, it is crucial that
issues of their livelihood, tenure, and necessary technical, economic, and
social services be addressed by the Government. In principle, community
services should be provided by the functionally-relevant agencLes regardless
of where the communities are located. In practice, service provision for all
agencies continues to be constrained by the existing geographical distribution
of agency staff, difficulties of redeployment, limited budget for redirection
of effort, and shortages of staff with appropriate qualifications. Because
DENR's mandate for management and protection of public resources requires that
it promote sustainable development of communities residing on public forest
land, DEWR in the short run would take a lead role in stimulating and coordi-
nating service provision for such communities. In so doing, it would actively
promote a transition to coordination of service delivery by local governments,
provision of agricultural extension by the DA, and provision of health, educa-
tional, and other services by the appropriate agencies. In subjects such as
community organizing or agroforestry, where DENR, DA and DAR have common
training requirements, DENR would assist in implementing a common training
program for regional and local staff of all three agencies. The above princi-
ples have been affirmed in Resolution No. 01-90 of Cabinet Cluster A (Rural
Development), signed by the Secretaries of the departments and agencies in-
volved in rural development.
3.20        Census of Forest Occupants.  The completion of an accurate census
is a clear prerequisite for expansion of the ISF program. The census is
required to pinpoint areas of concentration of occupants such as upland farm-
ers, and establish whether the users are untenured (residing on public Forest
Land) or potential recipients of titles (occupants of A&D land who are also
utilizing public Forest Land). Such a census was carried out in 1989 and an
advisory task force including non-governmental experts has been set up to
evaluate the preliminary results and take any corrective actions necessary.
3.21         NGO QLnkagu.  Training, organizational and management capabili-
ties, and motivation relevant to upland extension work are concentrated in
NGOs in the Philippines. However, these NGOs tend to be scattered and limited
in their scope of activities, and often would be reluctant (or be better
advised not) to expand their scale of operation. There are a number of compe-
tent NGOs which are willing to produce training materials, provide sites for
field training, and supply training staff or trained field workers for commu-
nity organization work. Such NGOs would be increasingly employed by Govern-
ment, under contractual arrangements, in support of programs such as ISF or
Community Forestry. In addition, NGO leaders and members at the municipal
level would be invited to participate along with political and administrative
representatives in committees established for coordination and supervision of
Government service delivery and natural resource regulation and management.
DENR, in particular, has established (through Administrative Order) policies
and procedures favoring involvement of NGOs, and would continue to deepen its
ongoing process of accreditation and involvement of NGOs along the above



- 28 -
lines, and where possible devolve regulatory and coordinative powers to local
resource management committees with NGO representation.
Community-Based Resource Manafement and Livelihood Prolects
3.22       Among the significant constraints in upland farming are the gener-
al poverty of the population, lack of cash savings, and lack of collateral for
borrowing. Yet, introduction of sustainable and conservation-oriented farming
techniques requires infrastructure, such as access roads or paths and small-
scale water impoundments, temporary llvelihood support, to the extent that
agroforestry is to replace shifting cultivation, and inputs such as seedlings
and fertilizer. Government programs for provision of these requirements are
justifiable on both poverty and environmental grounds. Financial provision
has been included in the CARP program and (for nursery establishment, seed-
lings provision, and employment in replanting) in the ADB/OECF Forestry Pro-
gram Loan. The main concern of the adjustment program is to ensure that the
funds are effectively utilized.
3.23        The recommended approach is that funding for these activities,
whatever their source and institutional sponsorship, be administered on a
pooled basis at the provincial or municipal level. Requirements for disburse-
ment should draw on the experience of projects sponsored by NGOs, or the
better-managed community-development projects.   For example, a preliminary
stage of community organization and expression of needs should precede dis-
bursement for infrastructure; and construction should be executed using commu-
nity-based management and labor-intensive (income-generating) techniques.
Provision of credit should be linked to two forms of sustainability - adoption
of sustainable agricultural techniques, and sustainability of the credit
program (either through use of local revolving funds or a program to develop
creditworthiness of borrowers). DENR has issued guidelines for its ISF and
Community Forestry programs which are consistent with such agreed principles
of implementation.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Origin. Rationale and Objectives
4.1        Originating from the dialogue with Government concerning the stra-
tegic recommendations of the ffARN Study (paras. 3.1 and 3.3), the present
operation would support implementation of those recommendations for reforms in
the environment and natural resource sector required for sustainable growth.
The specific objectives of the project would be to develop an effective pro-
tected areas system, charge user fees for public resources which discourage
rent-seeking behavior, improve enforcement of logging regulations, provide
secure tenure rights to users in return for sustainable resource use, offer
extension services to upland populations, and develop mechanisms for support
of small-scale, community-based resource management and livelihood projects in
impoverished upland areas. The operation would also help to fill a gap in
meeting the estimated foreign exchange requirements of the Government's devel-
opment program. In the past, such operations have also served as vehicles for
attracting substantial co-financing from other donors, which has enhanced



- 29 -
their overall balance of payments impact, and this Ls also expected to be the
case with the proposed operation.
Summary Proletl Descrition
4.2         The project would consist of a sector adjustment component aimed
at implementing major reforms in the incentive, legal, and regulatory struc-
tures governing management of Philippine natural resources -- especially
forests and soils on public lands, and an investment component which would
strengthen the central and local public institutions charged with monitoring
or managing these resources.
4.3         Sectoral Adjustment Comnonent.  The actions needed to fully imple-
ment the olLcyX reforms encompassed by this program are summarized in the
policy-action matrix in Annex C, and would be supported by and monitored under
the proposed project. Actions viewed as most critical to achieving the objec-
tives of the program are summarized in Table 4 below (pp. 30-32). Most ac-
tions have already been completed; actions requiring more time or prior stud-
ies, which are highlighted in boldface, would be conditions of effectiveness
or release of the second tranche (June 1992) of the loan and credit associated
with the adjustment component (Annex C). It is understood that disbursement
of the second tranche, in addition to stated conditionalities, would require
maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
4.4         Investment Component.  The proposed component, to be implemented
over a seven-year period, would finance: (a) consultancies to carry out the
design of an Integrated Protected Areas System (IPAS), leading to submission
of enabling legislation to Congress and development and funding of management
plans for areas initially gazetted for inclusion within IPAS; (b) provision of
equipment, training and technical assistance to DENR national, regional and
local offices to enable improved monitoring of logging operations and enforce-
ment of forestry laws and regulations in Regions II, X, and Samar; and (c)
provision of technical assistance, training, equipment, infrastructure, and
inputs to develop in Regions I (including Cordillera Administrative Region),
II, IX, and X the capacity of local governments and line agency field staff to
plan, generate and service small-scale, community-based resource management
projects in watershed areas, combining community organizing and pre-coopera-
tives development, improvements in tenure and resource management, introduc-
tion of sustainable and non-destructive means of livelihood, and improvement
of infrastructure and social services. Details of the investment component
follow, and are further explained in the Project Implementation Volume.
Detailed Features of the Investment Component
4.5.        Integrated Protected Areas System Design Studies.  This component,
to be implemented over a 15-month period which began in October 1990, consists
of studies by consultants, which have been initiated using Japan-World Bank
Technical Assistance Grant funding, and would be monitored and supervised
under the proposed project. Remaining technical assistance funds would be
disbursed as part of the cofinancing package of the project.  The work is
divided into the following components: (a) legislative study of IPAS, involv-
ing drafting of enabling and gazetting legislation, implementing guidelines,
and related executive orders; (b) design studies covering terrestrial, marine



I3Ab J: SELECTED ACTIOS TO SE NONITORED UHDER TUE PROJECT 1
Objectives/Proposed Action Program       Actons Already Taken                    Condition of Efftetfnonassa              Seoond Trancbe Relese (6/M2a
A. Protect Btolaical D(versitv
1. Daet  goD anffectiv wInte-
ara     PrtecedArea
svste
(a)  Prepare and submit         Satisfactory  enabting   Legistation                                             Setiefaoory  io _ tiag gdi*tInss
enabling legislation;      sthmitted  to Congress; consultants                                              for INS legsttln lasa_
issue regulations          appointed to study gazetting issues
(b)  Prepare and Implement      Consultant  appointed   and   study                                               abn  ent plan pr    d for 10
management plans for       taderway                                                                         wrio; cewerCupom    kudWt re*msts 
gazetted areas                                                                                              sabtted to bWreow       r
(c)  ELiminate pasture          Completed   report  on  status  and                                              Similar reports copleted for above
leases from parks,         rationale  for cancellation of pas-                                              tO protected areas and at least are
reserves, critical         ture leases in the N_t watershed,                                                other  critieal tmtereohd;   agreed
watersheds, and all        and agreed  adeinistrative  actions                                              adeinistrative actions taken
areas dith slopes > 50X   taken
B. Riscem  gov1y  g  JIlLml
Lonoaln
1.  Introduce user es reoovr-
jQ  full e!onc rents
(a)  Competitive bidding for   Procedural  guidelines issued;  Ini-                                              PeFMc bidHnh fr at least ao    nem
new Logging licen3es       tfal  areas  identified  and  timber                                             IPSs cmpleted
inventory authorized
1/ Abbrevl.ated from Annex C.
2/ Boldfaced items conditions for effectiveness or tranche release.



-bjectives/Proposed Action Progrm       Actions Already Taken                    Condition of ffectivress                Second Tranche Release C6/92)
(b) LegIslation setting         Administrative Order iaposing  Envi-   Forest charge of at least 2QS of    Implemented;  normal legal  remedies
adequate forusla for       ronrental  Fee; bills  approved  by   market value passed by Co4nress            for non-comptiance plus cancellation
forest charge              House and Senate                                                                 of TLA permits
(c) Naintain reforestation    Strengthened monitoring  to  ensure                                                Revised procedures implemented
deposit and provide for   compliance  and Institution of  true
periodic adjustments       performance bond
2.  1m rove enforceent gf for
estrv tow and regtuations
(a) Develop and implement       onitoring  plan agreed and TOR  for                                              Program   nitoring comission and
an adequate monitoring    TA in implementation drafted                                                      supporting system pot into effect
system
(b) Develop and implement       Enforcement plan agreed and TOR  for                                             Anmnal  evaluation report on  imple-
an adequate enforceent   TA in implementation drafted                                                       mentation,  including  quantitative
strategy                                                                                                    indicators, agreed with Bank
C.  Encoae Sustainable         Me Us
Practices
1. Provide secume tenure rLits
(a)  Improve tenure value of   A.O. revising  CSC  term   issued;                                                Routine issue
Stewardship Contract       revised contractual form  issued
(b)  Extend modified CSC for   A.O. defining  wmgrove CSCs  and                                                  Routine issue
mWarove areas              appropriate contractual fom issued
tc) DEMN pubtic recognition   Task  force  created  to  delineate                                                Adeqate fwuning provided for task
of prior rights of         ancestral   domains and   recommnd                                                orce a d evaluation report on work
"ancestral domains3 and   property transfer mechanism; delin-                                               asuitted to Ba*Assaciation
administrative assis-      eation guidelrnes issued. Statement
tance in delineation      of  Poticy   recognizes  ancestral
domain rfghts fn principte



ObjectiveslProposed Action PrograM       Actions Already Taken                    Condition of Effectiveness                Second Tranche Release (6192)
Id) Devise and issue nev        A.0. and guidetines defining instru-                                               Routire issue
contractuat instruments   ment signed
giving property rights
over reforested areas
to local residents
2. Establish organitational
framework for orovision of
extension services fn u1tard
areas
(a)  Recognition of exten-      Resolution  of Cabinet Cluster A  on                                               lmplementation within administrative
sion requirements of       Rural Development and Statement of                                                 units  covered by public  investmnt
upland populations and    Policy   extend  this   recognition;                                                cop,onent
agreement on sourcing      implementation   within   scope   of
public investment component agreed
(b)  Improved autonomy,         ISF separated from FVB, Ass't Secre-
visi-bility  mandate.      tsry  responsible for program.   1e0
and staff complement       ISF  and CFS guidelines issued;  nev
for ISF program            field  staff  positions  added   for
*Socisl Forestry Technicians"
(c)  Implement comon train-   Training moterists developed; imple-                                                 Implementation within adainistratiwe
ing program (DA, DEIR,    mentation  within  scope  of publlc                                                units  covered by public  investment
DAR)                       inmestent component agreed                                                        component
(d) Complete Census of          Census   coplete, processing   and                                                Remedil  studies  iplemented,   If
Forest Occupants           correction underway  future meaures                                               roded
aoreed



- 33 -
and wetland ecosystems; (c) preparation of preliminary management plans for 10
identified protected areas; (d) boundary delineation and land use mapping for
these 10 areas; (e) development and initial implementation of a training
program for staff at all levels involved in IPAS implementation; and (f)
seminars and workshops designed to develop public support for and involvement
in IPAS.
4.6         The submission to Congress of satisfactory IPAS enabling legisla-
tion was among the major policy actions completed to date under the sector
adjustment program. Completion of the preliminary management plans for 10
protected areas, and the issue of satisfactory implementing guidelines follow-
ing passage by Congress of IPAS enabling legislation are among the major
second-tranche conditionalities. Detailed terms of reference have been de-
veloped, consultant teams have been selected, and work has begun on all as-
pects of the IPAS studies (summary terms of reference are given in the Project
Implementation Volume).
4.7         IPAS Program Support.  The component, the inclusion of which is
conditional on co-financing by the Global Environment Fund (GEF), would
provide program support for the development, preservation and management of
resources within 10 priority reserves under the IPAS program, following the
completion of draft management plans for each reserve. It would lay the
foundation for a long-term, efficient program of management and administration
of protected areas which could be sustained with a reasonable level of gove_n-
mental and external support and substantial NGO involvement. The component
would be phased over a seven-year period and would finance four main activi-
ties:  (a) site development, including buffer zone establishment, boundary
demarcation, and construction of infrastructure (access roads and trails,
offices, housing, visitor facilities, etc.); (b) resource management, includ-
ing habitat restoration, surveying, inventory, protection, and research; (c)
socio-economic actions, including buffer zone management, community outreach,
and educational programs; and (d) development and updating of long-term site
management plans. Following the project implementation period, ongoing man-
agement would be financed from routine Government budgetary support supple-
mented by an IPAS Fund established with Government, external donor, and NGO
participation to provide sustained support to biodiversity conservation activ-
ities and introduce an NGO-based protected areas management system. Annex E
gives further details on the proposed GEF component.
4.8         The component would be appraised for the GEF following completion
in late 1991 of the feasibility studies now under preparation; and would be
negotiated following fulfillment of conditions for release of the second-
tranche (which would provide the legislative foundation for the IPAS system).
The 10 areas identified as having priority for early inclusion in IPAS repre-
sent six of the most important biogeographic zones (based on endemism; out of
a total of 15 such zones distinguished in the Philippine Islands), a mix of
terrestrial, marine and wetland environments, and include six existing nation-
al parks.
4.9           Monitoring and Enforcement Component.  This activity would fi-
nance the provision of: (a) training and educational efforts to increase
community awareness of the negative effects of illegal logging, and the estab-
lishment of joint Government-NGO monitoring committees to encourage community
involvement in monitoring and enforcement activities; (b) training, technical



- 34 -
assistance, equipment, and operational support to increase the quantity,
quality, timeliness, and utility of Governmental monitoring activities, ad-
dressing all identifiable weaknesses; and (c) training, technical assistance,
equipment, and operational support to improve the effectiveness of all opera-
tives involved in forestry law enforcement. The sub-component complements the
other investment sub-components by addressing a variety of institutional
weaknesses which have contributed to a breakdown of respect for forestry laws
and regulations and an ongoing threat to the remaining forests of the Philip-
pines from illegal logging.   It supports both an intensive program, monitored
as part of the policy component of the project, which is intended to have a
marked effect within a two-year period in discouragirg illegai logging and log
processing in parts of Regions II (northeast Luzon), VIII (Samar only), and X
(northern Mindanao), where it is now prevalent; and a less-intensive or more
routine monitoring and enforcement program financed over a five-year period.
4.10          Regional Community-Based Resources Management Component.  The
component entails regional investments in watersheds of northern Luzon (Re-
gions I and II, including the Cordillera Autonomous Region) and central and
western Mindanao (Regions IX and X), which account for about 43X of the pri-
mary and residual forested area remaining in the Philippines. The project
would finance: (a) extension of sustainable techniques of livelihood, includ-
ing agroforestry and forest management, and improvement of infrastructure in
some 104 focal communities distributed across these regions; and (b) training,
technical and management assistance, equipment, and vehicles to strengthen
local government and line agency units in some 48 municipalities and 26 prov-
inces within these regions. Implemented by local government and line agency
staff, the component would support the development of institutional capacity
to plan, generate and service small-scale community-based resource management
and livelihood projects in upper watershed areas. Typical or critical sites
would be selected in one watershed per province to serve as focal communities
for the provision of services, to include community organizing and pre-cooper-
atives development; improvements in tenure and resource management; as well as
technological extension, infrastructure construction and other social serv-
ices. About half of total investments would directly benefit the selected
focal sites, and the remainder would   strengthen Govern-
ment and NGO capabilities at the municipal, provincial, and regional levels
benefiting a wider area and larger number of clients.
Relationship between Policy and Investment Components
4.11         Certain policy reforms are regarded as important prerequisites to
successful implementation of the public investment component, and, conversely,
.rtain public investments are needed for effective implementation of the
policy reforms. User fees recovering full economic rents would reduce "rent-
seeking" behavior and potential for corruption; and effective use of refores-
tation deposits would provide an incentive for more responsible concession
management. Together with development of adequate monitoring and enforcement
plans and procedures, these policy elements need to be packaged with invest-
ments better equipping DENR to monitor logging, enforce logging regulations,
and manage protected areas. Similarly, the improved tenure instruments, a
commitment to cooperative and coordinated service provision to populations
resident on forest lands, and a census to identify this population are key
conditions for CBRM projects aimed at increasing sustainability of livelihood
activities in these areas. Under the present condition of severe constraint



- 35 -
activities in these areas. Under the present condition of severe constraint
on budgetary expenditure and civil service size, external financial support
for technical assistance, retraining, equipment, and civil works defines the
limits within which Government redirection of effort to protect biodiversity
and provide services to the upland population can be immediately implemented.
Crucial policy conditions for successful implementation of the public invest-
ment component have all been put in place.
Prolect Costs
4.12        Project costs, expected to total US$369 million, net of taxes and
duties, and were estimated on the basis of the current exchange rate
(US$1.00-P 28) and are detailed in Annex F. They include:
(a) a quick-disbursing component of US$266 million equivalent to
finance general imports in support of the Government's sector
adjustment program. The quick disbulrsing component of the
loan and credit would provide some much needed BOP support at
a time when the Philippines faces a large unfinanced payments
gap. Given current projections, the quick disbursing compo-
nent, if released in the 1991-92 time frame, would fill
approximately 16-18X of the gap. Major efforts are underway,
however, to mobilize additional sources of financing from
bilateral and multilateral donors, making use of the consul-
tative group mechanism; and
(b) an investment component totalling US$103 million, including
design studies leading to creation of an Integrated Protect-
ed Areas System (US$2.2 million); IPAS program support (US$22
million); the program to strengthen monitoring and enforce-
ment capacities (US$14.2 million); and the regional communi-
ty-based resource management program (US$64.6 million). The
costs of the investment component include physical and price
contingencies, estimated to be 331 of base costs in Pesos at
October 1990 prices.
Loan and Credit Amount. Borrower and Executing Agency
4.13        The adjustment program would be supported by a Bank loan of US$158
million equivalent and an IDA credit of SDR 50 million (US$66.0 million equiv-
alent) to the Republic of the Philippines. Given the nature of most of the
reforms, it is proposed to designate DENR as the executing agency. The loan
would be for a term of 20 years including five years of grace, and would carry
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate; the credit would carry standard
IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years. The adjustment component would be
financed by US$100 million of the Bank loan, all of the IDA credit of SDR 50
million (US$66 million equivalent), and OECF cofinancing of US$100 million
equivalent. It is proposed that retroactive financing be allowed for expendi-
tures incurred from negotiations of the loan (February 19, 1991) through
loan/credit signing, up to the amount of US$33 million (201). The investment
component would be financed by US$58 million of the IBRD loan. As the loan
would be directed to the Regional Resource Management subcomponent, addressing
the needs of the poorest rural residents, and to the Monitoring and Enforce-



- 36 -
ment subcomponent, which seeks to protect the remaining tropical forests from
illegal harvssting, substantial financing of local costs is justified. Cofi-
nancing expected for this component includes a Japan-World Bank Technical
Assistance Grant of Y 747.5 million (US$5.3 million equivalent) which was
received earlier; an undisbursed amount equivalent to about US$4.6 million
remaining at project effectiveness would be used to co-finance technical
assistance.gL Co-financing assistance of up to US$20 million is anticipated
from the Bank-administered Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) within the
framework f the GEFL2 and US$1 million from the Nordic Development Fund. The
overall financing plan is as follows:
Table 5: FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
Investment Component
Regional Monitoring
Adjustment  IPAS    IPAS   Resource & Enforce-
Component  Design  Program Mgt Proj    ment     Total
IBRD                      100.0                      50.0       8.0   158.0
IDA (US$ equivalent)       66.0                                        66.0
OECF                      100.0                                        100.0
GEF                                         20.0                        20.0
Japan-WB TA Grant                    2.2              2.4               4.6
NDF                                                             1.0      1.0
Gov't, and Beneficiaries                     2.0     12.2       5.2    19.4
Total                     266.0      2.2    22.0     64.6      14.2   369.0
Tranching. Disbursement. and Procurement
4.14         Tranching of the ProRosed Loan and Ce,dit.  It is proposed to
disburse the adjustment portion in two tranches, each consisting of US$50
million of the IBRD loan and SDR 25 million of the IDA credit. It is expected
that the IBRD tranches will be matched by OECF cofinancing. The adjustment
program has been designed to be front-loaded.   Prior to submission to the
Board, elements of the program which can be implemented by administrative
action without a specific study have been completed, drafts of key legislation
have been submitted for Congressional action. Where actions have to await
results of further studies, the terms of reference have been drafted and
LI This sum includes funds already advanced for IPAS Design consultancies
initiated in October 1990 but not completed until after Effectiveness.
/2 Subsequent to review by GEF Participants at their May 1991 meeting, the
proposed GEF component was retained in the GEF Work Program. Grant funding
will be available from the GET for this GEF project subject to its successful
preparation and appraisal, and negotiations of the legal documents.



- 37 -
reviewed by the Bank, study teams constituted, and work already started. The
final passage of the reconciled Forest Charge legislation (para. 3.09) has
been designated as a condition of effectiveness.   The first tranche will,
therefore, be disbursed at loan/credit effectiveness, expected by October
1991. Disbursement of the second tranche about eight months later would be
conditional on completion of actions which require more preparation time and
and/or completion of studies. It is understood that disbursement of the
second tranche, in addition to stated conditionalities, would require mainte-
nance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
4.15         DLsbgement. The proceeds of the adjustment loan component and
credit would finance general imports not contained in a negative list, with
the local currency counterpart funds used for general budgetary expenditures.
Positive list disbursement is not appropriate because of the difficulty of
defining import 'requirements" of the environment and natural resources sec-
tor.   The adjustment component of the loan of US$100 million and the IDA
credit of SDR 50 million would be disbursed in two equal tranches, the first
at the date of effectiveness, expected in October 1991, and the second in June
1992. Loan funds for the investment component of US$58 million (or 56X of
total project cost) would be disbursed over an eight-year period, slightly
shorter than the nine-year disbursement profile of agricultural sector loans
to the Philippines, because no major construction work is foreseen under the
proposed project and a technical assistance grant (para. 4.13) has facilitated
early startup. Allocation of loan/credit proceeds, disbursement rates, and
expected disbursements are shown in Annex G.
4.16        To expedite implementation, a Special Revolving Fund Account of
US$3 million, representing the equivalent of about four months' reimbursement
for the public investment component, would be established in the Central Bank.
In view of the large numbers of small transactions expected in this component,
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) may be used for payments for training, incre-
mental operating costs, agroforestry inputs, civil works under force account,
and for expenditures under US$200,000 each on civil works under contract and
equipment and vehicles.
4.17        Procurement.  The quick-disbursing adjustment component of the
loan and the credit would finance 100X of CIF costs of eligible private and
public sector imports. All import contracts costing US$5 million or more will
be subject to simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement; except that, subject to the Bank's
prior approval, contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded on
the basis of prices available from organized international commodity markets.
Contracts for lesser value, if originating in the public sector, will be
awarded following local procurement procedures which have been agreed with the
Bank. Contracts of less than US$5 million originating in the private sector
will be subject to compliance with normal commercial practices of the import-
ers. Wherever possible, quotations from at least two eligible countries will
be sought, except where direct contracting is justified.
4.18        To facilitate economic procurement of goods, works and services
under the institutional strengthening and investment components, whenever
possible, items to be procured would be grouped into purchases of at least
US$200,000 each. Such contracts for equipment and vehicles would be procured
through ICB. In evaluating ICB tenders, a preference margin of 151 of the CIF



- 38 -
bid price or actual customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed for
equipment manufactured in the PhilLppines. Contracts for goods from US$50,000
to US$200,000, up to a total of US$3 million, may be procured using local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Most civil works
are slmple, small, dispersed and labor intensive, and are expected to involve
contracts under US$50,000 and a partial contribution of labor from beneficiary
communities. These may be awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank or carried out by the Site Management Units under force account. Procure-
ment of items valued at less than US$50,000 may be through prudent shopping,
based on a comparison of at least three price quotations. This would include
mainly agricultural inputs and incremental operating expenses. All bid pack-
ages above US$200,000 for equipment and vehicles (amounting to about 4X of
total loan disbursements) would be subject to prior review by the Bank, and
other Bank-financed contracts to post-award review. Contracts for technical
assistance, studies and training totalling US$15.0 million would be awaxded
and carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Statement of Policy on Sectoral Adjustment
4.19         The proposed loan and credit are based on a Government Statement
of Policy on Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment, in the form
of a letter to the Bank dated May 16, 1991, (Annex H) jointly signed by the
Secretaries of DENR and the Department of Finance, and a Policy Resolution
adopted by the Cabinet Subeluster on Rural Development (Cluster A, Resolution
No. 01-90). These two instruments express the Government's commitment to
undertake and implement the reforms discussed in Part III above.   The letter
states the Government's intention to carry out each of the measures within its
administrative discretion, and the Policy Resolution expresses the agreement
among six Departments, NEDA, and two Presidential Offices involved in manage-
ment of rural affairs on a division of responsibilities and a framework for
cooperation in implementation of rural development programs on forest lands.
These two instruments provide the framework for subsequent loan/credit super-
vision and become the basis for monitoring actual performance. They include
appropriate targets and indicate the timing of various actions, based on the
attached implementation matrix.
Cofinancing
4.20        Grants of Y 140 million and Y 607.5 million have been made by the
Government of Japan through the Bank to GOP to finance technical assistance in
preparation and implementation of the proposed project. It is anticipated
that about US$4.6 million equivalent will remain unexpended at effectiveness,
and serve to partially finance technical assistance during implementation.
The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan is expected to cofi-
nance the policy component of the project with a US$100 million loan matching
IBRD funds. The Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) is expected to provide a
grant of up to US$20 million to finance the IPAS program support, subject to
successful preparation, appraisal and negotiations in late 1991. The Nordic
Development Fund is expected to co-finance on IDA-equivalent terms about
US$1.0 million of the costs of the monitoring and enforcement component,
including mainly equipment imported from Nordic countries. The Government
of the Netherlands has expressed interest in cofinancing a part of the Region
X CBRM subproject. The United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) is expected to make grants in support of policy studies and implemen-



- 39 -
tation of the IPAS program in parallel, but not as direct cofinancing, drawing
on design work to be carried out under the project. The adjustment program
has been presented to the donor community at two mini-CG meetings Meetings on
Environment and Natural Resources as a possible umbrella activity open to
cofinancing possibilities.
Benefits and Risks
4.21         The main benefits of the loan and credit will derive from the
encouragement and financial support it will give to the efforts of Government
to introduce sustainable development policies and institutional reform. As a
result of the reform program, incentives and opportunity for depletion and
degradation of tropical forest and erosion of hilly areas will be reduced;
incentives and resources for introduction of sustainable upland land uses and
protection of natural forests will be expanded; a sound institutional and
organizational basis for the preservation of the biological diversity of the
Philippines will be in place; local governments and field staff of line agen-
cies in about 48 municipalities, 26 provinces, and four regions will have the
training, experience, and organizational framework to deliver support to rural
constituencies in the uplands; and the livelihood and tenure status of one of
the poorest segments of the Philippines population will be enhanced. Direct
beneficiaries, the residents of upland barangays selected as focal sites,
would number about 20,800 families. About 31,200 ha of cultivated land are
targeted for conversion to conservation-oriented farming techniques, some
7,300 ha of woodlots, orchards, and protective forests would be established,
and assistance in creation of some 300 community enterprises would be provid-
ed. However, because of the focus on development of institutional capabili-
ties of local government and line agencies, the number of potential indirect
beneficiaries would be considerably larger.
4.22        The characteristics of the proposed public investment component
make meaningful estimation of economic rates of return impossible. This is
self-evident for the IPAS design and program support components, where bene-
fits emphasize such intangibles as the preservation of biological diversity;
and for the monitoring and enforcement component, where quantitative predic-
tions relate to reductions of rates of forest depletion and degradation, and
the preservation of tropical forests. The regional community-based resource
management activities component, leaving aside the institutional development
activities, is essentially an extension project, in which the technologies
extended, rates of adoption, and income-generating benefits will vary among
clients and sites, and major social benefits (reduction of soil erosion and
forest destruction) will also be difficult to assess. Therefore, financial
and economic analysis have been applied mainly in establishing guidelines for
local selection of activities financed by the investment component and,
through modelling of client livelihood activities, indicating the priorities
among technologies to be extended.
4.23        The risks associated with this type of program are mainly those
arising from possible delays, inadequate implementation, or non-sustainabili-
ty. The principal concern is that legislative action could be unduly delayed,
prove deficient when completed, or be ineffectively implemented. However, key
legislation has already been submitted to Congress, and separate bills for
Forest Charges legislation which is central to the reform program have been
approved in satisfactory form by both the House and Senate, so that early



- 40 -
passage of a reconciled version is very likely. The inclusion of a long-term
investment and institutional strengthening component with strong cross-linkage
to policy reforms provides the opportunity for continuous monitoring but-
tressed by legal remedies, and should therefore minimize the possibility of
backsliding.
4.24        Completion of the policy reforms would correspondingly reduce
risks of failure of the institution-building and investment components. The
main risks of the latter are that: (a) political or administrative weaknesses
may defeat attempts to improve effectiveness of DENR in enforcement of forest-
ry law and regulations, and/or implementation of the IPAS design; (b) upland
farmers may prove reluctant or slow to adopt the conservation-oriented prac-
tices which the project seeks to extend; and (c) service activities may not be
maintained following project completion.  Certain features of project design
help to minimize these risks; assistance in enforcement features development
of a monitoring system designed to expose violations and quantitatively meas-
ure apprehensions and successful prosecutions, allowing DENR management, the
Philippine public and the Bank to track progress. Assistance for the actual
implementation of IPAS will be sought from GEF only following enactment by
Congress of adequate enabling legislation and completion of studies and man-
agement plans in the IPAS design phase. The upland watershed development
component has been designed on the basis of positive and negative lessons of
previous rural community development projects, including those sponsored by
NGOs, and in particular would be founded on the expressed needs and objectives
of client upland communities and individuals. Although institutional
strengthening would initially employ numbers of experienced contractual or NGO
personnel, a transition to reliance on regular (mainly retrained) civil serv-
ice and local government personnel is built into project design, which also
would seek to minimize per client or per hectare costs of extending conserva-
tion techniques. These aspects of design would make the community development
components more sustainable than typical pilot projects. At the same time, an
increase of several percent in annual Government budgetary revenues due to
increased forest charges, a portion of which may be earmarked for local gov-
ernment use, would provide financial resources for eventual implementation of
IPAS and for maintaining and extending community development services in
forest areas.
V. RECOMMENDATION
5.1         I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and of the Association, and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 29, 1991
Washington, D.C.



Annex A
- 41 -                               Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ENVIRONENT AND ATURAL RESOURCES SECtOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Table 1: Keg Ecgnomic In1igaton9
Actual               Preti.             Proiect1ions
1966     1967      196         1969       199       1991      1992
Real Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)      1.4X     4.72      6.32       5.6"        2.6       2.52     3.9X
Gross Domestfc Income CGDY)      2.12      4.8       9.52       6.1X        0.6       3.02     4.72
Real per Capita Growth Rates:
Gross Doustic Product (GDP)      -0.92     2.32      38.         3.22       0.32      0.2X   1.6
Total Cansumptf0n Li             -1.02     1.8X      4.1X       4.8%        0.8X    -2.7X    -1.0%
Private Conssuption LI           -0.82     1.52      4.02       4.52        1.12    -3.52    -1.52
Debt and Oebt Service (LT4INF+ST):
Total Om (USSt)                 28368    30132    29176        28908       30325    32233    33769
Total DOD/SOI                    92.22    87.5X    74.52        65.12       65.6X     73.3x    73.3X
Debt Service (USSN)              3039      3630      3483       334         3418      4026     4178
Debt Service/Exports              26.22    30.82    26.9X       21.62       19.82    20.9X    20.8X
Debt Service/GDP                  9.9X  10.5X    8.92            7.62        7.42      9.22     9.12
Interest Burden (LY+INF+ST):
Interest Paid (USIN)             1619      1849     2006        2183        2119     2356      2470
Interest/Exports                 18.82    20.2    18.8X         17.62       16.22    15.22   14.4
Interest/GDP                      5.3X   5.46         5.1X       4.9X        4.6X    5.42       5.42
Gross Investmwrt/GDP              12.1    15.2S   17.12         18.62       18.12    18.9X    20.92
IcOR Z                          -22.6   -26.9        55.7        5.4         3.8      3.9       4.3
DOmestic Savings/SDP              16.2X  4.4         15.72      16.0X       13.7?    16.6      19.4X
Resource Balance/GDP              5.02      2.02      0.22      -2.6X       -2.5      -0.92   -O.?7
National Savings/GDP              14.52    14.22    15.92       15.32       12.72    15.72    18.4"
Current Accou.mt Balance/GDP      3.12    -1.3X    -1.02        -3.3        -S.?X    -4.02    -2.92
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate   146.52   -24.02    36.02       21.6       -75.9X   132.82    91.3X
Marginal National Savings Rate   182.9     5.82X     43.82       5.32      -90.0    134.6X    89.12
Goverrnent Investment/GDP n       2.7?      2.8X      2.5X       2.62        3.0X     3.2X   3.22
Goverrment Savings/SDP a          4.02      2.02      2.42       1.02        1.3X   1.3X        2.32
Private Investment/GDP            12.12    15.S    17.12       18."        18.12    18.92    20.92
Private Savings/DP               10.52    12.22    13.52       14.32       11.42    14.32    16.12
Government Revenues/GoP L         12.6X   14.6       13.72      15.82       15.92    16.72    16.6
Govewrnt Expenditures/SOP L       17.6     16.82    16.32       17.82       18.12    19.22    17.92
Budget Deficit (+)/GDP L          5.02      2.42      2.82       2.02        2.32     2.S5      1.32
Primary Deficit C.)/GDP 3          1.52    -2.42    -1.92       -3.72       -3.22    -2.62    -3.12
GOP Deflator (2 growth rate)      0.92      7.9X    9.72        10.6X       14.22    12.02    10.02
Real Exchange Rate (1989.100)     106        97        95        100         102       120      120
Term of Trade Index (1969100)      93        96       105        100          90       93        97
Export (GUFS) Volume Growth Rate  21.82    -1.32   1S.92         8.32        6.3    10.6        8.92
Exports (GNFS)/GDP               23.22    21.82    23.82        24.42       25.32    27.32    28.6X
Ilqort (GOtS) Voltum Growth Rate  12.92    26.52    33.42       27.32        5.4X    4.02       8.32
IaportS CGNFS)/GDP               14.82    17.82    22.42        27.02       27.72    28.12    29.32
NP Current Account Balance (USSM) 954      -44       -390      -1465       -2638    -1745    -1359
Growth rates may differ from 1972 NA because of rebesing.
F fPw-eyar average one-perWid lag.
C Central Govermuent.



-42 -                                Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Igble 2: Belanc  ot Pnt
(ritfttns of    a curren prices)
. CtUat             Erlm.            igr iecti_ns
190      Ivor      im19908  IVW                           i 
A. E?orts oGtGNS-                     7702      8065      9479    10829    11469    13984   1530
11.INiMsaei F0B)                   4842      5720      ?074     7821      8131    10123    11367
2. Ionfactor Services               2860      2345      2405     3008      3338      3861     4166
B. 1Laorts o     :                    s868      7861      9440    11983    13641    15246    16355
I. NerchaUnIs-e Cf08)               5044      6737      6159    10419    11969    13367    14342
2. monfactor Services                824      1124      1281     1564      1672      1879     2013
C. Resource Balance                   1834       204        39    -1154    -2172    -1262        825
D. MIet Faeto_r tncan:                *1321    -1221    -1204    -1141    -1209    -1304    -1350
I. ractor i eceRpts                  931      1109      1187     1578      1575      1570     1637
2. Factor Payments                  2252      2330      2391     2719      2783      2874     2987
a. Total Interest Paid (MRS)       1619     1849      2006     2183      2121      2200     2276
b. Interest rrears                 -64         5        93        6         6         6        6
c. Other Factor Payments           632       475       286      536       662       674      71o
E. Nei Curren tr,                      235       376       500      830       743      821       816
I. current Rtecexpts D               239       378      S03       832       745      823       818
a. Workers$ Raiittances            163       211       388      360       372       385      397
b. Other Current Transfers          76       167       115      472       373       438      421
2. current Payments                    4         2        3         2         2        2         2
F. Currinpccm alance:
1.Ice ore O7ttc1 a cital Grants      748      -641     -665    -146S    -2638    -1745    -1359
2. Official Capital Grants           206       197       275        0         0        0         0
3. After Officiat Capital Grants     954      -444      -390    -1465    -2638    -1745    -1359
G. Lona-Term Canital Inflows (net):    1249      457      459       99?      1497     2136      1668
1. birect Investment                 127       307      986       854       450      61S       631
2. Met Long-Term Borrowing (MRS)     422       -94       95       719      171S      1671     1187
a. Disbursements                  1539      1333      13S      1?03      2662      3654     3165
b. Repayments                     1117      1427      1281      985       938      1359     1551
3. Other Long-Tem Inftows (net)      720       218      -529     -S76      -669      -150     -150
i.     W     eor-eu  at             -108       108       -31      189       200      223       237
8. Intcrrest Arrears               -64         5        93        6         6        6         6
b. Other Not Short-Term Capital   -1040     -144       -16      183       194       217      231
2. Capital ftows n.e.i.                0         0        0       288       510        0         0
3. Errors and Oissions                -0      -209      479       150       462        0         0
1. Chanlet Reserves:                 -1099       335     -626      -159       -30     -614       S4S
1%. ae redit frx Ir"Or 1137                     21      -128      106      -361      256      -106
2. Resem chunees n.eJ.             -1236       314      *497     -26S       331     -870      -441
J. As Shares of GIOP (current US$s)
1. Resource Bauance                  6.0X      0.6X     0.1X    -2.62    -4.72      -2.9X     -1.S
2. Interest Payments                 5.32      5.4X      5.1X     4.9X      4.6X     5.0Q      4.9X
3. Current Account Balance           3.1X    -1.3X      -1.0Q    -3.3X     -5.72     -4.02    -2.9X
4. Long-Term Capitat Inftows         4.12      1.32      1.22     2.2X      3.22     4.9X      3.6X
5. net Credit frem IMF               0.42      0.12    -0.32      0.22    -0.8X      0.6      -0.22
1. Gross Reserves  Mic    gold)   1728         968      1003     1417       924
2. Gold (end-year Lorndo             883      1344      1166      907      1069
3. Gross Reserves (mcd        Id)   2611      2312      2169     2324      1993
4. Gross Reserves (months O  aports) 5.3       3.5      2.8       2.3       1.8
L. ExdefRate:
a. ualt Averse                    20.4      20.6      21.1     21.7      24.4
b. End of Year                    20.S      20.8      21.3     22.4      28.0
2. In Real Terms (1989=100)
a.  N (PAC estioste)                                            100       104       113      114
b. Index Real Exchang Rate         106        97       9f       100       102       120      120
N. NorandwL Item: GDP (current USS) 30763    34440    39142    44392    46224    43963    46073



- 43 -                                       Annex B
Page 1 of 2
THE STAUS OF SANK GROUP OPE9AlIO IN THE PHUPPINES
A. STATEMENr OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDfS 
(ASof Muc 31, 1991)
Lamr                                                                                          Amount      million)
Cre                                                                                     __              _ a _
lNr    YeU             Bowmo                            Pups                             Sam*    IDA  Undbrt
Nt&, n loan aWd sk   gilly" dIsbur                                                      3,5614.66    106.18
Ofie SEC           sA   ad Progra  Las
190t      1981      Rep. of oe Phippinb              SAL I                               199.
gm        1=9       Rep. Of te Phippnes              SALN                                30.
2469      1965      Rep. d    PhilippIs              Agrcbu     Sector ipta              150.00
2767      16        Rep. Of the PhiippinesM0 Economic Recovery P ml                       MOO
Sub-Tolal                                                                      96221
i-e8      19S6      Rep. d the Phmppbe               MedIumca4le fton                     32A3                   .33
040       1962      Rep. of h PhiAppne               AgvIc. Suppodt Services              20.60                  .53
2173      196       Rep. of to  hilppk"s             Communlon                            38.50                 3.06
220D      low       Rep. of fe Phflppie              hdstral Trag                         16.40                 3.17
2257      19S       Rep. of fte Phippine             Rginl ClUes Devebpment               42.06                15.90
2360 1t              Rep. ofte Philippne             Ceta Viays Regonal Dev               24.97                 7.56
2418      1 A      Rep. of ft  Pippin               HwasV                               102.00                63.62
2435      1964      Rep. f e Phi ippi                Muricipal Developmnt                 40.00                24.17
s6        1966      Rep. of te Philippi              Manil Water DbbAIon                  38.00                1z99
2716      1986      Rep. ofe PhRlppie                Rural Roads 1                        82.00                62.78
26        16T       Rep. d me Plpp P                 Provril Pa                           32.00                15J5
2948      1966      Rep. dff ePhippines              I    ion Operaos Support             23.50                11.10
*2956     1968      Rep. of f8  Phmpp                Prog   for Govemnnn Reorm            200.00                50.08
2:        198       PhIL Natlonal 01 Co.            BaconManilo eothemal Powr            41.00                15.09
269-1    lo         Rep. d 8w Philippie              Bacon4anit Geotemal Power            59.00                54.95
2874      1966      Rep. of te Philipphes            Hou   Setor                         1.00                  55.T5
3036      1899      Rep. of  Philippie               SMiV                                 60.00                21.96
3049      199       Rep. of the Pipps                Finabl Seodr                         300.00              1t0.00
3084      1989      0ev. Sank odf OPhl.              Manl Pow DtubAon                     65.50                61.10
3099      1969      Rep. cd to Philppnes             Health DOvelopmet                    70.10                64.96
3123      1990      Dev. Bk* of ft PhiL              bkduablvetenrt Crofedt               65.00                 8.57
3124      19SO0     Mero. Wateuwok a sew.           Angra Water Suply                    40.00                25.63
3146      1990      Rep. dtme Phipples               MuNidp# Devaopment a                 40.00                37.50
3149      1990      Rep. of O hPhippines             Debt Maaeent Lon                    200.00                50.00
3163      1990      Phil. Nanl Powr Corp,            Enwey Secor Loen                    200.00                151.S6
3164      1990      Phi. Natonal 01 Co.              Erwgy Sector Loan                   150.00               138.57
3168      1690      Rep. of te PhilIppnes            Energy Sectrf Loan                   40.00                34.94
3204      1990      Rep. of the Phpnes              COODOtA Fume Deveon                  121.80               116.60
3242      1990      Rep. of the Philpines            WS/Sswer/Sannhaton                   85.00                650O
3244      1991      Rep. of the Phippines            Second BEmkentuy Education          200.00                186.54
3281      1991      Rep. of the Phippirnes           communl Wrrgaton a                   4620                 46.20
3263      1991      Rep. of te Philippnes            Earthuake Reonrsticon               125.00                100.60
3287      1991      Rep. of mte Phlppines           Industrial Retnittng                 175.00                176IOO
3312      1991      Rep. of eh Philppimes            CO2age EnterprliseJ 5.                                    15.00
TOtl                                                                          6S36.24    105.18   1,M86.53
of which has been rpaid                                                     1.595O7       4.11
Tota now held by Bank and IDA                                                 4,941.16    101.06
Amount cold                                31.35
af wtilh rpaid                           31.35
Tota wnlbre                                                                   1,665.63      -      1,85.53
La The stau of t  pro     lstd In Part A     scribed In a sepaat repat on all anMAD  1naned projects In  beculn,
which b updatd two yearly and cir td to me Exeutve DCreeto on Apri 30 and Ocber 31.
SAL. SECAL or Program Loan



,~~~~~~~~.  . . . * *z *a.. *, ,      a z   ** , *      ,-  , , q, ,  a<,,! S: 0za F-,eu
ml~      II              fla  1f}i0      li   i                            Xa 
iii~               i11  !titilil,:g;2Xx     }  
}    |||SO   0SiESI  1|  ii CllllEl a                     l4|        l}]



amM ACTION Mm~
Objectivesa/rqposed Action Program       Actions Already Taken                     Short Term  1/                          Nedliu  term (1991-92) 11
A. Protect  ioloalcal 01rai
1. pevl    gl eff te ve  fntersh -
ted Protected Arfts $vstem
Ca) Oetermine and survey        Consultants  appointed  and studies                                                Sites  identified, descilbod,  *d
proposed sites             uriderway                                                                          Justifled
(b)  Prepare and suhmdt ena    Satisfactory  enabling   legislation                                                Sstitfctsr  iy IpW   tins  idibfnes
bling legislatfon;         subaftted  to Congress; consultants                                               for Ir*epattd Frotected Are   S ate
Issue regulations          appointed to study gazetting issues                                                legislation ismad
(c) Prepare and iplement       Consultant   appofnted   and   study                                               angment c Fne prpeprd ferp    t O
wagaement plans for        Underway                                                                           er toa; ecsteoei1mi  tuSt rCUSteq
gazetted areas                                                                                               ubettei to cmurei
(d) Eliminate pasture           Completed   report on  status   and                                               Siatler reports coopleted for  haboe
teases from parks,         rationale  for cancellation of pas-                                               torrestrial  protected aeas *nd  at
reserves, critical         ture Leases in the  agt  watershed                                                least one other crttical watershed;
watersheds, and all        and  agreed  administrative  actions                                              agreed adidnistrative ctions taken
areas with slopes > 5U    ttken
S. DisoiraM  gExEh         r It 1LLl
1. 1ntroduc asr Ie  rec-
.fm haL wamia Em
(s) Copeitive biddino for   Procedural  guidetfnes issued;  fnf-                                                  Pslic biddeg fhwr at ltst tr          n em
new  logging licenses      tial  areas  identified  and  tiaher                                              TPU  co pete
inventory authorized                                                                                                    un
1/ Boldfaced items conditions for effectiveness or tranche release.
2/ Conditions for second-tranche release of ADB Fisheries Sector Loan.



ObjectIves/Proposed Action Program       Action  Already Taken                    Short Tem                                feudlm Ten (1991-92)
(b)  Legislation setting        AdAnistrotive Order 1eoino End-    Forest ehge of at least 2M of                Itplemented;  nosrl tge9l  rhdHes
adequate formulo for       ronarntal  Fee; b111s  approved by               value Pessod bY Congress        for non-cooepiune plus concellation
forest charge              RoMe and Senate                                                                  of TL pUrmits
(c) Naintain reforestation    Strengthened mnitoring  to  ensure                                                 Revised procedures loptem entd
deposit and provide for   compifance and institution of true
periodic adjustments       perforiance bond
(d) Study effects on prices                                                                                      TOa   agreed, stud*  crrled  out,
and rents of export ban                                                                                     actions ogreed
and other restrictions
Ce)  tncreased fees for         Study of appropriate rentst fee urd-                                             DA A.D. Iopl.mentirs AD-agreed  nev
fishpond use of man-       erway, sponsored by ADS Fisheries                                                fee leveit
grove areas                Sector Loan
0%
(f) Reversion of idte or        Joint DEnR-DA emorandu of Agree-                                                 Survey  (AB-fin nced) curried out;
abandoned fishpond         ment on reversion signed by SElR                                                 DAAENR/"Nurv  C_ttee rescinded
areas to forest use                                                                                         leases of all ldlo pondu
2. tworave gnforeement of
foretr tam and reoulatlons
(a) Develop and lopleent        Monitoring  plan agreed and TOR  for                                             Preogpe  eftorwim condiuin ad
an adequate monitoring    TA in opletentation drafted                                                       04portin sy te  pkt Irto effect
system
(b) Develop and Iptlement       Enforcement plan agreed and TOR  for                                             nnual  evaluation report on  iqile-
an adequate enforcement   TA in foplementation drafted                                                      wentatien. inctuding  quantitative
strategy                                                                                                    indicators, agreed with Sank          d
(e)  Entlst cooperation of      Memoranda of Agreement betmeen  DEnR
Depts. of Justfee and      and DOJ and DILG be1ng drafted
Defense



bjectlves/Proposed Actfon Proram       Actions Already Taken                    Short Term                                Medfum Term (1991-92)
EuseSustainabto UQ Use
Practfce
1. Prvide secure tnr   I_
(a)  tmp   ov  tenure vatue of   A.0.  revisinig CSC  Terms   issued;                                            Routine 1essu
tSC (Stewardship CCfr      revised contractuat form issued
tract)
(b) Extend modif fed CSC for   A.0. defining manrove  CSC8  and                                                  Routine issue
mangrove areas             appopriate contractual form Issued
Cc) Legislation to recog-
nize, delineate, and
adjudicate land occu-
pancy cLaims of indige-
nou  comamities
(d) DEON public recognition   Task  force to delfneate ancestral                                                 Adcbq       tfwing providod for task
of prior rights of         domins ard recomd mechanisms for                                                 force ad ealmuation eepoe t on uork
"ancestral domains" and   transfer   of   resource   ownership                                              stedtted to  ak*lAusaiation
adeinfstrative mssst-    rights and aragemant responsibiltty
ance In delineation        in operation; deifneation gufdelSnas
issued. Statement of Policy recog-
nies ancestral dbmain rights in
principle
(e) Expand mubers of            Seven  CFLs issued in 1990; 20  tar-                                             1991  target achieved plus agreed
Comnamity Forest Leases   geted for 1991                                                                    target for 1992
issued
Cf) Devise and iSue new         A.O. and gudetlines defining Snstru-                                             Routine issue
contractual instruments  m*nt signed
gfving property rights                                                                                                                            
over reforested areas
to local residents



Objectives/Proposed Action PrograM     Actions AWready Taken                   Short Ter                               medlum Term C1991-92)
(g) Authorize ISF and CFS      oraft   IPAS  legislation  provides                                            Routine issue.
in protected areas        scope for such Progrms   in appropr-
ate zones within protected areas
tere port of long-Term  protective
mnagement program.
2.  Eab!ush orpanizationa
frmSRd M for Eo2ii3n of
extemIon services la uDlan
areas
(a) Recognition of exten-      Resolution of Cabinet Cluster A on                                             isptementatfon within adcinistrative
sion requfrements of      Rural Devetopment and Statement of                                             units covered by pubtic  investment
uptad populations od    Policy  extend  this  recognition;                                               component
agreement on sourcilno    lopLementation   within  scope  of
p4blI c .tweotwent caoponent agreed
Co
(b)  Iproved wutonWo          ISf separated from Fl, Asslt Secre-
visibilitfy, mndte,       tary  responsible for progra.  NeW
and staff colePent        ISF and CFS gufdetines issued; new
for ISF program           fIeld  staff positions added  for
$ocisal Forestry Technfclans"
(a)  lrptlement comon train-   Training materials developed; fmple-                                            optementtion  ithin administrative
ing proraC (D  DEWA       mentation within  scope of public                                              units covered by Public  investment
ODR)                      investment component agreed                                                    coponent
td) Couplete Census of         Caomus  couplete, processing  and                                              Reedital studies  iplemented,  if
Forest Occupants          correction underway, future measures                                           needed
agreed
000
(e) Develop 16 liages          VW  Desk created; registration  of                                             lupltemnation within adinistrative  ' 
oft uwderwrVy; #QQs ued ext IGsvely                                           units coverd by public  investment
in centractual work; roles conffrmed                                          c et
in Statennt of Policy



1Jectives/Proposed Action Propm       Actions Atrea   Taken                  Short TeM                               Ndium Term (199I-92)
3. Esttisb       1s  1SQ                                                 kmew tSt and CFS suidslines; organi-    aptementatfion within adinistrative
.i g small-scale. pu                                                  zatton an procedures for fntersgen-   units  oweed b public  Ivestnt
nity- d resource  G.amer,                                             cy, L6  and UGO  miwotvement  in   caqompet
e     od tiveliho   KleIt                                             pubic Snest ment corqaonent agreed
0
0l
LAC



- 50 -
Annex D
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   24 months
(b)  Identification Mission:              June 1989
(c)  Preappraisal Mission:                January 1990
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                   May 1990
(e)  IBRD Negotiations:                   February 1991
(f)  IDA Negotiations:                    May 1991
(g)  Board PresentaLion:                  June 1991
(b)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       October 1991
Section II:_ Special Conditions
Substantial progress has already been achieved in implementation of the
reform program. Elements of the program which can be implemented by adminis-
trative action without a specific study have been completed, and satisfactory
drafts of legislation have been submitted to Congress. Where actions have to
await results of further studies, the terms of reference have been drafted and
reviewed by the Bank, study teams constituted, and work already started.
Separate bills for a key piece of legislation have passed both Houses of Con-
gress and are now in Bicameral Committee for reconciliation. Passage by Con-
gress of the reconciled legislation authorizing a forest charge of at least
201 of market value is the sole special condition of effectiveness, and the
first tranche of the loan/credit will be released upon effectiveness. The
second tranche release conditions are as follows:
(a) Satisfactory implementing guidelines for Integrated Protected Area
System legislation shall have been issued;
(b) Management plans for 10 protected areas shall have been prepared
and corresponding budgetary requests shall have been made;
(c) Public bidding procedures for at least two Timber Production Shar-
ing Agreements shall heve been completed;
(d) Satisfactory funding for the existing task force to delineate
ancestral domains shall have been agreed with the Bank/Association,
and an evaluation report on the task force work shall have been
submitted to the Bank/Association;
(e) Satisfactory monitoring and support systems for the prevention of
illegal logging shall have been put into effect.



- 51 -
Annex E
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF THE PHMIIPPINES
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTNENT PROGRAM
Description of Global Environmental Facililty Component
1.   Aackground and Rationale for GEF.  The Philippines includes, within its
moist tropical forest, wetlands, and marine environments, an exceptionally
rich assemblage of both terrestrial and marine life forms, including about
12,000 plant species (3,800 endemic), 170,000 species of fauna, 960 terrestri-
al vertebrates (43X endemic), and about 500 species of coral. The present
system of protected areas, including over 61 national parks, wildlife sanctu-
aries, or equivalent reserves exists mainly on paper, for lack of resources,
funds, personnel and political will to manage and protect the system. Scien-
tific studies are underway, financed by a Japan-World Bank Technical Assist-
ance Grant, to develop a new legal framework for an "Integrated Protected
Areas System* (IPAS), identify the priority areas for biodiversity conserva-
tion, and develop management plans (feasibility studies) for an initial core
of 10 priority areas. However, the benefits of biodiversity protection
accrue mostly to the international community as a whole, and the Government is
unwilling to commit high-cost foreign borrowings for such conservation activi-
ties.
3biectives
2.        The GEF component would provide program support for the develop-
ment, preservation and management of resources within 10 pre-selected priority
reserves under the IPAS program, following the completion of feasibility
studies (draft management plans) to determine the most appropriate management
system for each of these reserves. It would lay the foundations for a long-
term, efficient program of management and administration of protected areas
which could be sustained with a reasonably level of Governmental and external
support and substantial NGO involvement.
3.        The 10 areas, listed in Table 1, have been pre-selected as having
priority for early inclusion in IPAS. These represent six of the most impor-
tant biogeographic zones (based on endemism; out of a total of 15 such zones
distlnguished in the Philippine Islands), a mix of terrestrial, marine and
wetland environments, and include six existing/candidate national parks. A
team of local experts, advised by an internationally-recognized expert in
protected areas management, was engaged in October 1990 to develop "feasibili-
ty studies", i.e., preliminary management planning documents, for these 10
areas. Basic tasks will include review and analysis of existing bio-physical
data on the 10 areas and field collection and analysis of socio-economic,
legal, and other data on the areas and the populations currently occupying or
residing in the environs of these areas; preliminary delineation (including
aerial mapping of existing land uses) of the scope and boundaries of the 10
areas and any corresponding buffer zones; and draft design of conservation and
development plans for each area, which identify specific objectives and goals,



- 52                            Annex E
Page 2 of 4
ZBile 1: TEN PRIORITY SITES FOR PROTECTED AREA STATUS
Biogeographic Area   Sites             Probable Future Status
Batanes              1. mt. Iraya      Natlonal Park
2. Undetermined  Marine national park or wetlands
Sierra Madre         3. Palanan        National Park
4. Undetermined   Strict nature reserves
Mindoro              5. Mt. Iglit Baco National Park/Biosphere Reserve
Western Visayas      6. Mt. Canlaon   National Park
Sulu Islands         7. Turtle Islands Marine Natlonal Park and/or wetlands
8. Undetermined  Wildlife sanctuary
Mindanao             9. Mt. Apo        National Park
10. Siargao Is.    Marine National Park and/or wetlands
analyze conservation and social impacts, identify critical issues for the
guidance of government, and recommend conservation measures.   Output will
include estimation of manpower and budgetary requirements for implementation
of the recommended management plan during a five-year startup phase. These
studies are scheduled for completion by August 1991, and will provide the
basis for a detailed appraisal of the GEF-supported component in late
1991/early 1992.
Project Description
4.         The project would be phased over a seven-year period and would
include four main components: (a) site development, including buffer zone
establishment, boundary demarcation, and construction of infrastructure
(access roads and trails, offices, housing, visitor facilities, etc.); (b)
resource management, including habitat restoration, surveying, inventory,
protection, and research; (c) socio-economic actions, including buffer zone
management, community outreach, and educational programs; and (d) development
and updatlng of long-term site management plans, and monitoring and evaluation
of component implementation.
Prolect Costs
5.         Pending completion of preliminary management plans for the 10
protected areas (after August 1991), only hypothetical cost estimates are
available. These are based on detailed and realistic projections by DENR of
probable requirements of infrastructure, regular staff, and operating expenses
over a seven-year period, based on the general characteristics and purposes of
10 specific protected areas, including five National Parks from Table 1, and
assuming models of development and management meeting international standards.
Total base costs are estimated to be P 500 million (US$17.9 million), includ-
ing about US$1 million for technical assistance. Assuming physical and price
contingencies total nearly 25%, total costs would be about US$22 million.



53 -                          Annex E
Page 3 of 4
abJ,1 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total exchange
----thousand Pesos----   - ----thousand US$---.    (X)
Site Development       114,960  114,960 229,921   4,106   4,106   8,211    50X
Resource Management     94,549   53,184 147,733   3,377   1,899   5,276    36X
Socioecon. Management   58,376   14,594  72,970   2,085     521   2,606    201
Management Planning     14,876    6,375  21,251     531     228      759    30X
Technical Assistance         0   27,999  27,999       0   1,000   1,000   1002
Total Base Costs       282,762  217,113 499,875  10,099   7,754  17,853    432
Physical Contingency  26,321   22,350 48,671      940     798   1,738    461
Price Contingency     88,376   62,084 150,461   1,414     993   2,408    412
Dida                   395.690  303.315 699.006  12.453   9.546  21.999    43X
Proiect Issues
6.         The primary issues relate to the ability of Government to iplement
the component and sustain the level of management reached under the project
for the 10 protected areas. Implementation is predicated on completion of
the preliminary management plans, gazetting of those areas not already gazet-
ted, and budgetary authorization by Congress. As the management planning is
already underway and fully funded, the only uncertainty here relates to time
of completion (with a likely range of August-December 1991); in any case,
Appraisal would require prior completion of the preliminary management plans,
Both gazetting and budgetary authorization are subject to Congressional ac-
tion; GEF funding for the first seven years should be sufficient to obtain
Phillipine Congressional passage of counterpart funding (about 101 of total
costs). As this component is an integral gart of a policy-based loan, dis-
bursement of GEF resources would be conditional on issue of implementing
gPuidelines for IPAS. following passage of IPAS enabling legislation. which is
also a condition for second tranche release of the SEGAL. A decision would be
made at Appraisal as to vhether prior gazetting should also be a condition of
disbursement for each Dark or reserve.
7.         Sustainability would require reliable sources of continuing support
after 1998, either from the Government budget or a special Fund. It is esti-
mated that the 101 Government financing, spread over seven years, would be
adequate to fund routine staffing for management purposes, but additional
funding for O&M would be required. It is the intentiotz of DENR (expressed in
draft IPAS legislation) to set up individual Foundations for the support of
particular protected areas, endowed by a combination of Government, private
sector, and foreign donors, which could provide a more reliable long-term
source of financial support and even assume management functions for the
individual areas on a contractual basis. This concept is supported by the
Bank and other donors, including USAID, which has programmed up to US$25
million over five years for debt-for-environment swaps in the Philippines.
These funds, if fully committed, will be managed by NGOs as a long-term endow-



- 54 -
Annex E
Page 4 of 4
sent which could, iner alia, complement Government and GEF resources by
financing NGO management activities, land purchases, and post-implementation
support for protected area management, which are not financed within the
proposed GEF component. Decisions would be made at Anpraisal as to the scopo.
standard, and budgetary costs of grotected areas management which could be
flltaLine In 2nentum in the Philinnines and on the combination of mechanisms
_enired to ggarantee this su2ort,  Assurance of such continued support
should be feasible once major canital investments have been made and would be
iought from Government as a condition of disbursement.



- 55 -
Annex F
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Estimated Costs and Financlng a
Estimated Costs:
Local Forein Total
--- (US$ million) ---
A.  Sector Adiustment                      0.0  266.0  266.0
B. Investment Component
IPAS Design                         0.7    1.1    1.7
IPAS Program Support               10.1    7.8   17.9
Regional Resource Mgt               33.5   20.9   54.5
Monitoring & Enforcement             5.0    6.7   11.7
Physical and Price Contingencies   _.92   7.3   17.2
Sub-total                          59.2   43.8  103.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    5     309.8  369.0
Financing Plan:
A. Sector Adjustment
IBRD                                 0.0  100.0  100.0
IDA (US$ equivalent)                 0.0   66.0   66.0
OECF                                 O.   100.O  100.0
Sub-total                            0.0  266.0  266.0
B.  Investment Component
IBRD                                26.0   32.0   58.0
GEF                                 10.5    9.5   20.0
Japan-WB TA Grant                     3.3    1.3    4.6
NDF                                  0.0    1.0    1.0
Gov't and beneficiaries             19.4    0.0   19.4
Sub-total                            5932 .8  103.0
TOTAL FINANCING                             309.8  369.0
LI Costs are net of taxes and duties.



- 56 -                          Annex G
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Allocation of Loan/Credit Proceeds
Category                     &wwv                    Percent to be Financed
(US$ million)
A. Sector Adiustment
(1)   Eligible imports       166.0                   1001 of foreign expendi-
tures
B. Investment Comnonent
(2)   Civil Works             15.1                   751
(3)   Equipment and vehicles   7.6                   1001 of foreign, 1001 of
local (ex-factory cost),
and 851 of other local
(4)   Agroforestry Inputs      4.6                   751
(5)   Project Management and
Technical Services      15.0                   1002 .
(6)   Incremental Operating
Costs                   12.0                   74Z
(7)  Unallocated               3.7
TOTAL                      ,224.0
Estimated IDA/IBRD Disbursements
-------------  US$ million -------------
Annual          176.9   9.8   8.8  10.4   9.0   5.6   3.6
Cumulative      176.9 186.7 195.4 205.8 214.8 220.4 224.0



- 57 -                         Annex H
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPNE
IVIRBM2N  X  NATUR4L RESMCE $g   ADJUAMSTE   LOANYCREDIT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
MANILA
May 16, 1991
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Conable:
Re_ Statement of Policy gn Ekiroment and  Natural Resources Sector
Adjgut ment
This letter refers to the proposal for assistance from the World
Bank to the Government of the Philippines to support policy reforms required
to improve management of the country's natural resources. The purpose of this
letter is to set out the focus and broad objectives of the Government's poli-
cies and programs with respect to environment and natural resource management,
the policy adjustments that are underway, and the steps being taken to
strengthen the institutional framework for implementation of these policies.
Fundamental Emiomental Issues
The extensive denudation of Philippine forests is a matter of
grave concern for the Government and our people. Whereas approximately
one half (or 16.5 million ha) of our land mass was under forests in the
1950's, only about a third of these forests currently remain. Worse still,
virgin forests now cover under one million ha, and may entirely disappear in
less than a decade. Annual timber yield and the production of forest-based
industries have already fallen steeply, seriously eroding the sector's contri-
bution to GDP and exports, and to jobs and income that support the livelihood
of over a million people. Even more threatening is the degradation caused to
the overall environment as a result of destruction of forests. Severe soil
erosion is a widespread problem, affecting the productivity of forest and
agricultural lands, silting up rivers, canals and reservoirs, and contributing
to flash floods, droughts, and shortage of water supply. Several species of
flora and fauna have become endanged or extinct. We find ourselves in the
midst of a crisis, a further worsening of which may cause incalculable damage
to our economy and ecology, and to the lives and livelihood of our people.



- 58 -                         Annex H
Page 2 of 8
Although some corrective activities responding to these problems
were initiated decades ago, the results have been disappointing. Comprehensive
reassessment of the efficacy of past policies and programs, and the reasons
for their failure, have been carried out in the last two years. This has led
us to conclude that several root causes lie behind the present crisis: First,
the long-standing practice of awarding forest exploitation privileges at too
low a standard charge and to a limited number of persons chosen at the discre-
tion of the Forest Administration, has created windfall gains encouraging the
excessive, and often illegal, exploitation of timber resources. Unsustainable
logging, together with large scale conversion of forest lands into alienable
and disposable lands for agricultural purposes, in turn, are largely responsi-
ble for the shrinkage of old-growth dipterocarp forests from 10 million ha in
the 1950s to under one million today, and the consequent reduction of forest
habitat of the many species of flora and fauna endemic to the Philippines to
critically low levels. Second, rapid population growth, resulting diminution
of unoccupied lowland arable land, inequitable land distribution and landless-
ness, and general rural impoverishment have created a continuing surge of
migrants in search of livelihood into upland forests opened to access by
logging. Under this pressure, abetted by illegal logging, there has been
widespread destruction of residual forests and conversion to unsustainable
forms of agriculture, especially shifting cultivation, leading in turn to a
critical soil erosion problem. Third, forest-based indigenous cultural commu-
nities, who for many centuries had utilized forests and forest land without
destructive effects, were not officially recognized as legitimate occupants
and owners, and consequently could not be mobilized as a positive force in
resource management. Fourth, in the absence of effective management and regu-
lation by public agencies, public resources have been treated by their users
as "open access", free resources. Without secure access or property rights,
users have had no incentive to regulate their exploitation or abstain from
resource destruction. And lastly, public management has been handicapped by
lack of coordination among agencies due to diverse mandates and priorities,
concentration of authority at the central office, budgetary constraints on
effective service delivery and failure to recognize the importance of the role
of the NGOs in the pursuit of national goals.
Pr2pose  Reforms Snf ImplementLng Strategies
In dealing with these fundamental causes, we have recognized the
need for comprehensive policy reforms and an active implementation program.
That is why we sought to formulate a Philippine Strategy for Sustainable
Development (PSSD) and a corresponding Action Plan. The PSSD, as endorsed by
the Cabinet in November 1989, reflects extensive studies and discussions of
the above and related issues with national and international experts. It was
presented to and discussed with representatives of international donors and
NGOs at the Mini-Consultative Meeting on the Environment held in February
1990. The PSSD includes the following implementing strategies for dealing
with the fundamental issues discussed above (other elements of the PSSD
address issues of urban pollution, the role of environmental considerations in
decision-making, population growth rates, etc.).



- 59 -
Annex H
Page 3 of 8
(a)  PropAr Pricing g  Natural Resources.  In order to reduce
incentives for excessive rates of utilization, the Government
should charge a price recovering the full economic rent for
exploitation of natural resources, Including the costs which such
use imposes on society. By reducing capture of such surpluses by
individuals and by internalizing societal costs, a self-regulating
system of economic restraint on resource use would be created.
(b) Pro22 B119Lght Reform. Again to promote self-regulation in
the exploitation of natural resources, secure access rights or
even p'ivate ownership rights over these resources would be
assigned to responsible individuals and communities, to give them
a lasting tie with and long-term stake in the protection of these
resources. There is a need to develop creative and secure instru
ments such as forest stewardship contracts, small-holder timber
concessions, artificial reef licenses, community forests, etc. to
ensure both equitable access and tenurial security in the
utilization of natural resources, provided that the recipient
individuals or communities demonstrate the capacity for
sustainable development of such resources.
(c) Establishment gf &n Integrated Protected Areas Systgm. Pro-
tected areas would be established for the conservation of wildlife
end unique ecosystems, with a view to conserving genetic resources
for scientific, educational, cultural and historical values. The
establishment of protected areas would be preceded by a reassess-
ment of the status of parks and equivalent reserves, in order to
develop rehabilitative strategies for degraded parks and identify
new areas where conservation of genetic resources and preservation
of biological diversity can be pursued.
(d) Rehabilitation oi Degraded Ecosvsteml. A rehabilitative
effort of unprecedented scale is needed in the reforestation of
denuded watersheds, mangrove replantation, etc. However, this
must be linked to ecosystems protection programs, policy reforms,
and institutional strengthening that decisively deal with the
socio-economic roots of ecosystem degradation.
(e) Inducing Growth in thb Rural Areas.  As rural poverty is one
of the main inducements of resource destruction, so it is neces-
sary that a strategy for reducing rural poverty be effected with
the following elements: (i) empowerment of the rural poor through
greater participation in policy-making processes and project
implementation; (ii) accelerated implementation of land reform to
achieve equity in the distribution of wealth and boost producer
incentives; (iii) grant of equitable access for the rural poor to
natural resource use and benefits; (iv) removal of economic policy
and public investment biases against the rural sector; (v) provi-
sion of infrastructure and support services to increase rural
productivity and expand market access; and (vi) strengthening of
social services such as education, health and nutrition in the
rural areas.



-60-                          Amex H
Page 4 of 8
(F)  Intgmr at gL PORpatJcon ConcznMs nd Socal  Hlfar in
alnUMez  ZJInnlg.  Population is the critical factor in any
effort at sustainable development. It is therefore imperative
that in developing countries like the Philippines where populatlon
growth rates are still at unmanageable levels, that the population
factor, in all its dimensions, is turned into a real assot in
support of sustalnable development. The country's population
program must not be limited to controlling numbers but must also
include improvements In health, education and values foration.
Migration into urban areas must also be considered in the
population program.
MediT    Ation !Zan
The government is committed to a series of actions in the medium-
term which will foster the growth and development of the Philippines and which
will form the framework for the PSSD. In order to provide a stable macroeco-
nomic environment in which the PSSD can succeed, the government commits itself
to pursue appropriate policies in such areas as exchange rate management,
public sector management, fiscal balance, and price stability which are condu-
cive for the long-term development of the economy. In this context, it is
understood that adherence to a sound program of economic management is neces-
sary for the release of the second tranche of the Environment and Natural
Resources Sector Adjustment Loan.
Implementation of PSSD will be a long-term process, and many spe-
cific actions will entail further study, public debate, Congressional deci-
sions, and/or prior institutional strengthening. Alternative actions can be
taken in pursuit of the same ends, and the social, private and budgetary costs
involved will limit the choice of actions and the pace of change. Within
these constraints, many choices have already been taken to deal frontally with
the main issues, and further steps during the next two years (1991-92) have
been identified. In detailing these below, we confine the scope of discussion
to policy areas of primary concern to this Environment and Natural Resource
Sector Adjustment Program. Complementary policies and actions have been
identified in the areas of rehabilitation of degraded ecosystems under the
ADB-OECF financed Forestry Sector Program and coastal fisheries under the ADB
Fisheries Sector Program. Urban and industrial environmental concerns are
being addressed in the context of other programs supported by the World Bank,
such as the Energy Sector Loan and the proposed Industrial Pollution Project.
(a) Establishment gX Ani Effective Integrated Protected Areas
Svste. Congressional authorization to develop an IPAS was re-
ceived in 1989. To date, a task force and associated consulting
team has been appointed to determine and survey proposed sites,
prepare and submit required legislation, and prepare management
plans for ten priority protected areas. Field work began in June,
and a draft of enabling legislation which meets international
standards has already been prepared and reviewed by the Bank.
Before the end of 1991, this and corresponding gazetting
legislation will be submitted to Congress, along with budget
requests for CY 1992 which permit full implementation of new
management plans for at least ten protected areas. It is
anticipated that such legislation will prohibit pasture leases in



- 61 -                         Annex H
Page 5 of 8
parks, reserves, critical watersheds, and all areas with slopes
grcater than 50%. In the interim, DENR has already completed a
review of the status of nine pasture leases outstanding in the
Magat watershed (designated a critical watershed) and issued
notices of cancellation to seven leaseholders whose leaseholds lie
on slopes draining to the Magat River. A Special Order has been
issued creating a Committee to review pasture leases nationwide,
especially with regard to ancestral land claims. For its first
activity, the Committee is tasked to review all PLAs issued in
Mindoro by May 1991. Before January 1992 DENR will undertake
similar reviews and lease cancellations for the ten protected
areas (see above) and at least one additional critical watershed.
(b) Proper Resource Pricing. As prescribed by the 1987 Constitu-
tion as well as DENR administrative order, no new TLA permits
(logging concessions) have been or will be granted. In addition,
the utilization of timber resources within any public forest area
except those within existing TLAs would henceforth be undertaken
under Timber Production Sharing Agreements (TPSA) to be granted
through competitive bidding, or under a Community Forest Manage-
ment Agreement. As a trial of such procedures and a basis for
assessing appropriate levels of public charges for timber harvest-
ing, three sites covering a total of 1594 ha have been identified
and inventories of harvestable timber have been authorized. At
least two of these sites will be offered to prequalified bidders
in public bids to be held before March 1992, if commercial har-
vesting of timber is still legally authorized at these locations.
Legislation prescribing an increase in the forest charge to at
least 20% of Manila wholesale value of logs extracted has now been
separately passed by the House and Senate. Congressional passage
of a reconciled bill is expected shortly.   Prior to this passage,
DENR, with the authorization of the President, had already issued
Administrative Order No. 62, Series of 1990, imposing an Environ-
mental Fee equivalent to that prescribed in the legislation on all
existing TLA holders. Implementing regulations provide that
inability of TLA holders to provide evidence of full payment of
assessed fees will be considered sufficient grounds for immediate
cancellation of TLA permits. To monitor compliance, DENR, on a
quarterly basis, will compile complete provincial statistics on
the volume of logs of each quality extracted from TIA concessions
and the corresponding fees received. In 1991 DENR will also
initiate studies of the effects of increased forest charges and
other regulatory measures, such as the export ban, on wood indus-
try prices and rental value of forest land. The Department of
Agriculture has already agreed (under the ADB Fisheries Sector
Program Loan) to evaluate the rental value of mangrove areas
converted to fishpond use, and revise the fee level appropriately;
a survey will also be carried out to identify idle or unproductive
fishponds in such areas, and to rescind leases of all idle ponds;
and all of the above will be completed by June 1991. DENR will
work with DA through the Coastal Zone Resources Management Commit-
tee to arrange to make such areas available for replanting of
mangroves.



- 62 -                         Annex H
Page 6 of 8
Under Administrative Order No. 21, Series of 1988, DENR also has
required TIA holders to put up a reforestation deposit of P10,000
per hectare which serves as a guarantee to ensure that funds are
set aside to carry out reforestation in logged over areas.  To
strengthen this scheme, Administrative Order No. 1, Series of
1991, was recently issued to (a) increase the size of the deposit
to P12,500 per hectare to cover costs of two years of plantation
maintenance and ensure survivability; and (b) impose a 3-year
surety bond of this amount as a remedy for non-compliance.
(c) Enforcement. In order to increase the effectiveness of
Government's enforcement of law and regulations pertaining to
forestry, we have drafted plans for introduction of an improved
monitoring system and an upgraded enforcement program.
(d) ProDerty Rights Reform. DENR has issued an Administrative
Order improving the tenure value of the Stewardship Contract (CSC)
to the maximum extent permissible under the 1987 Constitution, and
has issued appropriately revised contract forms. A special con-
tract form along with corresponding guidelines has been issued for
CSCs applicable to mangrove areas. An Administrative Order and
guidelines defining a new instrument granting property rights over
trees in reforestation areas to community groups contracting for
post-establishment maintenance have also been issued. The CFSA
"terms and conditions" contains a provision for the non-waiver of
the rights of the indigenous cultural communities to their ances-
tral domains. In addition, under its Community Forestry Program
(CFP) which was launched in late 1989, the DENR has begun imple-
mentation of the program at eight sites in 1990; it will seek to
add at least 20 additional sites in 1991, and will submit budget
requests to Congress based on these targets.
Pending the passage into law of the proposed legislation
implementing the Constitutional mandate on the recognition and
protection of the ancestral domain rights of the indigenous
cultural communities, the DENR has initiated activities in this
area of concern through administrative issuances. Special Order
No. 31, as amended, and Administrative Order No. 03, as amended,
Series of 1990, set up a task force to assist in the delineation
of ancestral domains in the Cordillera Administrative Region and
recommend mechanisms for turning over ownership rights and manage-
ment responsibility for the resources contained therein.   In
addition to this, all regional offices have been instructed to
delineate on maps the various claims of indigenous cultural commu-
nities in their areas. Indigenous Community Affairs Desk (ICAD)
officers who completed a training on tribal rights will discharge
duties and responsibilities at each regional office, with a major
task of evaluatissg, processing and delineating ancestral domains.
This initiative is a concrete acknowledgement by the DENR that
indigenous communities have a strong Constitutional right to the
land they traditionally and historically occupy.
(e) SupDort Services on Forest land. DENR recognizes that the
population presently residing on public Forest Land is in large



- 63 -                         Annex H
Page 7 of 8
part there to stay; that earlier policies of ignoring or evicting
them were counterproductive; and that, in the interest of utiliz-
ing them as a positive force in resource conservation, it is
crucial that issues of their livelihood, tenure, and necessary
technical, economic, and social services be addressed by the
Government. In principle, community services should be provided
by the functionally-relevant agencies regardless of where the
communities are located. In practice, service provision for all
agencies continues to be constrained by the existing geographical
distribution of agency staff, difficulties of redeployment, limit-
ed budget for redirection of effort, and shortages of staff with
appropriate qualifications. Because DENR's mandate for management
and protection of public resources requires that it promote sus-
tainable development of communities residing on public forest
land, DENR in the short run will take a lead role in stimulating
and coordinating service provision for such communities. In so
doing, it will actively promote a transition to coordination of
service delivery by local governments, provision of agricultural
extension by the Department of Agriculture, and provision of
health, educational, and other services by the appropriate agen-
cies. DENR will continue to make contractual use of NGOs whenever
the latter have unique skills to offer, but particularly in train-
ing, community organizing, local coordination of service delivery,
and monitoring of enforcement and reforestation programs; and to
this end will continue to deepen to the municipality level its
process of identification and registration of NGOs. In subjects
such as community organizing or agroforestry, where DENR, DA and
DAR have common training requirements, DENR will assist in im-
plementing a common training program for regional and local staff
of all three agencies.
Integrated Social Forestry (as well as Community Forestry) is
DENR's lead program for increasing the sustainability of liveli-
hood of communities residing on public forest land. As part of
reorganization, DENR has already taken steps to give ISF new
administrative independence and prominence, and to enlarge and
enrich the objectives and capabilities of this program under
recently-issued ISF and CF guidelines. An entirely new category
of civil service positions (Social Forestry Technicians) has been
created, and so far about one thousand staff have been recruited
and trained to serve the non-traditional functions mandated by the
new guidelines. A Census of Forest Occupants was carried out in
1989 to identify the potential clientele of these programs, and an
advisory task force including non-governmental experts has been
set up to evaluate the preliminary results and take any corrective
actions necessary.
We are pleased with the support the Bank has been extending to the
Government for the improvement of environmental and natural resource manage-
ment. The formulation of all of the above policy reforms and institutional
changes, as well as related investment programs, has greatly benefited from
the 1987 Bank-assisted study of sectoral issues (Philippines Environment and
Natural Resource Management Stdy.) and the continuous discussions with subse-
quent missions. The implementation of the Program will not be easy and the



- 64 -                        Annex H
Page 8 of 8
Government accordingly welcomes the assistance proposed from the Bank. We
look forward to pursuing our goals and objectives for the sector with vigor
and expect that your assistance will greatly enhance our capabilities to
achieve these ends.
Sincerely,
[signedl                                     [signed]
Fulgencio Factoran, Jr.                            Jesus P. Estanislao
Secretary                                       Secretary
Department of Environment and                     Department of Finance
Natural Resources



BBs                                                            i.2                                                     PHILIPPINES
LAND USE
NATURAL CONDITIONS
2%                                                                                                                  20E               OF  THE  PHILIPPINES
f 0EVST
DIPTEOCARP ANDIOR OTHER BROAD
LEAVED FOREST. CLOSED CANOPY.
MATURE TREES COVERING 5ST%.
c                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOSEY FOREST
DIPTEROCARP AND'OR OTHER BROAD.
,  LEAVED FOREST, OPEN CANOPY.
MATTRES TREES COVERING -50%
-                                                           PINE FOREST
LI                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANGROVE VEGETATION
EXTENSIVE LAND USE
-BB~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       Is.              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-   CULTIVATED AREA MABES WITH
1EUSHILAND AND GRASSLAND
GRASSLAND. GRASS COVERING 70%
IN,TENSIAF LAND USE
CROPLAND AND PLANTATION
LU NF ISH PO N$ S
MItMARSHY AREAS ANT SWAMPS
LAESS
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
EVE                                                                                                                                       REGION BOUNDARIES
IVI
Br                                                                 /                                                          I45
MINDO             R!\ 
1?tfLOMETERS7;'                                                                                                           i-
12-  z'                   l2?4
PANAY                       VISAYAS>                                 VI
4                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEYTE
Br          ~PALAW:AN~                                                                                          Q             4                    '                      s
-61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0  so  100  ISO    2M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
KIL&tTERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Te>



IBRD 22869
121l                    127 lS1IIt4                                                        1257                     t26
I? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1S                                      2e       CAR        PROJECT
REG40NS
P HI LI P PI NE S
8 A                               oA,,. ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
,JISLANDS                                                     SECAL PROJECT SITES
(Bi>             H 8A [ANES                            PROJECT SITES
Ibhi fdond*   SELECTED CMES
M_TA,                              PROVIMNCE CAPITALS
- ROADS
X- t   X  \.rIVERS
- \   _  )PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
/   {^   r  -   REGION BOUNDARIES                        0O
A1praisA f  (Jun e 1   SeSURGAO
1R~~         prior to im~~plementotion in thee. regiou  NRT
0  /  0   /    >            ;    ~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINE  Is,timlmrto  ntr<n   SURIGA                          O NIORTE
/     \      r           f        ~~~        ~        ~~~SEA   7 sr    o 7t lt        
ScQRDILLERAfm 9   PNAttANA5)vf        A         <>         PACIFIC
LEDMINISTRATIVE   NaG  &   ;    o \                                             NORTHERN MINDANAO                               OCEAN
REGION        SAMT                                                                               A O
i tt   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUA
MINDA              CAMU                                                        19
CAGAAN12SE
VALLEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH19



