Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3360 PH
       (Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment)
                              between
                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 11, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3360 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 16, 1991
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
environment and natural resources sector (hereinafter called the
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Program and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to fifty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 50,000,000) (the
Credit);
Page  2
      (C)   the Borrower, as part of such commitment, has undertaken
to carry out the Project, which includes the Program, as described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Clas-
sification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
      (b)   "Peso" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "DENR" means the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources of the Borrower; and
      (e)   "IPAS" means the Integrated Protected Areas System of
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty-eight million dollars
($158,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
Page  3
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
through DENR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and environ-
mental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no financial
or material assistance will be provided, under Part B of the
Project, to agencies other than DENR in the absence of a memorandum
of agreement detailing the responsibilities of the recipient agency
and DENR; and (b) no title to any property, financed under Part B of
the Project, shall be transferred to any agency until completion of
the Project.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
Page  5
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that Part
A of the Project, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
                         ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that a legislation authorizing a forest charge of at
least 20% of market value has been passed by Congress; and
      (b)   that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretary of Finance
            Department of Finance
            Manila
            Philippines
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  SECFIN                     40268 CB-CONF
                  Manila                     27550 CBP-PH
      For the Bank:
Page  6
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                  By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
A. Under Part A
   of the Project
(1)  Eligible imports      100,000,000          100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
B.  Under Part B
    of the Project
(2)  Works                  15,100,000          75%
(3)  Goods                   7,600,000          100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
Page  7
                                                cured locally
(4)  Agroforestry inputs     4,600,000          75%
(5)  Project management     15,000,000          100%
     and technical services
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed
(6)  Incremental            12,000,000           74%
     operating costs
(7)  Unallocated             3,700,000
         TOTAL             158,000,000
                           ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental
expenditures for travel expenses, office expenses and maintenance
and operation.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$20,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payment, made for expenditures before that date but after
February 19, 1991; and (ii) payments in respect of Category (1) of
this Schedule for:
     (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
     Group                 Sub-group    Description of Items
     112                        -       Alcoholic beverages
     121                        -       Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                          tobacco refuse
     122                        -       Tobacco, manufactured(whether or not con
tainingtobacco substitutes)
     525                        -       Radioactive and associated
                                       materials
     667                        -       Pearls, precious and semi-
                                      precious stones, unworked
                                    or worked
     718                      718.7     Nuclear reactors, and
                                        parts thereof, fuel
                                        elements (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
Page  8
     897                      897.3     Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                       platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch
                                     cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                    silversmiths' wares
                                  (including set gems)
     971                        -       Gold, non-monetary
                                       (excluding gold ores and
                                      concentrates)
     (b)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
     (d)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (1) of this Schedule after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account under such Category and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent
of $50,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and (b)
that the actions described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been
taken.
5.   If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above,
the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress
achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and
taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan under
Category (1) of this Schedule or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to preserve the remaining
biological diversity of the Philippines.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Sector Adjustment
     The carrying out of the Program referred to in Paragraph A of
the Preamble to this Agreement.
Part B:     Investments
1.   The design of an Integrated Protection Areas System (IPAS).
2.   Strengthening of the monitoring of logging operations and the
prevention of illegal logging in Regions II, VIII and X.
3.   The development of small-scale community-based resource
management projects in watershed areas of Regions I,II, IX, X and
Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR).
                              *  *  *
Page  9
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1997                               2,880,000
August 15, 1997                                 2,995,000
February 15, 1998                               3,110,000
August 15, 1998                                 3,230,000
February 15, 1999                               3,355,000
August 15, 1999                                 3,485,000
February 15, 2000                               3,615,000
August 15, 2000                                 3,755,000
February 15, 2001                               3,900,000
August 15, 2001                                 4,055,000
February 15, 2002                               4,210,000
August 15, 2002                                 4,375,000
February 15, 2003                               4,540,000
August 15, 2003                                 4,715,000
February 15, 2004                               4,900,000
August 15, 2004                                 5,090,000
February 15, 2005                               5,285,000
August 15, 2005                                 5,490,000
February 15, 2006                               5,700,000
August 15, 2006                                 5,920,000
February 15, 2007                               6,150,000
August 15, 2007                                 6,390,000
February 15, 2008                               6,635,000
August 15, 2008                                 6,895,000
February 15, 2009                               7,160,000
August 15, 2009                                 7,435,000
February 15, 2010                               7,725,000
August 15, 2010                                 8,020,000
February 15, 2011                               8,330,000
August 15, 2011                                 8,655,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
    Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The interest rate (ex-
                                        pressed as a percentage
                                        per annum) applicable to
                                        the Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
Page  10
More than 11 years but not                      0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
             1.  Procurement for Part A of the Project
1.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely
     manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by adver-
     tising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; such
     advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of
     general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition,
     in at least one of the following forms:
     (i)  notice in the United Nations publication, Development
          Forum, Business Edition; or
    (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
          journal of wide international circulation; or
   (iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries and
          territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
          potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in international trade and specified in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded on the
basis of prices available from organized international commodity
markets.
3.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
     (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;
     (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
Page  11
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
     (c)  by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in the preceding
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in the preceding
paragraph 2, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 shall not apply to
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   Procurement and Consultants' Services
for Part B of the Project
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines".
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Philippines
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to provisions of Part C.4 hereunder, civil works may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $3,000,000 may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
3.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Civil works may be carried out through force account, provided
that the aggregate cost of civil works carried out under force
Page  12
account shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank, exceed 90%
of the total cost of civil works.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Satisfactory implementing guidelines for IPAS legislation shall
have been issued.
2.   Management plans for 10 protected areas shall have been
prepared and corresponding budgetary requests shall have been made.
3.   Public bidding procedures for at least two Timber Production
Sharing Agreements shall have been completed.
4.   (a)  Satisfactory funding for the existing task force to
delineate ancestral domains shall have been agreed with the Bank;
and (b) evaluation report on the task force work shall have been
submitted to the Bank.
5.   Satisfactory monitoring and support systems for the prevention
of illegal logging shall have been put into effect.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
Page  13
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Bor-
               rower shall furnish to the Bank requests for depos-
               its into the Special Account at such intervals as
               the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
               tures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
               Bank from the Loan Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the respective equiva-
               lent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
Page  14
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
