Page  1
                                                         April 20, 1990
The Honorable
Jesus Estanislao
Secretary of Finance
Central Bank of the Philippines
Manila, Philippines
     Re: Technical Assistance Grant (Environmental and Natural Resources
         Management Proiect) - Amendment of the Japanese Grant Agreement
Dear Mr. Estanislao:
     We refer to the Japanese Grant Agreernent (Environmental and
Natural Resources Management Project) between the Republic of the
Philippines,  (the Recipient), and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Government of Japan, (the Administrator), dated
March 28, 1990. We refer also to your Government's telex of April
18, 1990, requesting the Administrator to modify the Special Account
under the above mentioned Grant Agreement so that it may be
maintained in US dollars.
     The Administrator is pleased to inform you that it agrees with
the above request.  Therefore, the Japanese Grant Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:
1.    Section 2.02 (b) of the Grant Agreement is amended to read:
      "The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
      and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank on terms
      and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.  Deposits
      into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
      in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
      Agreement."
2.    Paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 to the Grant Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
      "the term 'Authorized Allocation' means an amount equivalent
      to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and
      deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
      (a) of this Schedule."
     All the remaining terms and conditions of the Grant
Agreement, as amended hereby, shall remain in full force and
effect.
           Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing
amendments by signing and dating the enclosed form of confirmation
and by returning it to us.
                            Sincerely,
                          Gautam S. Kaji
                             Director
                       Country Department 2
                            Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILLIPINES
By:  Authorized Representative
Date: 4/27/90
Page  2
