Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23316
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23430)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE, AMOUNT OF SDR8.2 MILLION
(US$11.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRtNCIPE
FOR A
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
December 20, 2001
Water and Urban 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 28, 2001)
Currency Unit = Dobras (Db)
Db I = US$ 0.000011
US$ 1.0 = 8849.1
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            African Development Bank
AFD            French Agency for Development (Agence Fran,aise de Developpement)
ANEP           National Agency for Project Execution (Agencia Nacional de ExecuqJo de Projectos)
CNE            National Center of Endemic Diseases (Centro Nacional de Endemias)
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
FNM            National Drugs Fund (Fundo Nacional de Medicamentos)
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA            International Development Association
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
INDES          Institute for Economic and Social Development
(Instituto para o Desenvolvimento Economico e Social)
MEP            Malaria Eradication Program (Missdo de Erradica,co do Paludismo)
MIS            Management Information System
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOEC           Ministry of Education and Culture
MoF            Ministry of Finance
MOR            Ministry of Health
MOSA           Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO            Non-Government Organization
PCC            Project Coordination Committee
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIF            Social Infrastructure Fund (Fundo Social de Infraestrutura)
STP            Sao Tome and Principe
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UNEX           Project Executing Unit (Unidade de Execu,do de Projectos)
UPIG           Planning and Management Information Unit
(Unidade de Planificacao e Informa,ces para Gestdo)
WHO            World Health Organization
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo, AFR
Country Director:    A. David Craig, AFC15
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2 and
Alexandre V. Abrantes, AFTH2
Task Team Leader:    Gerhard Tschannerl, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOMEt AND PRiNCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT (CR. 2343-STP)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     13
9. Partner Comments                                                                    14
10. Additional Information                                                             14
Annex 1. Key Perfortnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002542                                        Project Name: HEALTH & EDUCATION
Team Leader: Gerhard Tschannerl                            TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type. Core ICR                                         Report Date. December 20, 200]
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH & EDUCATION                              L/C/TFNumber: IDA-23430
Country/Department: SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EY - Other Education; HC - Primary Health,
Including Reproductive Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/07/1990                               Effective: 08/04/1992         01/28/1993
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                                MTR: 04/01/1994             11/14/1995
Approval:  03/19/1992                               Closing: 06/30/1998          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplemnenting Agency: GOVERNMENT/MOSA
Other Partners:  None
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     A. David Craig                             Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng and Alexandre              Janet de Merode
V. Abrantes
Team Leader at ICR.   Gerhard Tschannerl                        J. Upadhyay
ICR Prinmary Author:   Gerhard Tschannerl; assisted by
Kees Kostermans; Fanny Barrett;
Safaa El-Kogali; and Paul Geli
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N'Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Perfbrmance: S
Bon-ower Perfbrmance. S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Pr oject at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to assist the Government of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) to reverse
the recent serious decline in the health and education status faced by the population. This was to be
achieved by financing high priority investments, as well as through policy reform and capacity building
measures. In the health sector the project was to support a program to control malaria, improve the supply
of essential medicines and other supplies, and strengthen health planning and management. In the
education sector the project was to supply primary and secondary textbooks and educational materials,
strengthen school inspection at the primary level, and improve education planning (Staff Appraisal Report
{SAR}, Para. 3.01).
Assessment of Objectives:
The project objectives specified in the SAR contain statements of both impact and output. It is the
current practice that they should consist only of a comprehensive statement of impact. The overarching
objective to improve the health and education status of the country's population (DCA, Schedule 2) is very
general. Likewise, most of the original performance indicators for impact were too broad to be measurable
and to serve as measures of progress on the objectives. No baseline data were established. When a
systematic attempt was made to assess the impact of the project near the time of the original closing date,
several of the original indicators were replaced with more specific ones that have provided sufficient
information on progress with implementation to draw conclusions about the successes and failures of the
project.
The scope of the Integrated Malaria Control component was expanded when three years were
added to the implementation period after the original closing date. While the building of drains in and
around the town of Sao Tome contributed to malaria control, it also served to improve the living
environment in these areas and is likely to have substantially increased land values. Other infrastructure
works, which were constructed with the remaining funds after the drainage works were fully committed,
were done with the tacit objective of urban development (Section 3.4).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components:
(a)    The integrated malaria control component consisted of (i) a vector control program, including
environmental sanitation as well as source reduction through ultra low volume spraying of insecticides in
hyper-endemic areas; (ii) source reduction schemes to reduce mosquito breeding sites, including the filling
in of swamps, construction of a drainage network, and reconstruction and cleaning of existing waterways;
(iii) individual and collective prevention measures, including the use of pesticide-impregnated mosquito
nets, insect repellents, house screens, and applying larvicide at selected mosquito breeding sites; (iv)
improving epidemiological surveillance and treatment to enable the immediate identification of transmission
centers of malaria and provision of effective treatment within 24 hours through the equipping of
laboratories, provision of anti-malarial drugs, and training of health workers in the diagnosis and prompt
and effective treatment of malaria and the referral of serious cases; (v) information, education and
communication (IEC) activities, including a public information campaign on malaria and the consultation
and mobilization of communities for effective malaria control and treatment; and (vi) institutional
- 2 -



strengthening of the health sector, particularly in malaria eradication, health planning and program
coordination.
(b)    The essential drugs component consisted of (i) adoption and implementation of the standard
essential drugs list, a drug procurement system, and guidelines for drug distribution and prescription; (ii)
the establishment of a cost recovery mechanism and a drug revolving fund for drug supplies; (iii) supply of
essential drugs for three years as a seed stock to serve as working capital; and (iv) an improvement of the
skills of health workers in managing the drug supply and in prescribing and dispensing drugs through
in-service training, with the assistance of UNICEF.
(c)    The health planning component was to improve health planning, including the establishment and
use of a Management Information System (MIS) and external assistance coordination, by strengthening the
Planning and Management Information Unit (UPIG) of the Ministry of Health and providing overseas
training and short in-country training.
(d)    The school textbooks and educational materials component was to (i) print the second batch of
36 titles of textbooks and reprint the first batch (14 titles), so that all 50 titles would be available until the
year 2000; (ii) expand the textbook warehouse and improve the internal transportation and distribution of
textbooks; (iii) import and distribute a limited amount of educational materials, such as notebooks and
pencils as an interim measure until private sector imports would meet this requirement; and (iv) establish a
system of cost recovery and management of funds for textbooks.
(e)    The education inspection component was to provide overseas training to a select number of
qualified primary school teachers, who would then be appointed inspectors and provide surveillance and
pedagogical support to teachers according to a schedule of visits, and to rehabilitate offices and supply
vehicles and equipment to the inspectorate.
(f)    The education planning component was to (i) strengthen the capacity in education planning,
external assistance coordination, and management information; (ii) provide the services of a planning
consultant; (iii) finance incremental staff salaries; (iv) provide staff training; (v) purchase equipment and
materials; and (vi) conduct a limited number of high priority studies aimed at institutional strengthening.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project's original closing date of June 1998 was extended to June 1999, and then further to
June 2001 to construct additional infrastructure in and around the city of Sao Tome. No other project
activities were carried out in the extension period as the project objectives were considered to have been
essentially met, except for drainage. The remaining project funds at that time were about US$3.9 million. It
was initially thought that the drainage works could be completed by June 1999, and when this was found
not to be the case, and when it was realized that a substantial amount of uncommitted funds would remain
even after the drainage works were completed, the project was further extended by two years to complete
the construction of drains and to build roads with drains, a health post, and a few stand posts and clothes
washing areas.
There were mainly two reasons for extending the project and concentrating on drainage works: (i) it
took a long time in the beginning of the project to define the location and scope of works, the strategy for
draining swamps, and the preparation of the drawings and selection of a contractor; and (ii) up to the
original closing date of the project the canals were built with rock pitching without the use of cement or
mortar, simply lining up rocks to form straight surfaces, which collapsed in part soon after the construction
and was subject to massive pilfering by the population. All except for one of these canals were replaced by
- 3 -



reinforced concrete lining during the extension period.
The rationale for the addition of a 440m road in Vila Fernanda was that this infrastructure, plus a
dispensary, were needed as part of the compensation to the affected people for their resettlement from
Reboque during the cornmunity upgrading that was done under the Second Multisector Project. When more
uncommitted funds remained after the agreed infrastructure had been committed, it was jointly decided to
construct 700m of a new road with drains in the middle class area of Vila Dolores to control the serious
erosion and to benefit from the advanced stage of preparation for the construction, which allowed for its
completion before the closing date.
Another factor that played a role in the decision about the extension was that some consideration
had earlier been given to the creation of the third multisector project, which did not materialize in the end.
Some of the activities which the B3orrower had proposed for the new project were included in the extension
period of the Health and Education Project, others are being financed by other donors, such as the
AfD-assisted drainage works at Reboque.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry.
The application of the criteria used by the Quality Assessment Group (QAG) for assessing the
Quality at Entry of the project leads to a rating of unsatisfactory. These criteria include project concept,
objectives and approach; technical and economic analyses; environmental aspects; social and stakeholder
aspects; financial management aspects; institutional aspects; readiness for implementation; and risks and
sustainability.
(a) Project concept, objectives and approach. The project attempted to respond to the country's need for
support in the rapidly declining social sector (Section 4.1), caused largely by the deterioration of the
economy in the late 80s. The project design was based on the tacit assumption that the economic difficulties
were temporary and that a rapid infusion of resources would enable a more self-sustained delivery of these
services after the end of the project. This is illustrated by (i) the two conditions of disbursement for
essential drugs and textbooks; (ii) the absence of a plan for the continuation of the supply of essential
drugs, mosquito nets and other materials beyond the project; and (iii) the temporary salary supplement for
education planning provided for in the SAR (but not the DCA). While the broadly defined objectives were
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy, they were not addressed with the right approach. Rather
than designing a sizable and rapid relief program, it would have been better to take a more long-range view
with less reliance on key reforms as preconditions for the disbursement on some components and on key
resource inputs from the Govermnent, which did not materialize or did so only after a long delay. This was
the third project with somewhat similar objectives, running in parallel for three years with the Multisector I
Project, Cr. 2038 (1989 to 1996) and the Second Multisector Project, Cr. 2280 (1991 to 1997).
(b) Technical and economic analyses. Most of the subsectors (components) were thoroughly prepared,
with separate studies carried out during project preparation. No economic analysis was performed, which is
a pennissible option in the health and education sectors.
(c) Social and stakeholder aspects. The project became effective well before the two multisector projects
closed and, possibly because the results from these two projects had not yet become fully available, some
important lessons were not taken into account, such as the need for more involvement of parents and the
private sector in the distribution of textbooks.
(d) Risks and sustainability. The assumption that the country's severe economic difficulties were only
temporary should have been part of the risk analysis (SAR, Para. 5.02). The main identified project risks
- 4 -



were the low implementation capacity of the institutions and a general lack of technical expertise. These
were adequately addressed, given the country conditions, through safeguards.
(e) Institutional aspects. A small new Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was created for project
implementation, serving what later turned out to be two Ministries. This caused severe delays in project
implementation. Unlike INDES, an experienced project implementation unit that had managed the first and
second multisector projects, the new unit lacked experience with project implementation and was never
staffed with specialists in health and education. Since the PCU had no authority over the Ministries and had
little experience in how to deal with such situations, it was on occasion unable to get things done in a timely
manner, such as meeting the conditions of disbursement for textbooks and drugs.
6) Readiness for implementation. When the project became effective, the preparation was not sufficiently
advanced. There was no implementation manual, no adequate procurement plan, and the procurement
process had barely begun. The Project Coordinator started working only after effectiveness. In June 1992,
that is before effectiveness, the Bank carried out a mission to clarify the project's objectives and
components and to provide a general understanding of the Bank's guidelines, particularly on procurement,
disbursement, accounting and auditing, and monitoring and reporting, which was apparently insufficient to
allow for a rapid start of implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemezt of objective.:
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory as it achieved the broad objective of reversing
the serious decline in the health and education status of the population. This was done in spite of the small
size of the country, the depth of poverty, the low institutional capacity, and other adverse conditions under
which the project was implemented (see Section 5). The outcome in the health sector was substantial, while
that in the education sector was moderate.
With a high incidence of poverty in the country, interventions that benefit the general population can be
said to have a substantial impact on povertv reduction. Apart from the drainage works, which were
concentrated in and around the capital city, the improvements in malaria control were widespread. The
same can be said for the results of the education components, which benefited most if not all the schools on
the island of Sao Tome.
The project's original closing date (June 30, 1998) was extended to June 30, 1999, and then further to
June 2001, so additional works for integrated malaria control could be carried out. No other project
activities were continued during the extension period, as the project objectives were considered essentially
met, except for drainage. Since the ICR is being prepared three years after the implementation of most
project-supported components ceased, it uniquely benefits from this additional period of impact results.
With regards to the first part of the project objective, to reverse the decline in the health status of the
population, substantial progress was made on integrated malaria control. The case fatality rate for the
disease decreased significantly, and the improvements in quality of case management were also substantial.
For example, the percentage of nurses who prescribe malaria drugs correctly increased from 33 percent of
prescriptions in 1995 to 71 percent in 1998. People's practices with regards to malaria also changed
dramatically: over a third of the population was protected by mosquito bed nets in 1999, compared to
almost none in the early nineties. Nationwide the incidence of malaria did not diminish significantly.
However, the number of malaria cases in Agua Grande, the main project intervention area, decreased as a
- 5 -



proportion of the overall number of cases (see Annex 1). In three observation sites, children had 9 fevers
per year in 1997, instead of 15 per year in 1995, and the malaria plasmodic index was cut in half during
this period. The number of deaths of hospitalized children under five years old decreased from 50 per
10,000 children to 20 per 10,000 and the number of malaria cases among out-patient consultations (under
five children) declined from 645 per 1,000 visits in 1995 to 333 per 1,000 visits in 1997.
In retrospect it appears that drainage may not have been as effective as originally thought as a means
of malaria control. It is now the national policy that malaria control should consist of a balanced mix of
interventions in an integrated manner. The incidence of malaria in Agua Grande indeed declined (see
above), but this may not be mainly due to drainage. While the species of mosquito that carries the malaria
parasite, anopheles gambiae, can be found in swamps, its preferred breeding grounds are small
accumulations of clean water found in discarded tires, various containers, and puddles of rain water that
are plentiful even after the swamps have been drained. IEC campaigns addressed this. Other benefits from
drainage are likely to outweigh the malaria control objective, especially the improvement in living
conditions and the increase in land values (improving the environment and making more land suitable for
housing construction), but no attenmpt has been made to quantify these benefits. Many people have moved
into the drained areas since the completion of construction, and there is an upsurge of new building activity
as well as renovation and expansion. In many areas where drainage works were carried out, floods that
lasted for weeks or even months now disappear within a few hours or days. By present standards, the
environmental impact assessments that were carried out are inadequate. To improve the planning of the use
of wetlands, a study on this subject is currently being prepared with assistance from the ADB.
By the end of the project, most of the health facilities had an adequate supply of essential drugs. For
example, the percentage of basic health facilities with a shortage of chloroquine decreased from 76 percent
in 1995 to 36 percent in 1998. In 2001 no shortages were reported for any of the basic drugs, but no
systematic surveys are being carried out. Observations made during a mission in November 2001 indicate
that the essential drugs supply in and near Sao Tome continues to function satisfactorily.
The outcome on the second part of the project's objective, to reverse the decline in the education
status, has been moderate to satisfactory. It is difficult to assess to what extent this objective has been
achieved in the absence of relevant data. The performance indicators address only part of the objective and
were retrofitted near the end of the original closing date. No baseline data were established. One can
nevertheless assume that the increased availability of school textbooks in primary school had a positive
impact on education, even though some students did not benefit from them because their parents could not
afford the cost of the textbooks. Anecdotal reports suggest that the establishment of an inspectorate also
had a positive impact on the quality of education as teachers became more conscientious in the knowledge
that they were being monitored at certain intervals. However, the continued existence of the triple shift
system in schools imposes a severe limit on the quality of education that can be achieved, since it reduces
the effective education time for students to only 2 to 2 1/2 hours per day.
The outcome on institutional capacitv building was in the overall modest, even though the intended
improvement in the planning and program management capacity in health and education was negligible (see
Section 4.5), which can partly be ascribed to over-ambitious targets and to the involvement of a number of
donors in the same field with insufficient coordination.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a)    The integrated malaria control component has by and large been implemented (rated substantial;
actual cost: US$9.07 million). About 400 people were trained in proper malaria diagnosis, treatment and
control measures. The drainage and filling-in of about 375 hectares of swamps was completed by 2001
- 6 -



through the construction of 9.8 km of drains (some twice due to the initial choice of an unsuitable design;
see Section 3.4). This benefited about 16,000 people living in and around these areas. The drainage works
were accompanied by spraying. About 25,000 impregnated mosquito nets were sold by 1998 and most of
the additional 27,000 that had been ordered were sold by 2001. Messages on vector control and malaria
prevention were disseminated, and a cost-recovery and management system was put in place for drugs and
mosquito nets. Technical assistance provided on epidemiology and entomology contributed to the
strengthening of the epidemiological surveillance system and to the implementation of entomological
studies. Preparations for general spraying with insecticide were halted following the advice of WHO about
the perceived risks of exposure to these chemicals. A more selective approach to spraying has been adopted
in the meantime, which is in accordance with WHO guidelines.
(b)    Under the essential drugs component (rated substantial; cost: US$0.35 million), the Essential
Drugs List was adopted (although the project did not finance this activity), a new drugs procurement
system-through a revolving National Drugs Fund (FNM)-was established. Part of the initial stock for a
cost recovery system (Bamako Initiative) was created. The FNM  became functional only after the
Bank-financed drugs had arrived. The stock was later complemented by WHO. The project, with assistance
from UNICEF, has put in place a cost recovery and management system for essential drugs, covering about
50 percent of basic health structures in 1998, whereas there was nothing only two years earlier. In the
following years the system was introduced nationwide. The cost of a large portion of the first input through
the project was however not recovered from the beneficiaries since the recovery system was only gradually
put in place after the passage of the legislation. In 2001 it was reported that the cost recovery system is still
working well in about 50 percent of all health units.
(c)    The achievements of the health planning component were modest (cost: US$0.04 million). The
Public Expenditure Review provided very useful recommendations to improve the efficiency and
cost-effectiveness of interventions in the sector, but many of the reconmnendations have not yet been
implemented. Although the overall planning and management capacity of the Ministry remains weak and
there is no systematic coordination of external assistance, the Ministry has been able to develop a coherent
health strategy. Only 7 percent of the project budget for this component was actually spent (Annex 2).
(d)    Under the school textbooks and education materials componenit (rated modest; cost: US$0.87
million) 10 titles were printed or reprinted and distributed to schools. Textbooks for basic education in the
areas of mathematics and social science were printed in sufficient quantities to cover all needs in the
country for grades I through 4. For grades 5 to 9, textbooks were printed in the areas of mathematics,
science, social studies, natural science and biology, and geography. Textbooks for Portuguese Language
were printed for all grades 1 through 11. Other textbooks such as physics, chemistry, history, English and
French were left in manuscript form in 1998, partially designed and tested but not printed, as the costs were
high and serious delays occurred in their procurement. A few of these have been printed and distributed
since then under other external assistance projects. Even though the printing of only 10 out of 50 titles
represents a serious shortfall of the target, it may still be judged satisfactory, as the original plan was
over-ambitious and possibly even inappropriate.
A cost recovery and management system for textbooks was established, but did not function as
intended. Many parents were not able to pay for the books or paid only partially, and many of those who
paid failed to return the books at the end of the year, as they did not understand that the payment was for
usage and not for the purchase of the books. The expansion of the central warehouse for textbooks was not
carried out as planned. As a consequence, there was sometimes no space in the warehouse when new
textbooks arrived, either because the original delivery schedule was not followed, or because the ones
already in the warehouse had not been distributed on time. The fumishing of educational materials did not
- 7 -



take place, as some people thought this could be handled entirely by the private sector. However, it has
been found that many children go without the needed materials because their parents cannot afford or are
unwilling to pay for them.
(e)    Under the education inspection component (rated substantial; cost: US$0.37 million) 7 out of 10
inspectors were trained, and they developed and implemented a plan of visits for the schools, consisting of
one visit per school per month in 1998 as compared to one visit per school every six months in 1995. The
fact that periodic visits of inspectors are taking place has reportedly made the teachers more responsible in
their work. Little progress has, however, been made on pedagogical support to teachers. Some offices for
inspectors were rehabilitated and vehicles and equipment purchased, but the means to cover recurrent costs
for the use of vehicles and equipment were often lacking.
(f)    Under the education planning component (rated negligible; cost: US$0.03 million) very little
progress was made on the strengthening of the education management information system. The system
remains weak and has weakened further since 1998 as the Planning and Statistics Department has
insufficient means to run its programs. Materials for better planning were procured, including computers.
The Public Expenditure Review provided very useful recommendations for the education sector, but many
of them have not yet been implemented. Only 14 percent of the estimated project budget for this component
was actually spent (Annex 2).
(g)    Additional infrastructure was constructed (rated satisfactory; cost: USS0.25 million) during the
extension phase, which was not originally included in the project. It consisted of 920m of new roads with
drains and 220m of road surfacing, a health post, 2 public stand posts and 2 clothes washing areas (see
Section 3.4).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Sufficient data were only available to do a Cost-Benefit analysis for the integrated malaria control
component. For this component the net present value is about US$4.87 million and the internal economic
rate of return (IERR) is 24 percent by using a discount rate of 8 percent. If one changes the discount rate to
10 percent the IERR becomes 26 percent (see Annex 3).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been very uneven and is rated in the overall
as moderate. Little success was achieved on the two components that were specifically designed for
capacity building, that is the strengthening of the health and educational planning capability in the two
Ministries. Likewise, the functioning of the educational inspectorate has only slightly improved (Section
4.2). On the other hand, the capacity for malaria diagnosis and treatment has significantly improved
(Section 4.1 and Annex 1, Table 2) and so has the distribution of essential drugs and textbooks. It appears
that the Ministry of Health is far ahead of the Ministry of Education in planning and program management.
The existing planning capacity in the Govemment has nevertheless produced some important
results: a PRSP was prepared, and a comprehensive national development strategy is under preparation,
based on consultation with a wide spectrum of civil society; some Ministries have prepared sector
development plans, again through consultation; and there has been an increased stability in the staffing of
development-related positions in the public sector since the beginning of the project. Consultants and NGOs
are actively participating in the development process. The merger of INDES and UNEX that is now
- 8 -



underway, both experienced project implementation units, into a new unified project implementation unit,
called ANEP, can be partly ascribed to the lessons learned from the implementation of this project. The
Government generally recognizes that planning, management, and donor coordination need to be much
improved. A start has been made to provide for the greater involvement of communities and for the greater
participation of the district administrations.
The collaboration between the Bank and the Borrower on involuntary resettlement and
compensation for economic activities that arose in the course of the project resulted in the development and
adoption of regulations and practices for resettlement in STP that are still in place. After an initial delay,
the Government established an inter-ministerial committee to oversee the resettlement and created a
resettlement "brigade." There were consultation meetings with community leaders, church leaders, NGOs
involved with small agricultural farmers, members of different political parties, and representatives of the
local administration.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There was no marked improvement in the economic conditions in the country during the project,
with corresponding difficulties in mobilizing government resources for development as well as recurrent
expenditures. There were also periods of political turbulence with frequent changes of government,
including one coup d 'etat.
In some instances procurement opportunities did not generate enough interest from potential firms
to provide for adequate competition. The required volumes were small, the transport costs high, the
technical specifications different from those of major world systems, and there were language difficulties
and what was seen as cumbersome procurement procedures. This caused delays in procurement and
possibly less favorable prices than those that would have been obtained through adequate competition.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Shortly after the signing of the Credit, the Ministry of Social Affairs was split into two, the
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture, and consequently, the PCU had to
collaborate with two ministries instead of one as originally planned. The sectoral ministries sometimes
lacked in decision making and enforcement capacity and the legislative backing (e.g. cost-recovery for
drugs, to relocate 80 dwellings, and to prevent houses from being built in restricted areas, such as along the
drains). Frequent changes of government, and consequently of ministers and directors contributed to the
delays up to the original closing date. There was a succession of four coordinators for the malaria control
component in the Ministry of Health during 1992 to 1997.
The Government's ability to contribute its share of project financing was severely limited. Four
months after the final closing date of the project, the Government had only contributed 36 percent of the
total agreed amount of counterpart funds for the period of September 1998 to June 2001 (i.e. the extension
period). At the time of the original closing date of June 1998 the disbursement lag was 32 percent.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The newly created Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was inadequately staffed and equipped and
lacked some of the technical skills required for project implementation. It had no authority over the
project-related decisions of the two Ministries it was serving, which resulted sometimes in long delays,
particularly with the drainage of swamps, purchase of essential drugs, and printing of textbooks. When the
project was extended in 1998, project implementation was delegated to INDES in consideration of its
previous experience with infrastructure projects. The fact that the project had the same coordinator
-9-



throughout its life, assisting INDES during the extension period, contributed significantly to its overall
success.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost estimate was US$12.03 million, of which US$11.4 million was IDA's
contribution and US$639,000 the Government's. US$10.9 million had been disbursed by the end of the
project, amounting to about 96 percent of the total IDA credit. The actual costs of most of the components
were in line with expectations, with the exception of the integrated malaria component and the management
and coordination components, which were higher than anticipated, and education planning, which was
much lower (see Annex 2 for details).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospects for the sustainability of the activities carried out under the project are quite uneven,
but in the overall the sustainability is considered likely. The variations were to be expected since this was a
multisector project, involving a variety of interventions and public agencies involved in implementation.
The assessment of sustainability of the main components is given below.
(a)    The sustainability of the improvements in malaria control is likely, although some interventions
may have been maintained at a lower level than during project implementation. The remarkable
achievements between 1995 and 1998 have continued since then: mosquito nets are being sold through
private channels (but the effectiveness of their use needs to be improved through education); plans have
been made to resume selective spraying; the use of cost recovery for essential drugs has allowed for a
steady supply, albeit not fully adequate; first-level treatment is very effective; and health personnel treat
malaria cases with a high degree of accuracy (see Section 4.1 and Annex 1). The Ministry of Health
recognizes the need to improve health planning and to better coordinate extemal assistance and is making
good use of other donor support to create a better planning capability.
(b)    The continuation of the supply of essential drugs supply is highly likely. It has been observed
during the November 2001 mission that three years after this project component was closed, there appears
to be a high degree of availability of essential drugs. This can be ascribed largely to a functioning cost
recovery system, good accountability for the funds collected, and a fairly efficient purchasing system.
(c)    The sustainability of the drainage works is likely. A Technical Audit Report prepared in
September 2001 warned that some newly constructed drainage works (which accounted for a large share of
the project costs) would fall into disrepair within a year if regular maintenance was not carried out. The
Government responded promptly with the appointment of a firm to do the maintenance and desilting. The
activities of this firm and the good state of the drainage works were observed during a site visit at the time
of the ICR mission in November 2001. In addition, many of the works are still in the liability period during
which the contractor is responsible for rectifying the defects. However, the solid waste management is
inadequate even in the capital city, which is likely to result in blocked canals in the long run and hazardous
environmental conditions. The habit of the residents to dam drains to create pools for clothes washing
sometimes causes flooding when it rains and is being addressed through public education campaigns and
through the construction of public clothes washing stands, to be financed through HPIC funds.
(d)    More needs to be done to familiarize the beneficiaries with the need for cost recovery and to
identify those who are truly in need of subsidies. The sustainability of the textbooks supply should be rated
likely to unlikely. While fewer titles of textbooks were prepared and printed than originally planned, the
- 10 -



Ministry of Education is making further efforts to improve the cost recovery for the distribution of
textbooks and has been able to reprint those titles that were prepared under the project. It is a policy of the
Government to recover at least part of the costs for services provided by the state for such items as water,
textbooks and drugs but the underlying legislation is often lacking as well as the accountability of the
collecting agents.
(e)    The education inspectorate is probably not sustainable, mainly due to the lack of funds to cover
recurrent expenditures. Overall, the quality of education is severely constrained by the use of the 3-shift
system due to a shortage of classrooms throughout the country.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.,
Activities on several components are being continued after financing through the project has
ceased, partly with other donor support (European Union, UNICEF, ADB, AFD, Portugal, and others).
The need for additional infrastructure works has been identified to rectify unforeseen problems (e.g.
newly-flooded areas) or as opportunities to make a greater impact (e.g. short side roads). The Government
plans to construct those that could not be done before the closing of the project through the use of HIPC
funds.
Many of the needs in the social sector can only be adequately met with the help of external
assistance, including for textbooks, school construction, and essential and anti-malaria drugs. Efforts to
improve malaria case management and to sell essential drugs and impregnated mosquito nets should be
continued, with an extension of cost recovery to all health facilities. The distribution of mosquito nets needs
to be intensified with the opening of new sales points in schools and in Bamako Initiative community
committees.
A World Bank project identification mission took place in November 2001, around the time of the ICR
mission, to consider the possibility of preparing a Social Sector Support Project with the primary aim of
supporting programs of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
In retrospect, and considering the unsatisfactory rating on the Quality at Entry (Section 3.5), the
Bank's performance on project preparation was unsatisfactory. While most of the components were in
themselves well prepared (except for the drainage works), insufficient consideration was given to the
institutional and economic environment of STP. Because of the limited implementation capacity of the
implementing agencies, the Bank team advised rightly on the participation of third parties in the
implementation of several components, including UNICEF for the procurement of drugs, pesticides,
mosquito nets and office and general equipment; the Gulbenkian Foundation for the procurement of
textbooks; and SIF for assistance with disbursement and other Bank-related procedures.
Some aspects of the project design were ill conceived. The filling-in of swamps and drainage works
involves a kind of procurement and contract management which is different from that of health and
education interventions. It would probably have been better to entrust their execution from the start to an
agency with experience in this field, which was in fact done in 1998 for the 3-year project extension when
INDES was contracted to implement the additional infrastructure works.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The composition of the supervision team was often
- 11 -



inadequate to cover the range of specialties needed, and three times the interval between missions came to
about one year, but this took place in the face of a severe budget constraint due to the small size of the
country and in the absence of a local World Bank office that could otherwise have provided additional
support. Up to the initial closing date in 1998, supervision was carried out by specialists from human
development, and during the following three years from infrastructure. This meant that the infrastructure
works were not adequately supervised during the period up to the original closing date, and the sectoral
conditions in health and education were not adequately supervised during the extension period. The poor
quality of civil works during the first phase of the project can largely be attributed to the absence of
infrastructure specialists in supervision. Vice versa, the deterioration in the education sector had gone
largely unnoticed during the last few years of the project, when supervision was carried out by
infrastructure specialists. This, combined with frequent changes in the team leader, contributed to shortfalls
in implementing some of the components. There were also delays in the approval process and, in some
cases contradictory advice was given to the Borrower. Within these limitations, most supervision missions
contributed substantially to the progress of the project by providing operational and sectoral advice in their
areas of specialization.
The handling by the Bank of resettlement in connection with the drainage works is noteworthy.
Apparently this aspect was not considered important at the preparation stage, since only a few people were
thought to be affected. Only during implementation did the Bank draw the attention of the Government to
the need for an adequate resettlement plan with compensation. When an agreement was finally reached with
the Borrower, the design was adjusted, particularly for roads, to keep the number of dwellings that had to
be demolished or moved to a minimum, that is to about 400 people. After the works were completed, many
of the resettled people moved back to the area where they came from, attracted by the better living
conditions created by the new roads and/or by reduced flooding (see also Section 6.1).
7.3 Overall Bankperformance.
The Bank's performance on project preparation had some good points, which were however
outweighed by the unsatisfactory Quality at Entry rating as evaluated by today's standards. With a
satisfactory rating for supervision, the overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation is rated unsatisfactory, as it left the lead for most of the detailed
project preparation was left to the Bank, which also contributed to the slow pace of initial implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
In spite of the adverse conditions prevailing during project implementation (see Section 5), the
efforts made in project implementation have resulted in a substantial outcome in the overall and are
therefore rated satisfactory. The government did not provide the necessary guidance and support to the
PCU. Long delays occurred on the selection of swamps and flood prone areas to be drained, resettlement,
and the establishment of the cost-recovery mechanisms for drugs and textbooks.
Although it was agreed that all drugs under the project would be procured through UNICEF, in
1995 the project bought US$80,000 worth of drugs directly from a private firm without competition and
without agreeement from the Bank, ata price much higher than what lNICEF would have provided. A
misprocurement was declared and the amount refunded by the Government.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
In the overall, the performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. The PCU, which
- 12-



was established in 1992, was overall in charge of the project up to the original closing date of June 1998. It
did not have sufficient capacity to carry out all the various tasks of planning, procuring, accounting, and
reporting, and it lacked the necessary sectoral competencies. On the other hand, the fact that the project had
the same Coordinator from November 1992 to the end contributed significantly to its overall success in
spite of the various problems that were encountered.
When the project was extended in 1998 to carry out more infrastructure works (see Section 3.4),
the Government disbanded the PCU and handed over the responsibility for further project implementation
to INDES for a fixed management fee. INDES had experience through the implementation of the two
previous multisector projects and completed the work in the extension period without major delays; it was
assisted by the original Project Coordinator.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower perfornance is satisfactory. The problems that occurred during project
implementation were in large part due to problems with the overall design of the project (see Section 3.5)
and political turbulence with frequent changes of government. In spite of the adverse conditions (Section 5!
and considering the low overall institutional capacity in STP. the Borrower was able to implement the
project to a large extent with a fair amount of success, calling for a satisfactory performance rating.
8. Lessons Learned
Most of the lessons learned are about project design, which in retrospect appears to have been the
weakest aspect of the project. The components may have yielded a high impact in another country context,
but some gave only modest results in STP.
>     The specific countrv conditions should be taken more into consideration in project design. The
assumption in the project that the economic difficulties were temporary and could be bridged by the project
turned out to be wrong, limiting the impact of the project. It would have been more effective to develop a
long-term multisector support approach in coordination with other donors. The stipulation of actions as
conditions of disbursement for specific components should have been avoided: they caused long delays
and, finally, shortfalls in the delivery of outputs (see Section 3.5).
>     The scope of a project should be sufficiently comprehensive to have an impact. In this project the
health component with its integrated support to the malaria program was much more successful than the
education component, which included only select aspects and did not address the severe limitations to the
quality of primary education imposed by the 3-shift system.
>     A multisector approach to project lending is more efficient in a small country setting, but project
objectives should not be too ambitious and should focus instead on a few priorities in each sector. A large
number of subcomponents may lead to poor results on some of the components, especially given the weak
institutional capacity of the Borrower.
>     Vertical programs for malaria control can have a significant impact on specific health problems
over a short period. To sustain the results over time, vertical programs have to be complemented by the
strengthening of the broader health system, in order to mainstream interventions such as the vector control
and case management of malaria. This calls for a more long-term support perspective. While the case
management for malaria control improved significantly in the project, as evidenced by decreased case
fatality rates, the incidence rates for malaria continue to be high.
- 13 -



The construction of drainage works should be done in the framework of a strategic plan that
includes (i) a master plan for the utilization of wetlands, (ii) evidence that improving drainage will
significantly reduce the incidence of malaria, if the objective is malaria control; (iii) the prior involvement
of the affected communities, (iv) an environmental impact assessment, (v) an adequate resettlement plan
and (vi) a plan for the utilization of any newly-created land, based on adequate legislation.
Sk    There should be more comrnunity participation in the planning and implementation of some
activities. In some instances people did not cooperate with the adaptations needed for the construction of
drainage works in their neighborhood and even opposed the works initially. Many households have
encroached on the 5 m free zone along the canals that was marked with concrete posts. There is no cost
recovery for stand posts and clothes washing areas, and much water is wasted, to the extent that the water
company in the city is reluctant to connect more stand posts. Parents did not respond well initially to the
cost recovery for the use of textbooks, largely due to a lack of understanding about the purpose and
organization of the cost recovery system.
>     A multisector project in a very small country requires nearly as much operational resources for
World Bank teams as a project in a larger country, otherwise some components get insufficient attention,
and supervision intervals become too long. The fact that there is usually no local World Bank office in
small countries increases the need .for more frequent supervision.
9. Partner Comments
(a,) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agency, and to some extent the Government, commented on two previous drafts
of the ICR, and these comments were taken into consideration during the revisions. The World Bank team
received three end-of-project evaluation reports, written for different purposes by the implementing agency
and the Government, but none constitute the official version that expresses the views of the Government.
The three evaluation reports are included in Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents.
(b) Coflinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
None
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A. Impact Indicators for Health (Malaria only)
Table 1. Performance Indicators for Malaria Treatment in and outside Hospitals - Intra-hospital case
fatality rate, 1995-2000
1995       1996        1997        1998        1999        2000
Malaria cases              7241        6356        5110        N/A         7775       10805
Malaria Deaths               233         328         180         N/A         17          181
Case Fatality Rate          3.20/       5.2%        3.5%        N/A         2.3%        1.7%
(CFR)                                         _ _  _  _    _ _  _ _  _  _  _ _
<5 yrs CFR                 3.4%        5.4%        3.9%        N/A         2.5%        1.8%
5+ yrs CFR                  2.9%'      4.4%        2.5%        N/A         1.7%        1.3%
Source: Centro Nacional de Endemias (CNE), 1998
Note: No clinical hospital data for 1998 from the main hospital, Dr. Ayres de Menezes Hospital, are available
which makes comparisons of 1998 with other years impossible. The Hospital has the highest level of referrals in
the country and will therefore treat the most severe cases with the highest fatality rate. Without data from the Dr.
Ayres de Menezes hospital the CFR in 1998 was 0.8%, the <5 yrs CFR was 1.1%, and the 5+ yrs CFR was 0.5%.
Comparing data for the mid-90s with the data of later years 1999 and 2000, one notices a marked improvement of
clinical performance as measured through reduced case fatality rate, which would indicate continuing benefits of
the project activities and continuing national support for these.
Table 2. Performance Indicators, National Malaria Survey in First Level Facilit es, 1995 and 1997.
1995               1997
Correct diagnostics in health facility
-Treatment protocol available                                0%                 81.8%
-Elements of clinical diagnostics correctly done             16%                57%
-Differential diagnosis correctly made                       0%                 28.6%
Correct treatment
-Proper prescription                                         50%                71%
-Correct dosage                                              33%                 71%
Availability of rirst line Malaria drugs
-Facilities with stock ruptures for Chloroquine in previous 2
weeks                                                        76%                 36%
-No Chloroquine or Aspirin at time of survey in health post  53%                 18%
Proper advice given to mothers
-About 3-day duration of treatment                           86%                 88%
-Additional treatment with Aspirin in case of continuing     29%                 88%
fever
-Bathing in case of fever                                    0%                  62%
-Criteria for referral                                       0%                 62%
Communication
-Listens well to the mother and checks her understanding     0%                 100%
Exit survey of mothers at health facility
-Knows the malaria drug just received                       100%                100%
-Knows the treatment schedule                                38%                 50%
-Knows the duration of the treatment                         31%                 50%
-Knows the signs of severe malaria necessitating a return to
the facility or hospital                                     8%                  62%
Source: Centro Nacional de Endemias (CNE), 1998.
- 15-



Note: The above data show a big improvement in the performance of first level facilities for all indicators. Other
performance surveys were carried out by CNE in 1999 and 2000, but followed a methodology different from the
one used in 1995 and 1997. The data show a correct performance for 88 percent of the surveyed facilities in 1999
and 82 percent in 2000.
Table 3. Outcome/impact indicators for Malaria, 1995-2000.
Outome indicators          1995        1996       1997        1998        1999          2000
Confirmed Malaria
Cases
Cases in Agua Grande       23728       20696      22496       2054        11661          19418
Total Malaria Cases        44766       39898      4244        37973       2827          42780
Cases in A.G./ Total       53.0/      51.9%       53.0%       54.10/      41.20/        45.4%
Total Case rate            3390/      29.5%       30.60/      26.80/      19.50/        28.9%
Knowledge attitude
and practices
Proportion of                                   15%                    57%      40% of
population using                                                                households
Insecticide                                                                     have at least 2
impregnated bed nets                 9%                                         bed nets
Correct use of bed nets        _    33%         53%
Source: Centro Nacional de Endemias (CNE), 1998
Notes:
1. The number of Malaria cases in Agua Grande as a proportion of the national number of malaria cases has
substantially decreased over the duration of the project. This may at least partially be due to the effect of the local
drainage interventions in Agua Grande under the project, since all other malaria interventions had a national
coverage.
2. Over a third of the population --30.9 percent of men, 37.2 percent of women and 38.8 percent of children under
the age of five-- was protected by bed nets in 1999, compared to almost none in the early nineties. Families have
on average 2 bed nets. Small children often sleep with their parents, protected by the same net. Protection can be
further improved by increasing the proportion of people using nets, correct usage and following a correct
impregnation schedule. The health center is the main source of information on malaria for the population (34
percent), followed by community meetings (22 percent) and the radio (21 percent).
3. The reduction of malaria cases is only moderate and does not show the same substantial improvement as the
clinical performance data. It seems therefore that more attention should be paid to further strengthen preventive
measures.
- 16-



B. Impact Indicators for Education
Indicator                    Baseline             Projected in SAR        ActuaVlLatest
Estimate
Improve the frequency of     One inspection visit   One inspection visit per    One inspection visit
educational inspection visits    per school every 6  school per month in  per school every 3
and provide pedagogical      months in 1995; no    1998; pedagogical      months in 2000; no
support                      pedagogical support  support provided        pedagogical support
Create the capacity to prepare   Insufficient     Capacity established    MOE participated
sectoral plans and to coordinate                                          actively in the PER;
external assistance in the                                                several measure to
education sector                                                          improve the efficiency
of basic education
were implemented
following the PER's
recommendations
- 17 -



C. Output Indicators
Indicator                    Baseline             Projected in SAR        Actual/Latest
Estimate
HEALTH
Program of insecticide spraying  No               Yes                     No
carried out
Construction of drainage works  None                                      9.7 km
with reinforced concrete lining
in the Agua Grande district
Sale of impregnated mosquito    None                                      50,000
nets to households
Adoption of essential drugs  No                   Yes                     Yes
policy
Supply of essential drugs    None                To meet Sao Tome's       3 years' requirement
requirement for 3 years    met
(1993-1995)
Establishment of cost recovery   No               Yes                     Partial
and revolving fund mechanism
to achieve the recovery of full
replacement costs of drugs after
the third year
Strengthening the Health     None                3 staff, including a     3 staff recruited
Planning Directorate of the                       statistician/economist and
Planning and Management                           a public health nurse
Information Unit
Consolidate, further develop,    No               Yes                     MIS established but
and implement the MIS for                                                 not effectively used
health established under the
Multisector Project
EDUCATION
Introduction of cost recovery for No             Yes                      The costs are
the distribution of textbook                                              recovered for most
__________________                           textbooks but not all.
Printing and distribution of  No                  50 titles               10 titles printed and
textbooks to equip all primary                                            distributed
and secondary schools with the
necessary textbooks between
1997 and 2000
Distribution of educational  None                 A small amount          None
materials, including notebooks
and pencils over a three year
period until private sector
imports meet requirements
Establish an MIS in education   None              MIS established and used   MIS continues to be
effectively             developed with
assistance from
UNICEF
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
1. Integrated Malaria Control                        7.16           9.07           126
2. Essential Drugs                                   0.91           0.35             38
3. Health Planning                                   0.51           0.04             7
4. School Textbooks and Education Material           0.98           0.87             88
5. Education Inspection                              0.26           0.37            142
6. Education Planning                                0.22           0.03             14
7. Management and Coordination                       0.29           0.85           293
8. Urban Roads                                       0.00           0.25
Total Baseline Cost                                 10.33          11.83
Physical Contingencies                              1.03
Price Contingencies                                 0.68
Total Project Costs            12.04           11.83
Total Financing Required             12.04          11.83
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB          Other        N.B.F.     To41 Cost
1. Works                     4.50          0.74         0.00         0.00         5.24
(4.50)       (0.74)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (5.24)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         3.75         0.00         3.75
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.75)       (0.00)        (3.75)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         1.62         0.00         1.62
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.62)       (0.00)        (1.62)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.91         0.52         1.43
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.79)       (0.00)        (0.79)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      4.50         0.74         6.28          0.52        12.04
(4.50)       (0.74)       (6.16)       (0.00)       (11.40)
- 19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category          ICB            NcB           Othe2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          5.67           0.67           0.34           0.15           6.83
(5.67)         (0.67)         (0.34)         (0.00)         (6.68)
2. Goods                          0.00           0.02           2.01           0.08          2.11
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.01)         (0.00)         (2.01)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           1.87           0.00           1.87
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.87)         (0.00)         (1.87)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.37           0.58           0.95
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.37)         (0.00)         (0.37)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          5.67           0.69           4.59           0.81          11.76
(5.67)         (0.67)         (4.59)         (0.00)        (10.93)
Figures in parenthesis are the arnounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2! Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project nmanagement office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govenmment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1                              1                               Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate       [    Actual/Latest Estimate     P          o Aprasa
IDA       Govt.     CoF.       IDA       Govt.      CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF
1. Integrated Malaria     7.92       0.59                 9.07      0.40               114.5   67.8
Control
2. Essential Drugs        1.03       0.00                 0.35      0.00                34.0    0.0
3. Health Planning        0.56       0.00                 0.04      0.00                7.1    0.0
4. School Textbooks and   1.08       0.02                 0.87       0.05               80.6   250.0
Education Materials
5. Education Inspection   0.27       0.02                 0.37      0.01                137.0   50.0
6. Education Planning     0.24       0.00                 0.03      0.01                12.5    0.0
7. Coordination           0.30       0.00                 0.85      0.02               283.3   0.0
8. Urban roads            0.00       0.00                 0.25       0.01               0.0    0.0
Total                     11.40      0.63                11.80       0.50               103.5   79.4
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
It is important to note from the onset the paucity of data available for doing a reliable Cost-Benefit
analysis. The SAR did not provide any baseline data, and data collected during the ICR mission are
limited. Sufficient data were however available for the Integrated Malaria Control Component to do an
economic analysis of the results for this component.
Despite missing data on total benefits accrued for five out of the nine years, the analysis shows a
positive net present value of about US$4.87 million and an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 24
percent, using a discount rate of 8 percent. The IERR with a 10 percent discount rate is 26 percent. The 8
percent discount rate is used as it has been used in previous ICR cost benefit analyses (e.g. Brazil Malaria
Control Project Loan 3072-BR) with the justification that the investment involves a public good and should
therefore have a discount rate of less than the 10 percent used for private consumption goods. Between
1997 and 2000 the project averted about 480 deaths, which translated into 27,251 potential years of lives
saved (mostly among children under five), which resulted in total cost savings of US$9.2 million (See the
table below).
The Cost Effectiveness Index (CEI), or the cost per year of life saved is estimated to be US$272.
This is higher than what is conventionally considered an "attractive investment" (defined for Sub-Saharan
African countries by the WHO as less than US$150 per year saved). However, as data on benefits for 5
out of the 9 years of the project are missing, the actual cost per year saved is likely to be much lower and
more within the range of an "attractive investment".
There has not been much improvement in the incidence of malaria cases, but there has been a
marked improvement in diagnosis, correct treatment and advice and availability of first line malaria drugs
(see Table 2 in Annex 1). Between 1995 and 2000, in-hospital malaria cases increased substantially, from
7241 to 10,805, while the in-hospital case fatality rate (CFR) dropped by more than half, from 35 per 1000
to 16 per 1000. Children under five years of age account for about 80 percent of all deaths due to malaria
in Sao Tom&. In-hospital malaria deaths for children under five years of age declined by almost a half,
from 34 per 1000 to 18 per 1000, during the same period.
This analysis is a conservative estimate as it only considers cost savings related to averted deaths
and does not include direct cost savings of averted malaria cases. Nor does it include other indirect costs
involved, such as for transportation and the preventative actions taken by households and the communities.
Nonetheless, the benefits show a significant positive impact of the malaria component of the project.
The economic analysis is based on a stream of benefits and costs estimated, using available data
over the project implementation period. The main assumptions are:
*   As there was no base line data to estimated the number of malaria cases averted during the
project's implementation period, it was calculated as the difference between the actual number of
malaria deaths and the expected number of malaria death if the case fatality rate (CFR) had been
constant at the 1996 rate (first year of available data) of 11 per 1000, assuming that the CFR has
been at least at this rate during the early years of the project.
*   The number of malaria deaths averted are calculated for children under five years and for the
population over five years separately, assuming children constitute 80 percent of malaria related
deaths.
- 21 -



*   The benefits constitute potential years of life saved and are valued at per capita income (constant
1995 US$). Potential years of life saved are calculated as the difference between the average age
of death due to malaria and the average life expectancy at birth, which is 64 years for Sao Tome.
The average age of death for children under five is assumed to be 2.5 years and for over five
population it is assumed to be 26 years, as most over five deaths usually occur among women of
child-bearing age and less so among the elderly.
Table: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary of Integrated Malaria Control Component
1993-2000, (US$)
Year     Benefits     Costs        Net Benefits  NPV (8%)      NPV (10%)
1993            0        2,080        -2,080        -2,247      -2,288
1994            0      156,568      -156,568      -182,621     -189,447
1995            0    2,321,910    -2,321,910    -2,924,938   -3,090,462
1996            0    2,203,732    -2,203,732    -2,998,153   -3,226,484
1997    3,894,046      678,202      3,215,844    4,725,131    5,179,150
1998     1,815,089     324,703      1,490,386     2,365,055    2,640,310
1999     1,417,536     364,918      1,052,617     1,804,001    2,051,253
2000    2,064,366     1 361,679      702,688      1,300,626    1,506,274
-_ -   -  _l_
Internal E conomic Rate of Return (IERR)                   24%1        26%/]
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
November 1990                2   Task Manager/Education
Specialist, Health Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1991                    2   Task Manager/Education
Specialist, Consultant
Supervision
June 1992                     3   Education Specialist,               S             HS
Economist, Public Health
Specialist (TL)
May 1993                      2   Project Officer (TL), Urban          S            HS
Resettlement Specialist
November 1993                 3   Education Specialist, Public         S            HS
Health Specialist (TL)
August 1994                   1   Education Specialist                S              S
December 1994                 1   Public Health Specialist (TL)       S              S
May 1995                      1   Public Health Specialist (TL)       S              S
November 1995                 6   2 Public Health Specialist (TL), 2   S             S
Education Specialist, Financial
Analyst, Education Planner.
November 1996                 5   Economist, Public Health             S             S
Specialist (TL), Education
Specialist, Financial Analyst,
Books Procurement Specialist
December 1997                 4   Public Health Specialist (TL),       S             S
Education Specialist, Accounting
Specialist, Books Procurement
Specialist.
July 1998                     1   Project Officer/Economist (TL)       S             S
January 1999                  1   Project Officer/Economist (TL)       S             S
July 1999                     1   Project Officer/Economist (TL)       S             S
November 1999                 3   Project Officer/Economist (TL),      S             S
Team Assistant, Financial
Analyst
September 2000                I   Engineer (TL)                        S             S
ICR
November 2001                3    Task Manager/Engineer, Sr.           S             S
Public Health Specialist,
Consultant
- 23 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle     L                 Actual/Latest Estimate
r___ _ _ _   No. Staff weeks          US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   8.7                           19.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                       44.8                          110.5
Supervision                                136.3                         374.8
ICR                                           1.5                           5.5
Total                                      191.3                         510.5
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3Sector Policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
I Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
0 Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
3 Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
El Lending                                            OHS OS   *U   OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS   Ou   O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS Os   * u   O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   OHS *OS         U  O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    ESTRATEGIA NACIONAL DE REDUCAO DA POBREZA: Ministerio Do Planeamento e
Financas (Novembro 2001)
2.     Auditoria Tecnica ao Projecto de Drenagem Pluvial (Technical Audit to the Storm Drainage
Design)
3.     Carta Politica Para 0 Sector de Infra-Estruturas (Draft: Mario Alexandre Guerreiro Antao - Maio
2000)
4.     Carta Politica Sectorial - Avaliacao Estrategicia - Executive Sumnmary (draft-Mario Alexandre
Guerreirao Antao)
5.     Relatorio De Encerramento Do Projecto de Drenagem Pluvial: Comentarios Do INDES
6.     Projecto de Drenagem Pluvial: Convencao de Execucio (Setembro 1998)
7.     SAO TOME E PRINCIPE: Diario Da Republica
8.     SAO TOME E PRINCIPE: Country Economic Memorandum and Key Elements of an
Environmental Strategy
9.     Audit Technique et Financier des Ouvrages d'Assainissement et de Voirie en Cours d'Execution
(Rapport Final-Juin 1997) - YTC-INASTEC
10.   FONDS AFRICAIN DE DEVELOPPEMENT: Programme d'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable,
d'Assainissement et de Lutte contre les Maladies d'Origine Hydrique (Rapport d'Evaluation)
11.    RELATORIO TtRMINO DO PROJECTO - Commentarios Do Govemo - Draft
- 27 -



- 28 -



