Document of
''The World Bank
F FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
tICROFICHE; COpY
Report No. 10141-STP Type: (SAR)
UPADHYAY, ' X34907 / J6 089/ AF4PH                      ReportNo.1O141STP
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rpr No 104-T
*  STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
.'HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
A . 
Populationi.4nd Human R'isources Division
Western Africa Department
TM~s do'cument has a rtstricted disitibutionl and tmay be utsed by recipients only in the Peromnef
their official duties. Its cohmtents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorizationt.



OJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS (Dece.mber 2. 1991)
Currency Unit =      Dobras (Db)
*                                 ~~~~~~~        ~~     ~~US$1.0  = 278.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASUJRES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
ADB           -.African Development Bank
ASC           -.Agentes comunitarios (Community Health Agents)
DRSTP         -.Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
GOSTP         -.Governmient of Sao Tome and Principe
IDA           -.International Development Association
MCH           -*Maternal and Child Health
MEP           - Missao de Erradicacao do Paludismo
(Malaria Eradication Program)
MOEC          -Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH            Ministry of Health
MOSA          -Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO           -Non-Government Organization
Radda
Barnen       -A Swedish NGO  "Save the Children"
SIF           -Social and Infrastructure Fund
(Fundo Social e de Infraestrutura)
STP           - Sao Tome and Principe
UNICEF        - United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
',UNDP         - United Nations Development Programme
UPIG          - Unidade de Planiflcacao e Informacoes para Gestao
(Planning and Management Information Unit)
NFP           - World Food Program
WHO           - World Health Organiization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPULICQ OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEAL=E AND ETIOAN PR91=C
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CRIT AND PROJECT SUMMARy .............................   iii
I. INIClTL.ON .1
II. POPULATION, HEALTH, NU1TRON AND EDT.ATION SETRS ....    1
A. POPULATION .....................                              .         .1
1. Status.1
2. Issues .....................,                                                     2
B. HEALTH.                                                                                2
1. Health Care System.                                                               2
2. Health Status.                                                                    2
3. Health Financing.. 3
4. Main Sector Issues.                                                               3
C. NUTRITION.                                                                             4
1.Staus..                                                                                4
2. Issues.                                                                           4
D. EDUCATION.                                                                             4
1. Education System   .........             ..........................               4
2. Status of Education System   .............................                        5
3. Education Financing ..................................                            6
4. Main Sector Issues .........             ..........................               6
E. SECTOR ORGANIZATION ..............................   7
F. BANK GROUP STRATEGY . .....................                                            7
G. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .  ...........................                                   7
H. RATIONALE FOR  DA INVOLVEMENT  .....................                                   8
I.  STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION  ...........                       ...........          8
This eport i baod upon the findings of the project appraisal ad postappr    missions led by Mr. J. Upadhyay. The
appais  miuion memben included Mmea/Messrr. do Paez (Educator, AP4PH), Boisnovaky (Public Health Consultuat).
A. Cruz Marques (Maaria Control Consultuat), L. Braga (Educator, Gulbenkian Foundation). Dr. B. Lie  and Mn. E.
Nkwana were the Lead advisors for hedth and education eotors, rpectively. Mn. M. Rios an Mr. K. McLean
ptovided ecrearial support in the preparaion of the report. Mr.. anet do Merode nd Mr. Edwin Lim ae the marnaging
Division Chief and the Depatment Director, upectively, for the opertion.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii -
Il. TH13PROJE   -    ................................        .  .  . .  .  . .  9
A. Project Objectives ................................ 9
B. Project Composition ..........................,,                         9
C. Rationale for Subproject Selection ..........     ............... 9
D. Project Description .........................  10
E. Project Costs and Financing .........................  14
F. Project Size and Sustainability ..,. 16
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .17
A. Project Management and Coordination .17
B. Institution Building and Staff Training .                               18
C. Project Monitoring and Reporting .19
D. Mid-Term Review ..................................... .... 19
E. Environmental Impact .                                                  19
F. Procurement .                                                           20
G. Disbursement .                                                          21
H. Accounting and Auditing .23
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .                                                23
VI. AGREEMENAS REACHED AND RECMMENDATION .                                     24
ANNEXES
2-1  Demographic Indicators of Selected Countries .                        26
2-2 Population by Age Groups .                                             27
2-3  Morbidity, 1985, 1986, 1987 and 1988 .                                28
2-4 Structure of Education System .                                        29
2-5 Status of Education System .                                           30
3-1 Malaria Control Sub-Project .                                          31
3-2 Essential Drugs Sub-Project .                                          49
3-3 Health Planning Sub-Project .                                          57
3-4    Textbooks and Educational Materials Sub-Project .                   63
3-5  Education Inspection Sub-Project .                                    75
3-6 Education Planning Sub-Project .                                       79
3-7  Project Management and Coordination .                                 82
4-1    Summary of Project Costs and Financing Plan ......... ............ 85
4-2    Implementation Schedule .............................. 87
4-3    Disbursement Schedule . .............................. 88
4-4    Supervision Plan .........         ..................... 90
5.1    Documents in Project File ..............................   91



- iii-
J2EMOCRATIC REPUBLIC QOF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (DRSTP).
Beneficiarie:   The Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA).
Credit Amount:  SDR 8.2 million (US$11.4 million equivalent).
Trmns:          Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Project
Desription:    The project would assist the- Government of STP to reverse the recent declines
in the health and educational status of the population. In health, the project
would support: a comprehensive program to control malaria; the provision of
essential drugs; and the strengthening of health planning. In education, the
project would support: the provision of school textbooks and educational
materials; strengthening of schools inspection at the primary level; and the
improvements in education planning. In both sectors, the main institutional
reform goals would be to improve efficiency in service delivery and to
improve the utilization of existing resources and mobilization of additional
resources. These goals would be achieved through the improvements in
planning, management information and external assistance coordination and
through the program of cost recovery from the distribution of essential drugs
and school textbooks. The project would also include a limited number of
studies in very high priority areas, including nutrition, family planning and
community involvement in social sector. These studies would be aimed at
improving the understanding of the issues and constraints and recommending
suitable interventions.
Project Benefits
and Risks:   The control of malaria would directly benefit the entire population by reducing
human sufferings and economic loss caused by this disease which accounts for
over one-half of all medical consultations in the country. The provision of
essential drugs would make health care more effective. Textbooks,
educational materials and the improved school inspection would have an
immediate effect in improving the quality of education. Finally, improvement
in planning and management would help better utilize the domestic and
external resources in both the health and education sectors.
The main project risks are the low implementation capacity of the STP
institutions and the shortages of trained staff. A number of safeguards are
built into the project to minimize the effects of these risks. Firstly, technical
assistance would be provided to MOSA for improvements in planning and
management information capacities in each sector. Secondly, implementing
capacity of each agency would be strengthened as necessary. For example,



- iv -
the Malaria Eradication Program, which would implement the largest
subproject, would receive technical assistance, incremental staff, and training.
Thirdly, services of the Social and Infrastructure Fund (the Fundo Social e de
Infraestrutura or SIP) would be used to assist concerned agencies in specific
implementation tasks, including the application of IDA's procurement and
disbursement practices, Fourthly, conmitments have been received from
external partners to provide implementation assistance for key sub-projects;
for example, from the Gulbenkian Foundation (for the textbooks and education
inspection sub-projects) and UNICEF ( for the essential drugs sub-project).
Finally, key institutional measures (like the establishment of the Project
Coordination Conmittee and the appointment of a Project Coordinator) were
advanced for completion before the Credit negotiations.
Proqject Cost
and Financing:
Estimated Costs (In US$ Thousands)
Proiect Components                 Local     Foreign   Tota
Malaria Control                     1,775    5,385      7,160
Essential Drugs                      77        828       905
Health Planning                      68        446       514
Textbook and Materials               61        922       983
Education Inspection                 93        169       262
Education Planning                   57        158       215
Management and Coordination          240       50        290
Total Base Costs                     2371     L2i       10,329
Physical Contingencies               237       796      1,033
Price Contingencies                  396       281       677
TOTAL COSTS                        3.004     20        12,039
Einancing Plan (US$ Thousands):
IDA                                2,365      9,035    11,400
Government of STP                    639       -         639
Total                           3.4       9.035    12.039
Estimated Credit Disbursements In US$ million):
IDA Fiscal Years:                       FY    FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Annual                           1.0   3.5   3.5    2.0   0.8   0.6
Cumulative                       1.0   4.5   8.0   10.0  10.8  11.4



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOMBn AND PRINC PE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Prihcipe (STP) consists of two islands
in the Gulf of Guinea. It occupies an area of about 1,000 square kilometers. One-third of its
total population of 120,000 (in 1990) lives In and around the capital -- Sao Tome.
1.02         At independence in 1975, STP emerged from five centuries of Portuguese
colonization with an economy overwhelmingly oriented toward the production and export of a
single crop, cocoa, virtually all of which was produced on estate plantations. Over the last
several years, the production of cocoa as well as its international prices declined sharply and
created serious economic difficulties. The estimated GNP per capita i1 1990 was US$380,
compared to US$410 in 1975. In response, the Government of STP moved to readjust its
economy in early 1987. A Structural Adjustment Program with IDA assistance was approved in
June 1987 and a second program was approved in June 1990.
1.03         STP made remarkable progress in health and education sectors after independence.
As a result, social indicators place STP well above most sub-Saharan countries. As stated below
(paragraphs 2.05 and 2.17), practically the whole population of STP has access to health facilities,
including strong maternal and child health care services, and almost all primary age children go to
schools. However, the recent economic difficulties have very seriously eroded the quality of the
social services. The Government realizes that it would need significant restructuring of the
policies and programs in these sectors, as well as substantial external assistance, if it is to reverse
the declines. The proposed project was prepared in response to the Government's request and it
is consistent with the World Bank's sector strategies in STP.
H. POPULATION. HEALTH. NUTRITION AND EDUCATION SECTORS
A.    Population
1.    Stu
2.01         In 1990, the population of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) was estimated at 120,000
and its population density ranged from about 20 people per km2 in Caue District to over 3,700
people per km2 in Agua Grande District, which includes the nation's capital. Nearly 20% of the
total population was below five years of age and 46% were below 15 years of age in 1989. The
country's demographic situation has been worsening in recent years. Its crude birth rate in 1988
was 36.7 per thousand; its mortality rate increased from 11.5 per thousand in 1988 to 12.5 in
1989. Overall, the estimated rate of population growth for 1989 was at 2.6%. The latest official
estimate puts the fertility rate at 5.4 in 1984. UNICEF's estimate for 1987 showed that the
fertility rate of STP women was 7.18, with less than two years between births in 70% of cases.
2.02         Although STP has no official population policy or formal family planning (FP)
program, the country's maternal and child health (MCH) program provides limited FP advice and



2-
services. There are also a number of FP related activities carried out by various external
agencies, The enrollment in the available FP services has been very slow and the contraceptive
utilization rate is estimated at below 10%.
2.
2.03         Short intervals between births, a growing number of pregnancies among young
women, large family size (average 8 persons) and unstable marital unions, especially given the
country's current social and economic instability, are producing a high risk of death, disease and
malnutrition to surviving children and their mothers. High rates of population growth and recent
economic declines have been associated with a growing infant mortality and reductions in
deliveries attended by health workers (paragraph 2.06); decline in nutritional conditions
(paragraph 2.12); and a severe shortage of primary school classrooms (paragraph 2.17).
B.    Health
i.    Health Care Systm
2.04         Being a smail country, health facilities in STP are geographically accessible to the
entire population. The first contacts for primary health care are the community health agents,
agentes de saude comunitarios (ASCs). The ASCs are cocoa plantation workers who serve as
part-time primary health workers in their communities. The Ayres de Menezes Hospital (which is
the largest hospital, with 315 beds) and the Agostinho Neto Hospital represent the national
reference centers. These two and the Mont Cafe Hospital, all located within fifteen kilometers of
the capital, are the country's best hospitals. At the intermediate level, there are also four other
types of units: Health Posts, Ruzral Health Centers, Urban Health Centers and District Health
Centers. There are 25 health posts and 15 rural and urban health centers in the country. They
are headed by auxiliary health nurses and are practically the same in terms of both functions and
staffing. Each District has a District Health Center, except the capital, which consist of a 30-40
bed hospital including a maternity ward.
2.    Health Status
2.05         STP has made remarkable progress in improving the health of its population since
its independence in 1975. Its health indicators rank high compared to other countries in sub-
Saharan Africa (ANNEX 2-1). As stated, the whole population has access to health facilities;
most pregnant women are attended by health workers; most infants receive medical care with over
90% immunized against major illnesses; and life expectancy at birth is high, 64 years.
2.06         However, the country's health conditions have deteriorated rapidly during the
second half of the 1980s. The number of births at the maternity centers declined from 85% in
1985 and 86% in 1987 to about 50% in 1990. Children's immunization rates are also declining.
The decline in health services has already started to show serious consequences. The infant
mortality rate increased from 55 per 1,000 live births in 1980 and 66 per 1,000 in 1985 to 69.5
per 1,000 in 1988 and 72 per 1,000 in 1989. The overall mortality rate increased from 7.7 per
1,000 in 1981 to 11.5 per 1,000 in 1988 and 12.5 in 1989.



-3 -
2.07         The main determinants of the recent dramatic deterioration in health status are: a
high malaria prevalence of epidemic proportions (para 2.08); lowered income; unacceptably
crowded conditions and poor household hygiene, especially in the agricultural "empresas"
(plantations); scarcity of essential medicines; a rapidly deteriorating capaeity to deliver basic
health services; and recent deterioration in nutritional standards.
2.08         Malaria is the predominant cause of morbidity and mortality in STP. It was once
considered eradicated mainly by use of insecticide sprays, and caused no deaths and very few
illnesses in the early 1980s. But it surged back in the mid-1980s. At present, malaria Is at a
hyperendemic level with an infection rate of over 50%. In 1988, malaria accounted for over 42%
of all medical consultations in the country, it is now estimated to exceed 50%. Malaria patients
also occupy 50% of the pediatric beds at the central hospital (Ayres de Menezes) and over 60%
of all hospital beds. It is also the major cause of work absenteeism, especially at the plantations.
Because of all these effects, malaria is regarded as the number one health problem of the country,
for both children and adults.
3.    Health Financing
2.09         Until late 1990, STP's constitution guaranteed free health care to all citizens. As
a result, the Government has been the sole provider of health care. However, public expenditures
on health have been drastically declining in recent years. The Ministry of Health data shows that
the total expenditure on health in 1989 was below two-thirds (64.85%) of the 1984 level in terms
of official exchange rates for the US dollar. In per capita terms, the expenditure was $13 in 1989
compared to $23 in 1984. It also appears that the reductions seem to have come mostly from
investments, which were down from 44.3% of the total expenditures in 1984 to 41.9% in 1985,
12.3% in 1988 and 24.8% in 1989.
2.10         Recent annual budgets for the Ministry of Health have shown that over 50% of
expenditures are allocated to personnel costs, less than 10% for essential drugs and between 2 and
3% for equipment maintenance and repairs. Essential drugs come from two sources: most
hospitals run by external donors (official bilateral as well as non-Government organizations)
receive their drugs directly from the donors and the Government directly imports drugs to meet
the need of the central hospital, regional health units (not supported by donors) and a few private
pharmacies. The Government's direct imports have been greatly decreasing in recent years.
They were: Dbs5O.43 mill (US$584,000)in 1988; Dbs3O.16 mill (US$239,700) in 1989; and
Dbsl9.97 mill (US$128,800) in 1990. Difpropo:tionate amounts are spent on hospital care: in
1989, 42.3% of the budget was spent on hospluals while amounts spent on preventive medicine
and malaria control were 4.5% and 6.2% respectively. Practically all investment expenditures,
and substantial parts of recurrent expenditures, come from a large number of donors involved in
this sector.
4.    Main sector issues
2.11          As stated, health expenditures have been greatly reduced in recent years and there
is an unfavorable distribution of funds, a very large proportion spent on staff salaries but low
allocations for drugs, facilities maintenance, or preventative services. Main casualties of the
resource constraints are the preventive care against endemic diseases and financing for critical
medical supplies. Malaria is the predominant cause of morbidity and mortality in the country, but
there is not a sat sfactory program to control this disease, there are serious shortages of essential



-4-
meicinesa, and the country lacks an adequate capacity for hath planning. management and
external assistancoordination.
C.    Nutrilion
1.    Status
2.12         STP's population is believed to have had a better nutritional status than most of its
neighbors although it has always concentrated on producing commercial crops while importing
practically all foodstuffs. The situation changed in the 1980s because of a drastic reduction in the
foreign exchange available for the import of foodstuffs and, thereby, causing shortages. A 1986
survey indicated serious malnutrition problems after weaning, and a situation of chronic food
insecurity. STP's land and climate are considered suitable for a wide variety of crops, and efforts
are underway to increase food production in recent years. But most food requirements must still
be imported, and a significant part is currently met through external assistance.
2.    isu
2.13         (i) Malnutrition is a growing risk in STP because of declining availability of
imported food on which the country has been traditionally dependent. Reduction in food imports
has caused the population to switch to local substitutes but these local products are also in limited
supply and their prices are increasing very sharply. (ii) There is a dearth of information and
understanding of the nature and extent of nutrition problems; pregnant and lactating women and
children under three years of age appear to be especially at risk. (iii) Distribution of food
subsidies through current programs appears to be inefficient and inadequate. (iv) Maternal
malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies may be contributing significantly to the decline in
nutrition levels in STP. There appears to be an increase in iron deficiency anemia among adults.
D.    EducatignSg=_r
1.    Education System
2.14         STP's education system consists of four sub-systems: general education, teacher
training, technical and professional education, and adult education. The general education
includes pre-school (up to 5 years of age), primary (6 to 14 years), basic-secondary (11 to 20
years), and pre-university (16 to 21 years). Special and vocational education are included as parts
of the general euucation but they are not implemented yet. The teacher training sub-system
includes initial, in-service and continuing education programs. The technical and vocational sub-
system provides occupational skills, at elementary, basic and middle levels, for the drop-outs of
the general education. The adult education provides literacy and the general education evening
courses to those beyond the age to attend day-time classes. The country has no higher education
facility.
2.15         Phe-62hool, which is optional and intended for children of ages of one month to
six years, has been traditionally important in STP because, quite often, both parents had to work
in plantations. In 1990/91, there were 82 rural (plantation-based) nurseries with about 6,000
children between the age of one month to six years old, and nine urban day care centers with
about 1,000 three to five year olds. Primarvy ducation consists of five grades -- pre-primary and
grades one to four - attended by children between six and 14 years of age. However, since
1988/89, pre-primary classes have been suspended due to classroom shortages. In 1990/91, there



-5-
were 19,457 children in the primary schools (grades 1 to 4), equivalent to 133% of the children
for the age group and ir.dicating a very high repeater rate. There were 68 primary schools with a
total of 297 classrooms. Basic Secondary Eduaction consists of fifth through the ninth grades. In
1990/91, there were a total of 8,513 pupils at this level (58.3% of the age group). There were 10
basic secon.dary schools with 105 classrooms, but only one each in Sao Tome City and in Principe
had ninth grade classes. ,re-UJniversaty Education includes tenth, eleventh and twelfth grades, but
so far the twelfth grade has not been started. In 1990/91, there were 128 students in the tenth
grade and 131 students in the eleventh (5.9% of the age group).
2.16         There are two teachers training facilities in the country: the Pedagogical-Didactic
Center, funded by GVC (an Italian NGO), for the pre-school teacher training; and a small and old
primary school facility used for primary teacher training. In 1990/91, 104 students were enrolled
for primary teacher training and 29 graduated in that. There is no facility to train secondary
teachers. Technical-professional education is provided at the polytechnic center, built and
equipped with French assistance. They run classes In building technology, electro-mechanics,
rural mechanics and automobile mechanics. By 1988/89, approximately 40 students had been
trained in the above subjects. But few choose to enroll in these classes since jobs are difficult to
find. Adulteducatign consists of literacy training and general education (primary, secondary and
pre-university levels). At present, it is limited to post-literacy courses taugiht in the evenings at
the same location and by the same teachers as the daytime schools. In 1990/91, there were about
250 primary level and about 700 pre-university adult students.
2.    Status of tlhe Education System
2.17         STP has made remarkable progress in the expansion of its educational system
since independence in 1975. By 1983/84, it had attained near-universal primary school
enrollment (97% of 5-9 year olds were enrolled) and over 75% of all adults were estimated to be
literate. However, the economic difficulties of the 1980s have brought about serious deterioration
in the education system. There is a serious shortage of classrooms am most of the country's 68
schools are dilapidated due to lack of maintenance and repair. As a result, most schools run three
three-hour shifts. There is also a serious lack of school furniture. There have been no school
textbooks until their printing and distribution was recently begun under IDA assistance (Cr 2038-
STP). Over 50% of the 616 primary teachers are not trained and the teaching profession has
become increasingly unattractive because of declining real salaries and because of lack of
transportation, housing facilities and other incentives.
2.18         The consequence of these adverse conditions has been a serious deterioration in
the access as well as in the quality of education. For example, the mean growth of primary level
enrollment for the last two years (1988/89 to 1990/91) has been only about 1%, below the
population growth rate. At the same time, the repeater rate has been growing. In 1986/87,
STP's primary school drop-out rate was 4% and the repeat rate was 28.6%, compared to the
average repeat rate for all low income African countries of 16% in 1970 and 12% in 1983. At
basic-secondary, the problem is even worse. The facilities are equally inadequate and only 22%
of teachers are qualified. The repeat rate was 50% between 1983/84 and 1987/88, compared with
a mean of 6% in 1970 and 10% in 1983 for all low income African countries.



-6-
3.    Education Financing
2.19         Until late 1990, when the country's new constitution was adopted, education was
free and the sole responsibility of the state. There were no private sources of financing or a
tradition of community contrlbutiort to education, Nevertheless, ainual expenditures for education
have remained very low, especially in recent years. Between 1986 and 1989, education's share In
the Government's annual budgets ranged between 9 and 11%, compared to Tanzania with 19%,
Burkina Paso with 21 %, Togo with 19.4% and Cameroon 13.7%. Within the sector, STP's
allocations in 1989 were as follows: primary education 38.3%, basic secondary 20.4%, pre-school
7.1%, pre-university 3.6%, adult education 3.6%, primary teachers' training 1.6%, technical-
industrial training 2.2% and general services 23.3%. The expenditures for personnel have been
about 90% of the total education budget, while the total on maintenance, repaits, materials and
utilities were around 4%. Since the constitutional change in late 1990, only the first seven years
of school (from pre-primary to grade six) are free and compulsory, and private schools wll also
be allowed to coexist with public schools.
2.20         As in other sectors, the major part of the education investments come from
external sources but there is no reliable data of external assistance. However, an estimate shows
that, between 1986 and 1990, 86% of the annual investments of approximately US$2.5 million
came from external sources. The annual -vestmerts were expected to rise to about US$5 million
in 1990 and 1991 due to a US$17 million loan from the African Development Bank. Other
donors include: IDA, Portugal, the Gulbenkian Foundation, France, Italy, UNICEF, World Food
Program, and a Swedish NGO (Radda Barnen). In the absence of the Government's ability to
plan and coordinate investment programs satisfactorily, donors tend to identify their own areas of
interest and to implement their programs in different ways and by different standards.
4.    Main Sector lssues
2.21         Education Financir-r. As stated in (para. 2.19), education's share in the total
Gove, rment budget is too low to maintain a high access rate or to improve quality and prevent
deterioration. PAactically all investments are financed by external donors, quite often according to
the donors' perception of the priority instead of the Government's, and there is no contribution
from the community. While the proposed project and the recently approved African Development
Bank project should meet most of the priority investment requirements in the medium term, there
is an urgent need to study the education financing issues including the role of community.
2.22         School Buildings. Most schools are dilapidated and there is a serious shortage of
classrooms and other facilities, making it necessary to suspend pre-primary classes and operate the
other four years of the primary schools in three three-hour shifts each day. The country does not
have a single pre-university school with adequate facilities. All this has resultd in significant
erosion in the quality of education. However, the African Development Bank (ADB) has recently
(in late 1990) approved a loan sf about US$17 million which would also ftiance the rehabilitation
and furnishing of 35 primary schools (195 classrooms) and to construct and furnish five secondary
schools (75 classrooms).
`2.23         Teacher Training. Over 50% of the primary and 78% of the basic- secondary
teachers are not adequately qualified. The need for additional teachers is growing and present
training facilities are grossly inadequate. The ADB loan (para 2.22) is also expected to provide
necessary investments required for the construction, furnishing and equipping of a new teacher
training college for the primary and basic-secondary levels.



-7 -
2.24         Scho9l Textooks and Teaching materials. No textbooks existed in STP until
recently when the Government has developed 34 textbooks on different subjects (for grades one to
11) with assistance from the Gulbenkian Foundation and a further 16 books (for grades 5 to 9)
with assistance from the Portuguese Cooperation. Of the first 34 textbooks, 14 have bee.i printed
and their distribution has begun under IDA assistance (Cr. 2038-STP). A system to recover the
cost of the books has also been introduced. There are three issues in this area. First, printing
and the distribution of the remaining textbooks have not yet been financed. Secondly, there is no
adequate system to actively and continuously improve the contents. Thirdly, there is a serious
lack of essential teaching materials, like note books, pencils, etc, which are not even available for
purchase in STP.
2.25         Education Planning and Administration. The Directorate of Education Planning
and Finance does not have necessary resources or manpower to effectively plan, to provide
management information or to coordinate external assistance. The school Inspectorate hardly
functions. The Ministry has inadequate budget, no allocation of foreign exchange and no direct
control over its own approved budgets.
E.    Sector Organization
2.26         The Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) was created in 1990 merging the former
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Culture. MOSA is now responsible for
both health and education sectors. It is headed by the Minister Coordinator for Social Affairs.
The Minister is assisted by a large number of other directors in-charge of individual directorates
related to health and education functions. The organization of MOSA is likely to be further
adjusted to complete the process of integration. This is not expected to affect the departments
responsible to implement the subprojects under the proposed project. The proposed project
includes a number of measures to strengthen the implementation agencies as described in Part V
of this report.
F.    Bank Group Strategy
2.27         The Bank's overall country strategy emphasizes the need to arrest the decline in
the social indicators. Specifically, in health, the Bank's main strategy is to help control malaria
which is the predominant cause of morbidity and mortality and to improve the availability of
essential mredicines and other supplies. In education, the main thrust would be to improve the
quality of basic education by ensuring the availability of the most important inputs, specifically,
textbooks and educational materials. In both sectors, the Bank would help the Government to
improve the coordination of donors assistance and to strengthen the planning and management
information system.
G.    Bank Group Operations
2.28         Bank Group's involvement in the health and education sectors in STP is relatively
recent. It started with the approval of the Multisector Project (Cr 2038-STP), in June 1989,
which includes subprojects in both health and education sectors. In health, the Multisector Project
includes three subprojects, which are: the health planning and management information system
(MIS) subproject; the malaria and endemic disease control subproject; and the essential drugs
subproject. In education, there are two subprojects: the textbooks printing and distribution



-8-
subproject; and the education planning and MIS subproject. In December 1990, the Bank also
carried out a social sector strategy review which has provided advice to the Government on major
issues in health and education sectors.
2.29          Progress in implementing the health and educator sector subprojects, under the
Multisector Project, has been quite satisfactory. Since each of these subprojects are proposed to
be expanded and continued under the proposed project, they are discussed in greater details in the
iext chapter of this report. In brief, the health planning and management information system
(MIS) subproject strengthened the planning unit in the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA),
provided equipment and materials for the unit, trained a number of staff and completed initial
steps to establish the MIS. The malaria and endemic disease subproject helped to establish some
of the basic infrastructures for the implementation of the comprehensive program. The essential
drugs subproject is progressing well and the first batch of medicines started arriving in September
1990. In education, the Project helped STP to provide its own textbooks for the first time ever
by financing the printing and distribution of 16 different textbooks. The progress in strengthening
the education planning and MIS program has, however, been slow due to difficulties in recruiting
consultants but the implementation has now started.
2.30          The main lesson learnt from the experience with the social sector components of
the Multisector Project was that, to avoid the risk of failure, projects in STP would need special
arrangements to help their implementation. Therefore, as explained in paragraph 5.02, the
proposed project includes a number of precautions. Main precautions include: the strengthening
of the implementing agencies by provision of staff, staff training, equipment and materials;
technical assistance; and arrangement with STP's Social and Infrastructural Fund to provide
management assistance.
H.    &aLionale For The Bank Group Involvyment
2.31          There are three major reasons for the Bank Group's involvement in the proposed
project. First, the Bank has the capacity to advise on critical policy reform measures as well as to
finance relatively expensive high priority activities, like the malaria control program, which other
donors have not been able to support. Secondly, as the social sectors in STP are being assisted
by a large number of donors, theme is a critical need for donor coordination. The Bank is well
placed to play a key role through significant sector work as well as lending covering both
education and health sectors. Thirdly, the proposed project is consistent with the Bank's strategy
to support the primary health care and basic education and help alleviate social hardships during
STP's structural adjustment program. This project is a follow up to the activities being
implemented under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP).
I.     Stas of Project Preparation
2.32          The status of project preparation to date is as follows: For project implementation,
(a) the Project Coordinator, with qualifications acceptable to IDA, has been appointed; (b)
agreement in principle to assist in project financing and implementation has been obtained from
other participating agencies, particularly Gulbenkian Foundation, UNICEF, and UNDP; (c) draft
proposals for drug and textbook cost recovery measures were discussed at the negotiations; and
(d) MEP's Director was sent to Brazil to observe its successful malaria control program. For
procurnt, (a) draft standard bidding documents for the printing of textbooks is available; (b) a
master plan for the environmental sanitation and source reduction component has been completed
and arrangements are being made to bring this component up to the bidding stage



by credit effectiveness; and (c) arrangements for the identification of a program management
consultant have been initiated.
mI. fljRCJECT
A.   EProjt Qbjetive
3.01         The main objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of STP to
reverse the recent serious declines in health and education status faced by the population. The
project would achieve this objective by financing high priority investments and through important
policy refbrm and capacity building measures. In health, the project would finance an integrated
program to control malaria, which is the most dominant health problem, improve the supply of
essential medicines and other supplies and support the strengthening of health planning and
management. In education, the project would finance the supply of primary and secondary
textbooks and educational materials, strengthen school inspection at the primary level and improve
education planning. Considering the country's low implementation capacity, efforts have been
made to keep the project as simple as possible and within manageable limits. At the same time,
the project would include measures to strengthen project implementation capacity. In addition,
the project would finance a limited number of high priority studies in both health and education
sectors, including family health, nutrition and education financing. The proposed project would
also assist the Government to carry out policy reforms as part of the project execution (for
example, through the implementation of essential drugs program and the textbooks distribution
program) and through the review of the findings of the studies (for example, community
involvement in education and health financing and the nutrition study).
B.     rjetConosi n
3.02         In summary, the proposed project would consist of a number of high priority sub-
projects in health and education sectors. They are as follows:
Part I. Health_Sector
A.    Integrated Malaria Control Subproject
B.    Essential Drugs Subproject
C.    Health Planning Subproject
Pat . Education Secto
A.    School Textbooks and Educational Materials Subproject
B.    Education Inspection Subproject
C.    Education Planning Subproject
C.    ;ationale for Subnroiect Selection
3.03         The selection of the subprojects included in the proposed project was primarily
based upon the findings and recommendations of the Bank's social sector review mission which
was carried out in November/December 1990. (Detailed justifications are given in the Annexes
for the respective subprojects, in Annexes 3-1 to 346). Main issues identified by the sector review
are disscussed in the previous chapter. The proposed subprojects are consistent with the priorities



- 10 -
of the Government of STP. In health, the sector reviewv had recommended urgent actions to
control malaria (which is the overwhelming cause of morbidity and mortality in STP), to
rationalize and improve the health infrastructure, to provide essential drugs and other critical
inputs and to improve health planning and external assistance coordination. The proposed project
addresses all of these recommendations, except for the rationalization of the health facilities. It
was determined that the rationalization of the health infrastructure, which would involve a large
number of external donors who have been assisting in the sector, would require a more
comprehensive preparation. As an initial step, a rationalization study was carried out by two
specialists in October 1991, under a Special Project Preparation Facility grant from the Bank.
3.04         In education, the sector review emphasized the urgency of reversing the
deterioration in the quality of education through improvements in the basic education inputs,
including classrooms (to ease the current situation of three short shifts), teacher training,
textbooks and strengthening of education planning and administration. The Government of STP
received a credit from the African Development Bank, in late 1990, to deal with the shortages of
classrooms and trained teachers. Therefore, at the request of the Govermnent, the proposed
project would focus upon the provision of textbooks and upon the improvement of education
planning, administration and coordination of external assistance.
D.    Project Description
Health Sector
3.05         Integrated Malaria Control Subproject. (A detailed description of this sub-project
is in ANNEX 3-1.) In brief, the objective of this sub-project is to assist the Government develop
and implement an integrated malaria control program which aims to reduce the prevalence of
malaria to a level which no longer constitutes a most serious public health problem. Specific
goals of the program, by the end of 1997, would be: (a) to reduce parasite index by 50%, from
about 410 cases per 1,000 population to 200/1,000; (b) to reduce malaria mortality among
children under five years of age by 80%, from about 65 per 10,000 population to 13/10,000; and
(c) to reduce malaria mortality among the general population by 85%, from about 20 per 10,000
population to 3/10,000. To achieve these goals, the subproject would implement an integrated
malaria control program with four components: (a) vector control, (b) epidemiological
surveillance and treatment, (c) information, education and communications (IEC) activities, and
(d) institutional development.
3.06         Under the vector control program, the country would be stratified into three areas
based on the ecosystem, population density, the mode of malaria transmission, and the coverage
and quality of available health services. The type of interventions in each area would vary
accordingly. The control measures would include (a) environmental sanitation and source
reduction schemes, especially in urban areas; (b) ultra low volume spraying of insecticides in
hyper-endemic areas; (c) the use of individual and collective prevention measures such as the use
of pesticide impregnated mosquito nets, insect repellents, and house screens: and (d) larviciding
of selected mosquito breeding sites. The source reduction schemes, which are expected to result
in significant reduction of the main mosquito breeding sites, would include the filling in of
swamps, construction of drainage network, and reconstruction and cleaning of existing waterways.
Engineering plans for these schemes have been prepared with the assistance of the Gulbenkian
Foundation. Entomological surveillance would also be undertaken.



3.07         The epidemiological operations would provide the population, especially children
and pregnant women, improved and immediate access to diagnosis and treatment of malaria
within the context of its health system, based on the principle of primary health care. The goal is
to immediately identify transmission focus of malaria and provide effective treatment within 24
hours. Laboratory facilities would be equipped, anti-malarial drugs would be provided, and
health workers would be trained in the diagnosis and prompt and effective treatment of malaria
and the referral of serious cases to designated health facilities. Epidemiological surveillance
would also be undertaken.
3.08         The IEC activities would include a strong public information program on malaria
and the development and implementat mn of the national campaign for community mobilization
and participation in the fight against the vector and the disease. The campaign would focus
specifically on obtaining community participation in (a) the use of simple technology to prevent
malaria transmission, such as the use of impregnated mosquito nets, house screens, insect
repellents, and the destruction of domestic breeding grounds; (b) early recognition of malaria; (c)
the use of diagnosis and treatment facilities; and (d) the rational use of anti-malarial drugs.
3.09         Under the institutional development component, Malaria Eradication Program
(MEP) would be further strengthened to enable it to maintain an efficient epidemiological
surveillance on and control of malaria, as well as to conduct regular evaluation of the malaria
control program. Key indicators to measure the performance of the program have been agreed
with the Govermnent. To assist in the implementation and the management of the program, MEP
would be provided with about 84 person-months of technical assistance, including a 36 person-
months of a program management consultant working directly under MEP's Director.
Appointment of the program management consultant with qualifications, terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of disbursements for the civil works. insecticides, and
antimalaria drugs under the malaria control subproject.
3.10         In sum, the subproject would finance (a) environmental sanitation and source
reduction schemes; (b) insecticides, larvicide and anti-malarial drugs; (c) vehicles, equipment and
materials; (d) technical assistance; (e) fellowships and in-service training; (f) operational research;
and (g) incremental recurrent costs.
3.11         Essential Lrugs Subproject. (Details of this sub-project are in ANNEX 3-2.)
STP's essential drugs requirements are either met through direct imports by the Government or
thfrough external assistance. The recent economic difficulties have caused dras.ic reduction in
imports and, consequently, serious shortages of drugs and medical supplies. Besides the fiscal
constraints that underlie these drug shortages, other factors contribute to the inadequacy of drug
supply in STP: inappropriateness of the drugs being procured; inefficiencies in drug procurement,
storage, and distribution; poor performance by health workers in the areas of diagnosis,
prescribing and dispensing drugs; inappropriate practices on the part of the public; and the
absence of any effort to recover at least part of the cost of drugs. To address these issues, STP
started a pilot essential drugs program under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP) in 1990.
The pilot program introduced several policy reform measures including (a) the preparation of a
national standard essential drugs list; (b) the preparation of guidelines for drug distribution and
prescription; (c) improvement in drug procurement through bulk procurement and using generic
specifications and international competitive bidding; and (d) the introduction of the concept of cost
recovery measures. In addition, the pilot project financed the supply of drug seed stock for two
years and the rehabilitation of the central medical store.



- 12 -
3.12         The proposed sub-project would help STP institutionalize and implement the
policy reforms initiated under the Multisector Project. The standard essential drugs list, the drug
procurement system, and the guidelines for drug distribution and prescription will be formally
adopted and implemented as the core of an official essential drug policy. To alleviate the severe
constraints in recurrent financing, the sub-project will establish a cost recovery mechanism and a
drug revolving fund to retain funds recovered in order to purchase replacement drug supplies. A
draft proposal for cost recovery, including the working of a drug revolving fund, was discussed at
the negotiations. To start the drug revolving fund and ensure the availability of safe and effective
drugs for at least another three years, the project will provide seed stock of essential drugs to
serve as a working capital. To improve the skills of health workers in managing drug supply and
in prescribing and dispensing drugs, the project will support in-service training, with the
assistance of UNICEF which has already agreed in principle to provide technical assistance. A
condi_ions ofdi~bursemensfor the ssenial dr us, STP would carry out the following in a
manner satisfactory to IDA:
(a)    establish an essential drugs cost recovery mechanism and a drug revolving fund to
finance purchases of essential drugs;
(b)    adopt an essential drug policy; and
(c)    obtain technical assistance for the management of the essential drugs program.
3.13         Health Planning SubLroject. (The details of this sub-project are in ANNEX 3-3.)
STP's health sector had no capacity for planning, management information and the coordination
of external assistance. To help improve the situation, a number of measures were implemented
under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP). Main accomplishments under that project were as
follows: establishment of a planning and management information unit (Unidade de Planificacao e
Informacoes para Gestao - UPIG) in 1989, under the Health Ministry's Planning Directorate;
creation of a management information system (MIS) and the starting of a system for data
collection, computer codification and processing; and the initiation of a program for the
coordination of external assistance. The project provided technical assistance, vehicle,
motorbikes, desk computers and other office equipment and materials. It also provided a 7-week
training to 23 statisticians, one four-week training in computer application. While the basic
infrastructure has now been created, the establishment of an efficient planning capacity and MIS
has taken longer than expected mainly due to absence of adequate staffing at the UPIG.
3.14         The proposed subproject would build on the progress achieved under the
Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP) and strengthen STP's health planning, MIS and external
assistance coordination. The proposed subproject would: (a) strengthen UPIG by recruiting two
senior staff - one economist/statistician and one public health specialist; (b) continue to provide
technical assistance to UPIG; (c) arrange the provision of one UN Volunteer; (d) provide
fellowships for overseas training and provide shorter training in the country; and (e) finance the
import of one additional vehicle, motorbikes, office equipment and materials. In addition, a
limited number of high priority studies would be carried out, specifically, those aimed at
developing efficient programs to improve family planning and to reverse the current decline in
nutritional standards. Areemen was reached during the negotiations that STP would appoint two
senior officials in UPIG -- one economist/ statistician and one public health specialist -- no later
than June 30, 1993, and and thereafter maintained through project completion.



- 13 -
3.15         Textbooks and Educational Materials. (Sub-project details are in ANNEX 34.)
No school textbooks existed in STP until recently, when the Government developed 34 textbooks
of different subjects for primary and secondary grades with assistance from the Gulbenkian
Foundation and a further 16 with assistance from the Portuguese Cooperation. Availability of
imported textbooks was also negligible. In 1990, IDA financed printing and distribution of 14
different titles (totaling about 98,000 copies) of primary and secondary level textbooks under the
Multisector Project (2038-STP). The textbook warehouse was also rehabilitated under that
project. Although the establishment of a cost recovery program was initiated and people have
started to respond, STP has no funding for the printing of additional books or to reprint the first
batch. Also lacking is the facility to continuously review and update the contents of the books.
Finally, there is a serious shortage of education materials as they can not be purchased in the
local market.
3.16         The proposed subproject would finance the printing of the remaining 36 titles of
the textbooks and the reprinting of the first batch (14 titles), altogether about 400,000 copies, so
that all 50 titles would be available to the students until the year 2000. It would also finance the
expansion and equipping of the textbook warehouse and the internal transportation and distribution
costs. In addition, the subproject would finance the import and distribution of a limited amount
of educational materials like notebooks and pencils. These materials would be distributed over a
three-year period. The main objective is to relieve the immediate shortages during the present
foreign exchange crunch with expectation that the private sector imports would meet this
requirement after a few years when local demand for the items is established. As under the
Multisector Project (Cr.2038-STP), Gulbenkian Foundation has already agreed to provide all
necessary technical assistance and to assist in the implementation of the subproject. The
Government would formalize the arrangements for the proposed subproject before the
disbursements start (para 3.18).
3.17         Sustainability and affordability were particularly important considerations in the
design of this subproject. While the Government is convinced that free distribution of textbooks
and materials is unaffordable and unsustainable, it is also not possible to try to recover all costs
from the students. This is especially true in STP with a tradition of free education and also
because of the pains of economic decline and adjustments during this period. Under the
Multisector Project, the Government had decided to recover a part of the costs of the textbooks
and the people appear to have accepted this after a few months of hesitations. Under the
proposed subproject, the main emphasis would be on the establishment and institutionalization of
the system of recovery and the management of the funds with the aim of making the system self-
reliant for textbooks. To ensure that the materials are not misused, a satisfactory partial cost
recovery would be required.
3.18         As conditions of disbursements for the textbooks and educational materials, STP
would:
(a)    adopt a textbooks distribution program and a cost recovery mechanism acceptable
to IDA;
(b)    adopt a procurement list and cost recovery mechanism for educational materials in
a manner acceptable to IDA; and



- 14 
(c)    obtain the technical assistance necessary to implement this subproject, under the
terms and conditions and the terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
3.19         Education Inspection SubproLect. (Details of the subproject are given in ANNEX
-.) STP has no functioning system of school inspection. Although the Ministry of Social
Affairs (MOSA) has a Directorate of School Inspection, it has very inadequate staff and other
resources. As a consequence, schools are left with no information or guidance from above in the
situation where the teachers are mostly untrained and there are no transportation facilities,
equipment or materials. This situation has greatly contributed to the decline in the quality of
education and the high drop-out rates. To rectify the situation, the Government intends to
reactivate the Inspection directorate and improve the inspection system starting with the basic
school level (Grades 1 through 8) and followed later by the secondary level.
3.20         The proposed subproject would support the strengthening of the schools inspection
system for the basic education. Under the subproject, a number of best qualified primary school
teachers would receive a ten-months' training overseas and appointed as primary school inspectors
responsible for different areas. The inspectors' functions would include: to act as the media for
two-way communications between the education policy makers and the teachers in all aspects of
primary education; and to act constructively as supervisors/inspectors/advisors to promote proper
teaching, management, cleanliness and hygiene in the schools. The inspectors would establish
regular schedules of meetings with headmasters and teachers of each school in his/her area. The
subproject would finance office rehabilitation, purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials.
The Gulbenkian Foundation has agreed to provide training to the inspectors, starting from the first
year of the project, and to provide technical assistance for the strengthening of the system, which
would coincide with the return of the trainee towards the end of the second year of the project.
Agreement was reached during the negotiations that the Government would obtain technical
assistance to implement the education inspection subproject, under terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA, not later than December 31, 1992.
3.21         Education Planning Suburoject. (Sub-project details are discussed in ANNEX 3-
.) This sub-project would strengthen STP's capacity in education planning, external assistance
coordination and management information. Support was provided in the Multisector Project (Cr
2038-STP) but, mainly due to difficulties of recruiting a suitable consultant, there was very
limited success. The Multisector Project would finance the services of an Education Planning
consultant and the import of a vehicle, office equipment and materials. UNDP is expected to
provide the services of a UN Volunteer for two years. The proposed project would finance:
additional services of a planning consultant (for four visits of 21-days each year for two years),
incremental staff salaries, additional staff training, equipment and materials. The proposed
project would also include a limited number of high priority studies aimed at institutional
strengthening; a prominent study would be on education financing and the role of the communities
in financing. The terms of reference and the timing of these studies were discussed during the
negotiations.
E.    Project Costs and Financing
3.22          rect Cost. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.04 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$9.03 million or 75% of the total cost. It does not include
taxes and duties as the project would be exempt from taxes. Out of the total project costs, 88% is
investment costs and the remaining 12% is for recurrent costs. Total base cost as of December
1991 is US$10.33 million. Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to all items of



- 15 -
expenditures. Price contingencies have been calculated based on: international inflation rates of
1.1% in 1992, -0.4% in 1993, 1.6% in 1994, 3.8% in 1995, 4% in 1996, and 4.7% in 1997; and
local inflation rates of 25% in 1992, 20% in 1993, and 15% from 1994 to 1997.
3.23         A summary of the cost estimates is given below. Further details are in
ANNEXES 3-1 to 3-7 and ANNEX 4-1.
Summary of the Project Cost Estimates
(In US$ Thousands)
ProIject Comnonents              Lic           Foreign       tal
Malaria Control                  1,775        5,385         7,160
Essential Drugs                    77           828          905
Health Planning                    68           446          514
Textbooks and Materials            61           922          983
Education Inspection               93           169          262
Education Planning                 57           158          215
Management & Coordination         240           50           290
Total Base Costs          2.371          .9         10,329
Physical Contingencies            237           796         1,033
Price Contingencies               396           281          677
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              3.004        9 035        12,039
3.24         Financing Plan. As shown below, IDA would provide US$11.4 million
equivalent, to cover US$9.03 million of foreign exchange and US$2.37 million of local costs,
which is equal to 95% of the project costs. The Government of STP's share would be US$0.64
million. This is consistent with IDA strategy for STP's social sector during the current period of
difficult economic circumstances and the structural adjustments. Not included in the above cost
estimates are the technical assistance (TA) grants from other co-financiers, which are estimated as
follows: the Gulbenkian Foundation's TA of about 14 person-months earmark-d for the Textbooks
and Education Inspection Subprojects; UNICEF's TA of about 8 person-months for the
implementation of the Essential Drugs Subproject; and UNDP's assistance of about 48 person-
months of UN Volunteers' services for the Education Planning and Health Planning Subprojects.
These TA grants have been fully discussed and agreed with the co-financiers in principle. But
they have not been costed here at the request of the co-financiers who accept the responsibility for
the task but want to preserve flexibility regarding the TA's duration and their rates.



-16-
rojet Financing (US$ Thousands)
Locl        Foreign       Total
IDA                            2,365         9,035        11,400
Government of STP                             - 6M
TOTAL                3,004         9,035        12,039
F.    Project Size and Sustainability
3.25         The proposed project would be a large investment for STP. The estimates of
STP's past or projected investment programs contain a high degree of guess-work, especially in
the social sectors, because of the country's heavy dependence upon external assistance and the
absence of reliable data concerning external assistance. Nevertheless, the expenditures in the
proposed project would significantly add to the size of the public investment program. In
particular, STP's health sector investments would more than double for about two years. This
section analyzes the impact of such large expenditures in terms of the country's absorptive
capacity, counterpart funds requirements and post-project sustainability.
3.26         Before analyzing the project's impact, however, it is important to examine the
justifications for its large size. Firstly, as stated in paragraphs 2.09 and 2.19, available data
indicate that expenditures in health as well as in education have been drastically reduced in recent
years and they are now far below the African average. In real terms, the health expenditures in
1989 were less than two-thirds of the 1984 level and the education expenditures had fallen by
approximately 25% between 1986 and 1990. The consequeDces of these reductions have been the
serious deterioration in social indicators as discussed earlier. The Bank Group has been strongly
advocating for substantial increases in both health and education expenditures, but the absence of
reliable data, especially from the external sources, has handicapped any meaningful discussions
regarding the appropriate levels of allocations. Therefore, it was agreed during the negotiations
that STP would: (a) by August 31, 1992, provide IDA with a report with relevant data on
allocations and expenditures from 1987 onwards; and (b) discuss with IDA, before each of the
subsequent fiscal years until the Credit closing date, the adequacy of the allocations. Secondly,
the proposed project focusses on the nation's top priority needs. About 69% of the total project
cost is for malaria control, 10% for school textbooks, 9% for essential medicines and the
remaining 12% for a number of critical capacity-building measures in social sectors. Malaria is a
national calamity and by far the most important cause of mortality and morbidity (see paragraph
2.08). Finally, efforts were made to design the individual subprojects at the lowest reasonable
investment levels. For example, the malaria control program is not divisible any further without
significant adverse impact on the program's effectiveness. The integrated nature of the program
must be preserved for it to be most effective. Also, the most expensive program elemtent (the
drainage works costing over 40% of the total project cost) should not be implementec over a
longer duration since that would make it more expensive for the international contractors who are
expected to carry them out.
3.27         STP's absorptive capacity would need to be strengthened to implement the
proposed project. Therefore, as explained in the next chapter, the project incorporates a number
of provisions to ensure satisfactory project implementation. Specifically, the Malaria Subproject
includes substantial institution strengthening measures including technical assistance. Four other
subprojects, including the Textbooks, Essential Drugs, Education Planning and the Health



17 -
Planning Subprojects, are the continuation of activities already being successfully implemented
under the Multisector Project (Cr 2038-STP). The Education Inspection Subproject is a small
scheme which would be implemented with assistance from the Gulbenkian Foundation. A special
feature of the implementation arrangements is the establishment of technical assistance anchors
that have been successfully used for the social sector activities under the Multisector Project to
help in program implementation as well as to build the local capacity. For example, the
Gulbenkian Foundation, which has successfully anchored the textbooks program under the on-
going Multisector Project, would be associated with the Textbooks and the Education Inspection
Subprojects. UNICEF would continue to assist in the Essential Drugs Subproject. Finally, IDA
financed consultants and the new UN Volunteers would perform this role in the Education and the
Health Planning Subprojects.
3.28         STP's ability to provide counterpart contributions for externally assisted projects
is very low at the present time. Therefore, most external agencies attempt to keep such
contributions to the minimum, especially in the case of social sectors. For the proposed project,
IDA would finance 95% of the total costs and STP's share would only be 5%, or a total of
US$639,000 spread over six years. This is less than 18% of the combined actual expenditures on
health and education in a single year (1990) when the social sector expenditures were the lowest
of the recent years. In 1990, just the Dobra component of the actual public investment was
$362,000 for education and $892,000 for health. Therefore, the counterpart contribution is not
expected to pose significant problem.
3.29         Regarding the post-project sustainability, the largest increase in recurrent costs
would be for the maintenance of the malaria control program. This would increase from about
$65,000 per year before the project when there were virtually no vector activities, to about
$180,000 after the project. However, this is expected to be more than compensated by the
decrease in the costs of medical care in the country since, as stated, malaria is responsible for
over one-half of all medical consultations in STP. Except for the costs of replenishing the
textbooks and essential drugs, the total annual incremental post-project recurrent cost for other
health subprojects is estimated at $43,000 and for the education subprojects at $30,000. The total
annual cost of drugs is estimated at $215,000. The reprinting of the textbooks would be required
only after the year 2000 and that could cost between $100,000 to $125,000 per year. However,
substantial parts of the costs of the drugs as well as of the textbooks are expected to be recovered
under the programs which have already been initiated (paragraphs 3.12 and 3.15). Therefore, the
post-project budgetary burden on the Government of Sao Tome would be very modest.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Management and Coordination
4.01         Primary responsibility for the implementation of individual subprojects would lie
with the concerned Departments of the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA). The project would
provide funds for the strengthening of most of the implementing agencies. In particular, it will be
necessary to strengthen the Malaria Eradication Program (MEP) office (paragraph 3. 11).
Similarly, the concerned Directorates of MOSA that would be responsible for the Education
Planning, Health Planning and the Textbook and the Essential Drug Sub-projects would also be
strengthened by providing office equipment and materials and vehicles.



- 18 -
4.02          A Project Coordina^ion Committee was created to provide policy guidance and to
coordinate implementation activities. It would be chaired by the Secretary in the Ministry of
Social Affairs and its members would include a number of senior officials, including the Directors
of MOSA Departments which would be directly concerned with the project activities. Day-to-day
coordination would be carried out by a Project Coordinator, who would also act as the Secretary
of the Project Coordination Committee and would head a small office staffed by the Project
Coordinator and a few support staff. The project would finance incremental staff salaries,
vehicles, equipment and materials necessary for the Project Coordination Unit, details of which
are in ANNEX 3-7.
4.03         STP has a limited implementation capacity and little experience with the IDA
guidelines and practices. Considering this constraint, A Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIP) was
created under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP). SIF is conversant with implementation
requirements under IDA projects and it is interested to assist others. The Government would
appoint SIF as its project implementation agent to carry out specific tasks for the proposed project
under the terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. A draft agreement with SIF for the consulting
arrangements was discussed during the negotiations. As a condition of credit effectiveness, STP
would enter into a project management support contract with SIF under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA.
B.    Institution Building and Staff Training
4.04         The proposed project incorporates a number of institution building measures
designed with two objectives in mind. The most important objective was the longer term goal of
building STP's capacity to plan, implement and monitor development activities in both health and
education sectors. The second objective, with more immediate concern, was to ensure that the
Government can implement the activities included in the project. To assist in capacity building,
improvements in the planning and management information system in both health and education,
which were already started under the Multisector project (Cr 2038-STP), would continue to
receive high priority under the proposed project. The strengthening of MEP capacity should meet
a very critical need of continued surveillance of malaria and help sustain the malaria control
program. Similarly, primary school inspection system, to be created from a virtually non-existent
situation, should significantly help improve the quality of education. Other programs of STP's
capacity building include: the invigoration of the textbooks updating arrangements and the
improvements in the essential drugs management.
4.05         Technical assistance and trainings. The technical assistance included in the project
are aimed at both the longer-term capacity building as well as immediate project implementation
objectives and the training programs should basically have more durable effects. Under the
proposed project, STP would receive a total of 121 person-months of technical assistance, out of
which 99 person-months are included under IDA financing and the balance under the grants from
the Gulbenkian Foundation (14 months) and UNICEF (8 months). In addition, the services of
two UN Volunteers (total of 48 person-months) would be provided by UNDP. Some 20 to 24
staff would receive overseas training, about 25 staff would receive locally organized training and
a large number of field staff would be trained under the malaria control program. In addition, a
major criteria in judging the performance of each expatriate consultant would be his/her ability to
train local counterpart staff.



- 19 -
C.    Project Monitoring and Repgrting
4.06         Monitoring the progress of implementation of the project would be the
responsibility of the Project Coordinator. The Coordinator will also be responsible for preparing
semi-annual reports and highlighting major issues for resolution by the Project Coordination
Committee. The semi-annual reports would be made available to IDA before each supervision
mission. In this, SIF would provide technical assistance to the Coordination Committee.
D.    Mid-Term Revie
4.07         IDA's experience with the social sector in STP, as well as STP's project
implementation capacity, is limited. It is expected that the implementation process would provide
important lessons which could make it wise to make mid-course corrections in the design or the
implementation methods of some sub-projects. In order to build in this possibility, the
Government of STP and IDA would carry out a mid-term review of the whole project. The mid-
term review would cover, inter alia, the evaluation of the implementation of the environmental
sanitation and source reduction schemes under the malaria control subproject, the operation of the
cost recovery mechanisms under the essential drugs and the textbooks and educational materials
subprojects, and the progress of the various studies. During the mid-term review, progress in
increasing the budgetary allocations for the health and education sectors would also be reviewed.
STP would carry out jointly with IDA a mid-term review of the project between 18 and 24
months after credit effectiveness, and based on such review, the Government would promptly
prepare and implement an action program, acceptable to IDA, for improving the implementation
of the Project.
E.    Environmental Impact
4.08         The malaria control program would have a positive environmental impact because
of its emphasis on environmental sanitation. Furthermore, the removal of excess water in small
swamps and land depressions in the peri-urban areas of Sao Tome, which have become major
breeding sites for mosquitoes, will nelp improve sanitation and health. The removal of excess
water will be done through (a) filling or leveling of swamps and low-lying grounds, (b)
construction of drainage, and (c) reconstruction/cleaning of existing water lines, to allow excess
rainwater to flow faster and easier to the sea. The small swamps involved are not polluted nor
are there any endangered flora or fauna. Thus, there will be no adverse impact on the
environment. No adverse environmental impact either is foreseen from the use of insecticides as
its use would be minimal, closely controlled, and limited to ultra low volume of Malathion which
is biodegradable.



-20 -
F.      l uwnPjf
4.09            The basic framework for procurement would be as follows:
PROCUREMENT METHODS BY EXPENDITURE CATECORY
aIn US$000)
Catoeorv                                ICB              LCB    Others           N     L Total Costs
1. CivU Works                            4500            734                              5234
(4500)          (734)                           (5234)
2. Goods
Drugs and Insectioides 1/                                 1017                    1017
(1017)                  (1017)
Vehioles 2                                                322                      322
(322)                   (322)
Equipment, Purn. & Materials 2/                           1894                    1894
(1894)                  (1894)
Textbooks                                                 515                      515
(515)                   (515)
3. Technial Assistance
Consultancies                                            1066                     1066
(1066)                  (1066)
Fellowships                                               312                      312
(312)                   (312)
Research and Studies                                      243                      243
(243)                    (243)
4. Miselaneous
Incremental Salries                                       185                     185
(67)                    (67)
Field Allowances                                         393                       393
(393)                    (393)
Local Training                                           106                       106
(106)                    (106)
Vehicl Operation & Maint.                                230                       230
(230)                    (230)
Communications, Utilities,                                                521      521
and Equipment Maintenance
TOTAL                                    4500            734      6284             521    12039
IDA FINANCING                           (4500)           (734)   (6166)                  (11400)
I/ Drugs and consumables are expected to be procured through UNICEF or the International Dispensary Association
(non-profit agency) which procure in bulk under ICB.
21 Vehicles, Equipment, Furniture & Materials are expected to be procured through UNICEF.
Figures in pazentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. Includes physical and price
contingencies.
N.B.F: Not Bank-finanoed.



-21 -
4.10         Procurement details for each component are as follows:
(a)    Civil works contracts for the drainage of swamps will be procured in accordance
with international competitive bidding (ICB). GOSTP may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors qualified to bid for civil works contracts.
Smaller contracts for environmental sanitation works and the rehabilitation of the
textbook warehouse not exceeding US$100,000, up to a cumulative maximum of
$750,000 will be awarded through local competitive bidding.
(b)    Drugs and Insecticides up to a cumulative maximum of $ 1,100,000 will be
procured through UNICEF or the International Dispensary Association (non-profit
agencies) as procurement agents, both of which procure goods in bulk and through
ICB. This method of procurement is similar to that used under the Multi-Sector
Project. ICB is not appropriate for STP because the quantities required are small
and the country does not have any facility to do quality assurance.
(c)    Printing of Textbooks will be procured through shopping, a procedure similar to
that used under the Multi-Sector Project and which has been found to be efficient;
(d)    Ygehiles. equipment, furniture, and materials will be procured through UNICEF
as procurement agent;
(e)   Journals or materials that are only available from a sole source up to a cumulative
maximum of $ 200,000 may be procured directly in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA; and
(f)    All consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency.
4.11         Bank Review. Prior review by IDA would be required for procurement of
packages of goods which exceed US$150,000. In all cases of ICB procurement, the draft bidding
documents and proposed contract awards would also require IDA's prior review. LCB
procedures will, among other things, incorporate explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation
and award criteria, with awards being made to the lowest evaluated bidder; will be broadly
advertised in local newspapers; and will not preclude foreign bidders from participating. The first
set of draft bidding documents and the proposed procedure for LCB would be reviewed by IDA.
IDA's prior concurrence would be sought with regards to the terms of reference, qualifications
and estimated cost of consultants to be hired under the project. SIF, the project implementation
agent which will assist in all procurement matters, is highly experienced in Bank procurement
(para. 4.03). Procurement of goods through UNICEF and the assistance of SIP in procurement
are expected to minimize, if not prevent procurement problems from occurring.
G.    Disbursement
4.12         The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over an estimated period of six
years. In the absence of a standard country disbursement profile for STP, the experience of the
relatively faster disbursing social sector components under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP)



- 22 -
and the profile for another African Lusophone country were used in preparing the estimated
schedule of disbursements shown in Annex 4-3. The IDA credit would be disbursed against the
following items of costs, net of taxes:
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements
(US $ million equivalent)
Percentage of Expenditure
Cat=y                                   kAmount            to be Financed
1. Civil works                         4.5           100% of foreign expenditures and
95% of local expenditures.
2. Drugs and insecticides v,,r malaria control 0.3   100%
3. Essential Drugs                      0.6          100%
4. Equipmeut dnd Vehicles               1.9          100%
5. Textbooks and Education Materials    0.5          100%
6. Consultants' Services, Eellowsnips,
and Studies                          1.4           100%
7. Field allowances, vehicle operation  0.6          100%
and maintenance, local training, and
and incremental salaries for fixed-term
PCU staff
8. Unallocated
Total Credit Amount             in114
4.13         Disbursements for contracts of less than US$20,000 and all disbursements for
studies, field allowances, local training, vehicle operation and maintenance, and incremental
salaries for the PCU would be made against Stateiments of Expenditures (SOEs). All other
disbursements would be fully documented.
4.14         To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established in US dollars
in a commercial bank to be operated by the Project Coordinator, in which an initial deposit of
US$500,000 would be made upon credit effectiveness. The Special Account would be replenished
upon submission to IDA of properly documented withdrawal applications totalling at least



- 23 -
US$100,000 equivalent. There would also be a project revolving account with the Govermment's
counterpart contribution which would also be operated by the Project Coordinator. STP would
open a Project Account within three months of Credit Effectiveness in which the Government
would be required to make quarterly deposits of local counterpart finds in advance. Under the
Multi-sector Projects, counterpart investment funding were largely in kind (staff, facilities, etc.).
The recently effective SAL is designed to improve govermnent fiscal performance and its ability
to provide counterpart contribution.
H.    Accounting anud Auditg
4.15          STP would be required to maintain consolidated project accounts for the entire
project and detailed accounts for each sub-project. The Project Coordinator's office would be
responsible to maintain consolidated project accounts for the entire project, including those for the
statements of expenditures (SOEs), the Special and the Project Accounts, and the drug revolving
fund. It would also ensure that the implementing agencies for the individual subprojects maintain
separate accounts for each subproject. In addition, the Coordinator's office would prepare
quarterly and annual budgets, advise the Treasury of STP regarding disbursement forecasts and
complete disbursement applications for the release of IDA funds. The Coordinator's office would
be assisted by SIF in preparing disbursement applications.
4.16         Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to carry out audits of
the Special Account, statements of expenditures, the drug revolving fund, and of all accounts
concerning the project. This audit report would be fhrnished to IDA within six months of the end
of each fiscal year.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01          The main benefit of the project would be the reversal of the recent declines in
health and education status of the population of STP. The control of malaria would directly
benefit the entire population by reducing the human sufferings and economic loss caused by this
disease which accounts for about one-half of all medical consultations in the country. Provision
of essential drugs would make the health services more effective. Provision of textbooks and the
strengthening of education inspection would help restore and further improve the quality of
education. Finally, improvement in planning and management would help better utilize the
domestic and external resources in both health and education sectors.
5.02         The main project risks are the low implementation capacity of the STP institutions
and a general lack of technical expertise. A number of safeguards are built into the project to
minimize these risks. First, technical assistance would be provided to MOSA for a lasting
improvements in planning and management information capacities in each sector. Secondly, the
implementing capacity of each responsible agency would be strengthened as necessary. For
example, the Malaria Eradication Program (MEP), which would implement the largest subproject,
would receive technical assistance, incremental staff and training. Thirdly, services of the Social
and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) would be used to assist implementing agencies carry out a number
of specific tasks, including the application of IDA's procurement and disbursement practices.
Fourthly, arrangements would be made with external partners for implementation assistance for
key subprojects; for example, with the Gulbenkian Foundation (for the textbooks and education



-24 -
inspection subprojects) and UNICEF for the essential drugs sub-project). Finally, key
institutional measures (ike the establishment of the Project Coordination Committee and the
appointment of the Project Coordinator) were advanced to complete before the Credit
negotiations.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
ConditnQfCredit Effectiveness
6.01         As a condition of credit effectiveness, STP would enter into a project management
support contract with SIF under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 4.03).
Agreements
6.02         During negotiations, agreement were reached on the following conditions:
(a)    STP would appoint two senior officials in its health planning directorate not later
than June 30, 1993 (para 3.14);
(b)    STP would obtain technical assistance to implement the education inspection
subproject, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, no later than December
31, 1992 (para 3.20);
(c)    STP would provide IDA, no later than August 31, 1992, a report identifying the
allocations to and expenditures for health and education sectors and discuss with
IDA the adequacy of such allocations no later than October 30 of each year until
the Credit Closing Date (para 3.26).
(d)    STP would carry out jointly with IDA a mid-term review of the project between
18 and 24 months after credit effectiveness (para 4.07);
(e)    STP would open a Project Account within three months of Credit Effectiveness
and make quarterly deposits of local counterpart contributions in advance (para
4.14); and
(f)    Government of STP would appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (para
4.16).
Conditions of Disbursement
6.03         As an additional condition of disbursements under the malaria control subproject,
STP would appoint a program management consultant with qualifications, terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para 3.09).



- 25 -
6.04         As additional conditionis of disbursements for essential drugs, STP would carry
out the following in manners satisfactory to IDA (para 3.12):
(a)    establish an essential drugs cost recovery mechanism and a drug revolving fund;
(b)    adopt an essential drug policy; and
(c)    obtain technical assistance for the management of the essential drugs cost recovery
mechanism.
6.05         As additional conditions of disbursements for the textbooks and educational
materials, STP would carry out the fbllowing in manners satisfactory to IDA (para 3.18):
(a)    adopt a textbooks distribution program and a cost recovery mechanism;
(b)    adopt a procurement list and cost recovery mechanism for education materials;
and
(c)    obtain technical assistance necessary to implement this subproject.
6.06         Subject to the agreement to the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 8.2 million (US$11.4 million equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome
and Principe on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.



- 26 -
ANNEX2- 1
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDIJCATION PROJECT
DQ:OGRAPMIC INDICATORS FOR SELECTED COUNTRIES (1988)
(Per Thousand, Unless Otherwise Indicated)
Population  Birth   Death  Total    Infant    Life Ex-
Growth   Rate   Rate   Fertility   Mortality  pectancy
COUNTRES           Rate 4/                  Rate      Rate      at Birth
(%)                    (not per             (in Yrs)
__1000)
Sao Tome & Principe     2.6      36.7   11.2      7.18      69.5      64.0
Guinea Bissau           2.5      43.8   20.0                138.0     47.0
Gabon                   3.9      42.0   16.0      5.5       101.0     53.0
Nigeria                 3.3      47.0   15.0      6.6       103.0     51.0
Cote d'Ivoire           4.0      50.0   14.0      7.3       95.0      53.0
Source:      Sao Tome & Principe - Projected from 1981 Census
Guinea-Bissau     - Social Sector Strategy Review, 1991
Other Countries   - World Development Report, 1990
g/ Figures for Gabon, Nigeria and Cote d'Ivoire are for 1980-88.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2 - 2
SAQ TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
PQPNULAION BY AGE GROUPS
AGE GROUPS          1986           1987           1988            1989
0-4 years       21,772         22,335          22,909         22,942
5-9            16,043          16,459         16,882          16,910
10-14          13,613          13,963         14,326          14,333
15-19          12,029          12,341         12,659          12,653
20-24           9,177          9,414           9,656          9,702
25-29           6,492          6,659           6,828          6,832
30-34           4,486          4,602           4,719          4,715
35-39           3,811          3,909           4,009          4,043
40-44           4,539          4,657           4,775          4,773
45-49           4,186          4,295           4,405          4,369
50-54           3,720          3,816           3,911          3,938
55-59           3,229           3,312          3,395          3,407
60-64           2,438          2,501           2,561          2,556
65-69           1,891           1,939          1,988          2,013
l70 &over        3,483          3,573           3,657          3,696
TOTAL          110,909         113,775        116,679         116,882
SQure : Ministry of Health



- 28 -
ANNEX 2-3
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
MORBIDITY. 19g5S 1986, 1987. AND 1988
Main Reasons of Consultation
TOTAL              1985     %       1986    %      1987    %       1988    %
Dysentery and Amebiasis    221    0.5      375   0.9       279   0.6       187   0.6
Acute Diarrhea           6,152   14.0    5,474  11.9    4,902  10.4    2,748    8.7
|Tuberculosis               40    0.1        8   0.0        58   0.1        13   0.0
Whooping Cough              18    0.0       96   0.2        38   0.0         1   0.0
Angina                     479    1.1      263   0.5        -      -        -      -
Tetanus                     16    0.0       28   0.1         9   0.0        18   0.1
Meningitis                   5    0.0        2   0.0        16   0.0       206   0.1
Chickenpox                  30    0.0       26   0.0        32   0.0        16   0.1
Measles                     40    0.1       69   0.1        -    0.0       118   0.3
Hepatitis                  217    0.5      233   0.6       328   0.7       236   0.7
Parotiditis                 97    0.2       31   0.1        -      -        -      -
Malaria                  4,160    9.4       -      -    17,486  37.0   13,237  42.2
Gonorrhea                  199    0.4      282   0.6        93   0.2        24   0.1
Filariasis                   6    0.0        6   0.0        20   0.0        16   0.0
Intestinal Parasitosis   4,209    9.6    3,526   7.6    4,174   8.8    2,956   9.4
Ascariasis                 785    1.8       170   0.4       -      -        -      -
Malnutrition                63    0.1       87   0.2        34   0.0        21   0.1
Anemia                   2,501    5.7    2,292   5.0    2,221   4.7    2,401    7.6
Conjunctivitis           1,665    3.8    2,833   6.1    1,473   3.1    1,481   4.7
Hypertension             1,553    3.5    1,695   3.7    2,206   4.6        970   3.1
Acute Respiratory
Diseases                 1,442   32.8    8,351  18.1    6,809  14.4    3,016   10.0
Acute Bronchitis         6,038   13.7    5,139  11.1    6,662  14.1    3,468   11.0
Hernia                     460    1.0      348   0.6       465   1.0       255   0.8
Trichonomiasis              51    0.1       35   0.1                        .
TOTAL            43,988   100.   46,137  100.   47,303  100.   31,386   100.
Source: Ministry of Health - Dept. of Statistics



- 29 -
SAO TOME & PRINCIPE                                        ANNEX 2-4
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT                                        Page 1 of 1
STRUC_TURE OF EDUCATION SYSTEM
A40         General              Teachers           Toch .-Prof.       Adult
Years        Education   I       . Training           Education       Education
r 3rd'
E
1             ~~~~~27nd
I1t
I         ..                                    _ _ . . . . _ _ _ _
|Z       J i8    |12th          3rd   |       3rd   |       3rd  ;          12th    I
Z17               11|: llth    D  2nd    G    2nd   1 H     2d      L    |  11th      p
: >16'  1     10th          lat     I     1st    I      1st     I      10th       I
15        i    9th   i                               ___
I L  3rd     I                I 1  3rd Id i      9th     II
.1t4   J      8th    I                                                           .
I |  2nd  | F                    2n      K       8th
1' _^3        7th     C                                         I I [
_______ __               I     1st    I                    1  Ist   j1    7th _    0
Li.2L..1II   6th                            7                       I                  I
1~~~~                                                2nd 1   1                  I  
X                                0~~~~~ 1st  III     5h     I I
B
10  I    4th    I ~A. Primary
I             I B. Basic                                      3S 4S   |
i .  9      1 1 |  3rd   | | C. Basic Secondary                                       N
I             I D. Pro-University                             1S 2S 
r       r:l EJ   I    ~II   A  E. Higher Education
IF. Pre-School Monitors
G. Pro-School Teachen                     I- iS 2S      M
H. Primary Teachers
I. Basic-Second Teachers
J. Tech. Prof. Elementary
K. Tech. Prof. Basic
L. Tech. Prof. Mediumn
M. Adult Literacy
N. Adult Post.-Literacy
0. Adult Basic-Secondary
P. Adult Pre-University
JUkm2-4.wkl (lai)



- 30 -
ANNE 2 --5
SA0 TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
ATUS OF TE EDUCATION SYSTEM
School infrastructure, Teachers, Students
. .      -..        .                                    _* .               _..._
Teachers
No.      No.      -                                Stu-    Repeat  Drop
Level     of       of               Qualified    Non-Qualif.  dent   rate    -out   Year
Schools  Class.  Total                       -    Enroll           rate
I        __ _ No.    %    No.   %    -ment
Pre-school        91     -       193    73   37.8   120  62.2   7000       -       -
(1)                     (2)                                               1990
/91
Primary           68    297    616   293   47.6   323  52.4  19353    28.6    4.0  1999
I __________  (3)                                                                       /91
Basic -           10    105    347    78   22.4  269  77.6   8513    51.4   15.8  1990
Secondary    (4)        -     (6)      -      -                          _             /91
Pre-        _             6       17    17   100    -              259    38.0     -   1990
University            (5)    (6)                                                       /91
Techn.-prof.       1       8     23      8   34.8    15  65.2    109       -       -   1988
(7)     -                                        /89
Adult                                                      -       950                  1990
l __________                                                     (8)                    /91
Pre-school         1      4       10     7   70.0     3  30.0       26                  1989
Teach. train.                 (9)                                                      /90
Primary sch.    *   1     4       14     9   64.3     5  35.7    104    10.0            1990
teach. train.     _           *                                                         /91
Basic-second   **                                                                       1990
teach. train.                                                                           1 -  .  /91



-31 -
ANNEX 3-l
Page 1 of 6
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Sub-project on Malaria Control
A. Background and Rationale
Constraints. Prolems. and Issues
1.    Malaria is the most important health problem today in Sao Tome & Principe (STP). It is
hyperendemic in the country, with widespread prevalence (about 87% of all cases) of the p.
falciparum parasite. Official statistics attest to the serious impact of malaria on the health of the
population. It is now the leading cause of death reported (in 1988, 20.1 per 10,000 inhabitants
died of malaria), and the leading cause of hospital admissions (over 60% of occupied hospital
beds). Although all population groups are at risk, morbidity and mortality rates are highest
among children under five years of age and pregnant women. About 16% of infant mortality is
reportedly due to malaria.
2.    The favorable ecological conditions, vector resistance to DDT, resistance of p. falciparum
to chloroquine, lack of community participation in the prevention and control of malaria, and
most importantly, lack of funds, make malaria control in STP extremely difficult. Because of
budgetary constraints, the Government is unable to finance programs to check the resurgence of
malaria epidemic, which affects more than two-thirds of the population. There is practically no
efficient anti-vectorial program particularly below the district level. Residual intra-domiciliary
spraying with insecticides in the past has only provided temporary measure in view of the
presence of big swamps and pools of stagnant water which provide breeding sites for mosquitoes.
The Malaria Eradication Program (MEP), the agency within the Ministry of Health responsible
for malaria and other endemic diseases, lacks resources to adequately carry out training and field
supervision, to undertake geographical reconnaissance and epidemiological studies, and to fund
requisite operating costs. It also has di,^ficulty in recruiting and retaining staff because of low
salaries and the harsh working conditions in the field related to dealing with insecticides and
patients that could transmit infectious diseases. Treatment of cases of malaria is severely
constrained by shortage of anti-malaria drugs.
Government Policies and Strategies
3.    The Government's earlier malaria control program, which included aggressive vector
control activities, has been discontinued since 1983 because of severe budgetary constraints, and
since then, the Government's intervention strategy is almost exclusively clinical treatment.
Today, because of (a) the resurgence of malaria, (b) the progressive resistance of mosquitoes to
DDT, (c) strong public resistance to in-house spraying particularly with DDT, (d) the evidence of
change of the A. Gambiae from endophily (resting indoors) to exophily (resting outdoors), and,
(e) parasite resistance to chloroquine, the Government strategy is evolving. Should external
assistance for malaria control become available, Government plans to develop and implement an
integrated malaria control program which would include (a) chemical control through limited and
ultra low volume spatial spraying of insecticide, (b) environmental management measures through



- 32 -
ANNEX 3- 1
Page 2 of 6
filling and drainage of swamps and other mosquito breeding sites, (c) use of individual and
community protection against mosquitoes such as impregnated nets, screens, and insect repellents,
and (d) immediate diagnosis, effective treatment, and chemoprophylaxis for high risk groups. At
present, several anti-malarial activities are being undertaken as part of the primary health care
system. With assistance from WHO, France, and the World Bank, malaria control efforts are
concentrating on the diagnosis of the disease (through blood testing); systematic treatment of all
attacks of malaria, paying special attention to high risks groups; health education; and limited
operational research.
Erepaation of the Sub-project
4.    The Bank, through the Multi-Sector Project, Cr. 2038-STP, has been working with STP
since 1989 in defining a malaria control program. The Multi-Sector Project paved the ground for
the preparation of this sub-project. It initiated the strengthening of MEP's institutional capacity by
(a) financing the construction of a new office/laboratory building, (b) providing vehicles and
equipment, (c) financing a pilot drainage project as a means of vector control, and (d) supporting
liimited IEC and training activities. This sub-project was based on the following preparation
work: (a) proposals for a national malaria control program and for sanitary engineering work as a
specific malaria control measure, financed by the Gulbenkian Foundation in Lisbon, and (O)
MEP's project proposal for a national malaria control program.
B. Qbjecives and Main Strategies of the Sub-project
Sub-project Obiective
S.    The objective of the sub-project is to assist the Government develop and implement an
integrated malaria control program which aims to reduce the prevalence of malaria to a level
which no longer constitutes a public health. problem. The malaria control program has the
following specific targets: (a) to reduce parasite index by 50% from 410 cases per 1,000
population to 200/1,000; (b) to reduce malaria mortality among children under five years of age
by about 80% from 65 per 10,000 population to 13/10,000; and (c) to reduce malaria mortality
among the general population by 85% from 20/10,000 population to 3/10,000.
6.    To achieve these goals, the sub-project will have four major components: (a) vector
control; (b) epidemiological surveillance and treatment; (c) information, education, and
communication ([EC) activities; and (d) institutional development.
Sub-Project Description
7.   YVtr Conlro1. To control malaria transmission, the country will be stratified into three
areas based on the ecosystem, population density, the mode of malaria transmission, and the
coverage and quality of health services. The type of interventions in each area will vary
accordingly. North and Northeast Sao Tome (high transmission, high population density, and
good coverage of health services) will receive greater attention in terms of ultra low volume
spraying of insecticides in hyper-endemic areas under 400 meters of altitude. Spraying of



- 33 -
ANE1
Page 3 of 6
insecticides alone, however, will not make a significant impact on transmission levels because of
the presence of big swamps and pools of stagnant water, which result in vector breeding sites and
high levels of transmission especially in the Agua Grande district where over 50% of the malaria
cases are reported. Thus, to complement the insecticide spraying, the main vector control
measure for the Agua Grande District will be the implementation of environmental sanitation and
source reduction projects. These projects will include the filling in of swamps, construction of
drainage network, and reconstruction and cleaning of existing waterways, which will result in
significant reduction of the main mosquito breeding sites. Engineering plans for these projects
have already been prepared with the assistance of the Gulbenkian Foundation. Simultaneously, a
combination of larviciding and the elimination of mosquito breeding sites around houses will be
undertaken, with community participation. In other areas of the country (south/southeast Sao
Tome and Principe Island), the sub-project will introduce the use of pesticide impregnated
mosquito nets to at least 60,000 people, encourage the use of other individual and collective
prevention measures, such as insect repellents and screens in houses, and, support the elimination
of mosquito breeding sites around houses with community participation. All field workers will be
trained in the safe handling and storage of pesticides and will be provided with protective
clothing.
8.    This component will also strengthen MEP's entomological surveillance capability by
supporting surveillance activities on vector density and level of infection, and on insecticide
sensitivities. In addition, it will support operational research on the use of biological control,
through the use of larviforous fish in selected mosquito breeding sites. If research results on the
use of biological control are encouraging, biological control will be introduced as a means of
vector control.
9.    The sub-project will finance (a) environmental sanitation and source reduction projects;
(b) about 5,000 liters each of insecticide and larvicide; (c) vehicles, specialized spraying
equipment, and materials (impregnated mosquito nets, insect repellents, protective clothing, etc.);
(d) training of about 80 entomological technicians and vector control workers; (e) operational
research; and (f) incremental costs of vehicle operation and maintenance. In addition, funds will
be provided for the payment of appropriate field allowances to workers.
Epidemiological Surveillance and Treatment
10.   This component aims to provide the population, especially children and pregnant women,
improved and immediate access to diagnosis and treatment of malaria within the context of its
health system, based on the principle of primary health care. The goal is to immediately identify
transmission focus of malaria and provide effective treatment within 24 hours. Health workers
will be trained in the diagnosis and prompt and effective treatment of malaria attacks and the
referral of serious cases to designated health facilities. They will be trained on the more rational
use of antimalarial drugs to help slow the spread of chloroquine resistance. Blood testing will be
done in a network of 14 laboratories distributed throughout STP and the central laboratory will
carry out quality control. Pregnant women will be given chemoprophylaxis, while infants will be
provided with early diagnosis and fast treatment.
11.   Standard therapeutic protocols will be developed, and a study on the sensitivities of the
parasite against anti-malaria drugs will be undertaken every two years. In addition, falciparum
P. cases, which are resistant to chloroquine, will be closely monitored and treated.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3 1
Page 4 of 6
Epidemiological assessments will be undertaken based on passive case detection by 132
notification posts, active case detection by limited surveillance, malariometric surveys, and special
studies in focal epidemic areas. These data will provide an adequate information base for
theassessment of the program. Technical assistance for the operation of an epidemiologic
surveillance system will be provided (see para. 15).
12.   The sub-project will finance: (a) various anti-malaria drugs; (b) motorcycles for
supervision; (c) laboratory equipment; (d) laboratory supplies (reagents, slides, lances, etc.) and
materials (protective cothing, office supplies); (e) operational research and epidemiological and
immunological surveys; (t) in-service training for about 40 medical officers, 100 nurses, 50
midwives, and 22 laboratory technicians; and (g) incremental costs of staff allowances, vehicle
operation and maintenance, equipment maintenance, etc.
Information. Education, and Communication Activities
13.   This component will develop and implement a national community mobilization and public
information campaign on malaria. The campaign will focus specifically on obtaining community
participation in (a) the use of simple technology to prevent malaria transmission, such as
impregnated mosquito nets, house screens, insect repellents, and the destruction of domestic
breeding grounds; (b) early recognition of malaria; (c) the use of diagnosis and treatment
facilities; and (d) the rational use of antimalarial drugs. Teachers, community health agents, and
community leaders will be trained on community mobilization and on individual and community
malaria prevention measures. Agricultural enterprises and farmers will be sensitized about their
responsibility for maintaining ditches and eliminating mosquito breeding grounds. The mass
media, particularly radio and television, will be used for the dissemination of educational
materials.
14.   The sub-project will finance (a) equipment and materials; (b) training of teachers,
community agents and community leaders; (c) the development and production of educational
materials; (d) the production of radio and television programs; and (e) operating costs. Overseas
training and technical assistance will also be provided (para. 15).
Institutional Development
15.   This component aims to consolidate MEP's institutional development initiated by the
Muiti-Sector Project (para.4) to enable it to maintain an efficient epidemiological surveillance on
and control of malaria, as well as to conduct regular evaluation of the program. Thus, the sub-
project will support the establishment in MEP of departments of epidemiology,
parasitology/immunology, entomology/environmental, and administration. In this regard, the
project will provide for the appointment of full-time epidemiologist and a physician. It will also
support (a) overseas training of key personnel of about 3 months duration on the areas of:
entomology, vector control, epidemiology, IEC, program management, and program evaluation;
(b) study tours for key project staff hi countries with successful malaria control programs; (c)
about 84 man-months of technical assistance comprising of: (i) 18 man-months for entomology;
(ii) 12 man-months for epidemiology; (iii) 6 man-months for anthropology; (iv) 6 man-months for
IEC; (v) 6 man-months for vector control; and (vi) 36 man-months for program management.
Draft terms of reference for these consultancies are attached in Appendix 2. In addition, the



- 35 -
ANNE!X 3 -1I
Page 5 of 6
sub-project wil1 finance (a) office equipment, furniture, and supplies; (b) a vehicle for the long-
term consultant; (c) incremental salaries; and (d) incremental costs of vehicle operation and
maintenance, staff allowances for supervision, preparation of guidelines, equipment maintenance,
utilities, etc.
16.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The sub-project will support the evaluation of the program at
the end of the first, third and last years of implementation. Agreed. key indicators to measure the
performance of the malaria control program are outlined in Appendix 1.
C. Sub-Projec Costs
17.   The total base cost of the sub-project is estimated at $7.2 million, broken down as
follows:
In US$ '000s
Vector Control                                        5,250
Epidemiological Operations and Treatment                704
IEC                                                     247
Institutional Development                               959
Total Base Cost                                       7.160
Details of the cost estimates are outlined in Appendix 3.
D. Sub-ProjeCrt Management and Implementation
18.   Sub-project Organization and Management. MEP, with the assistance of district health
offices, will be responsible for the overall implementation of the sub-project, particularly, for
planning, monitoring, supervision, and evaluation of program activities. The vector control and
MEC activities will be directly under the MEP while the epidemiological surveillance and treatment
will be decentralized by district and implemented by the general health services, with MEP
providing technical guidance. The National Center of Health Education (CNES) of the Ministry
of Health will assist in the implementation of IEC activities.
19.   Implementation. The sub-project will be implemented over a five-year period. An
implementation schedule is shown in Appendix 4.
Sub-Project Benefits and Risks
20.   Benefits. The sub-project will benefit practically the whole population of STP, but most
importantly, children under 5 years of age and pregnant women -- the high risk groups. The
proper and immediate treatment of malaria will considerably reduce malaria morbidity and



-36 -
ANNU X - I
Page 6 of 6
mortality. An incidental economic benefit from a reduction in malaria incidence will enable STP
to fully exploit its tourism potential, thereby increasing its foreign exchange earnings.
Furthermore, it will improve workers' productivity. It is estimated that an acute attack of malaria
with high fever uses 5,000 calories for an adult which is equivalent to two days of work in terms
of energy used. The institutional development of MEP will enable MEP in the future to expand
its program to control the reswirgence of other endemic diseases such as schistosomiasis and
filariasis, as well as AIIDS.
21.   BilIs. The technical feasibility of the malaria control program is universally accepted and
has already been successfully proven in STP and in other countries. Additionally, the program
will be managed by MEP which has been strengthened under the Multi-Sector Project, and
assisted by consultants. For the program to be effective, however, vector control activities should
be implemented with rigorous discipline. The low salaries and lack of motivation of health
workers could impede the efficient and effective implementation of the program. The provision
under the project of field allowances to staff is expected to minimize this particular risk.
22.   Risks also remain regarding (a) increasing parasites' resistance to chloroquine, the most
widely used drug for treatment, and (b) development of mosquiio resistance to insecticides. The
research component aims at reducing these risks.
24.   Erironmenta 1 J=a . The effect of the various environmental sanitation work (e.g.
elimination of stagnant water and implementation of drainage works) will be beneficial to the
community as a whole. Community participation in the elimination of domestic breeding sites
will make the population much more aware of the importance of enviromnental sanitation.
25.   Although the sub-project will use insecticide (Malathion) and larvicide (semefos), no
environmental impact is foreseen, since they are biodegradable and do not constitute a risk factor
for the population, domestic animals, and fish because of their low toxicity and dilution.
Furthermore, the areas to be treated are small, limited only to areas where malaria is hyper-
endemic. The Bank's guidelines for the use of pesticides in public health programs will be
followed, and the program will include activities dealing with safe spraying techniques and
surveillance of insecticides use, handling, and storage, as well as the provision of protective
clothing to workers.



-37 -
ANNE 3 - I
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
SAO TOME AND PRINCME
HEALTH AND EpUCATION PROE
Indicators for Monitoring Malaria Control Program in STP
It is important that the monitoring system for the malaria control program be simple and
practical. It should provide timely information, so that as problems arise, they can be quickly
identified and management solutions can be found.
With this aim, the program monitoring system will be developed around two main areas: (a)
operational indicators, and (b) epidemiological evaluation indicators. The following are the proposed
indicators which could be readily measured.
Operational Indicators
o     Number of health posts and community health agents properly equipped for malaria case
attendance
3     Number of hospital admissions for serious malaria cases
o     Number of pregnant women having chemoprophylaxis who are being monitored regularly
o     Number of identified and treated malaria cases, by age group
o     Number of children under 5 years of age using mosquito nets
o     Number of pregnant women using mosquito nets
o     Number of people adopting individual measures of protection
o     Number of sanitary education sessions
o     Number of primary school and kindergarten teachers, health workers, and community leaders
trained to organize and mobilize communities on malaria prevention and control
o     Number of studies on vector susceptibility to insecticides
o     Number of studies on vector behavior and habits
o     Number of implemented spraying
o     Number of blood slides collected and analyzed
o     Number of in-service training courses provided by category of personnel
o     List of locations for, and specifications of, environmental sanitation and source reduction
works
o     Number of households and communities undertaking environmental  sanitation
activities
pidMiological Evaluation Indicators
o     Infant mortality rate and malaria infant mortality rate
o     Age and disease specific (including malaria) mortality rate of children under five years of age
o     Lethality rate of malaria



- 38 -
ANNEX 3 - I
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
o     AIBE: Annual index of blood examined
o     Malaria lethality rate of pregnant women
o     Splenic index
o     Gametocytocidal index
o     PSI: Positive slides index
o     API: Annual parasite incidence by Geographic Area
o     Annual Parasite Incidence for the 30 mnunicipalities of highest incidence
o     Anopheles density resting indoor
o     Density of indoor and outdoor mosquito bites
o     Proportion of parous and multiparous female anophelines
o     Sporozoite rate
o     Vectorial Capacity
o     Proportion of anophelines larval focus
o     Density and larval specimen



- 39 -
ANNEX 3- 1
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 3
HEALTH AND EDUCATIQN PROJECT
Draft Terms of References for Technical Assistance
The following are draft terms of references for the following consultancies required under the
project. These references will be elaborated by STP and agreed at negotiations. These consultancies
include the following: (a) entomologist; (b) epidemiologist; (c) vector control specialist; (d) IEC
specialist; (e) anthropologist; and (f) malaria control program management expert.
Entomologist
1.    Duties and Responsibilities. The major duties and responsibilities of the Entomologist include
the following: (a) undertake entomology survey, using modem techniques in identifying infected
mosquitoes, particularly those infecting Plasmodium Falciparum; (b) undertake mosquito
susceptibility tests, using WHO technique; (c) undertake studies on the behavior of Anopheles
Gambiae; and (d) train MEP personnel in applied entomology to enable them to carry out regular
entomological surveys.
2.    Oualificgtion/Experience. The entomologist should have extensive experience with Anopheles
gambiae and in undertaking the tasks described above. Preferably, the consultant speaks Portuguese
as most of the tasks will be in the field.
3.    Timing. It is estimated that this work would require about 18 man-months.
Epidemiologist
1.    Duties and Responsibilities. The major duties and responsibilities of the Epidemiologist
include the following: (a) carry out an epidemiological survey; (b) assess the existing information
system used for monitoring malaria transmission and control, reviewing current data collection,
record-keeping, supervisory, and management systems at all levels, and make recommendations for its
improvement, including methods of data collection, record-keeping, reporting style, and performance
indicators; (c) evaluate susceptibility tests for plasmodium falciparum to anti-malarial drugs; and (d)
identify specific areas for training and in-service education of local staff in epidemiology and
undertake such training.
2.    QualificationlExperience. The epidemiologist should have a minimum of five years of
experience in malaria control program, particularly in (a) epidemiological evaluation as well as the
surveillance (both active and passive), and treatment of cases in health services network; (b)
evaluation of information systems; and (c) evaluation of susceptibility tests for plasmodium
falciparum to anti-malarial drugs. Preferably, the consultant speaks Portuguese as most of the tasks
will be in the field.
3.    Terms of Assignment. The duration of assignment is for 12 months.
IEC Specialist
1.    Duties nd Responsibilities. The major duties and responsibilities of the IEC specialist
include the development of an IEC strategy plan to promote community participation in carrying out



-40 -
ANNEX 3- 1
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 3
malaria control activities. The strategy should include the use of mass media, community leaders,
teachers, health workers, etc., in promoting individual and community level means of protection.
2.    Q11alificatign/Exprien. The IEC specialist should have experience in the production and
dissemination of information/educational materials particularly catered to malaria control programs, as
well as (a) famiiiarity with the malaria control techniques that will be used in STP, including anti-
vectorial and anti-parasitic activities, and (b) experience in community mobilization and mass media
campaign. Preferably, the consultant speaks Portuguese.
3.    Terms of Assignment. It is estimated that the assignment will involve six man-months.
Vector Control SpecialiSt
1.    Duties and Responsibilities. The major duties and responsibilities will include the following:
(a) training of field staff for the handling and maintenance of spraying equipment; (b) prepare
insecticide formulas; (c) prepare a technical manual for staff use; and (d) provide instructylons on
evaluation techniques about the efficacy of spraying and use If larvicides.
2.    Oualifications/Ex2erience. The specialist should have (a) at least five years of field
experience in anti-vectorial campaign programs; and (b) specific training in vector control. He should
speak preferably Portuguese, or Spanish.
3.    Tjming. It is estimated that the assignment would involve six man-months.
Ainthronologist
1.    Duties and Responsibilities. The major duties and responsibilities of the anthropologist
include the following: (a) undertake a study at the field level, to identify socioeconomic factors that
influence malaria transmission, with particular focus on the behavior of the community with regards
to endemic diseases, including the use of individual and community level protection measures; (b)
based on the study, propose a strategy aimed at the use of community participation in malaria control
activities; and (c) assist'in the development of training programs on community mobilization.
2.    Qualificationffi3perience. The candidate must be a university graduate, preferably with
extensive experience in undertaking similar surveys as outlined above. Preferably, the consultant
speaks Portuguese.
Malaria Control Program Management Specialist
1.    Duties and Reaonsibilities. The major duties and responsibilities of consultant include the
following: (a) advise MEP in the programming of anti-malarial activities at all levels; (b) advise in the
establishment of a hierarchical system of supervision; and (c) establish a monitoring and evaluation
system for measuring program performance and make recommendations on how to improve efficiency
and efficacy of the program. Specifically, he should also assist in (a) identifying in detail the nature



- 41 -
ANNE3-1I
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 3
and volume or numbers of resources required for the effective implementation of the program
Including, but not limited to equipment, vehicles, insecticides, materials, etc.; (b) developing
procurement policy for MEP, which are in line with World Bank guidelines, as well as developing
operational guidelines for storage and distribution of drugs, insecticides, equipment, materials, etc.;
(c) developing a transportation and equipment maintenance system; and (e) training local staff in
vector control measures, procurement and logistics support.
2.    Qualificitions/Eiperience. The candidate must be a highly experienced malariologist, with a
minimum of five years of experience in managing malaria control programs, particularly in the anti-
vectorial and anti-parasitic areas. He must be a university graduate, preferably with (a) proven
managerial skills; (b) experience in procurement particularly of insecticides and drugs; and (c)
preferably, experience in management of logistical support. Preferably, the consultant speaks
Portuguese.
3.    3iMing. It is estimated that the assignment will take about 36 man-months.



aMM W~ MruIE FM IWIA CWIT uRMW
"M             lm~199                  "A4                    199                 In                   19                   TUIHS
C=pmj*/q"um~,  :Lcmt OureIgWatst docal :Famigp  ,Total  :Li=mt :FoMiwGn :Totulk   10ct :FOreigi.TOt&t :IicaL  :FeIuigOtat :Ulcat :Fcreigi TQWa  :MI.oca        a*11i :Mgtfi
2. CivI   Ib    ic   :                      4(: 125    18:    4: l:   21J:  14:  436:  Sm : ~ :   d6:  38:                                        :2   100   3300:  4400:
3. Vdbclm                    .s                       40:     40:            40:    40:       ::           0:      ::          0:      ::           0:      0:    30:    a0:
4. EqAip..Fum S bt. :          54:   54 :           610:    610 :            63:    61 :       :  193 :  193:  :        58:   So:           73:   73        0:   1(51:   1(51:
5. Tadnint Amistuu :          39 : 39       :        135:    13:             Is13:    13:      : to:  40:           :51       51               :   0:       0     4AM:   421
6. Fe wihadips                 251:   21 :           aD:    80   :           251:    21:       :  35:   3:5                    0 :                  0:      0:   1k:    16:
7. EdvSti.udI          I7               7:     : :   2515: 29:                        29:   1M        : 16:25:            :23 :12:            :12:    112:          0:    112:
TatttaIIimtCats          I 7:I18   125:  430:   2158:   2518   559:   lWS    352:  161:  795:  9:   43:  Z5    2(8:  12:    93:  110:   1212    S :   6419:
8.Lcot Trainirg      :2:               2:      :        : 18 :I  15:                  15:   18          1s       15:      :15:13:              :13:        81       0:      81
9. ImSmlarie            1              1      2:               2:    2:               2:    2:             2:    2:            2:1:                 I1     10:      0:      10:
10. FtidALUame       :35          :35:60                    :  0:0:                  60:  '6D:        :40:60:             : 60:35             :3:    310:           0:    310:
BpIp. bfut.aw      :IT:             IT: 40:           :    40:   40:               40:z21:         :21:21               :2515:                 15:    1w:    0:    162: 
Tout 1I=  rzKuyt Ct:  55:   10:   6:   12D:          15:    13    117:    15:    122    1(5:   30:  13    IM    3D0 2 ~             64:    18:   8:    5:    118    61
IWAL P8 PRMW  aN7  :W.0  :lM.0  150.0 :155.0 :S2,173.0 A2.S9m.0 :166.0 S1,900.0 :32.454.0 :1a16.0 zM0.0 :1956.0 145.0 S.10.0 :s0.0 :57.0 :$116. :5111.0 :S1,5.0 -15.,m.0 %W16.U0:
Is Uovdx  199        Fi.rt1.dA  (1")
OQ .0
o 4
VI-t



SAO TOXI AND PRINCrPE HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate for tha Malaria Control Sub-Project
(in US $000)
Ccponent/Expenditures c:1992    :  1993    :  1994    :  1995                       :199      :  1997    iTotal
A. Vector Control                  :           :           :           :          :           s
INVESTMENT COSS T S                                        :           :                      : :
1. Civil Works                     :           .           s                      :           s           :
Swamp drainage                 :                  1500        2000 :      500 :           s           s      4000 :
Domistic bredingsites          :                   120:        120 :       80:         80                     400 :
2. inbecticides                                         35:                    35 s           :                    70s
:           :        30             :          :                                30s:     I
3. Spray Equipment                                      30                                                         30
3
4. Vehicles (2mini-trucks)         :           :           :        40:                                   :        40:
5. Materials                                   ;           :
mosquito nets                  :           :       210 :           :          :           s                   210:
Insect rpellantu               :           :        10 :                   20             :        20 :        50s
Protective clothing                                 40:            :       30             :        30 :       100:
6. Operational Research
Entomological surves           . :         :
Insecticide sonsitivty        :           :        10:          8          6:          4:          2          30:
Biological control             :           :         5:          5            :           :           :        10 :
Total Investment Costs                       0       1960 s      2173 s      671 s        84          52 s      4940
INCREMENTAL RCURNT COSTS                                     
7. Local Training                  :           :           :           :
Entooological tech.            :           :         8       :         8a 8:                        8s         40:
8. Vehicle op.& maintenance,                12 s        24 :        24 :       24 :        24 s        12 s       120
9. Field allowancec                         15:         30          30 s       303         30 :        15         150:
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs  s        27          62 s        62 s       62 :        62 s        35 s       310
TOTAL VECTOR COWTROL,                       27 s      2022 s      2235:       733         146          87 s      5250:
_-s*
lp3 0.1



SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate for the Malaria Control Sub-Project
(in US $000)
Component/Expeaditur*s                :   19       :    993    :   1994          1995   :   1996    s   1997    :TOTALS
: ~      ~     ~~ :                :           :            s            5           s
:        s            :            :           :            s            :      
EPIDEN!OLOGICAL SURVEILLANCE                       :            s            s
:        :            :3           :           s            :            ::
INVESTHMET COSTS
*           :            :            *3   
1.  Anti-malaria drug.                s                     43:          40:         37           36 :         2S          181 
5   :           :            :          s            :     ~      ~     ~     ~~~ :  :
2.  Laboratory equipsnt               :                     65                     :                 :                      65:
:            s           :            :           s            s            a
3.  Materials                         :                        _:                       -            s 
Raqnt., consumbles, etc.    :                 :         80           20          20 :         20 :        20 :        160 :
Protective clothing              :            3          3:           3:          3            3 s          3          15s
Office supplies                  :         20:          20:          20          20:         20 s                     100:
4.~~                                                                    ~ s  :  :           3            :           :
4. Vehicles                       -:                                                    :            s            s
Motorcycles (4)                                         20:  2          :                        s            3        20s
S.  operational Rsearch                                                                .            s            s
Surveil.of Falciparu:                                    4            2:          4            2           4:          16
Imunological surveys                                     2                       2                         2:           6:
EpidemioLogical surveys                                  4            4           4 :          4           4 :         20:
Total Inveatment Comts                         20          241:          89:         90:          85:          58          583
1NCRENENThL RZCURRENT COSTS           s                                                 :            :            s
6.  Training                          s            s            s                        :                        s            :
MDs, nurex, lab. tech.           s                       8s           5:         8            5s           5          31:
7.  Vehicle operation & maintenance:            3:           3s           3s          3:           3            3:          18S
S. Field allowances                            10s          10:          10          10:          10           10           60 :
9.  Utilities, Conmunications, & s                 s            :
Equipeent Maintenance                       2:           2:           2:          2:           2:           2          12:
Total Incremental Recurrent Cost s              15 s        23 :         20 :        23           20 s         20 s        121 s
TCTAL EPID. SURVEILLANCE              s        35          264          109         113          105s          78          704
0 CD
o x
___ __
*                                                                                                  0|E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 



SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE HRALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate for the Malaria Control Sub-Project
(in US 5000)
__~~~~~~~~~~ -----                                  -_ _-______  _  ____________  ___ -- --- --------------- -  --- -----
couponmnt/pxpenditure                  1992        1993    s  1994         1995   :  1996    :  1997    :TOTALS
C.~::                                             :                                  : :               *    3
C. ISC ACTIVTIZSssss
:        : ~       ~ :           :          :           :           :           :
INVESTZMT COSTS                                :                                                          :           :
:     :      . ~1:            :                        
1. Equipmant                                            14                                                         14
2. Materials                                                                        
Audio-visual materials                              78                     90:                                168
Office supplies                          5                      10            :         5:                     20
Total Invetmnnt costs                        5          92          10         90           5 s                   202:
INCR1NENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
3. Training
Teacherx,leadors,etc.                    2           2           2          2:          2                      10:
4. Radio/TV product.cost                                 2           2s         2           2           2:         10:
5. Utilitieu/Comiunication & a                                         :                       :
Equipment maintenance                                S           S          S            5:         S:         25:
Total Incrmental Recurrent Costs             2           4           9          9           9:          7          40:
TOTAL IEC ACTIVITIZS                         7          96          19s        99:         14           7         242s
-    -----------~~~----------------------------------
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVEWPHMNT        :                                              :
INVESTMENT COSTS                   s           s           :                      s                       s
1. Equipment                             :           :                 :          :           :           s
Computers/software (2)         :                    10:                                   s                    10:
TypwritLer( 2                        :               2:                                                         2 :  2:
Calculators  41                            :         2                        :                       :         2
Photocopying maIchine          :           :         5S:5
2. Vehicle for consultant          s           s        20                                    s           s        20:
3. Office furniture                                     SO 50 s        s                      :           a        50
-______ - -
0 X



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate for the Malaria Control Sub-Project
(in US $000)
________ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   -    -  - __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _  - __ __ __  -  ------------__ ___ __-- ______------ -     ----- -    - - --:-- -
Component/Nxpenditure              :   1992    :   1993         1994        1995   :   1996    :  1997    :TOTAL
___  ___   _  _  _ ____ ________  _   ____ _    ________  --___ -__   --- -- --  ---_--   -   --
4. Technical Ausistance
Entomologist (18 months)          I         6:          30          15 :       30           9                       90 :
Vector Control 6 month.)          :                                 30 :                      :            :           :
Epidemiologist  12 montho)        :         6:          15          30:                     9:            :         60 :
Anthropoloqist  6 months}         .          6          15             .                    9:             :        30:
rIC specialist  6utonths                    6           15                                  9 :    :               30 i
Program Hgt  (3 o-)                        15:          60:         60         30          15:            :        180:
5. Fellowships                            :                                        . :         :            :
Entomology                     :            :        15            :                       :           :         15:
Vector control                 :                     15                                                          15
Zpidemiology                                                     15         15                                   30
ItC                            :                    15              .          .           :           :        15:
Program management             :        15 :                              :                            :         15:
Program evaluation             :                     15                                    :                     15:
6. Study Tours
For vector control             :        10                       10            :           5                    20:
For epidemiology                            :        10             :       10:            :           :        20 :
For program management                               1D:                    10:            :           :        20:       G
7. OeratLonal Research
Program Zvaluation                       7              :        10                     13':                    30
S. Office supplies                          10           10          10         10          10                       5
Total Investment Costs                      81:         314:        180        105          74           0:         754
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
9. Incremental Salaries                         :           :           *
Epidemiologist                 :       0.5:           1           1 :        1:          1:        0.5 :         5:
Medical doctor                 :       0.5 :          1           1 :        1           1         0.5 :          5:
10. Vehicle Operation/Maintenance          2.5            5           5 :        5           5         2.5          25
11.  Field Allowances                       10          20           20:        20:         20:         10:        100
12.  Prep.of guidelines                      1            2           2          2           2           1           10
13  Utilities/communications a               5           10 :        10         10          10 :         5          50
Equipwent maintenance         :         1:           2:          2          2           2:          1:          10:
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs         20.5           41          41         41          41        20.5          205
TOTAL INST.DEVELOPMENT             :    101.5 :         355         221        146 :       115 :      20.5 :        959
TOTAL PROJECT BASE COSTS               $170.50   $2,737.00   $2,584.00 :$1,091.00      $380.00     $192.50   $7,155.00
______ - _  - ----------- ___                                                                __ _ -_        - - - -
Note:  Assuming project starts July 1992.      Detcost.wkl (km6)
OQ la
o #I,



- 47 -
SAO TOME.& PRINCIPE                        ANNEX 3 - 1
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT                    Appendix 4
MALARIA CONTROL SUBPRO3ECT                    Page 1 of 2
Implementation Schedule
_______________________
COMPONENT                     YEAR  YEAR  YEAR | YEAR I YEAR | TOTAL
ACTIVITY                    I 1       2   |3   | 4   | 5   | MONTHS
*Vector Control
sVe of individual measures of protection     --- ------ ------ ------ ------ 54 montho
Anophelines proliferation control
Selective uue of larvicide and insecticide                         -- ----- _30 months
Elimination of stagnant water and around
hou-eez                                          ______        ------ ------ 48 months
Drainage of swamps                                ------ ____-                24 months
Recruitment of sanitarian engineer with
experience in vector control               ---                                06 months
Surveillance on susceptibility of vectors
to insecticiden                            ---          ---           ---    18 months
Training for transport and handling of
spraying equipment and insecticide                      ---                   05monthe
1. Parasite Control
- Equipping health posts and MEP laboratories
with materials/drugs for diagnosis and
treatment                                ------  ------  ------  ------  ------   60  month.
- Advising the population to seek
information about malaria symptoms        ______ ------ ------ ------ ------ 60 months
- Reviewing and standardizing anti-malaria
therapeutics                                 ___---                      ---  18 months
- Surveillance on parasite sensibility to
anti-malarial drugs                       ------ ------ ------ ------ __-__  60 months
- Carrying out epidemiological,
parasitological clinical and serum-
epidemiological surveys                       -      --    --- ---   ---   --  15 months
- Descentralization of epidemiological
activities and treatment throughout
districts and their implementation
through SGS                                ------                             12 months
I.Information, Educational and
Communication Activities
- Production of IEC materials                ---   ---   ---   ---   __          30 months
- Promotion of individual and collective
protection measures                              ---   ---   ---   ---    24 months
-adio and TV broadcast                     ---   ___ ---   ---   ---    30 months
Training of teachers, health workers
comunity leaders in community
organization and mobilization                ---   ---   ---   ---   --- 30 months
Etno - anthropological and sociil study



- 48
SAO TOME & PRINCIPE                        ANNEX 3 -
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT                    Appendix
MALARIA CONTROL S51BPROJECT                    Page 2 of 2
Implementation Schedule
_______________________
COMPONENT                    YEARAR  YEAR  YEAR I YEAR  YEAR  TOTAL
ACTIVITY                       1     2      3      4      5    MONTHS
IV. Institutional Developwemit:
- Organizational strengthening of MEP        ___-_ ------                      24 mont
- Planning of Malaria Control in each diet.                                    24 mont
- Training: district medical officers        ------              ------        24 mont
nurses and district midwives    ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 60 mont
ASC agents and matrons       -     _ ------ ------   ____-- - --- ----- 60 mont
entomological technicians         - -                              12 mont
laboratory technicians           ---                               12 mont
- Preparation of guidelines                  -----                              12 mont
- Fellowshipu: sanitarian &nginser           ---                                06 mont
ZEC technician                ---                               06 mont
entomologist                 ___                                06 mont
parasitologist                  ---                             06 wont
epidemiological technician          ---                         06 mont
vector control technician              ---                      06 mont
epidemiologist                             ------               12 mont
- Study tours                                ------ ------                      24 mont
- Operational reseracha: parasites/vectors   ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 60 mont
morbility/mortality       ------ ------ ------ ------ 48 mont
inaunology                              ------ ------ 24 mont
biological control
of  vectors               ------  ------  ------  ------   48  months
- Technical assistance: entomologist                             -- -           18 months
epidemiologist      -_    ---                          12 months
engineer-specialist in vector control              ---                  06 mont
ZEC Specialist                       ---                                06 mont
anthropologist                       ---                                06 mont
Program Management                   ------ ------ ------               36 months
V. Program External Evaluation                   ---          ---           --- 09 months
30 October 1991
Imple-sc.wkl (km2)



- 49 -
*                          ~~~~~~ANNEX3 2
Page 1 of 6
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESSENAL  DRUS SUB-PROJECT
IndulWn
1.    The essential drugs requirements of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) are either met through
direct imports by the Government or through external assistance. The State-owned Empresa
Nacional de Medicamentos (ENAMED) was created in 1981 to be responsible for the imports and
distribution of all drugs in the country. Since the constitutional change in late 1990, private
sector has also been allowed to operate in this field. However, due to foreign exchange
scarcities, private sector's imports have been negligible so far and its activities limited to a
handful of pharmacies in the capital city retailing drugs purchased from the Government's stock.
ENAMED attempts to import all drugs required for the Ayres de Menezes Hospital (the central
hospital) and the other health units except the district hospitals. Each of STP's six district
hospitals, which are being supported by the external agencies, obtains its drugs directly from the
donorsl/. In addition, donations of medicines and vaccines are received from various external
agencies, notably UNICEF.
2.    ENAMED imports the drugs directly from the European suppliers based upon the
requirement lists prepared by the Pharmaceutical Directorate of the Ministry of Social Affairs
(MOSA)2I. However, STP's economic difficulties have resulted in greatly reduced imports
since the mid-1980s. Consequently, there are serious shortages of drugs nationwide, especially in
the facilities which are dependent upon the Government imports. There is not enough information
concerning the drug supply situation in the district hospitals which are managed by different
external agencies. Nevertheless, the situation is much better in those hospitals although the
availability varies between hospitals. For example, the Monte Cafe Hospital in Me-Zochi
District, operated by the French Care (NGO), is considered to have the best supply and
management of drugs, while the hospitals in Caue and Pague Districts are much weaker on both
counts. Also, allegations are often heard that some. of the external agencies allow distribution of
date-expired drugs and free samples from the manufacturers.
Main Issues and Constraints
3.    Inadeguate sunoly of essential drugs has become a serious problem in STP, especially
since the recent economic difficulties have significantly eroded health expenditures in the country.
Although there is a dearth of accurate information, especially concerning the external assistance,
MOSA data indicate that the total expenditures ia health declined from US$2.4 million in 1984
and
I/ Sao Tome and Principe has a central hospital in the capital city that also acts as the Agua
Grande District hospital. Each of the other six districts has one district hospital.
2/ The Ministry of Social Affairs was created in early 1991, combining the earlier Ministry
of Health and the Ministry of Education.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3 -2
Page 2 of 6
2.5 million in 1985 to US$2.0 million in 1988 and US$1.6 million in 1989. The share of drugs
in the total expenditures has been declining even more drastically. Government imports of drugs
were US$584,000 in 1988, $239,700 in 1989, and $128,800 in 1990. It is also believed that the
bulk of the imported drugs is consumed by the central hospital and the other facilities in and
around the capital city. This has resulted in virtual absence of drugs in the health units outside
the capital, except for those received under donations (like the vaccines donation by UNICEF).
4.    Sustenance. Until recently, STP's constitution had guaranteed unlimited free medical
care, including free supply of all drugs, to all its citizens. The economic difficulties of the 1980s
and the serious shortages of the resources have demonstrated that the country cannot afford such
generosity. Therefore, the new constitution (effective from end of 1990) has made the provision
for cost recovery but the mechanism has yet to be put in place.
5.    National Drugs Policy. STP does not have an effective essential drug policy. In 1981, a
drug list of more than 500 products was approved. This was revised in 1987, and the list
contained some 240 products corresponding to the WHO recommendation. Recently, for the
purpose of the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP), as discussed in paragraph 8 (a), a shorter list
was prepared covering those which are required to treat 95% of all cases of morbidity plus the
simple first aid items. While that list would be used under the Government's essential drugs
import program, it has not been made a part of the national drug law. Consequently, there is no
control or guidance concerning the imports or use of drugs by the external donors managing the
district hospitals or by private parties. Enactment and enforcement of such legislation is very
important to ensure that only the right kind of drugs are distributed in the country. This would
also address the allegations that some external agencies supply date- mxpired drugs or
manufacturers' samples and some private importers have brought in wrong products.
6.    Rational Use of Drugs. Most STP health staff are trained overseas, in a number of
diverse systems, including Cuba, the Soviet Uniok and Portugal. There is no program to
standardize their skills or to provide refresher courses. This results in unsatisfactory prescription
practices. Similarly, inadequate knowledge of drugs on the part of the people has caused
improper use of drugs, especially contributed by the fact people are able to go to several health
facilities and collect free medicines for future use. Recent freedom for private purchases can add
to the improper self-medication. A prescription system has been developed under the Multisector
Project (para 8(d)), which should be institutionalized.
Government. Poicies and Prgrams
7.    As stated, STP's constitution had guaranteed free and socialized medical services,
including free drugs, until the constitution was changed in late 1990. Now, private practices are
allowed and even the Government facilities are permitted to charge for the services and the drugs.
Furthermore, the Government subscribes to the essential drugs principles of WHO and it also
subscribes to the Bamako Initiatives. A system for the determination, procurement, prescribing
and distribution of essential drugs has been worked out under the Multisectoi Project and it is
described below. However, the Government has yet to legislate the system to institutionalize the
system and to make it universal.



- 51 -
ANNEX3-2
Page 3 of 6
Essential Drugs under the Multisector Project
8.    An Essential Drugs Subproject was approved by IDA in 1990 under the Multisector
Project (Cr. 2038-STP). This subproject marks the start of implementing ST`P's essential drugs
program and provides financing for: the import of drugs for the first year of the program
(covering the requirements for up to mid-1992); renovation of the storage facilities; establishment
of a cost recovery system and a drugs revolving fund; technical assistance for an improved drug
management, and training. The total cost of the subproject is estimated at US$ including drug
procurement ($186,440) and repairs of the storage facilities ($242,000). UNICEF is providing
necessary technical assistance and most of the training requirements and WHO is supplementing
with additional training. The following actions have been carried out under the subproject.
(a)    The essential drug list was finalized based on the recommendation of a working
group consisting of physicians, pharmacists and other health officials, and the
verification by leading health establishments in the country. The list includes
some 75 different types of products plus some items for simple first aid and it
covers 96% of the cases of morbidity as determined from the date for 1987 to
1989.
(b)    The procurement of drugs is being carried out through UNICEF/UNIPAK and the
International Dispensary Association which is also a non-profit organization
assisting developing countries. This is considered the best possible alternative to a
direct international competitive bidding (ICB) for the country. ICB is not
appropriate for STP because the quantities required are too small and the country
does not have any facility to test quality assurance. The drugs procured under the
Multisector Project are all expected to arrive in STP by early 1992.
(c)    The   e dgislit1 i system has been worked out. Under this, each District
would collect drugs on a designated day of the week from the central warehouse,
transport them to their own stores and distribute to the facilities under its
jurisdiction. A computer-assisted stock management system has also been
established with assistance of a UNICEF consultant.
(d)    A  - tqm otdrgp e         has been agreed at three different levels -- at the
community health workers' level, at the nurses' level and at the physicians' level.
(e)    Rbehailitation of the central warehouse and theofficeS of the Pharmacy
Department bas been completed.
(f    Staff training and mass communications are being financed by UNICEF. An
initial training in drug system management was provided in 1990 to 20 persons
consisting of staff members of the Ministry, the central Pharmacy Department and
other central and district health personnel. Audio-visual materials are also being
produced to impart messages to the field health personnel and general public on
the drugs, their storage, prescription, requisition and distribution and the usage.



-52 -
Page 4 of 6
(g)    Establishmet of a cost recovery system, including a drug revolving fund, is an
essential part of this subproject. The Government fNilly accepts the principle and
is eager to make a start as soon as possible. The detailed mechanism, including
the rates and usage of funds, will be finalized as a condition of disbursement
under the proposed credit.
PROPOSED S]UBPROJECT
Objectiv
9.    The proposed subproject would continue the improvements in the procurement,
distribution, usage and financing of essential drugs in STP, which was started on a smaller scale
under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP). The main objectives of the subproject is: (a) to
improve the supply of essential drugs to treat 95% of the cases of morbidity in STP; (b) to
improve procurement and distribution practices of essential drugs to assure good quality and
reasonable prices; (c) to improve the drugs prescription practices of the health personnel and the
drugs usage by the people; and (d) to establish a cost recovery mechanism to make the system
sustainable within a reasonable period of time.
10.   The proposed subproject would include the following:
(a)    Adoption of essential drugs policy. As stated above (paragraphs 7 and 8), a list
of essential drugs has been worked out and a guideline has been prepared for
prescribing drugs at various levels under the Multisector Project. Under the
proposed sub project, the system would be institutionalized and enforced for
universal application, also covering those under external assistance and private
sector. Also, a system would be established for regular review of the essential
drugs list and the prescription practices and updating as necessary.
(b)    Supply of drugs. Te subproject would finance the procurement of drugs to meet
STP's requirements for three years (calendar years 1993 to 1995), excluding the
amounts committed by the extemal agencies for the district hospitals which they
rnmage. The requirements for 1992 are being met under the Multisector Project
(Cr 2038-STP) and proposed subproject would meet the requirements until the end
of the project period (see paragraph 8(g)).
(c)    Drug procurement and distribution. To assure satisfactory quality and reasonable
prices, STP's procurement practices would be improved. This would include an
emphasis on generic drugs instead of brand-name, procurement through
international competitive bidding (ICB) carried out by international non-profit
organizations and, whenever appropriate, directly by the Government. All non-
government importers, intcluding external assistance agencies, would be required
to declare the type and quantities of drugs they would import and conform with
the quality standards.



-53 -
ANNEX 3 42
Page 5 of 6
(d)    Establishment of cost rcvery and revolving fund mechanism. A pilot system of
cost recovery and revolving fund has been initiated under the Multisector
Project(Cr. 2038-STP). Under the proposed subproject, the system would be
strengthened and fully established with a view to achieve the recovery of full
replacement costs of drugs after the third year of the subproject.
(e)    Technical assistance. training and mass communications. Under the Multisector
Project, a number of officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) have
already been trained to manage essential drugs program. UNICEF has provided
valuable assistance for this purpose. However, MOSA would continue to need
some technical assistance and additional staff training and also in continuing the
information, education and communications (IEC), during the first two years of
the proposed subproject. Therefore, the subproject includes the following
technical assistance and training activities: 4 person-months each of international
consultants to assist in the management of drug distribution and prescription and
of drug revolving fund; and a limited addition of IEC; and the organization of two
seminar in STP to train drug management staff.
Cost Estimates
11.   The estimated costs of the subproject are shown in the table below. The costs are net of
taxes, duties and contingencies. Details in Attachment 2.
SAO TOME AND ,PRINCIPE
HEALI ANI) EDUCAON PROJECI
ESSENTIAL DRUGS SUBPROJECT
Cost Estimates (In US$ '000)
Proiect Conlponents               Lodal        Foreign
Drugs and Consumable               -             645          645
Vehicles, equip. and materials      2             84           86
Technical assistance and IEC        9            69           78
Incremental recurrent costs         66            30          96
Base Project Costs          .2            82           9



- 54 -
ANNEX 3 - 2
Page 6 of 6
Spriec  mimnat  ione :
11.   MannAgnt. This subproject would be implemented by the Pharmacy Department of the
Ministry of Social Affairs under the overall coordination of the Project Coordination Committee
headed by the Minister of Social Affairs. The Department has been strengthened with training
and technical assistance provided under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP). ITe proposed
subproject would further strengthen the Department by financing vehicles, office equipment and
materials, additional staff training and technical assistance.
12.    Procurement adn distribution. An efficient system of procurement and distribution ia a
key prerequisite for a successful essential drug system. Under the subproject, all drugs would be
procured from the international non-profit agencies, like the UNICEF/UNIPAK and the
International Dispensary Association, who procure quality-assured drugs in bulk through
international competitive bidding (ICB). Direct ICB would be used only in special cases since the
quantities involved are too small to be economical for ICB and also because ST'P does not have
drug testing facility to assure quality of the imported products.
13.   Monitoring and evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation would be an important
element of the subproject. First, key project actions, Attachmnt 2, have been identified, which
would be closely monitored through progress reporting and regular supervision visits. Secondly,
the Pharmacy Department would be responsible for submitting implementation reports every six
months. Thirdly, there would be a comprehensive mid-term review of the whole project,
including this subproject, between 18 and 24 months of the credit effectiveness. Finally, the
presence of UNICEF's resident office in STP would allow continuous progress monitoring of this
subproject.
Agreements to be Reached
14.   During the credit negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would carry out the
following actions as conditions of disbursement under the subproject:
(a)    STP would provide IDA, for its agreement, a cost recovery proposal, along with
the operational details of a drugs revolving fund.
(b)    STP would implement an essential drugs policy satisfactory to IDA.
(c)    STP would arrange to receive assurance of technical assistance from UNICEF or
any other agency for the implementation of the subproject, especially of the drug
revolving fund.



*~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~t                    4. to** Z** X*** "**  .. ....................  ANNlEX 3 - 2
Ci 9:   -  ce -  oa       n    o.        o                    Attachment 1
I       I                             9 Z l; i Page 1 of 1
000000 *4                       *     *o        l~
ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ri
;i1 t      |I.                      to   . . .. .  to
o to to tO t tO       0         .. .       .. 0.
a1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  1.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD
* ....~~~~~~~~~t                  t o.Czt
C  4                                       S42
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t              to   to
C         00             00         .04'
i  -t to                                          to to
,  1                                          @,,  r
I    t ,
: ..t.I
, X
sF: :.
* i, n 2 a s M t 4 oO,
fli X  t..                         .
I 'n                     o      m 30 i0 o                    j
..............................
*         C                                                  C             
S ..C..........................
i i _ _ N *; ~~0                    _       i;t; l Q



-56-
Attachment 2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESSENTIAL DRUGS SUBPROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Actions                                                 jDue Pate
Submission to IDA of Cost Recovery Plan                 December 1991
Arrival of drugs procured under the
Multisector Project                              March 1992
Estimation of needs for new drugs                       Each March
Review of Essential Drugs Policy
(Drug List, Prescription Guide, etc.)            April 1991
Procurement Actions                                     'Each April/May
Review of Cost Recovery Actions                        ]Each March and September
Progress Report to Ministry of Social
Affairs and IDA                                  ]Each June and December
Arrival of new drug consignments                       ]Each November/December
Mid-term Review                                         ]February 1994



-57 -
ANNERX 3 - 3
Page 1 of 4
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
HEALTH PLANNING SUBPROJECT
latroduction
1.    Health planning, management information and coordination of external assistance are very
weak in Sao Tome and Principe (STP). Practically all health projects are externally financed but,
in absence of an overall sector planning and proper direction by the Government, the donors also
end up selecting and implementing their own programs in most cases. This has resulted in
frequent duplications, like the investments in three different hospitals within 20 kilometers of the
capital, and gaps, like the absence of an effective program to control malaria which is most
critical reason of morbidity in the country. This situation results in serious wastage of scarce
health resources at a time when health expenditures have been greatly declining due to the
country's economic difficulties. Furthermore, the health sector lack a management information
system that could reveal the status of the implementation of the programs or the conditions of the
health services provided to the people. To alleviate these problems, a program to strengthen the
health planning and management information system (MIS) was started under the Multisector
Project (Cr. 2038-STP). The proposed subproject would further strengthen that program.
Progress under the MultisectoProject (Cr. 2038-STP1
2.    A Hl UItnning and Management Subproject was included in the Multisector Project
with the objective "to strengthen the capacity of the Health Planning Directorate in areas of
planning, programming and project analysis and to improve its management information system".
The Directorate's staff was expected to be increased by the Government and the subproject was
supposed to finance the services of an international consultant, the procurement of equipment,
materials and vehicles and staff training. The achievements made under the subproject were as
follows:
(a)    A Planning and Management Information Unit (Unidade de Planificacao e
Informacoes para Gestao - UPIG) was established, in September 1989, in the
Health Planning Directorate. All statisticians, scattered in various parts of the
Health Ministry, were brought together and merged in UPIG. A management
information system (MIS) was created which included the establishment of a
system for data collection and processing, codification for computer processing
and start of baseline information gathering. In addition, UPIG also started a
program for the coordination of external assistance in health.
(b)    Services of a planning and MIS consultant was provided who made five short-term
visits (totaling about 7 man-months). In addition, technical assistance, totaling
about 2 man-months was provided for staff training. The subproject financed the
following training programs: (i) a 7-weeks' training for 23 statisticians working
both at the central as well as the district levels of the Health Ministry;



- 58 -
ANNEX3-3
Page 2 of 4
(ii) a one-month computer application to UPIG staff, and (iii) on-the-job training
provided by the Planning Consultant to the staff of UPIG.
(c)    To strengthen the activities of UPIG, the subproject financed a vehicle, a number
of motorbikes, office equipment including desk computers and other materials.
The building of the Ministry of Health was also repaired to accommodate the
requirements of UPIG.
3.    While the subproject under the Multisector Project initiated the establishment of the basic
infrastructure for strengthening of health planning, MIS and external assistance coordination, the
progress under the subproject has been slow. Reasons for the lower than expected
accomplishment and the main lessons learnt during the subproject implementation are described
below:
(a)    The most serious problem was the absence of a full-time leader in UPIG. While
the Directorate of Health Planning was fortunate to enjoy dynamic leadership of
its Director, who also provided critical support and overall guidance to UPIG, it
was very clear that the objectives of UPIG, concerning the planning and MIS
activities, cannot be achieved without a full-time leader of UPIG; and
(b)    The Multisector Project had provided the services of a consultant who would
make a number of periodic visits, instead of a continuous presence of a long-term
consultant, so that a highly qualified consultant could be attracted to the job and
he/she would advise and guide the local officials to perform the actual job. This
strategy of periodic visits approach proved appropriate to establish the system, to
put together the work plans and to train staff economically. However, it is now
clear that a long-term presence of at least one international consultant would be
important for the initial part of the implementation phase, especially because of
the shortage of qualified local staff.
PROPOSED SUBPROJECT:
Objectives
4.    The objectives of the proposed subproject would be: (a) to consolidate, further develop
and implement the management information system (MIS) established under the Multisector
Project; (b) to improve health planning; and (c) to implement the program to strengthen external
assistance in health.
Subproejet Description
5.    The proposed subproject would include the following activities:
(a)    Strengthening of UPIG. Past experience has made it clear that the success of any
program to improve planning or MIS will greatly depend upon the provision of
adequate staff by the Government. Under the subproject, GOSTP would be
required (i) to appoint two senior staff --one economist/statistician and one public
health specialist; (ii) to maintain at least three middle level or junior staff



- 59 -
ANNEfX 3 - 3
Page 3 of 4
(economist/statistician/health workers); and (iii) to depute other specialist or
recruit local consultants for specific short-term tasks as necessary;
(b)    Technical assistance. The subproject would finance the services of the following
consultants: (i) a health planning/MIS specialist would be appointed for a total 8
person months. This specialist would visit STP about twice each year (for 3 to 4
weeks each visit) to advise the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and to jointly
prepare the health planning/MIS strategies as well as the detailed work plans for
UPIG, and to guide and train the staff of UPIG to carry out the work plan.
Terms of reference of the consultant is in Attachment 1; (ii) a middle-level
planning/MIS consultant would be appointed to work for two years with the UPIG
staff. UNDP has already arranged for the recruitment of a United Nations
Volunteer to fill this requirement; and (iii) a total of one person-year of local
short-term consultancies would be provided to recruit staff/specialists which are
not available in the Government and whose requirements are essentially of short-
term nature.
(c)    Special studies. The proposed subproject would include a limited number of very
high priority studies. Specifically, it would include: (i) nutrition study, designed
to review critical aspects of the current nutrition situation and recommend actions
for implementation; and (ii) family planning study, designed to review the
ongoing activities and make recommendations for improvements.
(d)    Training. Training would be a critical part of the subproject and this will be
imparted in three ways: local, external and on-the-job. The local training would
be provided to a large number of staff, by the subproject's expatriate consultants
and/or those arranged through other cooperating agencies like UNICEF and
WHO, in planning, statistics and IEC. The project finance overseas training of
four junior staff and three senior staff connected with health planning and MIS
activities in health. Additional training opportunities are also expected to be
available through other multilateral agencies or through foreign Governments like
Portugal and Brazil. On-the-job training will be an important responsibility of
each expatriate consultant. The consultants' success would be largely judged upon
his/her ability to prepare the local staff to perform the duties without external
technical assistance as soon as possible. The two long-term consultants to be
recruited in IJPIG will have particular responsibility to train their local
counterparts.
(e)    Equipment and materials. Equipment and materials, one vehicle and six
motorbikes were provided under the Multisector Project. UJnder the proposed
subproject, additional equipment and materials would be provided, especially to
meet the requirements of the district-level offices. They would include: I four-
wheel vehicle, 4 motorbikes, 8 desk computers, 6 printers, other equipments and
office supplies.
Cost Estimates
6.    The summary of estimated costs is below and the details are in Attachment 1. These costs
are net of taxes, duties and contingencies.



-60-                     ANEXL3-3
Page 4 of 4
SAO  OE AD PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PRQJFCT
HEALTH PLANNING SUBJROJECT
Cost Estimates 3/
IeQa I1      Foein                TA
Planning Unit (UPIG)      26.0          30.0                56.0
Technical Assistance       9.0          156.0              165.0
Studies                     -           52.0                52.0
Training                  33.0          101.0              134.0
Equipment and Materials     -           107.0              107.0
Total Base Costs                                    514.0
SubEQoiect Implementation
7.    The proposed subproject would be implemented by the Health Planning Directorate in the
Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA). Monitoring and evaluation would be a critical part of the
subproject. First, the project actions, in Attachment 2, would be closely monitored by the Project
Coordination Committee and IDA. Secondly, the lHealth Planning Directorate would provide
comprehensive report to IDA every six months covering each part of the subproject. Finally, the
mid-term review of the whole project, expected between 18 and 24 months after credit
effectiveness, would thoroughly evaluate the progress and the effectiveness of the activities
included in the subproject and take necessary corrective measures. STP currently carrying out the
reorganization of Ministry of Social Affairs to complete the merger of the former Ministries of
Education and Health.
Agreements to be reached
9.    During the credit negotiations, agreement would be reached with the Government of Sao
Tome and Principe (GOSTP) that GOSTP would appoint two senior officials in UPIG - one
economist/statistician and one public health specialist no later {,an December 31, 1992 and
thereafter maintained through project completion.
2I Does not include the cost of one one-year consultancy, which is expected to be financed by
UNICEF.



go     1Et MD  A.TN MD    TICM  P10Wm
(IN wmOEFtNINP =$M
5. c.TP6n,uM A                           3:    2:    3:              306:1:1,5                                    55                5      .0:  1.0:  5.0:-
6. Trameskt  is:e 2.1:        :  2.1   4.2      2     4.2   4.2             4.2: 43.2:  40     .:   . 44.2: 1   2.:21   11.0:  10.0  921M.0:
8pIt(towo uips3.:               .5    7        3       7:   7:   :13        7:   7      3 : 7:   7:         :    : 3.:        : .:   MO.:  10.0: 0.0:
ToaI won   cabt 5.6    0:  5.6: 142    0s:  142  112                  0:   112: 11.2:9 0:12  112:            :  11.:56  0 :5  5.6   19.0:  10.0: 169.0:
6E. IrEN.TN  MaUiU : .:     3.0   215.: 412:   4B0   1.2 : $4.2: $1.: 45.2 : $4.2:  4P.   W2 : $1.2 :           410:  2  15.6:15.:  $10.: W16.0: 91.0  514.0:
Lkilitfavenowe- 11-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-   .



-62 -
ANNEX3-3
Attachment 2
LAO TOME AND PRlNCIPE
HEALTH AN_D EDUCATION PROJECT
HEALTH PLANNINCG SUBPROJECT
Key Dates of Subproject Implementation
Actim                                                Due l2$
--PIG Strenghening
Agreement with IDA of the Subproject
implementation arrangement                          May 31, 1992
Appointment of two Senior Staff in UPIG              December 30, 1992
Technical Assistance
Selection of the Planning/MIS Consultant             April 30, 1992
Arrival of the UN Volunteer                          May 31, 1992
Recruitment of the Planning/MIS Consultant           July 31, 1992
Special Studie
Finalization of the Terms of Reference for
the Nutrition and Family Planning Studies         April 30, 1992
Selection of Consultant for the Nutrition Study      June 30, 1992
Carry out Nutrition Study                            October 1992
Carry out Family Planning Study                      July 1993
Training
Finalization of the Training Program
and presentation for IDA'a approval                July 31, 1992
Initiate Arrangements for the Training               October 1, 1992
Send Candidates                                      1993, 1994 Ind 1995
Eguipment Procurement
Finalize Procurement plan                            June 30, 1992
Start Procurement                                    October 1992



-63 -
ANNEX3 -4
Page 1 of 11
SAQ TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
TEXTBOOKS AND EDUCATION MATERIALS SUBPROJECT
Backgrqund
1.1          Sao Tome and Principe (STP) schools did not have any textbooks until recently
when the 14 books in different subjects were printed and distributed under the IDA-assisted
Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP). Those 14 textbooks were a part of the 50 different textbooks
which the Goverrment had developed for the country's primary and basic secondary schools -- 34
books with assistance from the Gulbenkian Foundation and 16 books with Portuguese
Cooperation. Under the Multisector Project, the central book warehouse was also rehabilitated
and a system of distribution, including a cost recovery system, was established. At this time, the
country is not in a position to print and distribute books without external assistance. It also needs
assistance to strengthen the country's capacity to continuously review and upgrade the contents of
those books. Furthermore, STP needs assistance to provide critical supply of education materials
like notebooks and pencils. These issues will be addressed under the proposed subproject.
A. TEXTBOOKS
3bjectives
2.1          The objective of this subproject would be to continue and further expand the
textbooks printing and distribution program started under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP),
including the cost recovery system, and the strengthening of STP's indigenous capacity to review
and upgrade the contents of the books. It would involve printing (and reprinting) of all 50 titles
of books for different subjects for grades 1 to 11. The textbook printing would be phased. The
first two phases (1990 and 1991) are to be printed under the Multisector Project, the proposed
subproject would finance the printing and distribution from 1992 to 1997, and the system is
expected to become self-reliant before the end of this subproject period over the period of the
subproject (1992 to 1997), and would result in equipping the whole primary and basic secondary
school system with all necessary books between 1997 and the year 2000.
Subproiect Description
2.2          The list of textbooks and the sources of assistance for the preparation of the
manuscript are given in Table 1. The textbooks to be printed are intended to be re-used except
for the mathematics books for the first four grades. The number of volumes to be printed of each
textbook, in the first printing, is about twice the number of students enrolled in the respective
class, with the exception of Mathematics 1st to 4th grades, for which the number of volumes of
the first printing will be about three times the number of students enrolled in each grade.
Assuming that each book is used two to three times, taking into account the repeaters, the first
printing will last for about five years. The total number of volumes to be printed, by grade, in
the first printing, is shown in Table 2.



64- 
AN1X 3 - 4
Page 2 of 11
2.3         Since the subproject's objective is to provide STP with textbooks until the year
2000, all the necessary books will be reprinted between 1993 and 1997, according to existing
stocks and estimated needs until year 2000. T'e number of texts in the first printings after 1995
will be enough to last until year 2000. All frst printings and reprintings will be made in phases
between 1990 and 1997. Table 3 includes the printing and reprinting phases showing a total
number of volumes of 400,000.
Table 1. Number of textbooks prepared with the assistance
of FCG and CT, by subject and grade (1991)
Assist            Textbooks                   Grades       No. Textbooks
FCG    P - Portuguese                       lIt-llth            11
FCG    MFS - Social and Phys. Env.          lit- 4th             4
FCG    M - Mathematics                     lit- 9th              9
FCG    CNS - Science and Biology            Sth- 9th             5
FCG    ESG - Social Studios and Geog.       5th-* 9th            5
CP    F - Fronch                           Sth- 9th             5
CP    EVT - Visual & Tech. Education       Sth- 9th             5
CP    I - English                          7th- 9th             3
CP    FQ - Physics-ChemLitry               7th- 9th             3
TOTAL
FCG - Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation
CP - Porauguese Cooperation
Table 2. Total number of first printing volumes, by grade
No. Vol.
Grade                   Textbooks                          lot Printing
Ist   P + MiS - 14000 each + M - 21000                      49,000
2nd   P + MFS - 12000 each + 18000                          42,000
3rd   P 4  MPS - 10000 each + 4 - 15000                     35,000
4th   P + MFS -  9000 each + M - 13500                      31,500
5th   P + 1  + CNB + ESG + P + EVT - 6000C  ach             36,000
6th   P + M + CNB + SSG + F  + EVT - 5000 each              30,000
7th   P + M + CN8 + ESG + F + EVT + I + FQ-3000 each        24,000
8th   P + M + CNB + ESG + F + EVT + I + FQ-2000 each        16,000
9th   P + M + CNB + ESG + F + ZVT + I + FQ-2000 etch        16,000
10th   P - 1500 each                                          1,500
11th   P - 1500 each                                          1,500
TOTAL



- 65 -
ANNEX 3- 4
Page 3 of 11
Table 3. Print and reprinting phases of textbooks
Phase Year Print      Textbooks and Grades    T.n. Text    T.n. Vol.
p/phase      p/phase
lot  1990  lot    P - Ist and 5th to 9th
M - lst,2nd,5th and 7th
CNB - 5th and 7th
ESB - 5th and 7th             14           98,000
2nd  1991  lot    P - 2nd to 4th
M - 3th,4th,6th and 8th
CNB - 6th and 8th
ESO - 6th and 8th
M7FS - lt and 2nd            13          106,500
3rd  1992  lot    P - 10th and 11th
M - 9th
CNB - 9th
ESG - 9th
MFS - 3th and 4th              7           28,000
4th  1993 Reprint  All necessary from let
phase                        14           50,000
5th  1994 Reprint  All necessary from 2nd
phase                        13           53,000
6th  1995 Reprint  All necessary from 3rd
phase                         7           14,000
7th  1996  lot    F - 5th and 6th
EVT - 5th and 6th              4           22,000
8th  1997  let    F - 7th to 9th
I - 7th to 9th
FQ - 7th to 9th
EVT - 7th to 9th              12           26,000
2.4         The two first phases of printing (1990 and 1991) will be financed by the
Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP). The mean cost of each of the 98,000 books printed in the
first ph-ae was $2.37. Cost estimates for the second phase are about $2.50 per volume. For the
third and seveth phases, since the mean number of volumes to be printed of each textbook is
smaller, the estimated cost per volume is $3.0. For the eighth phase a higher cost i. considered,
about $4.0 per volume, since the number of volumes printed of each textbook is even smaller.
For the reprinting phases (4th, 5th and 6th) the estimated cost per volume is of the order of
$1.60, since there are no pre-printing expenses. ihe different phases, the number of volumes of



- 66 -
ANNEX 3 - 4
Page 4 of 11
each phase and the respective costs are shown in Table 4. Out of the total cost of $959,000,
approximately $505,000 has already been provided in the Multisector Project (Cr 2038-STP).
The proposed subproject would provide the balance of $454,000 for printing and reprinting.
2.5          The books are kept in a warehouse in Sao Tome City, and from there they are
distributed to the different schools, scattered all over the country, as necessary. The space for
storage in the warehouse is not enough and a further 100 m2 are necessary. An old building
annex to the warehouse can be used for this purpose, after rehabilitation at an estimated cost of
100x$200=$20,000, of which about 25% will be spent in local currency.
2.6          The warehouse needs more shelves, bases for bulk storage on the floor, a manual
bulk transport, ventilators and a semi-industrial vacuum cleaner. The stocks management office
needs one microcomputer, one printer, a stabilizer unit, software, one air condition unit, a desk
and a chair. Eighty locked cabinets have been bou,ght for book storage in schools, but when all
books are printed and reprinted they are not enough, and 80 additional locked cabinets have to be
bought. The estimated cost for all the equipment and materials items are about $40,000.
2.7          The subproject would need some special consultancies to control and evaluate
textbook printing costs, to plan and control the warehouse civil works and to coordinate all
procurement steps regarding equipment acquisition and installment. For this purpose $18,000 has
been provided, of which $3,000 in local currency.
Table 4. Total cost of printing and reprinting textbooks for use until
year 2000
Phase Year No. of volumes printed & reprinted    Unit Cost  Tot. Cost
$US         SUS
lot  1990  Printing   -  98,000 vol.                  2.37       235,000
2nd  1991  Printing   - 106,500 vol.                  2.50       270,000
3rd  1992  Printing   -  28,000 vol.                  3.00        84,000
4th  1993  Reprinting -  50,000 vol.                  1.60        80,000
5th  1994  Reprinting -  55,000 vol.                  1.60        88,000
6th  1995  Reprinting -  15,000 vol.                  1.60        24,000
7th  1996  Printing        22,000 vol.                3.00        66,000
8th  1997  Printing   -  28,000 vol.                  4.00       112,000
TOTAL                   959.000
2.8          The expenses of storage, books control, internal transport and distribution would
be supported by STP Gorernment in local currency. The cost will be considered together with
identical cost for the education materials component of this subproject, since the warehouse,
transport and staff will be the same. For both components the necessary staff will be a unit head
(a primary teacher), two practical technicians of third class and a driver of second class.



-67 -
ANNEX 3 - A
Page 5 of 11
2.9    Base Costs of the extbooks Component only:
(In US$ '000)
Items                                   LQ>I          Foreign      TItal
Printing and reprinting                         -           454           454
Warehouse expansion                             5            15            20
Equipment and materials                         -            40            40
Special consultancies                           3            15            18
Storage, internal transport and
distribution                                    38            -            38
Total base cost                          4            524
2.10         Background and experience. The Government is convinced that free distribution
of books is not affordable and that it needs to introduce a cost recovery program. But it also feels
that full cost recovery of textbooks will take some years, particularly considering the country's
macro economic situation and, for that reason, it will have to subsidize a part of the costs to make
sure that poor families are not deprived of books. Therefore, under the Multisector project (Cr
2038-STP), a system was initiated In school year 1990/91. Under that program, books were
loaned to students against substantial security deposits which were returned at the end of the
school year with some penalties for improper care. Books of Mathematics for 1st and 2nd years
were sold, respectively by 175.0 and 180.0 dobras (about 85% of their cost, with $1 = 180
dobras). For all other books a deposit of 250 dobras was asked for, with the exception of
Portuguese lst year, for which a deposit of 50.0 was asked for, about 20% of the cost. Initially
there was the feeling that a deposit of 250 dobras was too high, and the students for that reason
were not taking the books. Before the end of the year, however, 82.3% of all students enrolled
requested all the available books, as shown in Table 5. The exception was Portuguese 9th grade,
but this was because only two (out of 23) classes had a Portuguese teacher that year. Bearing in
mind that was the first year that the system worked, without previous notice, the result was very
good. Further inquiries in school (teachers and students) seems to show that the deposit was not
considered too high.
2.11         Cost recovery under the proposed project. While the present cost recovery
program, introduced under the Multisector Project, has been quite successful even during its first
year, it has three shortcomings. Firstly, the security deposits, which were not very hard for the
families when there were only one or two books to borrow, are likely to add up to an unbearable
amount to families w hen most books start arriving very soon. Secondly, the present system has
been found to be too cumbersome to administer and it is likely to become even more complex,



- 68 -
ANIX 3 A
Page 6 of 11
paticularly, to determine appropriate fines. Finally, the present system, based upon the extent of
damage on the books, is regarded as punishment by the families. Therefore, the system is being
revised this year in favor of a system of users' fee applied to each book. The proposed system
which is being finalized with assistance from a Gulbenkian Foundation consultant, has been
reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank staff. However, considering STP', lack of
experience in managing textbooks' distribution and cost recovery, the exact strategy followed will
have to be reviewed each year based on experience and necessary improvements made. The
Government of STP has been requested to present their detailed proposal, including the proposal
for the use of the recovered users' fees as a condition of disbursement.
Table 5. Books requested by the students in 199O/91
A         P            N             CN           ES                         G a
Sch.  NO.
Year  Stud.   -                                      _ -  _ _Mean
Vnrd  BSR   BR/A   BR   BR/A   BR /R/A  BR   BR/A   BR   BR/A
lot    6091 4995  .813  4469  .733    -          -      -     -      -      -    -      -    .781
2nd    4843   -       -   3877  .801    -        -      -      -     -      -    -      -    .801
3rd    4737   -       -    -       _      _      _      _     _      _      _    _      _       _
4th    3786   -      -    -               _      _      _     _      _      _    _      _ 
5th    2467 2235  .906  1973  .800  1977  .801  1961  .795    _             _    _      _    .828
6th    2729 2483  .910   -         -      -      -      -     - _  _  _     _                 .910
7th    1650 1506  .961  1484  .899  |            -            -   1339  .812  1263 .765   .864
8th  l  923  783  .848   -          -     -                          _ _ _ _ _  _ _           .848
9th      738   93  .126   -        -       _    _              _     _      _    _      _    .126
Mean    -      -   .871    -   .787    _   .801    -   .795  _            .812  _     .765   .823
i Portuguese books for the 9th year were not considered in the mean value
A - No. of students enrolled            CN - Natural Science
BR - No. of books requested             ES - Social Studies
P - Portuguese                          B - Biology
M - Mathematics                         G - Geography
TexC~ Revso
2.12         Textbooks are not static and they need continuous improvement and
development. On the other hand, economic reasons does not make it possible to change all
books every year, or even every two or three years. However, the Ministry is maling efforts
to ensure that proposals for revisions are made at appropriate times.



-69 -
SANME 3 - 4
Page 7 of II
I=SrmenWa &OcrlSga Expensg
2.13         Th incremental recurrent gosts resulting from the textbooks and educational
materials subproject, as seen in para. 2.8, are of the order of $12,600 a year after 1991, that
is, about 1 % of Education Current expenses budget for 1990, which is expected to cause no
difficulties.
Imementation
2.14         The textbook subproject will be implemented by the Pedagogical Research
and Studies Directorate . The Directorate and the Coordinator will have the Technical
Assistance of the Gulbenkian Foundation and of the Portuguese Cooperation for all the pre-
printing and printing services, which would also provide the teachers guidebooks for each
textbook. Central and school storage, together with local transport and distribution wil be
the education sector's responsibility.
2.15         Procurnement. Textbooks procurement is in general divided into two parts.
The first part would cover pre-printing and the second would include printing, binding and
shipping to Sao Tome. Since the first part needs close coordination among the suppliers,
authors and production staff, it would be procured by competitive shopping in Portugal. Such
close coordination is only practical in Portugal where the authors, textbooks developers, Sao
Tome's education representatives and the technical assistance agency (Gulbenkian Foundation)
can all join their efforts conveniently. The second part of the procurement includes printing
and reprintinting which would be carried out over a number of years as the books are ready.
The costs of individual printing would be under $100,000 dollars each. These procurements
would be carried out based upon international shopping.
B. EDUCATION MATERIAL CQMPONENT
Background and Objectives
2.16         Students of STP schools have virtually no supply of common educational
materials, like pencils, notebooks, etc. They are not available in the local markets because of
the serious shortages of foreign exchange. The objective of this component of the subproject
is to alleviate this difficulty by financing the supply of a limited amount of essential
educational materials, for students as well as teachers, during the first three years of the
subproject. It is expected that the cost recovery system, to be instituted, would fulfill the
need for a few additional mnmber of years after which the STP economy would be able to
provide necessary foreign exchange to the local traders. The materials considered of higher
priority include notebooks, pencils, ballpens, small rulers (15 cm), protractors, chalks,
dusters, registers, etc.



70 -
ANNEX 34
Page 8 of 11
2.17        In the first year one of the high priority items per student (30,000) would be
purchased, with the exception of notebooks, which would be purchased at 3 per students. In
addition, a total lump sum allocation of US$100,000 has been been made for the procurement
of teaching materials (chalks, dusters, globes, etc). Taking into account the estimated Sao
Tome C.I.F., unit cost and the total investment to be made, the amounts to be purchased, on
a decreasng basis, on the first, second and third years, would be as shown in Table 6.
Estimgec Base Cost of the CnMionentA
2.18        Tbe total cost of the educational materials are about $300,000 as shown in
Table 6.
Table 6. Estimae of the Educational Materials
Itams      Unit Price    First Year         Second Year        Third Year        Total
USM      Qty.      US$      Qty.       USS      Qty.    US$    Quantities
Notebooks            0.50     90,000    45,000  60,000   30,000    50,000  25,000   200,000
Pencils             0.35      30,000    10,500  30,000   10,500    20,000   7,000    80,000
lallpens             0.30     30,000     9,000  30,000    9,000    20,000   6,000    80,000
Rubbers              0.30     30,000     9,000  30,000    9,000    20,000   6,000    80,000
Rulers (15cm)        0.35     30,000    10,500   3,00D    1,050       2,000      700    35,000
Protrectors          0.40     30,000    12,000   3,000    1,200       2,000      800    35,000
Teaching
materials                             45,000  .         30,000             24,750
Total USS              _         _      141,000       -   90,750  .            70,500_
Total cost of materials US $302,000
2.19        For the storage of those materials the textbooks warehouse would be used,
after a further expansion of about lOOm2, which can be obtained by the rehabilitation of
another 100m2 of the annex old building, at an estimated cost of 1004200 = $20,000.
2.20        The warehouse would need shelves, bases for bulk storage and ventilators. It
would be also necessary to procure about 80 cabinets with lock, maindy to keep the stocks in
schools. All the neceSsary equipment and materials have been included in the textbooks
component of this subproject.
2.21        Since it is expectod that Gulbenkian Foundation will provide some technical
assistance in the selection and acquisition of the education materials, a limited anount of
special comultancies will be necessary (plan and control of warehouse rebabilitation,
procurement stages, etc.).
2.22        lhe expenses of storage, stock control and internal transport and distribution
will be supportd by STP Government.



-71 -
ANNEX 3 --4
Page 9 of 11
2.23   Base Costs for the Education Materials Component only:
(In USSLOO
Iocal        Foreign       ToB
Educational Material                     -            302           302
Warehouse Expansion                      5             15            20
Vehicle and Spare Parts                                25           25
Equipment and Materials                                25            25
Special Consultancies                    3             -             3
Storage, Internal Trans.
and Distribution, etc.                  38            -             38
TOTAL                               7 3?413
Distribution and Cost Recovery
2.24         Main part of the educational materials would be for the students and these
materials are to be sold exclusively to students. However, the costs of a part of the materials,
which is directed at the teachers, cannot be recovered. The price charged to the students
should be high enough so that it would not only cover the costs of procurement and
distribution but it should also minimize the risk that the materials are misused. The recovered
costs should be deposited in a bank, in an interest-producing account, and should work as a
revolving fund, to purchase new educational material in order to replenish the
stocks. It is quite natural, due to the changes occurring in the country, that in a few years all
the education materials will be available in STP shops. By then, there will be no reason to
keep this supply of materials, and the revolving fund could be used to reinforce the textbooks
revolving fund.
2.25         The educational material should be sold by the schools, which are in a better
position to control sales. Initially, each school will receive a certain amount of educational
material,based on the number of students of the school and on a credit basis. Monthly, or
new stock is delivered, the school must pay the material so far sold, to the warehouse
management, which will deposit the money in the Bank interest-producing account.
IncEmental Rlcurrent Expenses and Sustainability
2.26         This component does not add to the recurrent costs since the distribution of
the learning materials is for one time only and it is aimed at relieving the present near-crisis
situation. Future needs are expected to be met by the market. Nevertheless, the net cost of



-72 -
ANME 3 - 4
Page 10 of 11
this component to the Government is expected to be negligible since the costs of learning part
of the materials are expected to be fully recovered. However, it is quite likely that the
Government's foreign exchange difficulties will continue over the next few years.
Implementation
2.27         The educational material component will be implemented by the Pedagogical
Research and Studies Directorate. The Directorate and its Coordinator are expected to
receive the technical assistance from the Gulbenkian Foundation for Education Materials
selection.
C. COST ESTIMATES
2.28         The cost estimates for the subproject (combining both textbooks and the
educational materials components) are as follows:
COST ESTIMATS OF THE TEXTBOOK AND EDUCATION MATERIALS
S_UQER     I
(in USS.Q0)
k                                       Loa          Eign rilta
Textbooks printing                                   454                 454
Education materials                     -            302                 302
Warehouse expansion                     10            30                  40
Vehicle and Spare Parts                               25                  25
Equipments and materials                              65                  65
Consultancies                           6             15                  21
Storage, transport and distribution     76            -                   76
TOTAL BASE COSTS          22 91 
O.ENEFII&MAND RISKS
2.29         It is well established that provision of appropriate textbooks and educational
materials is awng the best investments in education quality. This subproject would benefit



- 73 -
ANNEX 3 - 4
Page 11 of 11
practically all primary and basic secondary school students of STP, which is roughly 30% of
the country's population. Improvements in the books and materials can be expected to reduce
STP's school repeater rates, currently among the highest in Africa, thereby also reducing the
high economic wastage which the country is facing at this particularly difficult time. The
main risks are the Government's lack of experience to implement the project efficiently and to
train the teachers in the use of the new textbooks as well as in preparing appropriate
arrangements in selecting and distributing the. educational materials. These risks
are minimized, firstly, because of the experience which STP has already been gaining in
implementing the textbooks program under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP) and,
secondly, through the technical assistance (TA) from the Gulbenkian Foundation already being
provided under the Multisector Project. The Gulbenkian TA would continue to assist the
Government in implementing the textbooks as well as the educational materials components
under the proposed subproject. The Gulbenkian Foundation would also continue to supply the
teachers' manuals and, together with MOSA, would continue to schedule the teachers'
training before the arrival of each set of new books. Similarly, it would also assist MOSA in
the selection and distribution of the educational materials.
B. AGREEMENTS REACHED
2.30         During the credit negotiations, agreement was reached that as condito1nsf
disbursements for the textbooks and educational materials subgroiect STP would:
(a)   provide for IDA's agreement the textbooks distribution proposal based upon
the review of the experience under the Multisector Project (Cr 2038-STP). The proposal
would, intler alia, specify the details of the textbooks' distribution mechanism, care and use in
the schools as well as the cost recovery proposal;
(b)   provide for IDA's agreement a full list of educational materials to be imported
under the subproject as well as the plan of distributing the materials and the cost-recovery
proposal; and
(c)    obtain assurances from the Gulbenkian Foundation that they or another
acceptable source would provide the technical assistance necessary to implement this
subproject.



VID WtE MID         WARll MID 11101a  TW
alST EBE fOI TYXIS No RINIMS
~~~~~~~~~~. --.. __-__.........        .     .. ........----_._ ___._ _.__.___._._. __._._........ _ . _. *.. ._.......                                                 ......... ._ . .. . g..
n   ars          ~~:L   :  ::aWTom    :oa   :tag   :.o              :Um     :.mi    -Tt     :      :  :Fbegro         :ne  :rmgto*  :oa :F*qW:T                    d:a       :F W  :T       :
1. CivRt arts          *                     i    5 .      15       ZD .     5        1S *     2D: .     .       *                                                       $  1O0*          .0  MO    IO. .0  '
2Z  TstcrnA ld A      to r                         3:       S:       5:    3:         5:        8;    0;    5-    5;                         0 *  i  ;               :                         .o
3. Eqpip,lJn g. &     .       ;       ;    0;        ;      66;    166         ; 3.S;  13D.S;               7015; M.5           '.           0;                     0;   30.0;  W5.0;   .0'
4.  Wsictm                                 0:              25:       25 i      :                O i      i               ;      i      i     oi       i       ;    o        .0i   MOS   S;5.0>
S. Tmdd                i      i% .K                                                                          us    me *go  i.  ;* i1  w i i 5  90         112 i  112: * 0.0: i      W .Q   V 5M0
Totdt tfno_t  a        :   0:    0:    0:    8:    21I1:    219:    8:  ZS4.5:  245 .    O  243.5 - 2U3.5 i    0                    90: *90:   0:   112:  112:   0:O  W1 0   .Mo  i
6. Vi*kltr eir ......... a An.:                             S      5          *       5 -    5          *      '5*i 5                        5                         11  *  11,    0.0  M.0  1;1D. Sl.
6qrip* mir :              :       :    0:   10:           :       0 tO  10:          :     10:   tO::             10:   10:         : 10: .- S:           :          S:  .0O    SLO.O   3.0:
Total Inc. Iltu      GMc.   O .         O          10 .     5 i      5 * l10:         5        1S      O*5 l:  S      1S     10 :    5      I S:i    S:    11:   16: *      .0 i  SS.O*0  i&
TrAL TW1X 0            :L $>0    0.0: SD0  M80: X!16D   S34.0: St.O: I.S: $MS.5  S10.0 sAt.5 :5: S10.0: X5.0 MOM1G 5.0: TS.:1Z.0 MMiBO    S61.3: $MO   lRIIS:
...... . . ...._._. ._ .................. .... ...... .... .. . ...... .........._ . .... .... ..... .......... _...... ........ .................. . . . ... ... . .. . .. ... . ......  _._ ......... _______..
15 Nombi  t            Fimot1.A     W")
Po >D
03 "Z
MO I



- 75 -
ANNEX 3 - 5
Page 1 of 3
SAQ TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
IDUCATION INSPECTION (PRIMARY LEVEL) SUBPROJECr
Background
1.           Sao Tome and Principe (STP) has no effective system of school inspections.
Although the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) has a Directorate of School Inspection, it
does not have adequate staff or other resources. It does not have proper office facilities,
equipment and materials or transportation facilities. As a consequence, schools are left with
no effective communications with or guidance from above. This further exacerbates the
decline in education quality at a time when most classes are run by untrained teachers and
contributes to increasing the rate of repeaters and poor quality instructions. The district
"delegations" of MOSA are expected to carry out the inspection tasks. But only three of the
delegations, located in the most distant districts (Principe, Lemba and Caue), are in operation
and these delegations are not adequately equipped to deal with the tasks.
Subpoject,iObjectives
2.           To improve the situation, the STP Government wishes to reactivate the
Inspection Directorate, starting with the basic education (grades 1 through 8) and extending
eventually to other levels. For this purpose, a number of most qualified primary teachers
would be selected for training and for appointment to work as inspectors after the successful
completion of a ten-months' training. The main functions of the inspectors would be to keep
the school teachers in their areas properly informed of all pedagogic and other relevant
decisions taken, or under study and of interest to the primary level, and hear their opinion; to
supervise the maintenance, cleanliness and hygiene of the schools; advise the headmasters and
teachers about the measures that should be taken in difficult situations; meet periodically with
the teachers to discuss pedagogical and administrative matters, which could improve the
overall quality of the school; and supervise the work of the teachers to ensure that appropriate
practices are followed.
&brtoject Description
3.           Under the proposed project, a number of prospective inspectors would be
trained and placed in their assigned positions which are spread throughout the country. A
qualified consultant would be appointed to help plan and implement the school inspection
subproject as the prospective inspectors are under their 10-month training. The Gulbenkian
Foundation is expected to provide the necessary technical assistance and also support the
training of the inspectors. The proposed subproject would also provide: telephones to all



-76-
ANNEX 3 - $
Page 2 of 3
basic level schools which do not already have one; transportation for the inspectors;
rehabilitation of the Inspection Directorate installations; the equipments and materials
necessary for the inspectors' work, and the incremental salaries which will result from the
subproject and the transport expenses for inspections.
4.           Number gfInIns   a. Since the number of primary schools is about 70, and
one inspector is considered adequate for 10 schools, a total of seven inspectors would be
required. To this must be added 10 schools at the basic secondary level. To prepare for
possible attrition or for possible posting in administration, one extra candidate would be
added. Assuming that each inspector spends 3.0 days a week for inspecting schools and 2.5
days a week for office work, he/she will make one visit per school per month, plus another
two to three visits per month for special or unexpected visits.
5.           Selection of !Candidates. In selecting the candidates for the job of inspectors,
apart from the most important criteria of academic qualification, the individuals' ability for
excellent human relations and their acceptability by the primary teachers would be very
important. Future inspectors should not behave like policemen and scare the teachers, but
they must act like colleagues with greater knowledge, experience and eagerness to help and
provide consultations.
6.           Training. The training would take place overseas since STP does not have an
appropriate training facility in the country. During the training, the candidates would also
become familiar with computers and the operation of simple programs (i.e., Word Processing,
Lotus 1-2-3 and Database) to enable them to computerize all the necessary information
regarding each school and produce materials to be used in schools.
C2 t Bstimate
7.           The cost estimates of the project are given below. A detailed explanation of
the cost estimates are in Attachment 1.
Edugation Inspection Subproject
Cost Estimates in US$1,000
Im                         Loca          Eoreilgnal
Incremental salaries       45            -             45
Offices rehabilitation     10            30            40
Vehicles                   -             125          125
Incremental Recurrent Costs  26           14           40
Local consultancy          12             -            12
Total Base cost         22            1             m
NM: Full costs of training and external consultancy are expected to be financed by
the Gulbenkian Foundation separately. These are not included in the cost estimates.



- 77 -
ANNE 3 - 5
Page 3 of 3
Incremental Recurrent Cost and Sustainability
8.           Incremental recual  cQsts. As a consequence of the proposed subproject, a
US$11,000 per year would be added to incremental salaries. Government would have to
allocate between $2,000 to $5,000 annually after 1996 for operation and maintenance of the
vehicles. These costs represent a small part of the annual education budget. Since education
is a priority sector and STP Government spent barely 11% of the state budget in 1990,
compared with a mean value of 15.3% in all the African countries (in mid-1980s), it is
expected that this increase will not represent any difficulty for the country.
pIlementation
9.           Responsibility. The education inspection subproject will be implemented by
the Inspection Directorate. The Coordinator of the Directorate, with some techncial assistance
of a foreign consultant and most probably from Gulbenkian Foundation.
Benefits and Hisks
11.          School inspection is a well established method to improve education quality, at
least at primary and secondary levels. The main risk is the lack of experience in the
implementation of this type of projects. However, the technical assistance and the training
provisions included in the subproject are expected to reduce the risks to an acceptable level.
Affeements reaghed
12.          Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would obtain
technical assistance to implement the education inspection sub-project, with TOR satisfactory
to IDA, no later than December 31, 1992.



se TUM AD EIPCE WET n MO fTIW FmET
(IN LamW
wE4.ture  :1oaml :Fm.igtTaba  :Lcce  :Faeim  MTtal  :LocsI :FaetM  :Total   Aocat r141e131Totat :toa*t :FcMw.iTcbl :LccS& -ftreiwp :TOW*  :IziI   :ram%"i .1'TO
I.  ivi 1*                  -                         2 .               05   2D                                    0                 5     *                     0S  S
TL wcMLtI A                                5        5      3:    5:       15      3:    3             0:    3             3 0:   :CS00fO0$0
3. *hfctm                   . 0:                         : SD           :              :                   :0                                   L        .0 $.
.Totatnwintmwt Gut   :  0:    0       0:    a       Es:    73:   8:    1:    go            3:   0       3:    3:-   0      3:   0:    0:    0:  E : 51.0: 5177.:
4. flutat utuien    CS:             43:       :              9:    9:               9:    9:           9:    9:            9: 4.5:           4.5:  p.0    10.0:  SIi.0:
S. VWb1cte qaw. & fWit.-             :                  3     : 3          3:       3:           3:    3:           3:    3:       :    :1.5:10S.0:8 33:13.5:D
6. Utfltftt./Cuufe. 5:    .      -*                   .        *     -       -        -                                                     
Totat Ic. Ouga.  nwttt:   6:    0:   6:   14:       3:      17:   14:      3:      17:   14:   3:   17:   14:   3:   17: 9.5:   1.5:   1:  11.5:  813.5   15.0:
1UW.U1M. iWTHE   :U.0: 10.0:  6.0 :%.0:  S8.0:  SM.0  $MO0  $3.0: 5115.0:817.0: 53.0:Wm.0:517.0: S3.0:13.0 SP.S:  51.5:511.0:  S5.S  SiELs.   92.0:
15Is lb mu           OR= FI *t&   OA)
00
rt



-79 -
ANiNEX 3- 
Page 1 of 2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PLANNING SUBPROJECT
Biagkground
1.    Sao Tome and Principe's (STP) Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) does not have the
necessaty manpower or other resources to effectively plan, to provide management information or
to coordinate external assistance in education sector. Practically all education projects in STP are
exirnally financed but, in absence of an effective sector planning or direction from the
Government, in most cases, the donors also end up selecting and implementing the projects in the
manner they consider appropriate. This has resulted in cases of wasteful duplicat,ons and critical
gaps at a period when the resources are getting tighter due to economic difficulties. Furthermore,
MOSA lacks a system of management information than can reveal the status of services or of the
programs under implementation.
Progress Under the Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STIP
2.    A subproject to strengthen the Planning and Statistics Section of the (former) Ministry of
Education and Culture was included in the IDA-assisted Multisector Project (Cr. 2038-STP). The
subproject included the financing of the services of one international consultant, incremental staff,
staff training, one vehicle and office equipment and materials. The consultant was expected to
make. periodical visits to STP to work with the Ministry officials in finalizing a detailed work-
program, in the implementation of the program and in staff training. The implementation of the
subproject has been unsatisfactory because of the difficuly in recruiting a suitable consultant.
However, the Government recruited a consultant in September 1991 and the subproject is now
expected to pick the momentum.
PROQPSED SUBPROJECT
Ohjectives
3.    The main objectiv*' of the subproject would be to strengthen the education plmnning
section of MOSA by establishing an effective management information system and a capacity to
prepare sectoral plans and to coordinate external assistance in education sector. This subproject
would be a supplement to the provisions already included in the Multisector Project.



-80-
ANNEX 3 v fi
Page 2 of 2
Submrim eoriRtion
4.    Tec4niga assistn . The Multisector Project includes funds for a number of short visits
by a Planning consultant, Services of a middle-level education planner will be provided by
UNIP under the UN Volunteer Program. The proposed subproject would Include an additional
consultancy of a planning consultant (for four visits of 21 days each).
5.    Saff_rMiing. A total of five staff would be trained; in planning, computer applications
and statistics. As far as possible, the training would be provided in the institutions focusing n the
problems of developing countries, like the proposed African regional institute for Lusophone
countries or the UNESCO Institute. Funds sufficient for four staff training programs are included
in the Multisector Project. The proposed subproject would provide for the short-term (three-
month) training of the fifth staff.
6.    Sp2eial jMdies. The proposed subproject would support studies on education financing
and the role of communities in future financing, which would be carried out in the second year of
the project.
7.     tggiMent and materials. The subproject would finance vehicle, office equipment and
materials to assist in the activities of the planning section.
flost Estimate
8.    The summary of the base cost estimates is below. Details are given in Attachment 1.
In US $'000
ms                         ILa          Foreig              Tota
Incremental recurrent costs             57             0                  57
Technical assistance                    -             58                  58
Training                                -              11                 11
Studies                                                18                 18
Equipment, materials and vehicle        -             71                  71
Total Base Cost           57
SuRnbpetInmatn
9.    The proposed subproject would be implemented by the Education Planning Direo"orata
under the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA). Critical project actions would be closely mntitored
by the Project Coordinating Committee and quarterly report would be provided to IDA. Mhe
mid-term review, within 18 to 24 months of the credit effectiveness, would provide a further
,opportunity to review the progress and take necessary corrective measures.



go 70E xi ME  WLnl MD Rsnt RFEC
Cmqw*ADVWU :ta :holtiToW laJml :klttign -Totat :Lamt :Fomn :Totat tA:cat -:FbircTotat dI.ct :Fomig:Totzl Aotxi :Faelgrin -ToWf dclas :FW*fin :Toth
Illl " AP..P      ;ft      *     i                                          35      35 3:    36 :- :t :0 :  :1:                               : :7. :
2.~~~ ~ :ewa A:s Pe                      :        :       :      :                           2  : :   2:    : 9:   9:    :             :D. :          : 5    :  ISO:
3. Welpp,& .               :     : 0:          :       :      0       :       :       :       :            :      :     : 0:         :      :      :   10.0:  $1.0:   $1.0
.43. tildip          :            :      :           11:    la:        :       :        :     :      :      :                        :       :      :n.:#.0: SILO SIO:
lTot      lbmm t    :f   0:    0:    0:   0:    2P:          D:   0:    3           35      0:   6:   is        0:   29:   2       0:    0:    0:   0D.0:  MO   SM.
S. *frvra  :owf           :: ::                                            ::         0                     :     :         *:    :          :      :       :   D.:          : NO 
Totl IJ  smu   u: 4.5  :           4.:     9 : :            9:  131:   1i                        0     13    13-   0 '.3   4.5i * .  4.              57.0    1D.0;  Wo .0
lWllL muIDUJmlC      ' S4.S i O #2  i .5 i  9.0 .   9.0 -   0   . SMO '      O  W.     .0 '. 8.0 .  5.0 'SM.0 '13.0    .  *M se2.0  s4s   D.0 3.o 5 .   .0 '      O   SMt.0i
tS Iwb    199       Fintotx#tAk C
0 0



- 82 -
ANEX 3 - 7
Page 1 of 3
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND CQOORDINATION
Introduction
1.    Since the Govermnent of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) does not have adequate capacity
to implement large and complex programs at this time, the design of the proposed project has
been kept as simple as possible. Nevertheless, the project includes a number of very high priority
subprojects, covering both health and education sectors and including an integrated malaria
control program with several essential components. STP's Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA)
was created, only in early 1991, combining the former Ministries of Health and Education.
MOSA is still too new to be able to effectively coordinate multisectoral program like this project.
Therefore, a number of steps has been incorporated in the project to strengthen STP's project
implementation capacity. These steps can be grouped in three categories: (i) technical assistance
and training; (ii) management consultancy; and (iii) the strengthening of project management and
coordination.
Technical Assistance and Training
2.    Technical assistance. The Government of STP wishes to keep the use of international
technical assistance (TA) to the minimum necessary level, especially out of borrowed resources,
mainly because it feels that ths country's capacity to derive full benefits from TA is also limited.
While the project designs has fully honored the Government's wishes, it includes a number of
important TA provisions.
3.    The TA provisions which are critical for the subprojects are as follows:
Specialty                         Person-months       Source
(a)    Malaria Control Subproect:
Entomologist                             18            IDA
Epidemiologist                           12            IDA
Anthropologist                           6              IDA
IEC Specialists                          6              IDA
Vector Control Specialist                6              IDA
Program Management Specialist           36             IDA
(b)    Essential Drugs Subproiect:
Drug Distribution/Revolving Fund        4               IDA
Drugs Program Management                 8              UNICEF



-83 -
ANNEX3-7
Page 2 of 3
(c)    Health Planning Subproiect
Health PlanninglMIS Consultant          8            IDA
Health Planning Specialist (UNV)       24           UNDP
(d) Textbook and Materials Subgroiject
Textbook Management (Short-term)        8            Gulbenkian
(e)    Education Inspection Subgroject
Inspection Specialist                   6           Gulbenkian
(f)    Edtucation Planning Subproject
Education Planning/MIS Consultant       3           IDA
Education Planning Specialist (UNV)    24           UNDP
4.    Training. There are two kinds of training available under the project: local and external.
An important source of local training is one provided by the international consultants. All
international consultants are expected to give highest priority, as part of their terms of reference,
to the training of their counterparts in normal course of their activities. Secondly, special
programs of training would be organized for special purposes; for example, special training for
the statisticians in the health and education planning units of MOSA, and the training of health
workers to implement the essential drugs subproject. The external training would include:
Malaria Control Subproject 6 staff for 3 months each; Health Planning Subproject, 4 staff for 5
months each; Education Inspection Subproject, 8-10 staff for about 10 months each; Education
Planning Subproject, 1 staff.
Management!Consultancy
5.    As stated, MOSA's implementation capacity is inadequate to implement large projects at
this time. The procedures required to be followed for IDA projects adds further to the
complexity. Therefore, the proposed project would take advantage of the experience already
gained by the Fundo Social e de Infraestrutura (FSI) in implementing IDA-financed activities.
FSI was created in 1989 to implement the first Multisector Project (Cr 2038-STP) which also
included a number of health and education subprojects.
6.    MOSA would appoint FSI as a management consultant to the Project Coordinating
Committee. FSI would be entrusted to assist the Project Coordinator in coordination and the
implementation of the proposed project, especially in carrying out the procurement, in preparing
disbursement applications, in carrying out independent accounting and auditing and In complying
with the project's reporting requirements. FSI would be paid under the terms of a contract which



- 84 -
ANNEX 3 - 7
Page 3 of 3
were generally discussed during the credit negotiations and would be agreed as a condition of
Credit effectiveness. The payment would be based on actual disbursements of IDA credit.
cQjtordination
7.    Overall coordination of the project would be carried out by the Project Coordination
Committee headed by the Minister of Social Affairs. Its members would include representatives
of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the heads of the MOSA departments responsible for
implementing various components of the project. A fll1-time Project Coordinator (PC) would be
retained as the member-secretary of PCC. The Coordinator would also be responsible to operate
the project's Special Account (consisting of IDA advance) and the Project Account (consisting of
STP's counterpart fund).
8.    In the beginning, the Project Coordinator's office would consist of the PC, a Project
Officer, and three other staff (Accountant/Clerk/Driver, etc). If justified: (a) a second Project
Officer could be added in the third year of the project, and (b) up to one additional clerical staff
each could be added in the second and the third year of the project. The main responsibilities of
the Project Officer would include the provision of assistance in procurement, disbursements,
reporting, etc. The proposed project would finance a small number of incremental staff, office
facilities, office equipment and materials, a vehicle and incremental operating costs.
costLEstimat
9.    The summary of the estimated costs is as follows:
it=m                       Loca         Foreignl      TDl
Incremental Staff          70.0          0.0          70.0
Incremental Recurrent Costs   20.0      10.0          30.0
Vehicle                      0.0        20.0          20.0
Equipment/Materials          0.0        20.0          20.0
Management Consultancy     150.0         0.0        150.0
Total Base Cost                                   Z2 au  am
NM: Includes the costs for the cordination office and the management consultancy
with FSI only. The costs of technical assistance and training are included in the
estimates for the concerned subprojects.



M ID AD S FEU NIEIL1 AD IMTUXN RU
Cot  a I  i kV    a i at a  DinTrn
(in v UoC
19          19          1                      195        199l            TotaOl      %of ToWt CZVam    oti.el
PMWoJt   W                  t usi                   t     iLol          olri Lt Foi-  Lol Freu t  iLoal Fewl p  Totwl
I bluia abnplojt           S.0 13.0 5M.0   .0 &L0  .0 M       6.0 95.0 1f5.0 25.0  16.0 116.0 1775.0 95.0 7160.0   .39 228   6113.8 M6.7
2 E_tisI Onwr               5.S  45.0  17.5 2Q.0  17.0 M.0  17.0 23.0  14.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  77.0   .0  95.0   $.3   97.6  90.1   7.6
3 rmWdt PruiiqW              5.6  2D.0  172 1.0  142    .0  14.2  93.0  11.2  21.0  5.6  5.0  68.0  U6.0  514.0  5.C3   5.2  56.4  52.5
4 t       Ibtari t           0.0  0.0  1.0 216.0  18.0 ZW.5  10.0 24A5  10.0  95.0  5.0 123.0  61.0  92.0  91i.0  9.5X   77.. 10   1121.1
S Edr tla,n Ipwtil           6.0  0.0  Z2.0  480   2.0  93.0  17.0  3.0  17.0  3.0  9.5  1.5  93.5  1685  22.0  2.3  1.5  91.3  39.a
6 mat1a P1mirm               4.5  0.0  9.0  29.0  13.0  35.0  13.0  45.0  13.0  2.0  4.5  0.0  57.0  1lE0  2i5.0  2.17   722  179.4  251.6
7          d aeltdimtimn   14.0  31.0  3S  12.0  56.2  2.0  7.0  2.0  3.8   2.0  21.S  1.0  20.0  50.  290.0  2.5  30.1  S.  30.8
Totl kw tht /W51)   A.O a23.0    22316.  8A4  1.5 410.2ZIW.S  wo 391.  13.1  5.5 2M.5 793L 1M.0 111 0.                   S 3 5 94. 5 IM.1
Tral NM  mt (LC'I         25.4  582 174.8  60 212.3 67.2 106.7 30.3  64.2 1M.7  333  6.7  6166 209.0 2.5  10.09
%sim1 rat.                 2.5  5.8  17.5   66  21.2 0.7  10.7  3.0   6.4  10.2  3.3  6.6  61.7 23.9 2386  10.M3
Price Cntirwtrmi           7.0  10.1  9S.1 270.0 10.3 411.3 115.4 345.6  9D.5 131.4  59.5 10A.4  537.8 127Z.9 181D.7  67AX
TOal et                   31.9  74.2 23A4 1112.6 42 .7702 27    .9 161.2 23.2  96.1 176.6 1216.0 358.7 4764.8 
TOAl    O Gt (WOW) 97.6 21.0 672.260 MO6K4  1.5 410.2 462S 247.0 391.0 13L1 Z25.5 237.5 7.5 105 9.0 100.1                                                           1
Phy6al. Camt.              9.8  22.4  67.2 1.26  81.6  85.2  41.0 7U.3  2.7 3N.1  12.  25.3 23.2  795.8 102.9  10.1
Pric Carntfwim             9.8  2.7 106.4  25  33.5  60  69.3  Y9.7  43.0  44.9  33.8  43.4  395.9  21.3  677.2  6.1
Total rwt                117.2 29.1 845.8 32.1 11.6 3D17.7 5Z05 170.4 314.7 475.0 174.8 31.2 30%.5 9a1s5 12W.1
Omok tiw                  31.9  74.2 24 1112.6 412.81182 Z2.7 763.9 161.2 33.2  5.1 176 1216.0 3548.7 474.8
15 Ib 1591
a1t
Is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ om4
00



i  me MD FmII u    in.u AD IiTI. T     M
(in WSGM 0
WE           ws5        19                                 WV5 19  1W. Total           %df Ttot Ot/CatdrowcL
qtiy                      Local AFamti lol Fomfhei Local Famgin Local Famig Loalt Faeig  u Locat Fa'eli  Loca Foew   Total   tocal fuelpi  Total
I Ceivil b                  0.0  0.0 415.0135.0 540.0163.0  145.0 4.0   2.0  60.0  0.0  0.0 1120.0 336.0 44.0  43A2 1419.0 3814.3 55.7             2.7
2 Dnad Itteticid             0.0  0.0  0.0 293.0  0.0  55.0   0.0 27B.0  0.0  36.0  0.0 2Z.0   0.0         .0         A7X.0   82    0.0 10173  10173  1017.3
3 MAIcto                          20.0   0.0 131.0  0.0 131.0         2.0         0.0        0.0   0.0  a1.0  M1.0   2.7X    0.0  322.4  32.4         2.4
4 Eisp, Pimltume & 1rt i     1.5  94.0  0.5 e3.0   0.0 2%.5  0.0 3D0.5  0.0  63.0  0.0  780    2.0 1666.0 1C60  16.1X   2.5 1i.5 1W4.0              1.0
S Tadtlcat bAftit            7.5  74.0  31.5 242.0  46.5 195.0  5S.  134.0  18.0  9.0  15.0  0.0  177.0  741.0  918.0  89x    .2  K11.3 106.5    1I0.5
6 fltohip, stu* trns         0.0  25.0  0.0  Y4.0  0.0  35.0  0.0  78.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  275.0  275.0  2.72   0.0  312.2  312.2           312.2
7 Nawd   SWi                 7.0  0.0  2.0  47.0  M.0  29.0  19.0  3.0  23.0  0.0  12.0  0.0  121.0  79.0  20.0  1.9X  153.3  89.7  2U3.0             3.0
8 Tuot                       0.0  0.0               0.0  1.0   0.0 168.   0.0  90.0  0.0 112.0   0.0  454.0  454.0  4.42   0.0  515`15.45 4         515.4
bto                                                                                                                      1799.1  A6 1060.7   10503.7
InIrKM    IEaMIT  lSTS:
9 lmZ l utalai"              1    0.0  2.2  0.0 2D.9  0.0  31.7  0.0  33.0  0.0  12.1  0.0  146.0   0.0  U6.0  1.42  166.0   0.0  1.0                74.0                    O
10 Field allam.              35.0   0.0  60.0  0.0  60.0  0.0  60.0  0.0  60.0  0.0  35.0  0.0  310.0   0.0  310.0  3.1  392R    0.0  39e.8          3?.8                     a'
11 Local trainife             2.0  0.0  21.0  0.0  15.C  0.0  18.0  0.0  15.0  0.0  13.0  0.0   K .0   0.0  81.0  0.1  1064    0.0  106.4            106.4
12 WctOe qratim &  I;rwc           11.0       31.0        31.0        46.0       46.0        37.5   0.0  202.5  32.5  2.1    0.0  2D.9  229.9    ZW9.9
13 Utilitiu/Ccmiwtict    S    3.S   0.0  S9.0  0.0  93.0  0.0  7B.0  0.0  7ao   0.0  41.0  0.0  411.5   0.0  411.5  4.1  521.3   0.0  521.3
mhcoa                                                                                                                    125.5  22?.9 14A.4      J3.1
Total aw Css t (UClWD)  97.6 22.0 672.2 246.0 816.4 MI15 410.2 1462.5 237.0 391.0 123,1 2ZS 2371.5 757.5 10M.0 10.3 3300.5 9MD.5 lZ.1    11 8
Toal gm Ct (Lt'aln)       25A  58.2 14.8 756O 212.3 697.2 106.7 30.3  64.2 101.7  33.3  66.7  616.6 2059.0 ZM5.5 100.13
l,ical Oft.                2.5  5.8  17.5  7S.6  21.2  69.7  10.7  38.0  6A  10.2  3.3  6.6  61.7 2Z5.9  f8.6  10.A3
Pricewtutlrguias           7.0  10.1  96.1 270.0 169.3 411.3 115.4 345.6  9.5 131.4  59.5 10K.4  5378 1272.9 1810.7  674
Total Cat                 349  74.2 23.A 1112.6 4L.8 1178.2 232.7 76.9 161.2 3X3.2  96.1 176.6 1216.0 35187 4761.8
Tota Oe Cast (l'0O)  97.6 224.0 672.2 2946.0 816A 351.5 410.2 1462.5 X7.0 391.0 1A.1 252.5 W7.5 7SS7.5 IW.0 1O.1A
PIWicat ct.                9.8    A 267.2 294.6   16 25.2  41.0 14.3  24.7  39.1  12.8  25.3  237.2  795.8  12.9  10.01
Price Cuirwmine            9.8  2.7 10.4  22.5  3.5   8.0  69.3  99.7  43.0  49  33.8  434  395.9  21S.3  67.2   6.<
Tobtal   t                117.2 239.1 85.38 .1 1I1.63M7.7 53.5171.4 314.7 475.0 174.8 31.2 3001.5 914.5 121.1    U 03.6 1753.1 312.7
Check tim                 34.9  74.2 24 1112.6 4(28  1178.2 232.7 763.9 161.2 213.2  9S.1 176.6 1216.0 3548.7 4764.8
ND:. MA dibs 1OX of in:al aisle of Projwt It. thit wAy.
noe Cat. of SIP wilt fir.u Utl i rruint.t arsies of char uilts.
k  4-I.Wd   (I")
IQ
0



SAO WOME AND P CPE HEALTH AND EDUCATIN  PROEr
P-J4 bpka d  SSdo
(in CAlmdiar Yeai)
: 0p9e:-        : 1991             :   13    :   1994          1995        1996         1997        199    :
.blity  :1234   :1234   :1234   :1234   :1234   :1234   :1234   :1234
PROJECT PkOVE8DO::
Awulal                            IDA5W   :   :  :K              :           :           :            :           ::D:
N:e IuTDA :                                           X : : : D: ::
AppI                           WIDA   :              :X
cfwt gig                      : S1IIDA :             :  X
CoNt actielea                  :ST?FlDA:             :   X       :
PW*d LmbW.ekap                :SnDA:                 :   x       :X          :XX         :X   X       :X                                  :
3emi-mIRsyIm:  IDA :                                 :           :X          :           :
BGd-kmnARvw                   : S1DA:             .:             :           :
Project .w.p4eiaAX            :   WDA :              :   x       : x         : 
MAtARIA                       :          :           :           : X         :           :P:                      :           ::
MScshmx-1At                   : StA::::X:::::
Pmv1bC.RecoyyPa                                     : :x      
3m A_QI 3 - 1, Affeai 3       :          ::::::
RelcC:   :coea                               :   X        :X          :X          :X          :X          :X          ::
ES NWUA DRUOS SUBROff w :                            ::r
roviadtCee:                                          :X          :           :X          :           :            :X          :
Reie cst Rmef                 :          :: X                    :X    X     :X    X     :X    X      :X    X     :X    X     :O:
HEALTH PANNING
RSmiNSe  :aff                            :           : X         :
MDCanII~:                       :            :   K       :           ::::::
Ruit8Lg PgNNtu O              :          :           :           :
FinsIPfIS                     :: X                               : :   :           :           :                                          :
saff Tnho                     :          :           :           :X          : 
TMIS a   S & MATERIALS                                            :          :           :           :
ImleTmirlorNa lg              :          :           :    x          X       : X         :                  
AnF  a   HS"8o:                          :           :X                :        K        :X          :X          :X           :
PIbkfef atO.rgdI              :          :           :           : X         ::                                   :::
PIogRgoalt:coympImn           :          :           : K         ::
REvi wCob eoMcy                          :           :           :           :           :           :            :           : 
EDUCATION VWBCTX)N            :          :           :           :           :   X
^,iiyc1.oTnai                :          :           : X         :X          :X          :X          :X          :X           :X:
raw hi*p ddah ommei           :          :           :           :   K       ::
EDUCATI kc A      I           :          :           : X         :           :           :           :           :           :P:
Rhuag Ceskm  V                           ::                          X       :               X       :  X        :            
IatuaiaIebanOvuu             =3:         :           :           :  x              :           :           :           :                 :
P1Iq~unV:t                  :          :                 :           :           :       K    :K K   :                :           :         
IIP.. ial a.EW :n :S~Jc A:ne :- :n3.Ae42wl~



-98 -
. ****.     ANNEX 4 - 3
Page I of-2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE HEALTH AND EDUCATION PRO3ECT
Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursement
(US$000)
Estimate for
IDA FY          Disbursement   Cumulative       this Project  Profile
and Semester   By Semester    Disbursement             %
1993  I                     500             500             4%        6%
II                   500            1000              9%       18%
1994  I                    1500            2500            22%       34%
II                  2000            4500             39%       50%
1995  1                    2000            6500          . 57%       66%
II                  1500             8000            70%       74%
1996  I                    1000            9000            79%       82%
1I                  1000            10000            88%       90%
1997  I                     500           10500            92%       94%
1I                    300           10800            95%       96*
1998  x                     300           11100            97%       98%
13                    300           11400           100%      100%
S=ste=_si                                                      i



ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 2 oM
DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
.2 
to -,'.
I0
Jeff J    3  Jul      Jon 9    Jul       Jan      Jql1,       J;. n   Jul    J;. a     Jul        n
'IIIS   YU



- 90 -
ANX 4 - 4
Page 1 of 1
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
EALTI AND ED(CATION ROECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
1.               Supervision and monitoring of the project's implementation is very critical for
STP considering its limited experience with project implementation. This is especially important
in the case of IDA-assisted projects since the responsibility of implementing IDA projects fall
upon the Government itself unlike in the case of several bilaterally assisted projects where the
donors actually implement them. Therefore, the design of this project emphasizes close
monitoring of the project activities on a continuous basis.
2.               The project's supervision and monitoring would be carried out in a number of
ways. First of all, each subproject's implementaion agency would be responsible to monitor and
provide quarterly reports of the progress to the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC). The
PCC, assisted by the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF), would review the reports and inspect
the progress in the field, and then compile and forward the reports for IDA's review. The
concerned subproject's consultants would be involved in training the staff and in overseeing the
process in each of these subprojects. Finally, there would be two full-fledged IDA supervision
missions each year. In addition, not specified in the Implementaion or the Supervision schedules,
must be at least one short stop each year by the IDA staff as necessary and convenient.
3.               Furthermore, there would be a project launch workshop scheduled as close to the
credit effectiveness date as possible. This workshop would be held with full preparation to ensure
that (a) all key subproject officials are available to fully participate in it, (b) IDA team includes
staff with experience in procurement, disbursement and reporting requirements, and (c)
arrangements for the workshop are well-prepared and all necessary guidelines and other materials
are well provided.
Sunervision Schedule and Skill Reuirene
Approximate Dates
(month/year)                      Activity anm Purpose          Staff Weeks           Expected Skills
May 1992                  Iitial Supervision. (a) To ensure establishment of          TM and Implem.
Project Coordination Office. (b) Pn:paration for    4       Spec.
project launch workshop.
July 1992                 Project Launch Workshop.                                    TM, Proo/Disb,
Full-fledged stat of project implementation.  8             Impl. specialists
Each Spring              Supervision Misions                                          TM plus one staff
and Pall                  Annual discussion of health and education budgebt.  3 each  (One each on
health and educ.
Pall 1993                 Human Resource Fianoing. To review financing                Human Resoures in both
ectors, including recovery experiences.    6                Financial Specialist.
Spring 1994              Mid-term Review. A full-scale review of project              TM, Malaria
objectives and progress.                   12               control specialist,
PHN and Educ.
specialis.,
human resources
economist.
Summer 1998               *oject Completion Report                                    Educator, PHN
and Malaria
Specialis.



-91-
DEMOCRATIC EPUBLIC OF SAO TOMfE AND PINCIPE
HEALTQ AND EDUCATION PO1JEC
Documents Available in the Project File
ReL
A.    Synthesis of the Malaria Control Project in the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and
Principe
B.    Projet de Plan National de Lutte Contre Le Paludisme, Plan Quadriennal, 1991-1994,
Ministere des Affaires Sociales-Secteur de la Sante, Avril 1991
C.    Plano Global Integrado De Erradicaccao do Paludismo na Republica Democratica de Sao
Tome e Principe, Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian, Julio 1990.
D.    IBRD, Sao Tome and Principe Social Sector Strategy Review
E.    C. Lloyd Braga, Sao Tome and Principe Education Sector, December 1990.



