Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2343 STP
                  (Health and Education Project)
                              between
           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 6, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2343 STP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOSA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Af-
fairs;
      (b)   "PCC" means the project coordination committee
established by the Borrower to manage the Project;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (d) "UPIG" means the Unidade de Planificacao e Informacoes
para Gestao within the MOSA's health planning directorate.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrow-
er, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Page  3
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1
commencing April 1, 2002 and ending October 1, 2031. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2011
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lend-
ing, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after
due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the Project through
MOSA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, public health and public
education practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall operate the PCC and
otherwise assure implementation and supervision of the Project
through MOSA under terms of reference acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Page  4
      (b)   The Borrower shall employ not later than June 30,
1993, and thereafter maintain through Project completion within
MOSA's health planning directorate two senior officials responsi-
ble for health sector planning and management, each with qualifi-
cations and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to
the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall obtain, beginning not later
than December 31, 1992, technical assistance for the implementa-
tion of Part E of the Project under terms and conditions and under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) establish within three
months of the Effective Date a project account to be managed by
the PCC, (b) deposit into such account, on a quarterly basis,
sufficient funds to pay for the counterpart financing obligation
of the Borrower for expenditures under the Project estimated by
the Borrower, after consultation with the Association, to be
required for the subsequent quarter, and (c) shall, through the
PCC, only withdraw funds therefrom to pay for expenditures under
the Project.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall provide to the Associa-
tion, not later than August 31, 1992, a report identifying: (i)
its budgetary allocations to the health and education sectors for
fiscal years 1987 through 1992; and (ii) its actual expenditures
for such sectors for fiscal years 1987 through 1991 and the first
quarter of 1992. Such reports shall distinguish between recurrent
and investment expenditures and identify sources of funds.
      (b)   If the Association shall so request, the Borrower
shall, not later than October 30 of each year ending prior to the
Closing  Date, communicate to the Association its proposed budget-
ary allocations to the health and education sectors for the
subsequent fiscal year, and promptly thereafter discuss with the
Association the adequacy of such allocations in the context of the
overall budget.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the
Association not earlier than 18 months and not later than 24
months after the Effective Date, a review of the progress made in
carrying out the Project covering, inter alia, the implementation
of the environmental sanitation and source reduction schemes under
Part A of the Project, progress of studies and the operation of
the cost recovery mechanisms under Parts B and D of the Project.
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an
action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further
implementation of the Project, and shall implement such program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
                   ing principles consistently applied, by inde-
                   pendent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
Page  5
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expendi-
                   tures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Spe-
                   cial Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report
                   of such audit contains a separate opinion by
                   said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal con-
                   trols involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations of the essential
drugs revolving fund established pursuant to Part B.2 of the
Project.
      (b)          The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section audited, in ac-
                   cordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
Page  6
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have entered
into a project management support contract with the Fundo Social e
de Infraestrutura, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio dos Assuntos Economicos
            e Financeiros
            C.P. 47
            Sao Tome
            Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
                                           Telex:
                                             225 MIPLANO STP
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
            DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
            By /s/ Aderito Ramos
                                         Authorized Representative
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
            By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
Page  7
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works               3,250,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                95% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Drugs and                   220,000        100%
     Insecticides
     for Part A of
     the Project
(3)  Drugs for Part B            430,000        100%
     of the Project
(4)  Equipment and             1,370,000        100%
     Vehicles
(5)  Textbooks and               360,000        100%
     Education Materials
(6)  Consultants'              1,000,000        100%
     Services, Fellow-
     ships and Studies
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)  Incremental                 430,000        100%
     Recurrent
     Expenditures
(8)  Unallocated               1,140,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 8,200,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods and services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental recurrent expenditures" means
expenses for field allowances for personnel under Part A of the
Project, vehicle operation and maintenance, in-service local
training for Project activities and salaries for fixed-term staff
incurred by PCC.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
Page  8
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
      (b)   Categories (1) and (2) until the Borrower shall have
employed a program management consultant for Part A of the Pro-
ject, with qualifications and experience and under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association and such consultant shall
be in place;
      (c)   Category (3) until the Borrower shall have: (i)
established under Part B of the Project an essential drugs cost
recovery mechanism and a revolving fund to finance purchases of
essential drugs acceptable to the Association; (ii) adopted an
essential drug policy acceptable to the Association; and (iii)
obtained confirmation from the United Nations Children's Fund or
other organization acceptable to the Association regarding provi-
sion of technical assistance for the management of the essential
drugs cost recovery mechanism under terms of reference acceptable
to the Association; and
      (d)   Category (5) until the Borrower shall have: (i)
established under Part D.1 of the Project a textbook distribution
program and a textbook cost recovery mechanism acceptable to the
Association; (ii) established under Part D.2 of the Project a
procurement list and cost recovery mechanism for basic education
materials acceptable to the Association; and (iii) obtained
technical assistance for the implementation of Part D of the
Project under terms and conditions, and under terms of reference,
acceptable to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
improve the health and education of its population.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Malaria Control
1.    Strengthening of vector control through: (a) environmental
sanitation and source reduction schemes, including draining of
swamps and extension of drainage networks; (b) ultra low volume
insecticide spraying in hyper-endemic areas; (c) promotion of the
use of individual and collective prevention measures; (d) larvi-
ciding of mosquito breeding sites; and (e) entomological surveil-
lance and other measures.
2.    Strengthening of epidemiological operations through in-
creased access of population to malaria diagnosis and treatment
services, increased epidemiological surveillance and other mea-
sures.
3.    Conduct of information, education and communications cam-
paigns regarding malaria, its causes, symptoms, treatment and
prevention.
4.    Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Malaria
Eradication Program office within MOSA.
Part B:     Essential Drugs
1.    Adoption and implementation of an essential drugs policy to
ensure the availability to the population of essential drugs.
2.    Acquisition of essential drugs, and reform of the related
procurement, storage and distribution systems, including estab-
Page  9
lishment of a cost-recovery mechanism and a revolving fund to
finance purchases.
3.    Training of health workers in managing drug stocks, pre-
scriptions and dispensing, and other related areas.
Part C:    Health Planning and Policy Coordination
1.    Strengthening MOSA's health sector planning and management
capabilities and its coordination of external assistance through
an improved management information system, acquisition of equip-
ment, training of staff and other measures.
2.    Preparation of studies regarding: (a) enhancing nutrition;
(b) improving family planning; and (c) other health areas.
Part D:     School Textbooks
1.    Printing, storage and distribution of about 400,000 text-
books covering about 50 titles for the primary and secondary
school levels, including: (a) expansion of the warehouse facili-
ties, and (b) establishment of a cost recovery mechanism and a
funds management system.
2.    Acquisition and distribution of basic education supplies
(such as notebooks and pencils), and establishment of a cost
recovery mechanism.
Part E:     Education Inspection
      Strengthening the basic education inspection capabilities of
the Directorate of General Inspection within the MOSA, including
the training of at least seven and the appointment of at least
five inspectors and acquisition of related equipment.
Part F:     Education Planning
1.    Strengthening MOSA's education sector planning and manage-
ment capabilities and its coordination of external assistance
through an improved management information system, acquisition of
equipment, training of staff and other measures.
2.    Preparation of studies regarding education financing,
resource mobilization at the community level, and other education
areas.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1997.
                       SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  10
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $750,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Printing of textbooks may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Contracts for goods, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,000,000, may be procured through the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF).
4.    Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
5.    Contracts for essential drugs and insecticides, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,100,000, may be procured from
UNICEF or the International Dispensary Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and (ii) the first contract
for works to be procured under paragraph C.1 above, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Page  11
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusive-
ly for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have request-
ed.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall speci-
                   fy.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pur-
                   suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Ac-
                   count and deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                   as shall have been shown by said documents and
                   other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
Page  12
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, includ-
ing the General Conditions.
