Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2409c-BO
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLJY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAY 29, 1979
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Peso Boliviano
US$1.00            =         $b20.00
$bl.00                       US$0.05
MEASURES
1 mm          millimeter  =   0.04 inches
1 cm      =   centimeter  =   0.39 inches
1 m       =   meter        =   3.28 feet
1 km      =   kilometer   =   0.62 miles
1 1           liter        =   0.26 US gallons
1 m3      =   cubic meter =   264 US gallons
1 m3/sec      cubic meter =   22.82 MGC  =  million US gallons
=     per second                      per day
mg/l      =   milligram per litre
1 ha      =   hectares    =   2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAPOS         =   Administracion de Agua Potable y Obras Sanitarias de Potos'
AROS-Beni      =   Administraci6n Regional de Obras Sanitarias - Beni
AROS-Tarija   =   Administracion Regional de Obras Sanitarias - Tarija
COMIBOL       =   Corporacion Minera de Bolivia
CONEPLAN      =   Consejo Nacional de Economia y Planeamiento
CORPAGUAS     =   Corporaci6n de Agua y Saneamiento
DIU           =   Direccion de Infraestructura Urbana
t)SA          =   Division de Saneamiento Ambiental
ELAPAS        =   Empresa Local de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Sucre
IDA           =   International Development Association
'IDB           =   Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD          =   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INE           =   Instituto Nacional de Estad'sticas
MSP            =   Ministerio de Salud Publica
MUV            =   Ministerio de Urbanismo y Vivienda
PAHO          =   Pan American Health Organization
SAGUAPAC      =   Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Santa Cruz
SAMAPA        =   Servicios Municipales de Agua y Alcantarillado de la Paz
SELA          =   Servicio Local de Agua de Oruro
SEMAPA        =   Servicios Municipales de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Cochabamba
UNDP          =   United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         =   United Nations Childrens Emergency Fund
USAID         =   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    GENERAL ................................................                  1
II.    THE SECTOR ............................................                    1
Background  ..1.......................................... 
Geography and Climate  ................................                   1
Water Resources                ..............  .2
Population and Service Lev(els ..... ...........                          2
Health Conditions  .....................................                  3
Economic Conditions .....................                                 4
Institutional Aspects ..............         ...................          4
Financial Aspects ...... ...............................                  5
Other Aspects .......................                                     6
Government Policies and Objectives  ...............                       6
The Bank's and IDA's Role in the Sector ...............                   7
III.  THE BENEFICIARY ...................  8
Introduction          ................................ .                  8
Regional Development ....................                                 8
Legal Statutes (SAGUAPAC)  .............................                  8
Organization and Management  ..... .............                          9
Personnel        ......................      .......................    10
Accounting  ....... I          ....................................    10
Billing and Collection  ................................    10
Inventories             ...........................................    11
Auditing            ..............................................    11
Data Processing               .......................................    11
SAGUAPAC's Insurance  ..............        ..      ..................    12
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Rene Costa, Financial Analyst,
Joseph Freedman, Engineer, and Jorget Infante, Financial Analyst, Consultant.
Mr. Jorge Culagovski, Economist, participated in the preparation of the
economic and social justification. The project was appraised in December
1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.    POPULATION,  SERVICES  AND  DEMAND  .......................                                                                           12
Introduction    ........                       ........... ..                     .....................                         12
Population    of   Santa   Cruz    .............                                  ..           ...............                  12
Water    Supply   System    ...............                                 ..           ..................                     12
Sanitary    Sewer   System    .......                          ..........................                                       13
Storm   Sewer   System    ......                        .......... ..                    ..................                     13
Population   Served    .......                         .........          ..           ...................                      14
Consumption   Forecasts    ..............                                     ..           .................                    15
V.        THE   PROJECT    ...........................................                                                                     16
Project   Origin    ........................................                                                                    16
Project  Objectives  and  Benefits  .......................                                                                     16
Description    of   the   Project    ............................                                                               17
Least   Cost   Solution    ...................................                                                                  18
Project  Cost  and  Investment  Schedule  ..................                                                                    19
Financing    .............................................                                                                      19
Implementation    ........................................                                                                      20
Procurement    ...........................................                                                                      21
Disbursements    .........................................                                                                      22
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing  ....                                                              .....    22
VI.          FINANCIAL   ANALYSIS    ....................................                                                                    23
Past   Finances    .......                      ........... ..                    .....................                         23
Revenues                   .......................                           .......................                            24
Financing   Plan    .......                       ...........           ..          ....................                        25
Future   Finances                          ...................                       ....................                       26
Monitoring    Indicators    ..............                                    ..           .................                    27
VII.           ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL  ANALYSIS  ...........                                           ..          .............                29
Introduction    ..........................................                                                                      29
Least Cost Solution ...................................    29
Incremental   Rate   of   Return    ............................                                                                29
Average  Incremental  Costs and  Tariffs  .................                                                                     30
Impact    on    the    Urban    Poor    ..............................                                                         31
Project  Sensitivity and  Risks  .........................                                                                      31
Environmental  Implications  ............................                                                                       32
VIII.    AGREEMENTS RFACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....,...........                                                                                  32



-3-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Assumption for Financial Projections, Detailed Financial
Projections, and Monitoring Indicators
2.   In-house Plumbing and Revolving Fund
3.   Summary of Terms of Reference and Costs for Technical
Assistance Program and Studies
4.   Basic Data
w              5.   Investment Schedule
6.   Construction Schedule
7.   Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
8.   Present and Proposed Tariffs and Fixed Charges
9.   Marginal Cost Analysis and Incremental Rate of
Return Calculation
10.   Incremental Rate of Return for Computer
11.   Urban Poor Distribution in the City of Santa Cruz
12.   Organization Chart
13.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
LIST OF TABLES
4.1 Water Connections (1978)
5.1 Construction Schedule
5.2 Project Financing
6.1 Summary and Financial Statements (1976-78)
6.2 Financing Plan
6.3  Summary of Financial Statements (1977-86)
LIST OF MAPS
No. 14126 - City of Santa Cruz Wiater Supply and Distribution Network
No. 14127 - City of Santa Cruz Sewerage System






BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.   GENERAL
1.01      The Ministry of Urban Affairs and Housing (MIX), the Corporacion
Regional de Desarrollo de Santa Cruz (Corporation), and the Water Supply and
Sewerage Service of Santa Cruz (SAGUAPAC) have requested Bank financing for
b         the Santa Cruz Water Supply and Sewerage Project.  This would be the second
Bank operation in the sector in Bolivia.
1.02      Initially, MUV had sought to have the funds under Loan 1324-BO
allocated to the cities of Sucre and Potosi transferred to the proposed
Santa Cruz Project. MUV withdrew Sucre and Potosi from the Loan because
their water and sewerage authorities were unable to meet certain conditions
of Loan 1324-BO. After studying the matter, the Bank and the Bolivian
Government agreed that it would be preferable to consider a new operation for
Santa Cruz and to cancel the Loan funds allocated to Sucre and Potosi.
II. THE SECTOR
Background
2.01      The water supply and seweraLge sector of Bolivia was studied by
a WHO/IBRD mission which visited Bolivia in October 1973 and issued a
sector report on April 15, 1975. This information was updated in the
appraisal report of Loan 1324-BO. Both reports were based on official
population data published by the National Economic and Planning Council
and the 1970 census. A second WHO/IBRD mission in December 1978 updated
the 1975 sector report using new population figures from the latest census
of September 1976.
Geography and Climate
2
2.02      Bolivia, with a landlocked area of about 1,100,000 km , is bordered
by Chile and Peru to the west, Brazi:L to the north and east, and Argentina
and Paraguay to the south. The Andean mountains are at their widest here
and form two ranges.  One range, the Western Cordillera, has peaks between
5,800 and 6,500 m in height. To the east of this range lies a lofty plateau,
the bleak Altip ano, much of it 4,000 m above sea level.  It covers an area of
some 100,000 km , or nearly 10% of the country's total area, and contains some
75% of the population. During the winter, temperatures on the Altiplano fall
below freezing point, but during the day the sun raises temperatures to
over 200C. The average rainfall on the Altiplano is from 400 to 700 mm and
comes mostly from the storms of December and January.



- 2 -
2.03      At the eastern edge of the Altiplano the sharp facade of the other
range, the Eastern Cordillera, rises with peaks higher than 6,000 m.  Their
far sides fall away in a series of semi-tropical mountain valleys known as yungas
to the northeast and toward the Amazon Basin. These valleys are at altitudes of
about 3,000 m and less and have average temperatures of between 160C and 18 0C.
Annual rainfall is from 700 to 800 mm with the heaviest rain from December to
February. The fertile valleys in which lie Cochabamba, Sucre, and Tarija
follow the yungas further below.
2.04      The third major part of Bolivia, the low-land tropics or the
llanos, stretch from the foothills of the Eastern Cordillera to the frontiers
with Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina. They take up 70% of the total area
but contain only a thin sprinkling of its population.  The land slopes
gradually from about 450 m to 200 m or less at the borders. Rainfall is
high but seasonal and large stretches of land suffer from alternate flooding
and drought. The climate is hot, with average temperatures ranging from 23 C
to 27 °C.
Water Resources
2.05      The country has three watershed areas:  the Amazon River, the Plata
River, and Lake Titicaca. The Amazon watershed is the largest and has within
its drainage basin many large rivers, some navigable and providing communica-
tion with Peru and Brazil. The Plata River watershed in the southeast com-
prises the two major rivers, Pilcomayo and Paraguay, both of which are
navigable. The Lake Titicaca watershed is formed by various rivers tributary
to Lake Titicaca in the northern Altiplano. Knowledge of ground water
potential is limited, although two projects have been carried out with the
assistance of UNDP to determine the availability of ground water resources in
the Altiplano.
Population and Service Levels
2.06      In the 1976 census the population of Bolivia was reported at 4.8
million, of which about 2.7 million (58%) were considered rural and 2.1
million (42%) urban 1/. The census gave an average annual population growth
from 1970-1976 of 2.6%, with an annual rate of 3.9% in urban areas and 1.2%
in rural areas. The total population is expected to reach 5.2 million in
1980 and 7.9 million in 2000 2/.
1/   Urban communities are defined as those with 2,000 and more inhabitants.
2/   At an annual growth rate of 2.6%.



- 3 -
2.07      There are 105 urban communities; four with more than 100,000 in-
habitants; two with 50,000 to 100,000; four with 20,000 to 50,000; and two
with 5,000 to 20,000 inhabitants. 't is estimated that 95 of these communi-
ties have water supply systems serving about one million inhabitants (48% of
the urban population); 800,000 through house connections (38% of the urban
population) and 200,000 (10%) through public standpipes. Most of these
systems do not chlorinate the water, and water supplied is of varying
quality. The rest of the urban population (1.1 million) obtains water
from unprotected sources, and only eight cities have public sanitary sewer
systems. These sewer systems serve an estimated population of 42,000 (about
20% of the urban total).
2.08      The rural population is mostly dispersed; about 600,000 people (22%)
live in 457 rural communities of 200 to 2,000 inhabitants. The rest of the rural
population live in scattered dwellings. Only 151,000 rural inhabitants (fewer
than 6% of the rural total) have access to a public water supply system, and
of these only 51,000 benefit from hcuse connections; they have no public sewer
systems and generally use individual waste disposal means such as septic tanks,
soakage pits, and latrines.
2.09      Comparison of the 1950 and 1976 census indicates a lack of progress
made in the water supply subsector: in 1950 the share of the population
enjoying either piped water inside the dwelling or having access to it was
gauged at 46% whereas the share in 1976 was between 40% and 45%. According
to this estimate, the expansion of the subsector would seem to have fallen
behind population growth. Coverages; of sewerage services since 1950 appear
to have declined since the total coverage in 1950 was estimated at 37% and in
1976 at 22%, as measured by the share of population served by sewerage,
septic tanks, or latrines.
2.10      About 11% of the total population of Bolivia have piped water inside
the dwelling and about 12% of the population benefit from public sanitation.
This is a very low level of services when compared to the standards of Latin
America.
2.11      The total population of the Department of Santa Cruz in 1976 was
684,000, of which 307,000 (45%) were urban and 377,000 (55%) rural. Popula-
tion growth for the city of Santa Cruz has been the highest in the country
(10% per year) because of domestic immigration (para. 4.02). There are eight
urban centers. Santa Cruz, the capital city, has 256,000 inhabitants, 83%
of the country's urban population. About 80% of the Department's urban
population are served with water supply and 25% with sewerage.
Health Conditions
2.12      In 1972, life expectancy in Bolivia was 47 years and the general
mortality rate was 22/1,000 inhabitants. The Ministry of Public Health
reports that in 1969 (more recent data unavailable), mortality due to curable
diseases amounted to about 33% of total reported deaths, and that within this
group, deaths from diarrhea and enteric diseases attributable to unsanitary



-4-
conditions amounted to 12% of total reported deaths or a mortality rate of 87
per 100,000 population. (The mortality rate due to diarrhea and enteritic
diseases was 53/100,000 in 1974 in Colombia and 26/100,000 for Chile 1/.
Poor sanitation conditions are generally connected with high mortality
rates.
Economic Conditions
2.13      Bolivia is the third poorest country in the Latin America and
Caribbean region. In 1978, the annual average per capita income was estimated
to be US$500 and GNP US$510 per capita.  However, the distribution of income
varies largely from region to region. In the city of Santa Cruz, the annual
average per capita income is around US$650.
Institutional Aspects
2.14      The Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion (Ministry of the
Plan) handles macro and sector planning. Principal responsibilities for the
water and sewer sector at a national level are divided between the Division
of Urban Infrastructure (DIU) and the Water Corporation (CORPAGUAS) of the
MUV and the Division of Environmental Sanitation (DSA) of the Ministry of
Public Health. The DIU's main function is planning; construction and opera-
tions are done at local levels. The DSA is responsible for providing water
and sanitation services to communities with populations of under 2,000
(rural). On the surface there appears to be a duplication of responsibility
between the DSA and CORPAGUAS, which constructs water supply systems for
populations of between 200 and 10,000. In practice, however, the large
demand has permitted both organizations to establish programs which do not
conflict.
2.15      At the departmental level, there are nine Departmental Development
Committees (DDCs) which in coordination with CORPAGUAS and the DSA, and
sometimes alone, are playing an important role in the financing and construc-
tion of water supply and operating systems in rural and semi-rural communi-
ties. In 1978, the Government enacted a new law to transform the Development
Committees into Development Corporations.
2.16      At the municipal level, water supply and sewerage services were
originally the municipalities' responsibility. In the last decade, however,
autonomous or semi-autonomous bodies have been created in eight of the nine
departments of the country. The jurisdiction of these entities generally
covers the capital city of their department, and in two cases, all of their
urban communities, as shown below:
1/   Health Conditions in the Americas (1973-1976) PAHO/WHO.



-5-
Date of               Area of
Entity          Department            Creation          Responsibility
SEMAPA         Cochabamba              1967           City of Cochabamba
AAPOS           Potosi                 1972           City of Potosi
SAGUAPAC        Santa Cruz             1973           City of Santa Cruz
AROS-TARIJA    Tarija                  1975           All Urban Communities
AROS-BENI       Beni                   1975           All Urban Communities
SELA           Oruro                   1964           City of Oruro
ELAPAS          Chuquisaca             1965           City of Sucre
SAMAPA         La Paz                  1966           City of La Paz
2.17      In addition to these entitiets, there are several more that do a
small amount of work in village water supply and sanitation. These are the
Corporacion Minera de Bolivia (COMIBOI.), Accion Civica de las Fuerzas Armadas
and the Servicio Nacional de Desarrollo de la Communidad.
2.18      Many of the sector institutions are internally weak, and the rural
ones are in a worse condition. Weaknesses are found in three main areas;
lack of rational investment planning, absence of monitoring or evaluation of
progress, and in many cases, a carefree attitude toward operations and
maintenance. Economic and financial handling of the project cycle from
design to operations and maintenance is largely inadequate.
Financial Aspects
2.19      Actual sector investments in the past have been very much lower than
those needed to achieve progress in increasing population coverage.  Over the
period 1975-77 an average of US$14 miLlion in 1978 prices was invested.
Virtually, all programs executed have been carried out with external financing.
Bolivia has received about US$100 milLion in grants and loans for the water
and sewerage sector during the last 12 years. This has come from multi-
lateral agencies, including the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
United Nations Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), KFW, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and bilateral donors, including
France.  External financing has been mainly in the form of concessionary loans
with a loan amortization period up to 40 years and interest as low as 2% annually.
The Bank's first operation in the sector was in 1976 with Loan 1324-BO of US$11.5
million for urban and rural communities.
2.20      The water supply and sewerage sector suffers from weak administra-
tion, (para. 2.18) lack of metering, resulting in a high level of unaccounted-
for water, inadequate tariff levels and structure, and high operating costs.
In an effort to correct the tariff inadequacy, the Government established
national standards for tariff classification and rate structure in April
1974. They were updated in July 1976 and a National Tariff Council was
established in the MUV. The new national tariff standards are soundly based.
The local water and sewerage agencies are responsible for preparing and
presenting tariff increases to the National Tariff Council, which in turn is



- 6 -
responsible for their review and approval. However, few attempts have been
made by the Government and the local authorities to increase tariffs, and the
Government continues to subsidized sectorial investments.
Other Aspects
2.21      There are about 1,000 persons working in the sector in Bolivia.
About 10% are professional, 30% technicians and clerks, and 60% general
workers.  The number of staff in Bolivia (4/1,000 connections is lower than
the Latin American average of 9/1,000 connections but higher than the 3/1,000
ratio in the USA. Although human resources do not appear to constitute a
serious constraint, selective training is needed, particularly in project
design incorporating financial and economic analysis; in financial, commercial,
and management aspects of water and sewer systems; and in operation and
maintenance of such systems. Some of the sector institutions such as CORPAGUAS
and MUV suffer from excessive staff turnover explained by salaries that are
low compared with those of the private sector. No improvements are expected
regarding this problem until salaries of civil servants are adjusted to the
cost of living.
2.22      Presently, about 10 national consulting firms are working in the
sector. These firms are competent to deal with conventional design and
construction, but foreign firms are generally called upon for the preparation
of the more complex feasibility studies and the supervision of large con-
struction projects.
2.23      Construction materials and equipment for water supply and sewerage
works have traditionally been imported. At present, there are two plants
in La Paz producing plastic pipe, one asbestos-cement plant in Cochabamba,
and several plants manufacturing clay and concrete pipe of varying quality.
Domestic manufacturers have successfully produced concrete sewer pipe of up
to 1.5 m in diameter but all structural and steel products used in the
construction of sanitary works are imported. The Government has recently
authorized (December 18, 1978) the duty-free importation of cement because
the local plants cannot meet the demand. Santa Cruz has been importing
cement and will probably have to continue to do so. All other materials and
equipment for sanitary works must be imported.
Government Policies and Objectives
2.24      The national plan for economic and social development for the
period 1976-80 established modest targets for service levels if compared
with most of the countries in the region and with those recommended in the
Third Special Meeting of Ministers of Health of the Americas (October 1972)
in Aantiago, Chile for the decade 1971-1980. The target figures for 1980
are to serve 67% of the urban population and 17% of the rural population
with water supply through house connections; and 37% of the urban population
with sewerage and 5% of the rural population with sanitation facilities.
The estimated cost of the program is $b3.45 billion (US$172 million) which
represents about 3.5% of the total public investment projected in 1976 for
the period. Although the national priorities have not yet been formally
defined, there is a clear intention to improve services in the most important
industrial and agricultural centers. Given the slow pace at which projects



-7 -
are being prepared and built for theses centers, even these modest
objectives are unlikely to be attained.
2.25      The Government has also expressed its intention to improve
sector performance. The MUV has been charged to set up a National Develop-
ment Plan for the sector through the 1980s, and established in early 1978
the basic principles that should govern the Plan. Because of the recent
changes in the Government and the economic difficulties faced by the
country, implementation of the Plan is bound to suffer lengthy delays.
In addition, there has not been a consistent policy for channeling funds
from international lending institutions and soft-term loans have been
recently granted to La Paz, Cochabamba, Oruro, Tarija and Riveralta.
The Bank's and IDA's Role in the Sector
2.26      IDA would support the Government's objectives through this project
for the urban areas and complement the support given by Bank Loan 1324-BO
for the rural areas. The proposed project was selected on the basis of:
(a) the Government's decision not to subsidize public services, including
water supply and sewerage, in the city of Santa Cruz; and (b) the advanced
stage of project preparation. The proposed project would increase the service
levels in Santa Cruz and extend services to many of the urban poor. It would
support the Government's tariff policy for the larger cities by taking the
lead in establishing tariffs in Santa Cruz that would enable the water and
sewer entity (SAGUAPAC) to become financially independent. It would also
provide technical assistance and training to SAGUAPAC to make its operation
and administration more efficient.
2.27      The rural component of Loan 1324-BO (CORPAGUAS) would provide water
systems for about 70 small villages in four departments. It would ensure
cooperation with the development corporations of these departments and the
gradual transfer of the planning, constructing, and support responsibilities
to these Corporations while strengthening the community development aspects at
the village level and overall supervision at a national level.
2.28      At the national level, the 1979 PAHO/IBRD sector study updating
should be the vehicle for future Bank and IDA involvement in the water supply
and sewerage sector in Bolivia. The conclusions of the study will be
discussed with the Government in mid-1979. The study recommends that:
(a) a national financial policy be established that would enable the Govern-
ment to use external financing as a lever to reform the sector, conditional
upon increased cost recovery and administrative improvement; (b) a realistic
national development program for the sector be prepared. The program should
aim at redressing service level disparities. The program should be prepared
under the coordination of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination with the
help of MUV; (c) a survey of the institutions working in the sector be
undertaken. The survey would cover such aspects as management, organization,
accounting, commercial activities, and training needs. It should lead to
specific recommendations for improvement; (d) project preparation facilities
be reinforced with the help of consultants; and (e) a national training
program be created.



-8-
III. THE BENEFICIARY
Introduction
3.01      This chapter discusses the institutional aspects of the proposed
water and sewerage project for Santa Cruz. The borrower would be the
Government of Bolivia and the Beneficiary the Servicio de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado de Santa Cruz de la Sierra (SAGUAPAC). The Regional Develop-
ment Corporation of the Department of Santa Cruz will also be briefly
reviewed.
Regional Development
3.02      Since February 1978, each Department of Bolivia had a Regional
Development Corporation (formerly Development Committee) responsible for
the economic development of the region (para 2.15). The Corporations are
decentralized public enterprises with administrative, technical, and financial
autonomy. At the national level, the coordination among the corporations
is the responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination. The
corporations have extensive responsibilities which include investment planning
and financing and the creation of local public enterprises. They may also
participate in equity in financial institutions and channel credit through
financial banks. The Corporacion Regional de Santa Cruz (the Corporation),
formerly "El Comite de Obras Publicas", has carried out an important investment
program aimed at providing the Department with basic industrialization and
its population with essential services. The Corporation has recently created
a Regional Economic Planning Office in charge of establishing a 10-year
development strategy. Since 1971, the Corporation has had an Urban Technical
Office responsible for preparing and implementing the urban master plan for
the city of Santa Cruz and for other urban centers in the Department. Among
the Corporation's achievements are the creation of an industrial park and
satellite cities outside the Santa Cruz city limits, destined to absorb part
of the heavy migration. The Corporation has also been active in the water
supply and sewerage sector, investing about US$15 million in rural and urban
communities between 1969 and 1976. With the help of IDB it built about 55
village water systems and the existing water and sewer systems of the city of
Santa Cruz. The Corporation's investment program for the period 1978-82
amounts to about US$155 million; royalties from the sales of gas and petroleum
assigned to the Corporation for the period would finance about 80% of this
program 1/.
SAGUAPAC
Legal Statutes
3.03      SAGUAPAC is a decentralized public utility under the jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (M V). It was created in 1973
1/   The Corporation receives 11% of royalties from the sale of petroleum
and gas produced in the Department.



- 9 -
(Decreto Supremo No. 10844 of May 7, 1973) and began its operations in
September 1975. SAGUAPAC is managed by a Board of Directors comprising
six members. Presently the Chairman is the President of the Corporation,
the Vice-Chairman is the representative of the MUV, and the other four
members represent the municipality of Santa Cruz, the Ministry of Health,
private business and the consumers. The Board's Secretary is the General
Manager who participates in the Board meetings without voting rights. The
General Manager is chosen by the MLV from three candidates presented by the
Board. The MUV approves new projects, their loan financing and tariff
increase proposals before submission to the National Tariff Board for final
approval. SAGUAPAC has legal personality, and its own capital and admini-
strative autonomy.
3.04      The Corporation has recently completed a study on the transforma-
tion of SAGUAPAC into a cooperative type entity governed by the law of
cooperatives enacted by the National Institute of Cooperatives. In this case
the highest management authority would be the General Assembly of Shareholders,
whose members will be elected by the consumers. The proposed change should
not affect the execution of the prc,posed project. However, as a condition of
the proposed credit, any change in the legal personality of SAGUAPAC, its
bylaws and general manager should not be made without the prior consultation
with IDA.
Organization and Management
3.05      The present General Manager, who joined SAGUAPAC in mid-1977,
has performed well in project preparation, construction, operation and
administration. He recognizes that the company's management system and
procedures need to be improved and has requested IDA to help him in this
endeavour. The proposed project includes the financing of a management/
financial consultant and a technical consultant who would help SAGUAPAC in
developing these systems and procedures. As a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit, SAGUAPAC should have hired the management/financial
consultant, and before January 1, 1980, SAGUAPAC should have hired the
services of a technical consultant. Both consultants should be hired under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. A summary of the consultant's
terms of reference is given in Annex 3. The General Manager is supported by
two managers who take responsibility for the two main divisions of SAGUAPAC:
Technical and Administrative (Annex 12 - Organization Chart). Management
training is included in the technical assistance component of the proposed
project (para. 3.07).
3.06      SAGUAPAC has suffered from the absence of institutionalized plan-
ning and engineering which were until recently carried out by the Corporation.
SAGUAPAC's bylaws provide for the creation of two units in charge of these
functions. The head of the plannirLg unit would report directly to the General
Manager and the head of the engineering unit to the Technical Manager. In
order to ensure adequate preparation and execution of the proposed project,
as well as satisfactory long-range planning, these units should be placed
into operation as soon as possible. As a condition of effectiveness for the



- 10 -
proposed credit, SAGUAPAC should have created these units and have had their
functions approved by IDA. The technical consultant and the financial and
management consultant recommended in para. 3.05 will help SAGUAPAC to organize
these two units.
Personnel
3.07       SAGUAPAC has enough qualified personnel to fill its management and
supervisory positions. The total number of permanent staff in December 1978
was 160, or 4.9 employees per 1,000 connections (slightly higher than the
national average (para. 2.21). Fourteen professionals have a university
degree (two sanitary engineers, two civil engineers, one geologist, four
financial analysts, two data processing specialists, one CPA, one electrical
engineer and one chemist). Professionals, technicians, and skilled workers
constitute 70% of the personnel, and the rest are laborers. Salaries are
adequate and generally higher than in other water companies of Latin America.
About 30% of the employees have received training at different levels, and
this training activity should continue in the future. The proposed project
contains a training component whose main objectives are described in Annex 3.
Assurances were obtained that, before December 31, 1979, SAGUAPAC will
present to IDA for review and approval a three-year training program, to be
initiated not later than March 31, 1980.
3.08       Personnel administration is under the head of the general administ-
rative unit. The chief of personnel has recently completed a study of the
functions, qualifications and salary status of SAGUAPAC's employees. This
study will be reviewed by a special committee which will establish the
company's policy regarding recruitment, salary scales, and promotion, and will
prepare job descriptions. SAGUAPAC intends to implement the recommendations
of this study immediately. SAGUAPAC will submit to IDA a statement on its
personnel management policy to IDA for review before December 31, 1979.
Accounting
3.09       SAGUAPAC's accounting system is satisfactory, although the fixed
assets have not yet been evaluated. The lack of an adequate evaluation of
its fixed assets has not permitted the company to prepare fully reliable
balance sheet statements. SAGUAPAC has contracted the services of a con-
sultant for the valuation of its fixed assets. The terms of reference have
been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory. Assurances were obtained
that the valuation of SAGUAPAC's fixed assets would be completed before
November 30, 1979, and that it would revalue its fixed assets at the end of
each fiscal year from 1980 onwards.
Billing and Collection
3.10       The billing and collection process is satisfactory.  Bills are
processed monthly and they include tariffs for water and sewerage and
fixed charges. Customers can make their payments to SAGUAPAC or through
four commercial banks and five cooperatives. There is a strict policy of



-l 11 -
shutting off water service for non-payment of bills. This policy has been
effective, as only 10% of the total bills remain outstanding for more than
two months. Assurances were obtained from SAGUAPAC that the company's
accounts receivable for water and sewerage will not exceed an average of
two months of billing services.
3.11      In 1978 SAGUAPAC made a major effort to rehabilitate and relocate
the water meters. Under the program 12,500 meters were repaired at a cost
equal to 40% of new meters. By the end of the year, about 70% of the
total number of connections had good operating meters (para. 4.05). Addi-
tional meters are needed to replace worn out meters and for new house
connections. The project includes the purchase and installation of about
20,000 meters which would permit SAGIJAPAC to have 95% of its consumers
metered by the project completion date (para. 5.03).
Inventories
3.12      The present level of inventories is excessive (9% of fixed assets).
A large part of these inventories (88%) is made up of pipe and pumps which
were transferred to SAGUAPAC by the Corporation. Much of these would be
used for the proposed project, and it: is estimated that by 1982 the level
of inventories would represent only 2% of the total fixed assets in operation
and would be maintained at this level thereafter.
Auditing
3.13      Commercial auditing has been performed since 1976 by external
auditors. As a condition for the proposed credit, assurances were obtained
from SAGUAPAC that this policy will be continued, and that a copy of the
annual audit report prepared by auditors satisfactory to IDA would be sent to
IDA not later than April 30 of the following year. The auditors' terms of
reference should require them to prepare the information necessary to review
SAGUAPAC's compliance with the revenue covenant (para. 6.08).
3.14      In August 1978 SAGUAPAC appointed a qualified internal auditor and
in November his office was reinforced with three accountants. The proposed
internal auditing principles are adequate; however, manuals need to be pre-
pared. SAGUAPAC has taken the necessary steps so that the internal auditor
reports directly to the General Manager. Internal auditing manuals and
procedures should be sent to IDA for review before March 31, 1980 and the
financial and management consultant recommended in para. 3.05 should assist
SAGUAPAC in preparing and implementing the new internal control procedures.
Data Processing
3.15      In mid-1978 SAGUAPAC set up a computing activities division reporting
to the Administrative Manager and leased a fourth generation computer from
the National Cash Register Co. (NCR 8250). During the second half of 1978



- 12 -
the company payroll and the accounting system were processed through the
computer. Studies were undertaken to process inventories, a cost control
system, and the billing and collection system. It is expected that by the end
of 1979 most of the company's administrative systems will be processed through
the computer. SAGUAPAC has requested IDA financing for the purchase of the
computer (para. 5.03). The financial and management consultant recommended
in para. 3.05 will help SAGUAPAC to establish a financial forecast system that
could also be processed by the computer.
SAGUAPAC's Insurance
3.16      SAGUAPAC holds insurance covering risks from theft and mis-
appropriation of funds by the treasurer, and against fire, theft of goods
and supplies, and damage to equipment and vehicles. Insurance coverage
is satisfactory.
IV. POPULATION, SERVICES AND DEMAND
Introduction
4.01      This chapter analyzes the population growth in Santa Cruz and the
demand for water supply and sewage services. All data referred to in the
following paragraphs are presented in detail in Annex 4.
Population of Santa Cruz
4.02      The 1978 population of Santa Cruz was estimated at 281,000 and was
growing rapidly. The last two census of 1969 and 1976 show an annual popula-
tion growth of 10.6% for the city of Santa Cruz, which is 2.7 times the average
urban demographic growth for the country as a whole during the same period.
Immigration accounted for more than half the city's population increase and
this trend will probably continue because of the employment opportunities
offered by the Santa Cruz region and especially the city itself (petroleum,
agriculture, and industries). Average annual population growth during the
period of construction of the proposed project (1979-82) has, however, been
calculated at 7.25% on the basis of the regulations enacted by the Commission
in charge of the Master Development Plan for the city of Santa Cruz being fully
implemented in 1979-80. One of the main features of the Plan is to develop
satellite cities around Santa Cruz which are not expected to be within
SAGUAPAC's jurisdiction during project implementation.
Water Supply System
4.03      The present Santa Cruz water supply and sewerage system was built
during the period 1968-75. The system obtains water from two well fields,
the Southern and the Industrial Park fields, with a total installed capacity
of 950 litres per second (lps) and a total production of about 790 lps. The
Southern well fields (10 wells) have an average depth of 80 m and produce
730 lps. From these wells the water is pumped into an underground



-- 13 -
reservoir of 10,000 m  capacity.  Here, it is chlorinated and pumped into
the distribution network, about 512 km in length. The network consists
mostly of asbestos-cement pipe 60 to 600 mm in diameter. Between the
pumping3station and the distribution network a high level reservoir of
1,000 m capacity has been installed for emergency use. The water system
is well maintained. The project will obtain additional amounts of water
from the same aquifer which has sufficient capacity to meet 1986 demands
(para. 4.15). Water quality complies with WH0-recommended standards for
physical and chemical quality. The geological characteristics of the
system ensure that sources are free from surface contamination.
4.04       The Industrial Park field is located in the northeast part of the
city, where an industrial zone is under development. The field has only
one well in operation (100 m depth, 60 lps). The unchlorinated water is
pumped directly into the city's distribution network, constituting a health
hazard to the population. Under the project, water will be chlorinated.
4.05       There are about 22,000 metered, and 10,900 unmetered connections.
Early in 1978 only about 4,187 meters were working, and following discussions
with the IDA mission, SAGUAPAC decided to improve its metering. SAGUAPAC
built a meter repair shop and by December 1978 had rehabilitated and
relocated nearly 18,000 meters (para. 3.11).
Sanitary Sewer System
4.06       Santa Cruz has separate sanitary and storm sewer systems.  The
sanitary system covering the central zone of the city comprises a network
of about 200 km in length with clay pipe of 200 mm diameter, and plain and
reinforced concrete for diameters of 600 mm or more. The network was com-
pleted about ten years ago and is in good condition; it serves about 33%
of the urban population (91,700 inhabitants).
4.07       Most of the sanitary sewage is conducted by gravity through a
main sewer, 1 m in diameter and 3.7 km in length, to the Northern Pumping
Station which discharges into a force main 1.5 km long leading to the
treatment plant. Because of the topography, some of the sewage from the
central zone has to be pumped by a small pumping station to the Northern
Pumping Station.
4.08       The treatment plant consists of two anaerobic and two facultative
oxidation ponds. The pond discharges its effluent into the Rio Pirai, which
has an adequate absorption capacity. The ponds, which were designed for a
smaller population, are now overloa,ded and additional plant capacity is needed.
In spite of the overloading, the treatment plant is well operated and is
producing a satisfactory effluent.
Storm Sewer System
4.09       The storm water facilities consist of two drainage syitems; the
Isuto, or Western system, which drains into a paved canal (96 m /sec
capacity) 5 km in length. The canal discharges its waters into the



- 14 -
Pirai River. The second is ths Cotoca, or Eastern system, which drains
into another paved canal (52 m /sec capacity) 3 km in length. This canal
discharges its waters into the Cotoca Stream, a tributary of the Rio Grande.
4.10      The Western system drains about 600 ha of the central zone of
the city and the Eastern system drains 350 ha. Maintenance of the sewers
is adequate but expensive, since streets are not paved and heavy rains
fill the sewers with sand and silt. The canals also require attention to
control plant growth and silt.
Population Served
4.11      In October 1978 SAGUAPAC carried out a consumer survey to update
the categories of classification. As shown below, the consumers are mainly
residential (91%) and commercial (8%).
Table 4.1: WATER CONNECTIONS (1978)
Category                 No.            %
Residential             30,016         91.2
Commercial               2,534          7.7
Industrial                  99          0.3
Special                    263          0.8
Total               32,912        100.0
It is estimated that the percentage distribution among the different catego-
ries of consumers has changed little since the creation of SAGUAPAC. The
1978 population of Santa Cruz served with water by house connections is
estimated at 82% (230,384 people, 7 persons per connection). Long-term
consumption estimates were based on the 12,000 metered connections, which
were used to calculate the weighted monthly consumption. The weighted
monthly consumption billed per connection (between the 5onnections with
operating meters and the others) is estimated to be 31m . The rest of
the population obtains its water from shallow wells, neighbors, and private
vendors.
4.12      There are 13,100 sanitary sewer connections in Santa Cruz serving
an estimated population of 91,700 inhabitants (33% of the total population).
The distribution of sewer connections by category of consumers is the same
as for water. Sewage, waste water, and excreta from the population served
with water but not connected to the public sewer system is disposed of in
septic tanks, cesspools, soakage pits, latrines and on the surface of the
ground. Because of the increasing population density, these methods of disposal
are no longer acceptable because they are potential health hazards (para. 5.05).
4.13      The present storm sewer system covers 930 ha or about 22% of the
total city area (4,200 ha). About 12,800 houses (32% of the 40,100 houses
in Santa Cruz) are located in the area served by this system.



- 15 -
Consumption Forecasts
4.14      The proposed project aims at increasing the proportion of popula-
tion served with water by house connections from 82% in 1978 to 85% in 1983,
and the proportion of metered connections from 67% in 1978 to 95% in 1983.
About 108,300 additional persons would be served directly by the project
(15,475 new connections) and about 20,000 new meters would be installed. In
addition, 22,000 people already connected to the system would receive improved
service. Since the distribution network is new and in good condition and
water production is carefully metered, the main reason for the high percentage
of unaccounted-for water is the lack of metered connections (33% of total).
The project, through the large increase in metered connections, is expected
to reduce unaccounted-for water from the present estimated 50% of production
to 27% in 1983, and ts increass the volume billed per connection from the
present level of 21 m to 29 m in 1983.
4.15      Recent studies of ground water resources in the Santa Cruz area
(by Geologist R. Nunez in 1377) concluded that the ground water flow into the
a5ea reaches 26.2 million m /year and that the annual recharge3is 8.8 million
m /yr, which shows that yearly resources of about 30 million m could be used
for consumption. Assuming an average per capita consumption of 200 lpd, this
source could supply a population of up to 500,000 inhabitants. On this basis,
it is estimated that these ground water sources are sufficient to cover the
demand up to 1986. New studies of future water sources for the city should be
undertaken as soon as possible, in order to determine the works that should
be constructed to cope with future demand. To do these studies, SAGUAPAC
should hire not later than July 31, 1980, qualified consultants under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA (paras. 5.02(b) and 5.11). Their report
should be issued before December 31, 1981.
4.16      There are about 189,100 inhabitants who do not have access to the
sewer system and must dispose of their waste by sanitary latrines, soakage
pits, septic tanks or on the surface of the ground. If the existing sewer
facilities are not expanded, the population without access to sewers would
rise to 307,000 by 1983. This proposed first stage project would permit
66,100 persons (9,438 connections) to have sewerage. The percentage of
population served is expected to reach 40% in 1983.  In order to accelerate
connection to the sewer system, the project includes funds to finance
household plumbing and lot lines (para. 5.03(j)). SAGUAPAC will also make
a survey of the unsewered areas which have water service (para. 5.05).
4.17      A second stage would be undertaken when additional financing is
available. Under the second stage the aim would be to raise the percentage
served by sanitary sewers to 61%.  Ihe second stage project would provide
a new area of the city of about 520 ha with storm drainage, bringing the
total percentage of coverage from 22% to 35% (from 930 ha to 1,450 ha).



- 16 -
V.   THE PROJECT
Project Origin
5.01      The Committee (now the Corporation) financed the studies for an urban
development plan and the Master Sewer Plan, including the engineering design
of its first stage. This Master Sewer Plan was coordinated with the urban
development plan. The proposed project is based on the first stage of the
master sewer plan prepared by consultants (F.A. Kocks, Germany), and the water
expansion program prepared by SAGUAPAC with its own staff. It includes a
water supply component to serve about 2,500 ha and a sanitary sewer component
to serve about 400 ha of the city, with trunk mains with a design capacity to
serve a total of 800 ha.
Project Objectives and Benefits
5.02      The objectives of the proposed project are to improve health and
living conditions in areas of the city which have a heavy concentration of
population with inadequate services and poor environmental conditions, and to
strengthen SAGUAPAC's management and financial performance. The project aims at:
(a)  providing safe water supply to an additional 108,300
inhabitants improving the water service of 22,000
inhabitants by 1983, thus increasing the population
served from 82% to 85%. About one-third of this
population are estimated to be urban poor as per Bank
definition;
(b)  studying and determining the next source of water for the
expansion of the water system beyond the year 1986;
(c) assuring a more even water distribution and pressure
by increasing storage capacity and reducing unaccounted-for
water by increasing water metering;
(d)  providing adequate sanitary sewer services for an
additional 66,100 inhabitants by 1983 thus increasing
the population served from 33% to 40%. About one-third
of this population are estimated to be urban poor;
(e) preventing health hazards by providing adequate sewage
treatment and disposal; and
(f)  improving the management efficiency and financial position
of SAGUAPAC through: (i) technical assistance and train-
ing programs covering the company's weak areas of manage-
ment in engineering, financial forecasting, commercial,
and internal control activities; (ii) improvement of its
information process with the purchase of data processing
equipment; and (iii) the establishment of a sound tariff
and revenue policy which will be designed in accordance with
the consumers' capacity to pay.



- 17 -
Description of the Project
5.03      The project has the following components:
Water Supply System
(a)  completion of the Northeast well field with a production
capacity of 240 lps and connection to the distribution
network. This would include the installation of a deep
well pump, pipelines, a ground storage tank, a pumping
station of 300 hp capacity, a chlorinator, and power supply;
(b)  construction of two reinforced concrete storage tanks
with a combined capacity of 8,000 m3; and
(c)  installation of about 200 km of distribution lines
and about 20,000 metered connections.
Sanitary Sewer Systems
(d)  purchase of land for the North sewage treatment plant;
(e)  construction of the North sewage treatment plant with
about 25 ha of oxidation ponds, outfall to Rio Pirai
and access roads;
(f)  construction of the North sewage pumping station with a
capacity of about 200 hp power supply, and a bypass to
the Rio Pirai;
(g)  construction of a new emissary, North Emissary, parallel
to and connected with the existing one. The North Emissary
will be constructed of reinforced concrete about 855 m in
length and 1.50 m in diameter;
(h)  construction of a trunk sewer (d-e) of plain or reinforced
concrete 600 mm and 800 mm in diameter and about 4,450 m
in length; and
(i)  installation of sewer lines and laterals of about 60 km in
length and 150 to 600 mm in diameter of clay and/or plain
concrete pipe and about 10,000 new house connections;
In-house Plumbing and Lot Lines
(j) setting up of a revolving fund to finance the installation of
water and sewer lot lines and in-house plumbing facilities;



- 18 -
Administration and Operation
(k) the purchase of data processing equipment;
(1) the purchase and installation of laboratory and communication
equipment; and
(m) the purchase of vehicles for operation and maintenance;
Technical Assistance
(n)  the hiring of consultants to study and determine the next
source of water after 1986;
(o)  the hiring of consultants to assist SAGUAPAC to improve
its organization and management, develop its engineering and
planning divisions;
(p)  the training and upgrading of personnel; and
(q)  the hiring of consulting engineers for the supervision of the
project.
Least Cost Solution
5.04      Both the water supply and sewerage components are least cost
solutions. The proposed ground water sources are the closest ones to Santa
Cruz and require no treatment other than chlorination. Thus, both capital
and recurrent costs are lower than any other feasible alternative. Because of
the rapid growth and dense population of Santa Cruz, the water borne sewage
system with oxydation ponds, compared to the septic tank or soakage pit
solutions is the safest least cost method- for the collection and removal of
the wastes at discount rates of 10% and 12%.
5.05      The sewer collection network has lagged far behind water
distribution and even with the proposed project there would be areas
served with water but no sewerage. Subsequent extensions to the sewers
are planned. For the unsewered areas with water service SAGUAPAC would
inspect the premises to ensure that wastewater and excreta disposal are
not creating health hazards and adequate means are being used until the
sewer system can be extended.  Assurances were obtained that SAGUAPAC will
make a survey to determine the extent of the problems, prepare a plan to
resolve them, and submit the program for review and approval to IDA not later
than December 31, 1980.
5.06      A financial analysis was made comparing the cost of purchasing
the data processing equipment with the cost of continuing the present leasing
arrangement. The comparison shows a rate of return of more than 30% in
favor of the purchase (Annex 10).



- 19 -
Project Cost and Investment Schedule
5.07      Project costs were prepared using June 1978 prices adjusted by
SAGUAPAC to December 1978. Technical contingencies have been estimated
at 15% for all project components except the land and computer. The price
contingency for foreign costs is 7% per year and for local costs, 15% per
year. These contingencies were applied to all project components except the
land. The total project cost is estimated at US$15.97 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$6.25 million (39%). The investment schedule is shown
in Annex 5.  A summary is presented in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1]:  IN'VESIKENT SUtMNARY  a/
$b MILLION   -------USS MILLI(--
Local  Fore ign    Total  Local    Foreign    Total  N
6KJter             23.13  45.6(  68.79  1.16  2.28    3.44  21.5
SewI:s g          585.60  23.54  109.14  4.29  1.18    5.47  34.3
Land                6.0C   0.00  e.ao  U 0.30  0.00    0.30  1.9
Ho-sehold Pl-baTire  4.64  21.22  2S.86  0.23  1.06  1.29  8.1
Iota  1'rocessing 1qu?menoo  _  1.60  5.200  6.60  0. 08    0. 5  C.33  2.0
Bao4c Cost  b/    121.17  95.42  ?16.s9  6.06  4.77    10.83  67.a
lech:iical CO-tigencieb a!  _9.9(1  13.34  33.24  _0.99  0.67  1. 66  -10.1,
Total Constanit Price  141.07  1)8.-:6    249.83  7.05  5.44    12.49  78.2
Prace  Contingencies  c/  53.77  15.86  69.63  2.70  0.81  3.51  21.8
Tot.l Costs       194.84    _124. 62  319.L6  9.75  6.25    16.00  100.0
a! Doeo not apply to land or household plumbing.
b /  Inclu3es technical assistance atid consulting services.
c/ Does not apply to land.
Financing
5.08      The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.0 million to the Government would
be relent to SAGUAPAC at 20 years (including 4 years grace) and 7% annual
interest (not applied during the period of grace) and would finance all the
foreign exchange costs and the equivalent of US$2.8 million of local costs.
This would finance 52% total cash requirements including working capital needs.
5.09      The Corporation would contribute the equivalent of US$3.1 million
(18%) and SAGUAPAC US$5.2 million (30%) from internal cash generation. An
amount of US$2.0 million would be used by SAGUAPAC as a revolving fund
(para. 5.15) to finance all the costs of household plumbing and lot lines.
The balance would be used to finance the costs of technical assistance,
consultants, equipment and 20% of the civil works. The Government will make
arrangements for the beneficiary to be promptly provided with any additional
funds as needed to carry out the project. Table 5.2 shows the financing plan
for the proposed project.



- 20 -
Table 5.2: PROJECT FINANCING
(in millions of $b)
$b         US$          %
Requirements
Project Cost:
Foreign exchange                             124.60       6.25       36.2
Local currency                               194.80       9.75       56.4
Subtotal                            319.40      16.00        92.6
Working Capital                                 25.60       1.28        7.4
Total Requirements                  345.00      17.28       100.0
Sources
IDA credit                                     180.00       9.00       52.1
Corporation's contribution                      62.00       3.10       17.9
SAGUAPAC's contribution                        103.00       5.18       30.0
Total Sources                       345.00      17.28       100.0
Implementation
5.10      The project will be executed during the period 1979-82 according
to the construction schedule shown in Annex 6.
5.11      SAGUAPAC will carry out the project with the assistance of qualified
consultants. Detailed designs and cost estimates were prepared for the major
elements of the first stage by foreign consultants (Kocks, A.G.) and additional
detailed designs and cost estimates for the sewage pumping station and water
lines are being finished by local consultants. Engineering consultants are
needed to complete final designs and to prepare the bidding document packages
and supervise the construction work. During project execution, the engineering
division in SAGUAPAC will be developed and trained by participating in the
project execution. As a condition of effectiveness, SAGUAPAC will contract
qualified consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to complete
final engineering designs , prepare the bidding documents, and to help in
the tender analysis and supervise the construction. Assurances were also
obtained that SAGUAPAC will hire consultants not later than July 1980 to
study and define the next source of water for the city of Santa Cruz (para.
4.15). In addition, a management/financial consultant and a technical
consultant would help SAGUAPAC in establishing modern management systems and
procedures (para. 3.05). A summary of consulting services averaging 60 man
months, and terms of reference are shown in Annex 3. The average cost of
consultants is estimated at US$5,000 per month.



- 21 -
Procurement
5.12      Pipes, accessories, meters, pumps, chlorinators, and related
equipment would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines, except for acquisition of the computer
which is now   being leased by SAGUAPAC.  Before deciding whethe  or not to
purchase this equipment SAGUAPAC obtained a short list of proposals from
different suppliers which showed that the purchase of the equipment would be
more advantageous than leasing. Local manufacturers will be accorded a
margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price, or the actual import customs
tariff, whichever is lower. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 and contracts for materials and equipment estimated to cost
*          less than US$50,000, all up to an aggregate amount of US$1,000,000, would be
awarded on the basis of local bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. Under
local bidding procedures, foreign bidders are allowed to compete. Contracts
for installation of pipe networks, costing less than US$10,000 equivalent may
be awarded by SAGUAPAC on the basis of at least three price quotations from
qualified contractors registered with SAGUAPAC. The aggregate value of these
contracts shall not exceed US$200,000 equivalent. It is expected that most
of the civil works contracts would be won by local firms and most of the
equipment and material supply contracts by foreign firms.
5.13      The proposed major contracts for civil works, equipment, and
consultants are as follows:
Description                               Invitation       Value in
to Bid Date    US$ Millions
Water Supply
Purchase and installation of well pumps        Nov.  1979          .40
Storage tanks and ancillary works              April 1980          .35
Purchase of pipe                               Nov.  1979         1.00
Installation of pipe                           June  1980         0.55
Purchase of water meters                       Nov.  1979         0.30
Purchase of vehicles                           Feb.  1980         0.10
Sewerage
Construction of treatment plant and bypass  Jan.  1980            0.30
Purchase of pumps and electrical equipment
and construction of pumping station          Oct.  1980         0.11
Purchase of pipe                               Nov.  1979         1.90
Construction of emissary                       March 1980          .12
Construction of trunk sewer (d-e)              June  1980          .24
Construction of network                        Sept. 1980         1.50
Consulting Engineers
Proposals from consulting firms                May   1979         0.25



- 22 -
Disbursements
5.14      The disbursements would be for:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods, equipment,
materials, and vehicles or 40% of local expenditures for
locally procured goods;
(b) 35% of the expenditures for civil works;
(c) 100% of the expenditures for technical assistance and
consultants; and
(d) 100% of the expenditures for household plumbing and
lot lines.
5.15      The household plumbing and lot lines would be installed by local
plumbers, contracted by the owner, and inspected by SAGUAPAC. SAGUAPAC
would pay the contractor upon authorization of the owner. Disbursement to
SAGUAPAC for groups of these small contracts would be made against a certi-
ficate of expenditure, the documentation for which is not submitted for
review, but is retained by SAGUAPAC and available for inspection by IDA
during the course of project supervision missions. The owner and SAGUAPAC
would enter into an agreement. The owners would reimburse SAGUAPAC over
not more than ten years repayment time and would be charged an annual
interest not less than 12%. This interest rate is slightly negative in real
terms during the project implementation period when compared to the projected
inflation rate (15% p.a.-see para. 5.07); it would be justified in view of the
objective of the revolving fund to benefit low-income families. SAGUAPAC would
review the interest rate from time to time, and if necessary, would adjust the
rate in order to maintain, along with other resources which would become avail-
able for the fund, the dollar value of the proceeds of the IDA Credit used to
set up the fund. Assurances were obtained that SAGUAPAC will create, before
January 1, 1980, a revolving fund for the financing of house connections,
household plumbing, and lot lines. The revolving fund mechanism and the
plumbing standards to be used should be acceptable to IDA (Annex 2). All
other disbursements will be fully documented.
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
5.16      SAGUAPAC will hire qualified consultants acceptable to IDA for
final review of project design, preparation of bidding documents, and
project supervision (para 5.11). It is estimated that for these consulting
services expenditures made prior to the date of the signing of the Credit
Agreement would amount to US$50,000. SAGUAPAC is planning to purchase the
data processing equipment.  The estimated payments to be made for this
equipment prior to the date of credit signing would amount to US$250,000.
Retroactive financing up to US$300,000 is recommended for these project
components for expenditures made after January 1, 1979 to the date of
the signing of the credit.
5.17      The prcject would be completed by December 31, 1982 and the closing
date for this credit would be June 30, 1983. The estimated schedule of
credit disbursement is given in Annex 7.



- 23 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Finances
6.01      Although created in early 1973, SAGUAPAC began its activities in
1975. SAGUAPAC's existing water supply and sewerage facilities (valued at
about US$14.5 million) were constructed by the Committee. Part of these
assets (about US$10 million) were financed under the IDB Loan 159/SF-BO for
US$5.8 million, signed in 1968. The debt service payments to IDB have been
made by the Committee (now the Corporation). SAGUAPAC's creation decree
(Article 27), stipulates, however, that the legal transfer of the Committee's
assets, together with the corresponding financial obligations, should be
made after a fair evaluation of these assets has been completed (para. 3.09).
SAGUAPAC and the Corporation have defined that the Corporation will continue
to make the debt service payments on the IDB Loan. This arrangement is
satisfactory to IDA.
6.02      Since the start of its operation, SAGUAPAC's financial results
have been unsatisfactory with revenues insufficient to cover operating costs
even before depreciation.  This was due in the most part to the delay of
SAGUAPAC's Manager in implementing the authorized tariff increases. The
new manager intends to correct this situation. SAGUAPAC's past financial
statements are summarized below:
Table 6.1:  SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (1976-78)
Audited              Preliminary
1976           1977           1978
----- in $b millions -----------
Description
Revenues                          17.30         24.54           27.82
Operating Costs                  (18.00)       (27.43)         (29.29)
Depreciation a/                   (8.16)         (9.52)        (10.84)
Income Before Interest            (8.86)       (12.40)         (12.31)
Operating Ratio                  104.05        111.76          102.30
Rate of Return a/                 -3.81         -5.01           -4.50
a/   For the purpose of financial analysis, fixed assets and depreciation
have been revalued using the inflation figures provided by Programs
Department (8% in 1975, 5% in 1976, 8% in 1977 and 15% in 1978).



- 24 -
Revenues
6.03      The tariffs (Annex 8) which were approved in October 1977 have
not yet been fully implemented 1/. There are five categories for water
supply and sewerage consumers (residential, commercial 1 and 2, industrial
and official). For water supply, the different categories have a monthly
fixed charge which is progressive (from $b38.50 (US$1.93) for residential
connections to $b153.50 (US$7.67) for industrial connections) and excess
consumption for metered connections has been fixed 3for all categories,
except the industrial 2/ at $b2.60(US$0.13) per m . The same principle
applies to sewerage: monthly fixed charges vary from $b57.50 (US$2.87) for
residential connections to $b307.50 (US$15.37) for industrial connections;
a variable charge of $b2.00 (US$0.10) per m for excess water consumption
is charged for each metered connection, except for the industrial connec-
tions ($bl.60). The monthly fixed charge for sewerage represents from 150%
(residential) to 200% (industrial) of the fixed water charge. Present
connection fees have been invoiced since February 1976. It is estimated
that the presens average revenue from water and sewerage charges of $b3.00
(US$0.15) per m billed would be insufficient to provide SAGUAPAC with the
revenues necessary to ensure its financial viability. In September 1978,
SAGUAPAC hired a consultant to prepare a study on the basis of which the
company would develop a new revenue policy. Under this policy a better
equity among consumers would be achieved by subdividing the residential
category and making the fixed charges and the excess consumption tariff
progressive. The consultant's recommendations (revenue package) were
reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory. They are described in Annex 8 and
summarized in the following paragraph.
6.04      A new tariff structure, based on the results of a recent socio-
economic and water usage survey of SAGUAPAC's consumers, is proposed.
The new structure would have five principal categories (residential,
residential/commercial, commercial, industrial and official), and five
subcategories for residential and residential/commercial consumers estab-
lished in accordance with their socioe onomic level.  The minimum monthly
water consumption would vary from 15 m for the residential category to 30 m
for the industrial. The corresponding monthly charge would be progressive
from $b25.00 (US$1.25) for the lowest residential category to $b150.00
(US$7.50) for the industrial category.  Excess consuSption would follow the
same progressive pattern with $bO.80 (US$0.04) per m for the lowest consumer
category and $b5.00 (US$0.25) for the commercial. The consumers having
metered water connections and sewerage connections would have their invoices
increased by 65% for sewerage services. Those with no metered water connec-
tions would pay progressive monthly charges per category which would be
1/   The approved tariff, fhen fully applied, would produce in 1979 an
average revenue per m billied of $b3.80 from water and sewerage charges
(para. 6.05).
2/   Excess consumption is charged at $bl.90 to industries.



-- 25 -
dependent upon whether or not they are connected tS the sewer system. The
resulting average tariff for water and sewer per m billed would be $b5.00
(US$0.25), an increase of about 67% over the present level and would cover
SAGUAPAC's operating costs. The new tariff structure would be complemented
with new fixed charges designed to recuperate the full cost of the project.
The fixed charges are also based on the results of the socio-economic survey
and would be highly progressive. They would be calculated on the assessed
value and size of property of the consumer.
6.05      Given the need to strengthen SAGUAPAC's financial performance,
and in order to ensure its contribution to project financing, SAGUAPAC has
obtained approval of the revenue package from the MUW Tariff Council. The
implementation of the proposed tariff package would be as follows:
(a) as a condition of effectiveness, SAGUAPAC's average revenue from
water3and sewerage charges should have reached $b3.50 (US$0.175)
per m billed and SAGUAPAC should take all the necessary steps to
implement the new customers fixed charges; and
(b) SAGUAPAC's average revenue from water and sewerage tariffs
should reach $b5.00 per mJ billed, as of June 30, 1980.
Financing Plan
6.06      SAGUAPAC's financing plan for the period 1979-82 is summarized below
(Table 6.2). Financial assumptions and projections are given in Annex 1.
Table 6.2: FINANCING PLAN
$.b         US$           %
-------- millions 
Application of Funds
Project Cost                                  319.47        16.00        62.28
Other Works                                   100.84         5.04        21.55
Increase in Working Capital                    47.66         2.38        10.17
Total                                     467.97        23.39       100.00
Source of Funds
SAGUAPAC net internal cash generation         225.97        11.32        48.27
Corporation's contribution                     62.00         3.10        13.25
IDA Credit                                    180.00         9.00        38.48
Total                                    467.97        23.42       100.00



- 26 -
6.07      The financing plan is based on the assumptions that:
(a) SAGUAPAC would internally generate US$11.3 million or 48%
of total cash requirements;
(b) the proposed IDA credit of US$9.0 million, representing
about 39% of total requirements, would be made to the
Government and onlent to SAGUAPAC at an interest rate of
7.9% with an amortization period of 20 years including a
five-year grace period. During the grace period SAGUAPAC
will pay 0.75% interest on disbursed amounts. SAGUAPAC
will use an amount equal to US$2.0 million to finance a
revolving fund to bolster the connection of consumers to
SAGUAPAC's systems (para. 5.15 and Annex 2). SAGUAPAC will
retain 37% out of the interest payments after the grace
period as a grant from the Government to the revolving fund;
and
(c) the Corporation would make an equity contribution of US$3.1
million 1/ (13% of requirements).
Future Finances
6.08      The following basic conditions will permit SAGUAPAC to achieve
and maintain a satisfactory financial position:
(a) the revenue package should be implemented in accordance
with the schedule given in para. 6.05; and
(b) its revenues should be sufficient to generate the following
annual rates of return on revalued fixed assets:
1980             1.50%
1981             5.00%
1982             5.50%
1983 and
thereafter    6.00%
Since the most important financial step in 1979 would be
implementation of the approved revenue package (para. 6.05),
no target has been fixed for this year.  The annual
rates of return would be calculated using the total income
provided by the revenue package. Since the value of fixed
assets is not yet established (para. 3.09), SAGUAPAC is
expected to make proposals to IDA in early 1980 for the
review of the foregoing annual rates of return; and
1/   SAGUAPAC has already received from the Corporation the land where
the sewage treatment plant will be constructed and some other equipment,
particularly pumps and pipes, that will be used for the project (US$0.6
million).



- 27 -
(c) as a condition of effectiveness, the Corporation and
SAGUAPAC should enter into a contractual agreement whereby
the Corporation will contribute (in addition to the
value of the land and pumps and pipes of US$0.6 million
already contributed) $b50.O million (US$2.5 million) in
accordance with the following disbursement schedule:
In millions of US$ equivalent
1980                 1.5
1981                 1.0
6.09      SAGUAPAC's projected financial performance is summarized in
Table 6.3. Dus to the implementation of the proposed revenue package,
revenues per m billed are expected to increase by 22% a year (from $b3.31 in
1978 to $b8.95 in 1983), i.e., an increase in real terms of about 6% a year
over the average annual inflation rate of 15%. Meanwhile, the behavior of
the operating costs will reflect economies of scale and will increase by only
10% a year (from $b3.49 in 1978 to $b5.69 in 1983). Consequently, net
results, which were negative in 1978 ($bl2 million), will show progressive
annual improvement, reaching $b43 million in 1983, and the cash generated
internally will permit SAGUAPAC to finance 30% of the project cost, all
working capital requirements, and to undertake some additional miscellaneous
works. During the period of construction the debt-equity ratio will be kept
below 26%. SAGUAPAC's short-term solvency will be adequate with a current
ratio not falling below 4:1. Other major investment undertakings during
construction of the proposed project could, however, jeopardize these positive
achievements. Assurances were obtained that SAGUAPAC would not undertake any
investment higher than US$0.5 million a year during the period 1979-83,
without prior approval of IDA.
Monitoring Indicators
6.10      The variables shown in Annex 1 (page 8) are considered important
monitoring indicators for SAGUAPAC against which the actual values obtained
would be compared to assess the Company's performance. SAGUAPAC agreed
to include in its progress reports the above analysis. SACUAPAC also agreed
to prepare after completion of the proposed project a project completion
report which will evaluate the extent to which the project achieved its
objectives and the efficiency of its execution. The report would be in
conformity with guidelines to be provided by IDA.



Table 6.3: SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT'S
($b millions)
1977       1978       1979        1980        1981       1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
REVFNUES                           24.54       27.82      45.51       63.08      89.39      i22-78     153-15      186.11      220.04     251.86
EXPENSES                           2 7 .43     29 29      37. 48      49.54      62. 79      8 1 .98    97.30      105.24      1 20.46     1 37 .7 8
DEPRECIATION                         9.52      10.84       12. 65     15. 23     20. 52     .2 7.-59    34.-48      4 1 .86     50. 34     60.-32
INCOME BFFnRE TNTEREST            -12.40      -12.31      -4.61       -1.69       6.08       13.22      21.37       39.01       49.24      53.76
OTHER REVENUEFS()                   0.18        0.24        1.10       7.46       19.09      23.10      2 7 .57     29.55       14.49        9.84
INTERNALLY GENERATED FUNDS         -2.71       -1.23       9.14       21.00      45.69       63.90      83.42      110.43      114.07     123.9i
DEBT SERVICE                        0.00        0.00       0D.44       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00      23.94       23.15       22.36
WORKTNG CAPITAL NEEDS()             -4.00      -7.30       8.89       -2.00      24.50       -6.85      23.56       12.85        8.50       l1.31
OTHER ASSETS (4) AND LIAB.           8. 90      0.-50       6.-60      0.60        0. 60      0. 60       0.60       0. 60       0. 60       0. 60
AVAILABLE FUR INVESTMENT            10.19       6.57       6.42       23.59      21.79       71.35      60.46       74.24       83.02       90.84
PROJECT INVESTMENT                  0.00        0.00      22.74      119.27      91.39       86.07        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                 0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
OTHER WORKS                         10.20       7.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       5.00        5.00       5.00        5.00        5.00
OTHER OWRKS BY EXCESS CASH           0.00       0.00        1.36       4.48        8.04      10.99      65.97       69.24       78.02       85.84
TOTAL INVESTMENT                    10.20       7.00      24.10      123.75      99.43      102.06       70.97      74.24       83.02       90.84 
NET TO BE FINANCED                   0.01       0.43       17.68     100.16       7 7 .64    30.71       10.51       0.00        0.00        0.00
LONG TERM LOANS                      0.00       0.00       11.68      70.i16     57.64       30.71       10.51       0.00        0.00        0.00I
SHORT TERM L-OANS                     0.01       0.43        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
CONTRIBUTIONS                        0.00       0.00        6.00      30.00       20.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
BALANCE
NET FIXED ASSETS                  256.35    290.57       327.90      404.7i    616.33    794.75    962.85    1139.66    1343.28    1575.29
WORK IN PROGRESS                     1.90       2.30       20.00     100.90       28.90      17.40        5.00       5.00        5.00        5.00
CURRENT ASSETS                      40.30      31.40      42.54       49.46       72.41      66.39       83.49      97.23      106.70      119.13
OTHER ASSETS                         0.90       0.90        0.90       0.90        0.90       0.90        0.90       0.90        0.90        0.90
TOTAL ASSETS                      299.45    325.17    391.34         555.97    718.54    879.44    1052.24    1242.78    1455.88    1700.32
EQUJITY                           218.67    245.05    297.13         382.08    487.97    616.73        784.88      985.22    1208.05    1462.06
LONG TERM DEBT                      75.6.8     75. 68     87.36      157.52    215.16    245.87        245.09      233.79      222.50      211.21
SHORT TERM DEBT                      0.01       0.44        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
CURRENT LIABILITIES                  3.40       1.80        4.05      12.97       11.41      12.24       17.08       17.97      18.93       20.05
OTHER LIABILITIES                    1.70       2.20        2.80       3.40        4.00       4.60        5.20       5.80        6.40        7.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES                 299.45    325.17    391.34         555.97    718.54    879.44    1052.24    1242.78    1455.88    1700.32
Rate of Return calculated without fixed charges.
~%RATE OF RETURN                  -5.01      -4.50       -1.49      -0.47        1.24        1.99       2.65        4.14        4.48       4.17
~%OPERATING RATIO                111.76     105.30       82.34      78.53       70.24      66.77       63.54       56.55      54.74       54.70
4/4 /79



- 29 -
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
7.01      The proposed project constitutes an important component of the
efforts made by SAGUAPAC and the Corporation to provide adequate water supply
and sewerage services to the population of Santa Cruz. This population is
expected to continue growing at an annual rate of more than 7% and important
investments in these facilities are necessary to improve the sanitary condi-
tions. The proposed project will cover the first stage of the sewerage
master plan for Santa Cruz. The proposed project and subsequent connections
will not only expand the water system to keep pace with the rapid growth of
the city but also will increase the percentage of population served with water
from 82% in 1978 to 87% in 1986. In addition, it will determine the next
major source of water that will be required by 1987. The sewerage component
and subsequent connections will increase the percentage of population served
from 33% in 1978 to 41% in 1986. The proposed project will also strengthen
the managerial, technical, administrative, and financial capacity of SAGUAPAC
and will provide the company with the administrative and operational equipment
necessary to improve its operations.
Least Cost Solution
7.02      The proposed project represents the least cost solution for
achieving the desired benefits (para. 5.04).
Incremental Rate of Return
7.03      The proposed project comprises two main components:  water supply
and sewerage. It also includes a program for the installation of in-house
plumbing and lot lines, the purchase of administrative and operational
equipment, and technical assistance to reinforce SAGUAPAC's capacity to carry
out the project. For the purpose of calculating the incremental rate of
return (IRR), the technical assistance program has been included in the water
supply and sewerage component which accounts for 72% of total project
costs before price contingencies. The estimated IRR (with the proposed
tariffs) is 12% (Annex 9). Scarcity of relevant data precludes the use
of shadow prices. Sensitivity analysis demonstrates, however, that the
estimated IRR would decrease to about 10% if shadow exchange factor of 1.25
and a shadow price factor for unskilled labor of 0.80 are used (as indicative).
All costs and benefits are expressed in December 1978 prices and include
engineering, administration, and physical contingencies, and are exclusive of
taxes and custom duties. The funds recovered from this program would be
used by SAGUAPAC to finance additional installations.



- 30 -
7.04      The IRR for the water supply and sewerage components was calculated
using revenues from tariffs and connection fees as a proxy for the economic
benefits of the project. Since all benefits due to improved sanitation
and nutrition are not fully reflected in tariffs and other revenues, the
resulting rates of return understate the economic benefits of the project.
7.05      An incremental rate  of return was also calculated using present
tariffs and connection fees (in real terms) as a measure of demonstrated
willingness to pay. The IRR was estimated at 2%. These lower returns reflect
the inadequacy of the present tariff structures and of metering.
7.06      A separate analysis was made to evaluate the advantages of the
purchase of a computer. The computer acquisition for US$320,000 is justified.
When the cost of buying a new computer is compared with that of the same
computer now being leased (Annex 10), the rate of return is 29%. An analysis
was made regarding the technological improvement that could reduce the cost
of more modern computers by between 20% and 40% after three years of purchasing
the proposed computer. The results indicate that the purchase of the computer
is justified for an expected usable life of five years with a minimum return
of 19%, even if computers cost up to 40% less in the future. The purchase of
the computer presently being leased is the least cost solution amongst the
five proposals received and reviewed by SAGUAPAC and IDA. The quality of
service from the computer supplier, which is a well-established company in
Bolivia, is considered to be satisfactory.
Average Incremental Costs and Tariffs
7.07      Average Incremental Costs (AIC) for water supply and sewerage were
calculated with an 11% discount factor. All costs are expressed in December
1978 prices.
7.08      The AIC for water supply was estimated to be $b2.81 (US$0.14)/m3,
and for sewerage $b4.23 (US$0.21)/m3. These AICs are higher than the
present average tariff levels of $bl.69 and $bl.57 for water supply and
sewerage, respectively. With the future tariff level required under the
proposed revenue covenant, the average tariff would be raised to $b2.55/m3
for water and $bl.66 for sewerage at December 1978 prices. These new tariff
levels are still lower than the AICs of the two services; however, commercial
and industrial consumers will be charged at a rate somewhat higher than the
AIC. Because of the present low percentage of population connected to the
sewer system, an important part of the investments in sewers will have to be
recuperated through fixed charges; these charges are based on property values
and sizes and thus are deemed to reflect the capacity to pay off the various
user groups. Calculations are shown in Annex 9.



- 31 -
Impact on the Urban Poor
7.09      The 1976 census shows that the average income per family in Bolivia
was about US$3,200.  It is estimated that prices are about 20% higher in the
city of Santa Cruz than in the rest of the country. Therefore, for the
purpose of calculating the urban poor threshold in Santa Cruz, the average per
family income in the country has been adjusted by 1.2 to reflect this differen-
tial.  This leads to an income threshold (one-third of per capita income) of
$b4,528 (US$226) per person per year.
7.10      It is estimated that in 1978 the urban poor constituted about 34% of
the population of Santa Cruz (Annex 11). The project will permit the number
of urban poor connected to the water system to be increased from 63,700 (67%)
in 1978 to 125,800 (75%) in 1986 and those connected to the sewer system from
26,600 (28%) in 1978 to 64,270 (38%) in 1986 (Annex 4).
7.11      The population remaining uinconnected to the water system are outside
the city limits, where distances and low population densities make network
extensions uneconomical.  They obtain water from shallow wells and private
vendors. The population remaining unconnected to the sewerage system (about
60% of the total population) will be served by SAGUAPAC through future expansion
of the sewer system. The population beyond the service area of the sewer system
use latrines and septic tanks. SAGIJAPAC will ensure that these systems are
satisfactory and do not endanger ground water supplies (para. 5.05).
7.12      An evaluation of the affordability of water supply and sewerage
services was based on the revenue package proposed (para. 6.04).  An sxtremely
poor family earning $b10,800 (US$540) a year and consuming about 15 m per
month will have to pay about 4.5% of its income for water supply and sewerage
services. The other families in the urban poor group will have to pay less
than 4% of their income. Since tariffs are expected to remain constant in
real terms, the services will be affordable to the urban poor through the
1980s. The new tariff proposed will ensure that low-volume consumers are
subsidized by high-volume consumers.. For the payment of consumers' fixed
charges (para. 6.04) low-income groups are given special conditions (lower
charges and credit facilities) so as to make the charges affordable to them.
In addition, the proposed revolving fund to be set up for the financing of
household plumbing will facilitate means for the poor to connect to the sewer
system.
Project Sensitivity and Risks
7.13      As shown in Annex 9 (page 2), the IRR for the water supply and
sewerage component is fairly sensitive to changes in costs and revenues. A
10% increase in capital costs lowers; the combined return from 12% to 9%,
while a 10% decrease in benefits lowers it to 9% and a 10% increase in
capital cost, combined with a 10% decrease in benefits, lower the rate to 6%.
From these estimates the IRR shows similar sensitivity to changes in benefits
(revenues) and costs. Since the new tariff structure would have to be approved



- 32 -
by the Board of Directors of SAGUAPAC as a condition of negotiations and the
resulting tariffs are progressive with respect to levels of consumption and
class of consumer, revenues are not expected to deviate from the projections.
Investment works are straightforward, and significant cost overruns are not
likely.
7.14       The water supply and sewerage subprojects are technically very
simple and offer limited technical risks.  One major risk is that the projects
could be delayed should the Corporation not be able to provide counterpart
funds as required. As a condition of the proposed credit agreement, the
Corporation and SAGUAPAC would enter into a contractual agreement whereby the
Corporation would have to provide assurances that its contribution to
the financing of the project would be made according to an agreed schedule
(para. 6.08(c)). Another risk is that project implementation may be delayed
because of management and organizational problems in SAGUAPAC. The project
provides for a technical assistance program covering all these aspects,
particularly the hiring of technical consultants who will supervise construc-
tion and help improve the operations of SAGUAPAC.
Environmental Implications
7.15       The combination of water supply and sanitary works will result
in better health and overall economic welfare for the population of Santa
Cruz.  It is reasonable to assume that the inadequacy of these services
in the project areas was the main factor for the 30,000 cases of waterborne
disease reported in 1976. The population of Santa Cruz is expected to increase
at an annual rate of 7.25% during the next 10 years. Without the project,
the health conditions in the city would become precarious because of inadequate
sewage collection and disposal and possible contamination of water sources
such as shallow wells. In addition, the project will provide for expansion
of the sewage treatment plant to prevent contamination of the Pirai River.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01       Assurances were obtained from SAGUAPAC that:
(a)  it will not make any change in its legal personality, bylaws,
or general manager without prior consultation with IDA
(para. 3.04);
(b)   by December 31, 1979 it will present to IDA for review
and approval a three-year training program (para. 3.07);
(c)  by December 31, 1979 it will submit to IDA for review
its personnel management policy (para. 3.08);
(d)  the valuation of its fixed assets will be completed before
November 30, 1979 (para. 3.09), and SABUAPAC will revalue
its assets at the end of each fiscal year from 1980 onwards.



- 33 -
(e)  its  accounts receivable for water and sewerage
services will not exceed at an average of two months'
billing (para. 3.10);
(f)  it will continue to employ qualified external auditors on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.13);
(g)  auditing manuals and procedures will be sent to
IDA for review before March 31, 1980 (para. 3.14);
(h)  it will employ qualified consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA for the following (para. 5.11):
(i) by July 31, 1980, to study and define the next source of
water for the city of Santa Cruz (para. 4.15); and
(ii) by January 1, 1980, to advise and help SAGUAPAC develop
engineering and planning units (para. 3.06).
(i)  it will make a survey to determine waste water disposal and
sanitation problems in the areas under its jurisdiction and
present to IDA for review and approval a program to solve the
identified problems not later than December 31, 1980 (para. 5.05);
(j)  it will establish before January 1, 1980, a revolving fund
and provide US$50,000 of initial funds to finance house
connections (including meters), household plumbing, and lot
lines, fund mechanism and the plumbing standards to be
approved by IDA (para. 5.15);
(k)  it will implement an average tariff of $b5.00 per m  billed
by June 30, 1980 (para. 6.05(ii));
(1)  the targeted annual financial rate of return will be achieved
(para. 6.08(b));
(m)  it will not undertake any investment higher than US$0.5 million
in any year during 1979-82 without prior approval of IDA
(para. 6.09); and
(n)  it will prepare progress reports that would include monitoring
indicators satisfactory to IDA, and on completion of the proposed
project, a Project Completion Report (para. 6.10).
8.02      As a condition of credit effectiveness, SAGUAPAC will:
(a)  hire qualified consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA to help SAGUAPAC:
(i) execute and supervise the proposed project (para. 5.11); and
(ii) implement modern management systems and procedures
(para. 3.05);



- 34 -
(b) obtain an average revenue for water aSd sewerage services
of US$0.175 equivalent ($b3.50) per m billed and take the
appropriate steps to implement the new fixed charges (para.
6.05); and
(c)  create a planning unit and an engineering unit with functions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.06).
8.03      As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Corporation and
SAGUAPAC should enter into a contract whereby the Corporation would provide
US$2.5 million equivalent in accordance with a disbursement schedule to be
agreed upon with IDA (para. 6.08(c).
8.04      Assurances were obtained from the Government that it will relend
the proposed credit to SAGUAPAC on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para. 6.07(b)) and that it would make up any cash shortfall in project
financing (para. 5.09).
8.05      Provided the foregoing conditions are met, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.0 million equivalent on standard
IDA terms. The credit would be relent to SAGUAPAC on 20 years' repayments
terms, including a grace period of five years at an annual interest rate of
7.9%.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
page 1 of 8 pages
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumption for Financial. Projections, Detailed Financial
Projections, and Monitoring Indicators
Inflation
1.        Bolivia's rate of inflation rose by 8% in 1975, 5% in 1976, and 8%
in 1977. The financial projections are based on an internal inflation rate of
15%.
Exchange Rate
2.        It is assumed that the present exchange rate (US$1 = $b20) will be
maintained.
Population and Demand
3.        Population and demand assumptions are explained in Chapter IV.
Operating Expenses
4.        Operating expenses for 1977 were audited.  The 1978 figures are
preliminary results; forecasts for 1979-85 were made as follows:
(a)  wages:  there are presently 160 employees or 4.9 employees
per thousand water connections. It has been assumed that the
number of employees will not increase by more than 5% a year
during the period 1979-85 since higher productivity is expected
to be achieved. The total number of employees in 1985 would
be about 220, or four employees per thousand water connections.
Salaries would be adjusted according to inflation;
(b) chemicals (mainly chlorine): volume would increase in propor-
tion to water production and unit prices, according to inflation;
(c) power: unit costs would increase according to inflation.
Total cost is in proportion to water production;
(d) administration: would increase by 2% per year adjusted
according to inflation;
(e) provision for bad debts: would be maintained at 0.5% of total
billings; and
(f)  other indirect costs:  would increase according to inflation.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
page 2 of 8 pages
Operating Revenues
5.        Operating revenues have been forecasted as follows:
(a)  tariffs:  an average tariff/mr  of water sold ($b5.0) in
June 1980 adjusted for annual inflation; and
(b)  other operating revenues:  as recommended in the revenue
package available in the project file.
6.        Non-operating revenues represent the customers' contribution to the
costs of water supply and sewerage works, as recommended in the revenue
package available in the project file.
Depreciation
7.        The annual depreciation rate would be 2.8% with an average of 35 years
for the economic life of all fixed assets. Depreciation was computed using
the straight line method on revalued fixed assets. Revaluation was estimated
using revaluation factors in Table 6.1.
Other Balance Accounts
8.        Other assumptions for balance and cash flow projections are as
follows:
(a)  accounts receivable:  projected to decrease from 40% to 15%
of billings between 1979-83;
(b)  inventories:  assumed to decrease from $b20.O million in
1978 to $bI3.0 million in 1982 and to increase by $bl.O million
per year thereafter;
(c)  accounts payable:  assumed to be 15% of expenses other than
power and wages; and
(d)  project payable:  payment to contractors and suppliers assumed
to represent about one month of annual capital expenditures.
Taxes
9.   SAGUAPAC's income and property are tax exempt.



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Income Statement
($b millions)
....,,_.____,_.................,,,. .......-.-----------.---------------_.-....---....-.........-......-------.....----....--.....-..-..-....-.  -----_.-.-.----.-- ..--...-........----------....--.-----..-_
1977        1978        1979         1980        1981         1982        1983         1984        1985         19b6
POPt)LArTONf THOTUSAND               2b1,A4      280.8?       301,18      323.01       344h,S3    371,55        398,49      427,38       458.30      491,59
POPULATlION SERV-n- eATER            2t9h.0h     230.39      24,.9h       26b.49      287,S4       312.11       338.71      36s,a1       394,20      425.24
Z POlPULATION  SERVFD- WATFP          78.70       82.04        82,00       82.5        83.00       84.0n       8H.00        85.50        86,00       86,50
CONNECTIflNS. sATFR                   29,86       32,91        35,28       38,07        41,08       Ua,5s        48,39       52.20        5S.31       hO,7S
SEWER CflNNECTIONS-THOUSANn           12.82        13.10       13.25       14.11        16.48       19.05        2?.5a       26.28        27.94       28.95
POPIULATION SFRVED.SEWERAGF           Hg.04       91,70        92.15       98.7s       115.38      133.33       157,77      183.98       195,58      202,;h
X PrOPL)vATInN SERVE[7-AEW,           33 78       32.85        30,80       30n,7        33.31       35,89        39,59       43.05        42,7       41.23
VLJLIUME S(LD-MILLION   M3             6*14        8,40        10.13       1I,h7        13.39       15.84        17,10       18,35        19,69       21,05
CONSUMPTIUN/CONNFC/MnNTH              17.14       21,27        24.65       25.55        27.1I      29.81        29,46       29.30        29.13       28,87
X UNACCOUNTED F)LR  *ATER             57,50       51.70        449.0       41,80        35.70       28,3o       27,00       ?6,80        26,60       28.60
PRODUlCTIfON.MTLL.  M3                14.45        17,39       1P.84       20.05        2n08'       22,10        23.43       25,07        26,82       28.68
PER CAPITA PR(IOrUJCTInN LCn         192.11      206,78       208,95      20h,l.b      198.40      193.97       189.52      187,9b       186,40      184.75
AVERAGE   WATER   TARIFF / m3          2.?7         1,83        3,00         3.41        4.55        5.35         6,05        6,70         7.40         8.15
OATER    PEVENUFS                    13.94       15.37        28.74       39.82       h0,92        84,7h      103l,48      122.95      145.67       171,54
SEeFR RFVENUES                         9.01       10,87        10.76       14.57        22,52       30,58        41,08       53.17        62,18       70,87
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENIJE             1.59         1.58        2.28         3.79        5,95        7,44         8,S9         9,99       12.19         9,45
___......... .___ ......... .  -----   -------  - -------- -------    -------- _ ..__.......  ........... _......__ ......  ............__ . ....__.
TOTAL RFVENUFS                        24.94       27.82        41.78       58.18        89,39      122,78       153.15      186.11      220,04       251,8h
NAGFS. WATER                           4.10         4,32        5.00        6.70         9,S7       11,80        14,07       18.40        18.94       21,87
CHEMICALS                              0.34         0,60        0.72        0.97         1,37         1.71        2,06         ?,45        2,88         3,39
POWER                                  5.25         b,24        7.45       10.12        14.30       37,83        21,45       258,4       29,98        35,27
MATFRIALS                             1t.7          1,59        1.84        2.45         3.49        4.31         5,14         5,98        e,88         7,93
___.____ ........ .--------- -------- ___.___-_-_   ........_ .. ......  .. .. ... _._ ....... __ .  ........____
DIRFCT COSTS-wATER                    11,37        12,75       15.01       20.24        28.73       35,65        42.73       $0,30        58,69        68,4e
SEWFR WAGES                            2,18         2,26        2.62        3.51         5,01        h6,8         7,37         8,59        9,92        11,46    w
SEMER MATERIALS                        2.29         1 .h        1.78        2.36         3.54        4,55         5,73         7,00        7,99         8,98
__._____ __._____ .~-------- --------._  .......  _....    _  ....___.  ........... ___ _
DIRFCT COSTS SE^ERAGF                  4,u7         3,h7        4.40        5.87         8,Sh       10,74        13,10        iS,59       17,91        20,44
==2=2==   =S22   5e====   -= -    22222:22    =                          2             2              2      = S S =2 *
TOTAL DlRECT COSTS                    15.83        Ih,2       19.41       26.11        37,28       96,39        55,83       65.89        76,6o       88,90
ADMINISTRATION                         6,85         7,22        8.12       10.56        146 h       17,56        20.33       23,02        25,83        28,98
OTHER INIIRECT  COSTS                  4,74         5.45        6.21        7.97        10,85       18,03        21 .14       16,33       18,03        19,90
::::::::   :2:s:z ::   C-.. .===     .. = - == 22=22==22   22222322   222222   a2s25222    32a2222    22222SX22
TOTAL COSTS                           27,43       29,29        33.74       44.64        62.79       81.98        97,30      105,24       120,46      137,78
---_____.  .... _7:   --- _____  ......... .. .            ___ ..... __,__ , ,.__  ----__ ,,,,,_  ... __:  ..   _:;
INCOME BEFORE DEPRFCIATIOC            ?.89        -1."          8,04       13.99        2h,h0       40,80        55,85       80,87        99,58      119,08
DEPRECIATION                           9.92        10.84       12,85        15,23       20,52       27,59        34.48        41,86       50,34        60,32
=:2::::::    2:===22=   222232:                     22222 2=====::  :::::==:  .22222=.  | z 3222222    =:====:=   22232222
INCOME 8EFORE  INTEREST              .12,40        12,31       -4,61       -1,89         h,08       13,22        2t,37        39,01       49,24        53,76
INTEREST  CHARGFD OPER,                0.00         0,00        0,0o         o,Oo        0,00         0,0n        0.00        12,65       11,88        11,07
NUN  JPFP.REVENUES 1.)                 0.18         0,24        1,10         7,48       19,09       23,10        27,51        29.55       14,49         9,a4
=:===x::  =:====:=  :~===:::=  z==:=====   ==z===sTs  :s:zz:=       =za=z:Z:  =212";:  ::::-s:            *5:s: $a
NET SURPLUS (.+                      -12.22      -12,07        -3,50         5.77       25,18        36.31       48, 4        55,92       51,87        52,52
AVFRAGE RATE BASE                    247,38      273,96       308,69      S11,48       492,02      664,04       807,39      943,21    1098,95    1288,02  '5
*OPFRATING RATltl X                  111.76      105.30        82,34        78.53       70,24       66,77        83.54        56,55       54,74        54,70  g
*RATE OF RFTURN X                     -,nl         -4.,50      -1,49        0.,47        1,24         1,99        2,65         4,14         4,48        4,17    x
SEWER RFVENUE /CONN/MOtNTH            58,58        h9,15       13,71       86.05       113,85       133,79      151,89       168.59       185,48      203,99
TOTAL AVFR.REVENUES / M3               4.00         3,31        4.12         4.99        6,68         7,75         8,95       10,14        11,18       11,97 X
X ANINUAL TARIFF  INCREASE                       -19.38        03,93       13.67        33.43        17,98       13,08        10,7u        10,45       10,14 3
X ANNUAL INCR,TIOtAL PEVENllES                   -1711         24.53       2n.88        33.91        Ih,08       15,54        13.27        10.P2        7,05  ¢
TOTAL COST/VOL,SnLn S/ M3               U47         3,4         3.33         3.82        4,h9         5,17        5, 9         S,73         8.I2        h,SS
Rate of Return calculated without fixed charges.



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Balance Sheet
($b millions)
1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985       1986
A 5 S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.          357.02    417.18    486.15    601.93    863.65   1106.75   1356.13   1633.79   1961.87   2346.99
MINUS ACCUMODEPRECIATION       100.67    126.61    158.25    197.22    247.32    312.00    393.28    494.13    618.59    771.70
NET FIXED ASSETS               256.35    290.57    327.90    404.71    616.33    794.75    962.85   1139.66   1343.28   1575.29
WORK IN PROGRESS                  1.90      2.30     20.00    100.90      28.90      17.40       5.00      5.00       5.00       5.00
CASH AND BANKS                   4.80       3.00      0.08       3.32      12.92      7.13      10.00      15.00     20.00      30.00
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              7.60       5.20      18.21     25.23     26.82      24.56      22,97     27.92      33.01      37.78
CONNECTIONS RECEIVAB             2.60       2.00      0.89       6.50      18.41     19,10      36.12     38.91      37.29      33.95
INVENTARIES                     24.90      20.80     15.00      11.00      12.00     13.00      14.00     15.00      16.00      17.00
OTHER CURRENT                    0.40       0.40      8.36       3.41       2.26      2.60       0.40      0.40       0.40       0.40
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            40.30      31.40     42.54      49.46     72,41      66.39      83.49     97.23    106.70    119.13
DEFERRED EXPENSES                0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90       0.90
TOTAL ASSETS                   299.45    325.17    391.34    555.97    718.54    879.44   1052.24   1242.78   1455.88   1700.32
EOUITY AND LIABILITIES                                                              W
EQUITY                         172.30    172.30    178.30    178.30    178.30    178.30    178.30    178.30    178.30    178.30               1
CONTRIBUTIONS                   84.42      84.42     90.42    120.42    140.42    140.42    140.42    140.42    140.42    140.42
REVALUATION SURPLUS             47.17      85.63    129.21    178.40    239.10    331.55    450.77    595.19    766.14    967.63
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS            -85.22    -97.30   -100.80    -95.03    -69.86    -33.54         15.39     71.31    123.18    175.71
TOTAL EOUITY                   218.67    245.05    297.13    382.08    487.97    616.73    784.88    985.22   1208.05   1462.06
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)             75.68      75.68     87.36    157.52    215.16    245.87    245.09    233.79    222.50    211.21
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 2.10       1.20       1.27      1.70       2.19      2.70       3.22      3.75       4.33       5.00
PROJECT PAYABLES                 0.00       0.00       1.93     10.14       7.77      7.74       0.43      0.43       0.43       0.43
OTHER PAYABLES                    1.30      0.60      0.85       1.13       1.46      1.80       2.14      2.50       2.89       3.33
CURRENT MATURITIES               0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      11.29      11.29     11.29      11.29
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES        3.40       1.80      4.05      12.97      11,41     12.24      17.08      17.97     18.93      20.05
SHORT TERM DEBT                  0.01       0.44      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
RESERVES                          1.70      2.20       2.80      3.40       4.00      4.60       5.20      5.80       6.40       7.00  ..
------~~~ ~~~--  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  -- -- -  --------  . ......... qz
8Q z
TOTAL LIABILITIES               80.79      80.12     94,21    173.89    230.57    262.71    267.36    257.56    247.83    238.26           (D m
TOTAL EOUITY-LIABILITIES       299.45    325.17    391.34    555.97    718.54    879.44   1052.24   1242.78   1455.88   1700.32            0
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION        36.90      29.60     38.49      36.49     60.99      54.15      77.71     90.55      99.06    110.37        X
*CURRENT RATIO                   11.85     17.44      10.50      3.81      6.34       5 42       4.89      5.41       5.64       5.94      t
% DEBT/(DEBT+EOUITY)             25.71     23.60      22 72     29.19      30.60     28.50      23.80      19.18     15.55      12.62       c
4/4/79



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Flow of Funds
($b millions)
.---,__---_-_----_. -      ._.._______.___________._.___._- -__-_-_-_-------_- -__-_--___------
1977       1978       1979       1980       1981        1982       1983       1984        1985       1986
SOURCES OF FUNDS
::z::z=z==::::::
INCnME BEFORE DkPRECIATION        -2.89      -1,47        8,04      13,54      26,60      40,80       55,85      80,87      99,58      114,08
NON.OPER.REVENUES (NET)            0.18        0,24       1,10       7.46      19,04      23.10       27,57      29,55      14,49        9,84
GROSS INTERNAL GENFRATION         .2.71      .1,23        9,14      21,00      45,69      83,90       83,42     110,43     114,07      123,91
CORPORATION GRANTS                Ono        o,oo       12.00      30,00      20,00       0.00        0,00       0,00       0,00       0,00
INCREASE IN RESERVES               1.20        0,50       0,60       0,60       0,60       0,60        0.60       0,60       0,60        0,60
EQUITY yNCREASE                    7,70        0,00       0.00       0,00       0,00        0,00       0,00       0,00        0,00       0,00
GOVERNMENT LOAN                    0.00       0,00       1t,68      70,16      57,64      30,71      10,51        0,00       0,00       0,00
NATIONAL LOANS                     0.00        0,00       0,00       0,00       0,00       0,00        0,00       0,00       0,00        0,00
TOTAL LnANS                        00          0,00      11,88      70,ID      57,84      30,71       10,51       0,00       0,00       D0,0
SHORT TERM LOANS                   0,01        0,43       0,00       0,00       0,00       0,00        0,00       0,00       0,00        0,00
=:::: :=::= ::::    :::::::  ::::::                     z::::::  ::::::::  z5z2233   3          :2  ::az:::
TOTAL SOURCES                      6.20    x0,30         33,42     121,78     123,93      95,21       94,53     111,03     114,87      124,51
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
s:s5::.  s::ss::: 353uu: ::
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT              0.00        0.00      22.74     119,Z7      91,39      86.07        0.00       0.00       0a00        0  -00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST               O.00        0.00       0,00       0,00       0,00        0,00       0,00       0,00        0.00       0,00     '
OTHER WORKS                       10 20        7,00       0,00       0,00       0,00       5,00        5.00       5,00        5,00       5,00
OTHER WORKS EXCESS CASH            0.00        0,00       1,36       4,48       8,04       10,99      65,97      69,24       78,02      85,84
TOTAL INVESTMENT                  10,20        7,00      24,10     123,75      99,43     102,06       70,97      74,24      83,02       90,84
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION          0.00        0,00       0,00       0,00       0,00        0.00       0,00      11.29       11,29      11,29
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION         0.OO        0,00       0,00       0,00       0.00        0,00       0,00       0,00        0,00       0,00
SHORT TFRM LOANS AMORTIZ.          0,00        0,00       0,44       0,00       0,00        0,00       000        0,00        0,00       0 ,00
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                 0,00        0,00       0,44         0        000                    0,00      11,29       11,29      11,29
OPER.INTEREST LONG T,DE8T          0.00        0,00       0,00       0,00       0,00        0.00       0,00      12,65       11,86      11,07
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST         0.00        0,00       0,00       0,00       0,00 0°00 0°00                   12.65       11,86      11,07
*x335g:  ==::Zs:::  S:-:::::  3SS:::::  :3:2x3::  :: Sz33:S  .::au:3:  3$:z223   *U333Uu3   *3a-zE
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                 0.00        0,00       0,44       0,00       0,00        0.00       0,00      23,94       23,15       2,36
INCREASE IN WORK,CAPITAL          -4,00       -7,30       8,89      -2.00      24,50      .6,85       23,56      12,85        8,50      11,31   b 
S2:::gSX  ::SX::::  ::::=:-:   33:::::.  322:3333  :::::zau  2:2:::32  333..333  333323:2  2333323   0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 6.20       -0,30      33,42    121,76    123,93        95,21       94,53     111,03    114,67       124,51 9S
0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                 0 00        0,00      20,76       0,00        0,00       0,00       0,00        4,61       4,93       5,54   '*
% CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMFNT  -29.63          .8,97      16,86      25,48      42,15       70,36     101,21     113.68      109,94     115,10 t
X INTERNAL CASH RATIO               1. 05     .0,42       2,50       4,15       7,08        7,87       8,62        7,56       6,74       6,43 3
4/4/79



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Working Capital Analysis
($b millions)
1977       19718       1979       1980       1981        1982       1983        1984        1985        1986
WORKING CAPITAL CHANGES
INCREASES IN CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                 1.70      -1.80       -2.92       3.24        9.60      -5.79        2.87       5.00        5.00       10.00
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                 -0.50      -2.40       13.01       7.03        1.58      -2.26       -1.58       4.94        5.09        4.77
CONNECTIONS RECEIVAB                 0.70      -0-60       -1.11       5-61       11.91       0.69       17.02       2.79       -1.62       -3.34
INVENTARIES                         -4.00      -4.10      -5.80       -4.00        1.00       1.00        1.00       1.00        1.00        1.00
OTHER CURRENT                        0.40       0.00        7.96      -4.95       -1.15       0.34       -2.20       0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL                               -1.70      -8.90       11.14       6.93      22.94       -6.02       17.11      13.73        9.47       12.43
INCREASES IN CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                     1.40      -0.90       0.07        0.43       0.49        0.51       0.52        0.53        0.58       0.67
PROJECT PAYABLES                    -0.40       0.00        1.93       8.21      -2.37       -0.03       -7.32       0.00        0.00       0.00
OTHER PAYABLES                       1.30      -0.70       0.25        0.29       0.32        0.34       0.34        0.35        0.39       0.45
TOTAL                                2.30      -1.60        2.25       8.92       -1.56       0.82       -6.45       0.89        0~97        1.12
NET INCREASE WORK.CAPITAL           -4.00      -7.30        8.89      -2.00      24. 50      -6.85      23.56       12.85        8.50       11.31
WORKING CAPITAL
CASH                                 4.80       3.00       0.08        3.32       12.92       7.13       10 00      15.00       20.00      30.00
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                  7.60       5.20       18.21      25.23      26.82       24.56      22.97       27.92       33.01      37.78
CONNECTIONS RECEIVAB                 2.60       2.00       0.89        6.50       18.41      19.10      36.12       38.91       37.29      33.95
INVENTARIES                        24.90       20.80      15.00       11.00      12.00       13.00      14.00       15.00       16.00      17.00
OTHER CURRENT                        0.40       0.40        8.36       3.41       2.26        2.60       0.40        0.40        0.40       0.40
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS               40.30       31.40      42.54       49.46      72.41       66.39      83.49       97.23      106.70      119.13
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                     2.i0       i.20        1.27       1.70       2.19        2.70       3.22        3.75        4.33       5.00
PROJECT PAYABLES                    0.00        0.00        1.93      10.14       7.77        7.74       0.43        0-43        0.43       0.43
OTHER PAYABLES                       1.30       0.60       0.85        1.13        1.46       1.80        2.14       2.50        2.89       3.33
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES            3.40       1.80       4.05       1 2. 97    11.41       1 2.-24     5.78        6.67        7. 64      8.76        l
WORKING CAPITAL                    36.90       29.60      38.49       36.49      60.99       54.15      7 7. 71     90.55       99.06     110.37        0'%
0
-hi
*INCLUDING CASH BUT NOT CURRENT MATURITIES                                                                                                             O
OQ
4/4/79                                                                                                                                                  CD



BOLI VIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Fixed Assets, Revaluation and Depreciation
($b millions)
-----------------------------------------------------------------
1977       1978        1979        1980       1981        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
YEARLY DEPRECIATION %                2.80        2~80       2.80        2.80        2.80       2.80        2.80        2.80        2.80        2.80
ANNUAL REVALUATION FACTOR            1.08        1.15        1.15       1.15        1.15        1.15       1.15        1.15        1.15        1.15
ASSETS ENTERING OPERATION            8.40        6.60       6.40       42.85      171.43     113.56       83.37       74.24      83.02       90.84
ADDITION INCORP.ASSETS               0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
WORK IN PROGRESS                     1.90        2.30      20.00      100.90       28.90      17.40        5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00
REVALUED FIXED ASSETS              357.02     417.18      486.15      601.93    863.65    1106.75    1356.13    1633.79    1961.87   2346.99
YEAR DEPRECIATION                    9.52       10.84      12.65       15.23      20.52       27.59       34.48       41.86       50.34      60.32
ACCUM.REVAL-DEPRFCIATION           100.67      126.61     158.25      197.-22    247 .32     312.00      393.28      494. 13    618.59      771.70
NET FIXED ASSETS                   256.35     290.57      327.90      404.71    616.33       794.75      962.85    1139.66    1343-28    1575.29
ANUAL CONTRIBUT.ENTER OPER           0.00        0.00        1.10       7.46       19.09      23.10       27.57       29.55       14.49        9.84
REVALUED CONTRIBUTIONS               0.00        0.00        1.10       8.73       29.13      56.60       92.66      136.11      171.01     206.50
ACIIM.PFVnFPPFPRC CnNTTRIUT          0.00        0.00       0.02        0.16        0.71       2.02        4.41        8.27       13.81       21.17
NET ACUM-REV.CONTRIBUTION            0.00        0.00        1.09       8. 57      28. 42     54.58       88.25      127.84      157.20      185.33
AVERAGE RATE BASE                  247.38     273.46      308.69      361.48     492.02    664.04        807.39      943.21    1098.95    1288.02 
LOSSES DUE DEBT REVAL                0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00       -0.00       -0.00       -0.00       -0.00         X
ACCUM-REVALUATION SURPLUS           47. 17      85.63     129.21      178.40    239.10       331.55      450.77      595.19     766.14      967.63          -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
REVALLJATION SURPLUS (+)            19.07       38.45      43.59       49.19      60.71       92.45      119.21      144.43      170.95     201.49
% NET PLANT/GROSS PLANT             73.85       71.80      69.65       67.45       67.24      71.36       71.81       71.00       69.76       68.47
GROSS PLANT/WATER CONN.US$         540.47     542.39      591.24      638.50    732.68       968.52    1143.65    1298.98    1450.63    1614.79
ASSETS/PERSON SERVED US$           205.09     217.59      254.38      294.63    362.60       514.07      651.03      793.06     949.86    1134.01
4/4/79
0
00
09
Cl



- 42 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8 pages
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARIILADO DE SANTA CRUZ DE LA SIERRA (SAGUAPAC)
Monitoring Indicators
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Water Supply
Population served ('000)                   247    266    287    312    339
% of population served                      82      83      83     84      85
Total connections ('000)                    35      38      41     45      48
Metered connections ('000)                   22     26      32     42      46
Number of operating meters ('000)  2        20      24      30     42      46
Sewerage
Population served ('000)                    93      99    115    133    158
% of population served                      30      31      33     35      40
Total connections ('000)                     13     14      16     19      22
Financial
Average water tariff ($b/m3)              3.00   3.70   4.55   5.35   6.05
Average revenues ($b/m3)                  4.12   4.99   6.68   7.75   8.95
% of unaccounted-for water                  45      41      36     28      27
Operating ratio (%)                 1       82      79      70     67      64
"'irrent ratio (7)                          11       4       5       4
- Debt (debt + ecuity)                      20      25      26     24       !
Rate of return (1)                            -    1.6    5.1    5.7    6.1



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SU]PPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
In-house Plumbing and Revolving Fund
Objectives
1.        The objective of the proposed project is to extenid the water and
sewer systems and services by stages and improve the health conditions of the
population of the city of Santa Cruz. In order to achieve maximum benefit
from the project in a reasonable time, the lower income population to be
served needs to have financial assistance to make use of the systems. Such
assistance is not provided by SAGUAPAC for in-house plumbing and lot lines
that are generally installed by private contractors and directly paid for
by the consumers.
2.        The project would permit SAGUAPAC to finance the prospective users'
installation of their household plumbing and lot lines for the water and sewer
systems. Repayment by the users will be used as a revolving fund to finance
additional similar facilities.
Priorities of Financing and Standards
3.        First priority for the use of these funds would be given for the
financing of household plumbing in sewered areas for local residents who
have to pay more than 6% of their income for water supply and sewerage services.
The second priority will be given to those areas where there is only a water
system and for the residents who have to pay more than 4% of their income for
water supply service. SAGUAPAC will establish plumbing standards that will
be reviewed during project supervision and a list of qualified plumbers and
contractors. The property owner will have the proposed installation and
proposed contract reviewed and approved by SAGUAPAC's construction division.
The installation and the contractor would have to conform to SAGUAPAC's
standards and list of qualified contractors.
Mechanism
4.        The property owners will make a request to SAGUAPAC for the financing
of household plumbing and lot lines. SAGUAPAC will inspect the premises, review
the proposed installation, and review and approve the proposed contract. Upon
approval by SAGUAPAC, the owner will sign a loan agreement with SAGUAPAC to
make monthly payments (level) at 12% interest and with a maximum of ten
years' average repayment time.  SAGU'APAC will make progress payments to the
contractor and final payment upon completion inspection. The property owner
will begin payment to SAGUAPAC one month after completion of the installation.
SAGUAPAC will periodically submit to IDA disbursement requests based on
statement of expenses, duly certified by their external auditor. These
statements of expenses will be for groups of contracts.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
Population Benefitted
5.        During the execution of the project, about 8,000 houses will be pro-
vided with household plumbing and sewerage, thus benefitting about 50,000 people
(see Revolving Fund Cash Flow).
Household Plumbing
6.        The cost of a minimum installation of inside plumbing (wash basin,
toilet and shower) and water and sewer pipelines to the street mains based on
recent experience of SAGUAPAC is as follows:
Water Supply
Labor                      $b 821
Materials                       89
Pipe                           569
Fittings                       488
Subtotal                  $bl,967 (US$98.35)
Plumbing and Sewer
Labor                     $b2,161
Materials                      429
Pipe                           380
Sanitary Fixtures
and Fittings               1,840
Subtotal                  $b4,810 (US$240.50)
Total Base Cost                US$338.85
Contingencies  10%                 33.90
Subtotal                          372.75
Contractor's Profit 20%            74.55
Total Cost                     US$447.30



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SIJPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Terms of Reference and Costs for
Technical Assistance Program and Studies
Introduction
1.        SAGUAPAC would retain the services of qualified consultants, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to assist in the development and
strengthening of its organization. The consultants will work in accordance
with a program revised every three months. They will report to SAGUAPAC's
General Manager and will provide quarterly progress reports to SAGUAPAC with
copies to IDA.
Technical Assistance Program
Sanitary Engineering Consultant
2.        The main tasks for this consultant would be to:
(a)  develop design and construction standards and bidding
and procurement procedures;
(b) develop guidelines for control of project execution;
(c) develop programs and manuals for operation and maintenance;
(d) train SAGUAPAC personnel in the execution and implementation
of the above-mentioned tasks; and
(e) coordinate with the financial and management consultant,
identify other areas where short-term consultants are
required, and prepare detailed terms of reference accordingly
for work in engineering areas.
Financial and Management Consultant
3.        This consultant will help SAGUAPAC to:
(a) develop and implement accounting, budgeting, and financial
planning systems;
(b) develop and implement an administrative structure for SAGUAPAC
including definition of responsibilities and functions and
personnel administration procedures;
(c) organize the proposed planning and engineering units;



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
(d) develop and implement procedures, practices, and controls
covering SAGUAPAC's commercial activities (including billing
and collection), inventory, general services (including vehicles),
and internal auditing activities;
(e) review the present insurance policy of SAGUAPAC and recommend
measures to be taken to improve the present insurance coverage;
(f) coordinate with the sanitary engineering consultant, identify
other areas where short-term consultants are required, and
prepare detailed terms of reference for their work in the
financial and management areas; and
(g) train SAGUAPAC's personnel in financial analysis and
forecasting and interpretation of financial statements.
Water Resources Studies by Consultants
4.        The main objectives of the studies would be to:
(a) evaluate the capacity and quality of the ground water in
Santa Cruz;
(b) evaluate alternative water supply sources and quality; and
(c) prepare plans for future water supply sources, including
estimated costs.
Cost of the Technical Assistance Program and Studies
5.        The cost of the technical assistance program and studies would be
as follows:
(a)  Technical Assistance Program                      Man-months      US$
Sanitary engineering consultant                       6          30,000
Financial and management consultant                   8          40,000
(b) Studies
Water resources studies and expansion plan           30         150,000
Total                                          44         230,000
(c) Training
Short courses for the engineering and
planning staff and field visits                   --          35,000



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
Consultants for Construction of Water and Sewer Component
6.        The principal tasks of the consultants will be to:
(a) prepare sets of bidding documents for contracts
for equipment, materials, and civil works;
(b) assist SAGUAPAC in the tendering process and the
receipt and evaluation of bids;
(c)  assist SAGUAPAC in the supervision of construction
including inspection and certification of works; and
(d) provide training to SAGUAPAC personnel in inspection,
supervision, and control of the works.
Man-months     US$
Total                                     36        180,000



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRD1Z WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCAINARILLADO DE SANTA CRUZ Dfi U SIERRA (SAGUAPAC)
Basic Data
Description                                  Actual               Pr-ltetnaro                                                                       Projected
1976           1977              1978           1979         1980            1981           1982            1983              1984             1985             1986             1987
Population
Rural                                          11,432          12,260           13,151         14,103        15,125         1 S,,222         17,398          18,659           20,012           21,462           23,017          24,684
Urban                                         244.136        261,836           280,818       301,171,      323,014          346,432        371,548         398,486          427,376           458,361          491,592         5277233
Tutal                                        255,568         274,096          293,969        315,281       338,139          362,654        38b,946         41/,145          447,38b           479,823          514,609         551,917
Iluosca
9Soral (5.3 persons/house)                     2,065           2,370            2,542          2,66F         2,861            3,068          3,291           3,530            3,785             4,0.0            4,354           4,668
,rban (7.0 persoon/hoose)                      35,021         37,405           40,117         43,025        46,145           49,490         53,078          56,926            61,054           65,480           70,227          75.319
Total (6.9 prrsons/hoone)                     37,086          39,775           42,659         45,689,       4g,0o6           52,558         56,369          60,456            64,839           69,540           74,581          79,987
Watee Connections
Withoot meter                                   5,604          7,833           10,882         13,25)        12,040            9,047          2,556           2,516              2,453           2,365            2,248           1,96b
with meter                                     22,030         22,030            22,030         22,030       26,030           32,030         42,030          45,871             49,747          53.948           58,499          63.561
Total                                         27,634          29,863           32,912         35,28J        38,070           41,077         44,506          41,387             52,200          5b,313           bO,747          05,527
fleter in operatioo                             2,300          4,187            12,187        20,187        24,187           30,187         42,030          45,871             49,747          53,948           58,122          63,025
7ith metert                                      79.7            73.8             66.9           62.4          68.4            78.0           94.3             94.8              95.3            95.8             96.3             97.0
Population SDrned with Water                 190,674         206,055          230,384        246,960       266,490          287,539        312,100         338,713            365,406         394,190          425,227         458.6.92
7. population served with water                    78.1            80.0             82.0           92.0         82.5             83.0           84.0             85.0              85.5            86.0             86.5             87.0
Stn  Connections                              11,848          12,817           13,100         13,250        14,107           16.483         19,047          22,538             26,282          27,939           28,951          30.031
Population Sr-ed with Sewer                   82,936          89,719           91,700         92,750        98,749          115,381        133,329         157,766            183,974         195,573          202,b57         210.217
y population corned with newer                     34.0           34.3              32.6           30.8         30.6             33.3           35.9             39.6              43.0            42.7             41.2            40.0
wate Production
Ic Slillion m3                           12.610,637       14,467,492       16,818,032    18,028,080   19,259,232         20,465,588    21,758,051       23,242,486        25,074,160       27,049,318       29,179,077      31.475,445
Liters per person per day                        181              192              200            200          198              195            191              188               188             188              188              188
Watnr sold m3 (estimate)                  5,346,720        6,144,073        8,117,820      9,984,060   11,206,260        13,159,260    15,590,880       16,966,440         18,350,460      19,846,980       21,396,420      23,139,360
A-eraxe nonouproo/n/connertion/oonth
i8 r3 billing                                 16.1              17.1             20.6           23.6         24.5             26.7           29.1             29.2              29.3            29.4             29.4             29.4
Water p-oduction is  1/sen                       400              459              533            572           611              649            690             737               795             857              925              998
naccounted-for water                      7,263,917        8,323,419        8,700,212      8,044,020    8,052,972         7,306,328      6,167,171       6,276,046          6,723,700       7,202,338        7,782,b57       8,336,085
7 loss (tstimate)                                 57.6             57.5             51.7           44.6          41.8             35.7           28.3            27.0              26.8            26.6              26.6            26.5
LCPIWS
January 1979



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Investment Schedule
(December 1978 prices)
TOTAL MILLIONS            1 9 7 9               1 9 8 0              1 9 8 1               1 9 8 2
DESCRIPTION                                                          I                                                             _
B$       US$   |   BS         US$                            B$         US$        B$         us$
Water Supply
Pumping system wells              2.300    0.290       0.600      0.068    1.100    0.145    0.600         0.077        --        --
Storage tanks                     2.000    0.250        --         --       1.000    0.200    0.500        0.030      0.500      0.020
Distribution networks            11.000    1.000        --         --       3.500    0.500    5.500        0.250      2.000      0.250
Water meters                      0.200    0.300        --         --       0.100    0.300    0.100         --          --        --
Communication Equipment            --       0.010       --        0.010                --        --         --          --        --
Vehicles                            -       0.100       --         --        --       0.100      --         --          --        --
Sub-Total                      15.500    1.950       0.600      0.078    5.700    1.245    6.700         0.357      2.500      0.270
Administration 14%                 7.630     --        0.302                4,284               1,938        --       1.106
Technical assistance                --      0.238       --        0.038      --       0.070      --        0.070        --       0.060
Consultants                         --      0.095       --        0.019      --       0.038      --        0.038        --        --
Total Water                    23.130    2.283       0.902      0.135    9.984    1.353    8.638         0.465      3.606      0.330
Sanitary Sewers
Treatment plant                    5.500    0.050                           2.900    0.020    1.300        0.010      1.300      0.020
Pumping station                   0.800    0.110        --         --       0.400    0.050    0.200        0.030      0.200      0.030
Laboratories                      0.200    0.020        --         --        --        -         --         --        0.200      0.020
Emissary                          4.600    0.090       1.100      0.020    2.400    0.050    1.100         0.020                  --
Bypass                            2.500    0.050        --         --       1.300    0.040    0.600        0.010      0.600       --
Trunk sewer (d-e)                 9.500    0.170       0.200                3.000    0.100    -1.300       0.070      3.000       --
Network                          49.900    0.430       0.600       --      15.400    0.400   18.100        0.030    15.800        --
Sub-Total                      73.000    0.920       1.900      0.020   25.400    0.660   24.600         0.170    21.100       0.070
Administration 14%                12.800     --        0.320       --       5.410      --       3.920        -        3.150       --
Technical Assistance                --      0.102       --        0.011      --       0.020      --        0.041        --       0.030
Consultants                         --      0.155       --        0.031      --       0.062      --        0.062        --        --
Total Sewerage                 85.800    1.177       2.220      0.062   30.810    0.742   28.520         0.273    24.250       0.100
Land                              6.000       --       6.000       --        --        --        --         --          --        --
Household plumbing a/              4.638    1.061      0.356      0.060    0.704    0.140    1.102         0.250      2.476      0.611
Data Processing equipment a/    1.600    0.250         0.200      0.250    0.800       --       0.600       --          --        --
BASE COST                     121.168    4.771       9.678      0.507   42.298    2.235   38.860         0.988    30.332       1.041
Technical Contingencies b/       19.895    0.667       0.598      0.080    7.486    0.377    6.796         0.133      5.015      0.077
Price Contingencies  c/          53.779    0.793       0.320      0.020   11.764    0.274   19.253         0.203    22.442       0.296
TOTAL COST                    194.842    6.231    10.596        0.607   61.548    2.886   64.909         1.324    57.789       1.414
TOTAL PROJECT COST IN B$    319.462                 22.736              119.268              91.389                86.069
TOTAL PROJFCT COST IN us$                15.973                 1.137               5.963                4.569                 4.303
a/ Costs include 10% for administration.
b/  Does not apply to land  or household plumbing.
c/ Does not apply to land.



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1979                                                   1980                                                   1981                                                   1982
Des-ipton                    i   F   M  A    M   If  I   A    SO    Id N            J  F   M  A   M    J   J   A  S1O    N    D J F                     M    A    M    J.IJjA  S   DIN        D   J{  F   M         A     M J J A      S 0      N
Piurchase of Pumps and Accssoiesm 
i.staii,nion of Pumpsm~                                                                                                                  ~... 
Storage Tanks and Pamph-ue
Purchase of Pipe an,d Acce.ssoies                                                                                                                                                                           .... 
1n-tallatian Pipe                                                                                                                 .    ..                                                                           
Waler Meters                                                                                  -  ,.                                          '~--~~----                                                                     
Treasment Plans an,d Bypass                                                        .... .L....
Parchase Pumps and Equiproen                                                       ......
Conasuction of Pomp Station                       I                                                                          -.
Purchase Pipe and Accessoies-
Construcsia- of Emissary                                                                         ......                                                                                   -r*.......
Construction of Truk Sewer Id-e)                                                                               ........ .
Cons-trua  of Network                                                                                                                       ..                          __                   
HouSehold Pla-bing and Conn.ution.m                                                                                       - ---~ 
Admnsin,tatin and Field Equipnsent                                                                                                                                                      1T
Data Processing                  ~ 
Commoncat ions..rm-.
Vehicles.--                                                                                                    -                        B-
Laboratory
Consultants                                                  .- -                              -                     - -      - -                                                                            -      .      - -      - - -
Techni.al Assistance                                                            .......-                                                --                                                                   - -   - -
World Bank-20020
...........Design and Bidding Docuemens
-  -  -  -  -  -  - Inyitation to Bid (Proposal)
...........Bid Award
Supply or Construction



ANNEX 7
- 51 -
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
(US$000)
Cumulative
Quarterly          Quarterly
IDA Fiscal Year                Disbursement       Disbursement            %
1979/80
September 30, 1979                  200                 200              2.3
December 31, 1979                    400                600              6.8
March 31, 1980                       600              1,200             13.6
June 30, 1980                       900               2,100             23.9
1980/81
September 30, 1980                1,000               3,100             35.2
December 31, 1980                  1,000              4,100             46.6
March 31, 1981                       900              5,000             55.6
June 30, 1981                       800               5,800             64.4
1981/82
September 30, 1981                  600               6,400             71.1
December 31, 1981                   600               7,000             77.8
March 31, 1982                      600               7,600             84.4
June 30, 1982                        590              8,190              91.0
1982/83
September 30, 1982                  400               8,590             95,4
December 31, 1982                    200              8,790              97.7
March 31, 1983                       110              8,900             98.9
June 30, 1983                        100              9,000            100.0
Total                             9,000



- 52 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4 pages
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Proposed Fixed Charges
1.        The fixed charges to be paid by new users to SAGUAPAC have been
designed by the consultant as follows:
(a) water connection fee (derecho de matricula): to pay for wells,
pumps treatment and storage; equal to 1.1% of assessed property
value; a one-time charge payable by installments of up to
5 years 1/;
(b) water demand fee (derecho de suministro): to pay for main
distribution works; based on the useful area of property; a
one-time charge payable by installments of up to 5 years 1/;
(c)  sewer demand fee (derecho de desague):  to pay for all sanitary
sewer works based on the useful area of property; a one-time
charge payable by installments of up to 5 years 1/; and
(d) front-foot assessment (cuotas red agua y alcantarillado):
to pay for the secondary water and sewer lines; a one-time
charge payable by installments of up to 10 years 1/. When
the secondary water and sewer lines are installed by urban
developers, their cost is included in the price of the house.
1/   Considered as non-operational revenues as shown in Tables 6.6 to 6.9.



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEPAGE PROJECT
Proposed Tariff Structure
METERED CUSTOMERS                                                       UNMETERED
Basic             Basic                                                        WATER              SEWER
Consumption!        Monthly  Excess                           3               Basic Monthly       Basic Monthly
Category         Month            Charge   Month/m   _  $b/m3    Month/m         $b/m3_          Charge              Charge
Residential              3            $b                                                            $b                 $b
Group 1              15 m             25.00       from        0.80        more         2.00         45.00               85.50
Group 2              15 m3            35.00       16 m3       1.00                     2.00         65.00              123.50
Group 3              15 m3            50.00        to         1.20        than         2.00         95.00              180.50
Group 4              15 m             70.00       60 mr       1.40            3        2.00        150.00              285.00
60 m
Mixed  (Residences  with a business)
Group 1              15 m             40.00       from        1 00       more          2.50         60.00              114.00
Group 2              15 m3            50.00       16 m3       1.20                     2.50         85.00              161.50
Group 3              15 m3            80.00        to         1.40       than          2.50        120.00              228.00
3                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Group 4              15 m3           110.00       60 m3       1.60        60 m         2.50        165.00              313.50
Commercial               3                    more than
Group 1              25 m3           120.00    more than    5.00                                   265.00              238.50
25 m
Industrial                                    more than
Group 1              30 m3           150.00       30 m3       4.50                                 300.00              270.00
Special                                       more than
3
Group 1              20 m3            70.00       20 m3       3.40                                  85.00               95.00
*  Customers with metered water connections will be charged an additional 65% of the water bill for sewer service.                  o
00
I-h
4O
OQ
D
o



- 54                        ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4 pages
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Present Tariff Structure
1.  Tariff                    Water Supply ---------   ------------ Sewerage ------------
Minimum   Minimum    Excess         Minimum    Minimum    Excess
Consumption   Charge  Consumption   Consumption   Charge  Consumption
Category               m3      $b/month     m3              m3       b/month       m3
Residential             15        38.50     2.60            15          57.50     2.00
Commercial I            18        67.50     2.60            18         115.20     2.00
Commercial II           25       115.50     2.60            25         230.50     2.00
Industrial             30        153.50     1.90            30         307.50     1.60
Official                18        67.50     2.60            18         115.20     2.00
2. Fixed Charges
The connection fees (implemented in February 1976) for each new connection
of water or sewer are the following:
(a)  Industries:                               $b
(i)  High Consumers                       9,000
(ii)  Others                               6,000
(b) Hotels:
(i)  With private bath                    9,000
(ii)  Without private bath                 6,000
(iii)  Others                               3,000
(c) Commercial Buildings:
(i)  Three or more floors                 8,000
(ii)  Two floors                           6,000
(iii)  One floor                            4,000
(d) Houses:
(i)  For each bath                          500
(e) Houses with commerce:
(i)  In commercial areas                  6,000
(ii)  In other areas                       2,000



- 55 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 4of 4 pages
$b
(f) Restaurants:
(i)  First Category                         9,000
(ii)  Second Category                        6,000
(iii)- Others                                 2,000
(g) Bars:
(i)  First Category                         6,000
(ii)  Second Category                        3,000
(iii)  Third Category                         2,000
(h) Theaters:
(i)  First Category                         9,000
(ii)  Second Category                        6,000
(i)  Car-wash stations                           9,000
(j) Laundries:
(i)  First Category                         9,000
(ii)  Second Category                        6,000
(k)  Swimming pools                              9,000
(1)  Private medical centers                     6,000
(m)  Public buildings                            1,000
The charge for reconnection is established at $b300.



_~~~~~~Y.o 2¢ p.s.R. o
0Z                                        e   S   .0S    0.0
h  ]       W.r                                 £00 Nf       0x   
4                                            01 0    >0
00 0 4,,                                0   ve 00 4..                                .4 4    O   00'   4Sr  gN
00.4   _   'd_'__                       0    0~ o          0 4                          -     J   4 404
h     4 O   40000           04:   r      W ->e044.0 00             0>              0  44 _       4   4_4.4
-  0.~                        O4                            O     4---i U  e31              0      z -         0. _44<>      f      
Z0                        0                                            41 
4                                                                                               09 .             
i~    ~~~~ _O--   4440 N4. O _0   
0     ~     4     04o4o ..                  o0.   H=1        ro0    >o                     04      0     -o.44
_     4 4 44 0 o                       0 o0.0444  eO<        NNN                   h4of0N   
0                                             44                                           01V
0 ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~      s                                         : 0_ 0l N r 1 1_ oaOi ~ t
*.                                           4                                        =O0I  .          N0I
_0                 o 4 4 44    44 N00 0 0 4 4 0     -.0...     ...004-a0  I     N_.1 _ 
_O           04444oo                       0   p22--2 __  __                              CO22N.  ._  
c.2<                                                                               o           
10           44 0 4 04 .                        0 4 444 44                        00         000444040
.4~~~                        ~~ 0  44Nf4o404N4N0   0   40f  |0444f f0444444c4|  oN     c    40  0
4                     0       4400444004N40004_4_4_44e4444 '                                       0>    e004 .44_4_44N0N 
40444G 04.....                      -     0#44404 0O   _0044444444 co
0'             ..                             401                                                             444l  
01o          44    44      44                 -04       440       44
|  0l a                 <                       12s °4R40-444                          0    0 ° R4c4a
0O     |     R    DRRR8RR                        110S        N1  N                                     gOC
I    W                                              SX                         
oi     0                                            11 I                                                     I                     =0 s
10        0444--4444                   l         s|                                         I                                   04= 
1  0W      444004r04                         00                 ----                     I0- -                        |=           b
-  44  444o.000--                              4~~~~~4440I o.                        00
10o0 o         W0
|| c O _ N n ~4                                                                                                        0        00        __COO    Æ         



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Incremental Rate of Return Calculation
(Net Revenues in Millions of $b at 1978 Price Level)
With Cests 10% Higher
With Costs 10%    With Total Revenues         Than istimated and
With Actual    With Proposed          Higher Than        10% Lower   Than          Total Revenues 10%
Years      Tariff        Tariff Package         Estimated a/         Expected a!          Lower Than Expected aJ
1979     (17.71)           (16.14)                (18.49)           (16.81)                      (19.45)
1980     (90.43)           (87.60)                (97.85)            (89.09)                     (99.34)
1981      (49.81)          (44.34)                (51.23)            (46.80)                     (53.69)
1982      (25.52)          (17.60)                (22.96)            (21.20)                     (26.56)
1983      19.62            30.29                   28.89              25.86                       24.46
1984      26.50            39.63                   38.04              34.07                       32.48
1985      28.18            42.26                   40.41             36.18                        34-33
1986      29.79            45.39                   43.30             38-76                        36.67            n
1987/
2014       4.47            15.88                   13.79             12.20                        10.11
ROR        1.72            11.88                    9.00              8.70                         5.90
a/       With proposed tariff package.
(Dm
0
OQ
Cl



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Incremental Rate of Return for Computer
Net             Net
benefits if    benefits if
after 3 years  after 3 years
Maintenance Cost                      Present                                          a new computer a new computer
Computer         of new                   Total      Rent      Residual       Total        Net      will cost 20%  will cost 40%
Year     Purchase        Computer                   Costs   (Leasing)    Value         Benefits   Benefits        less a/          less bI
1      320,000          11,500                 331,500    105,000         --         105,000  (226,500)       (226,500)        (226,500)
2                       13,000                  13,000    105,000         --         105,000    92,000          92,000           92,000
3                       13,000                  13,000    105,000         --         105,000    92,000          92,000           92,000
4                       13,000                  13,000    105,000         --         105,000    92,000          71,000           50,000
5                       13,000                   13,000    105,000      60,000       165,000   152,000         131,000          110,000
ROR                                                                                                   29%            24%              19%
a/ The rent savings are reduced by 20% after the third year.
b/ The rent savings are reduced by 40% after the third year.



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Urban Poor Distribution in the City of Santa Cruz
INCOME GROUPS                                                    Incremental Population Served by the Project
(Average Monthly Income per Household)                  Population                         n'    1978-1986
(1978)                   Water Supply            Sewerage
1976 Census          Adjusted 1978 1/              Total    Urban Poor  2/      Total  Urban Poor 2/  Total  Urban Poor 2/
b$         US$        b$            US$
500          25           575         29          5600         5600             1620       1620         2200    2200
501 - 1000    25 - 50    576 - 1150   30 - 58          22500        22500             8690       8690         8710    8710
1001 - 2000    51 - 100  1151 - 2300   59 - 115         56300        56300            44870      44870        23220   22220
2001 - 3000   101 - 150  2301 - 3450  116 - 173         84520         11170           53550       6960        34140    4440
3001 - 4000   151 - 200  3451 - 4600  174 - 230         45400           --            35970         --        16020      --
4001 - 5000   201 - 250  4601 - 5750  231 - 288         14000            --           12320         --         5810      --
5001 - 10000  251 - 500  5751 - 11500 289 - 575         44000            --           26270         --        17420      --
10000        500          11500       575         8500           --            11510         __         3480      --
280820        95570 (34%)    194800       62140 (32%) 111000   37570 (34%)
=~ ~~                                     ,=
1/ Income is estimated to be 15% higher in 1978 than in 1976.
2/ Threshold in 1978: US$3,200 x 1.20 x 1.15 x 20
-___________________________ = b$2,453 (US$123) per person per month.
12 months x 3



BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SAGUAPAC - Organization Chart
internal
Auditor                                      Board of
I    Technical  |      *D |
|    Committee  t       5                           1             1           _I       Legal Adviser
.                    Gen. Manager
Planning
Unit
C)
Statistics
Division
i       a                                           Administrative                  Personnel                                                  Technical
Diiion                                                                                          Manager Ui                                    aae
|   Data     
Processing        r        
Purchases                               Water Sup.             Engineering             Sewerage
|    Acconting l l   Comercil   §g & Supplies    lDivision          Unit                 Division
December 1978         .       .................. To be established
World Bank   20019
tx



- 61 -
ANNEX 13
BOLIVIA
SANTA CRUZ WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents ard Data Available in Project File
A.   Sector Reports and Studies by Others
A.1 - IBRD-WHO Sector Study (April 1975)
A.2  -  IBRD-WHO/CP Sector Memorandum (January 1978)
B.   Project-Related Reports and Studies by Others
B.1  -  Bolivia - SAGUAPAC Legislation
B.2  -  "SAGUAPAC" Balance General Gestion 1977
B.3  -  "Amplicacion del Alcantarillado de la Ciudad de Santa Cruz"
SAGUAPAC
B.4  -  Presupuesto, SAGUAPAC, Gestion 1978
B.5  -  "SAGUAPAC" Balance General Gestion 1976
B.6  -  Comite Departamental de Obras Publicas Santa Cruz - Plan
Maestro del Sistema de Alcantarillado de la Ciudad de
Santa Cruz, Tomo 2 - Planillas
B.7  -  Comite Departamental de Obras Publicas Santa Cruz - Plan
Maestro del Sistema de Alcantarillado de la Ciudad de
Santa Cruz, Tomo 1 - Memoria Descriptiva
B.8  -  Comite Departamental de Obras Publicas Santa Cruz - Estudio de
Factibilidad de la Primera Etapa de Ampliacion del Sistema de
Alcantarillado de Santa Cruz - Tomo 3 - Solicitud de
Prestamo
B.9 - Comite Departamental de Obras Publicas Santa Cruz - Estudio de
Factibilidad de la Primera Etapa de Ampliacion del Sistema de
Alcantarillado de Santa Cruz - Tomo 1 - Estudio de Factibilidad
Economica
B.10 - Analisis de la Situacion Financiera de la Corporacion Regional de
Desarrollo de Santa Cruz - Periodo 1978 - 1982, Resumen Para
el Directorio
B.11 - Comite Departamental d,s Obras Publicas Santa Cruz - Estudio de
Factibilidad de la P-rimera Etapa de Ampliacion del Sistema de
Alcantarillado de Santa Cruz, Tomo 2 - Estudio de Factibilidad
Financiera
B.12  -  Ley de Adquisiciones del Sector Publico - Decreto Ley 15223
B.13 - Ley de Licitacion de Obras del Sector Publico - Decreto Ley 15192
B.14 - Estudio Tarifario de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
de la Ciudad de Santa Cruz de la Sierra - August 1977
B.15 - Tariff and Fixed Charges Study - November 1978 (Mr. J. Infante,
Consultant)
C.   Documentation Prepared by Bank. Staff and Consultants
C.1 - Identification Mission/Full Report






IBRD 14126
1K   -A                                                                                                                        M AI"
BOLIVIA                                                                                            NC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5T    
L P z   -d-                                                                                                                /
-p                                                                                        P A R K V 
70 OCr '~~~~~~~~~'00. pros esnotow~~~CTY    F   AN A    RU
,dgrrWotzrr Cs sgs!stssa ot ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ Ilbtin  etor
Water Supply and D'str~
/   'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00-Par.-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0   Wel-
NN~~~~~~~~~M  .
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RHOd
/         -N'~    ~~ ~~           2 
KIOLIVIAS






IBRD 14127
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                                 :::;S,;  9/                                                                                        r ..4 3. ,_ MARCH 19791
B          L I V I A                                                                                                           o/
g;    OSont= Crul        t :     X        (                             4                                      ./                                                                         ,.       -,merrl  9/
Fr z 5                 K j gr-=§,~tEbg   t       7                                       \                              //           /1 
Wf5'U''''"''/~~~~~ /->  0i,f                                                                                                                                                   -,, 
X   &    <  gA5tstKl, 5-   ;.5-UR   S   \))    J/   <          g          \      /  \            2                                  [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N  D  U S T R I A  L                   t
MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Thnm ?h sB OIff PYPUS}V IAV  \or                  /                                  /rQil.tiX  0         1l                                                                                     XB  (l
Sane onveom /C                                                                                           II 'h' -ada s gI  ,  /   L   ti/>:z.  t>>rw)<>/ClcS                                                             I
/he'dP="OarfonszuddndrP                                                                                                                                     n   atdion              P- f
ili6~~mPn/ IIN Ul, @9/j] shrps Of   ,.  /   ':   A    ,    ,            t>>S   \    {/                                                                                                  r     s/ 
?W ofl   5en 0 bt. ~   c y                                                   ;~F                                                                                                                                                M      t   0 -1/
... rat,  dt no                                    /      e /zZ --                                                                                                                                                              J
| '" LB S . i- ; ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,e'
///~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I LO                                                                                ETERveS
4000 .OPr cir                                                                                                                                                                                                 KILOMETERSIo



