기


﻿__ _W_-_' OF MI! ii  N     WMINI
CREDIT NUMBER 94 8 BO
PROJECT,AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE SANTA CRUZ
(SAGUAPAQ  (hereinafter called SAGUAPAC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000), on the terms - and
conditions set forth In the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that SAGUAPAC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SAGUAPAC, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent_-,
to SAGUAPAC on the terms and conditions' therein set forth; and-
WHEREAS SAGUAPAC, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement,. unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms de fined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of SAGUAPAC,
which coincides with the calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SAGUAPAC shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due


﻿-2-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, public utility and engineering
practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SAGUAPAC in: (i) preparing
bidding documents and eqvaluatIng and comparing the bids received
for, and supervising th- exe#zution of, Parts A, B and C of the
Pro ject; and (ii) carrying out Part E of the Pro ject, SAGUAPAC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association; the consultants for Part E.1 of the Project to be
retained not later than July 31, 1980, and the consultants for
Part E.3 to be retained not later than January 1, 1980.
Section 2.03. For purposes of carrying out Part E.4 of the
Project, SAGUAPAC shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1979,
prepare and furnish to the Association for approval a three-
year training program to be commenced not later than March 31,
1980; (b) make such changes thereon as the Association shall
reasonably request; and (c) carry out such Part of the Project
in accordance with the program approved by the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
;Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, and for purposes of Part C of the Project:
(a) SAGUAPAC shall, not later than January 1, 1980: (i)
establish, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, and maintain thereafter, a revolving fund which shall be
used only to finance the installation of water and sewer lot
lines, house connections, in-house plumbing facilities (each
such installation hereinafter called the Works) and meters;
and (ii) pay into such fund an initial amount equivalent to
$50,000;
(b) SAGUAPAC shall: (i) pay out of the proceeds of the
fund referred to in (a) above, the cost of the Works; and (ii)
bef ore making any payment pursuant to (i) above, (A) enter into a
contract with the beneficiary of the Works whereby such benefi-
ciary shall pay to SAGUAPAC the cost of the Works and meter over a


﻿-3-
period of not more than ten years at a rate of interest of not
less than 12% per annum on the unpaid balances of such cost
and shall give SAGUAPAC the right to supervise the Works, and (B)
ensure that the plumbing standards to be used for the Works are
satisfactory to the Association and SAGUAPAC;
(c) SAGUAPAC shall deposit into the fund: (i) all payments
to SAGUAPAC on account of the cost of the Works and of interest on
the unpaid balance of such cost; (ii) the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from time to time under Category (3) of the table set
forth in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
and (iii) the amounts withheld by SAGUAPAC in accordance with the
proviso to paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(d) SAGUAPAC shall from time to time review, and if required
revise, the rate of interest set forth in paragraph (b) of this
Section in order to ensure that the sum: (i) of the payments to be
made to SAGUAPAC on account of the cost of Works financed by the
fund plus the interest on the unpaid and outstanding balance of
such cost; and (ii) of other resources readily usable by SAGUAPAC
for purposes of future financng of Works (including the uncommit-
ted proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (3) of the table
referred to in paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section and the amounts
referred to in paragraph (c) (iii) of this Section), shall be, at
all times substantially not lower than the equivalent in pesos of
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to such Category (3).
Section 2.06. (a) SAGUAPAC undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by SAGUAPAC to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SAGUAPAC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project which shall be used exclusively for the Project
only until its completion.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) SAGUAPAC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request; progress reports on the execution of the
Project to include monitoring indicators satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) SAGUAPAC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for , this purpose between SAGUAPAC
and the Association, SAGUAPAC shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by SAGUAPAC and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) SAGUAPAC shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SAGUAPAC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.08. SAGUAPAC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SAGUAPAC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. (a) 8AGUAPAC shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SAGUAPAC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by SAGUAPAC of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.10. SAGUAPAC shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out Part B.1 of the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAGUAPAC
Section 3.01. SAGUAPAC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.02. (a) SAGUAPAC shall at all times manage its
affairs, carry out its operations, plan the development of
its business and maintain its financial position, all in accor-
dance with sound public utility, financial and administrative
practices under supervision of qualified and experienced manage-
ment.
(b) SAGUAPAC shall: (i) operate and maintain its plants,
equipment, properties and facilities and shall, from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all reasonable and necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engi-
neering practices; and (ii) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its properties or assets required for the
efficient carrying out of its business, including the carrying out


﻿-6-
of the Project, except in the normal course of its business or
with the prior agreement of the Association.
Section 3.03. SAGUAPAC shall at all times take all reason-
able steps necessary: (i) to maintain its right to carry on
its operations, including the Project; and (ii) to acquire and
retain such land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such consents, franchises and other rights, as may be
necessary or useful for the construction and operation of the
Project and the conduct of its business.
Section 3.04. SAGUAPAC shall inform the Association about
any proposed appointment to the position of general manager of
SAGUAPAC and afford the Association an adequate opportunity to
comment on his qualifications and experience.
Section 3.05. (a) SAGUAPAC shall: (i) not later than
December 31, 1979, prepare and furnish to the Association a
statement on SAGUAPAC's personnel policy; and (ii) not later than
March 31, 1980, prepare and furnish to the Association a statement
on the procedures to be followed for the internal auditing of
SAGUAPAC's accounts and financial statements and corresponding
auditing manuals.
(b) SAGUAPAC shall afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.06. SAGUAPAC shall establish and thereafter main-
tain a planning unit and an engineering unit with such functions
as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) SAGUAPAC shall, not later than December 31,
1980:
(i) survey the waste water disposal and sanitation
problems in areas supplied with water by SAGUAPAC
but lacking sewers;
(ii) prepare and furnish to the Association a program,
of such scope and in such detail as shall be
satisfactory to the Association, to solve the
problems identified pursuant to paragraph (a)
above.
(b) SAGUAPAC shall modify such program to take into account
the Association's comments thereon and carry out such program, as
so modified, promptly thereafter.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SAGUAPAC shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices its operations and financial condi-
tion.
Section 4.02. SAGUAPAC shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors,. of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of SAGUAPAC and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. SAGUAPAC shall, not later than November 30,
1979, value its fixed assets in service and, thereafter, revalue
such assets at the end of each Fiscal Year, all in accordance
with valuation and revaluation principles and procedures accept-
able to the Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association and SAGUAPAC shall
otherwise agree, SAGUAPAC shall take all such action as shall be
required in respect of the water and sewerage charges to be paid
by the users of SAGUAPAC's water supply and sewerage services as
shall be required for SAGUAPAC to obtain:
(a) by June 30, 1980, revenues averaging $b5 per cubic
meter of water supplied and billed by SAGUAPAC; and
(b) an annual- rate of return on the net values of SAGUAPAC's
fixed assets in service, revalued in accordance with Section 4.03
of this Agreement, of not less than 1.5% in Fiscal Year 1980, 5%
in Fiscal Year 1981, 5.5% in Fiscal Year 1982 and 6% in Fiscal
Year 1983 and in each Fiscal Year thereafter.


﻿-8-
For purposes of this Section:
(i) the rate of return in respect of any Fiscal Year
shall be calculated by dividing SAGUAPAC's net
income from operations for that year by the average   v
of the net values of SAGUAPAC's fixed assets in
service during that year revalued in accordance
with Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(ii) "net income from operations" means gross operating
revenues including every fixed charge collected
from-users of SAGUAPAC's services, inter alia,
those required by Section 4.05 of this Agreement,
less all operating, administrative and overhead
expenses including depreciation, taxes and levies,
if any, or any payments in lieu thereof, but
without deduction of interest and other charges on
debt; and
(iii) "average of the net values of fixed assets" means
one-half of the sum of the value, at the beginning
and at the end of the year, of SAGUAPAC's gross
fixed assets in service revalv,ed in accordance with
Section 4.03 of this Agreev nt less accumulated
depreciation.
Section 4.05. SAGUAPAC shall, at all times, charge, and col-
lect from users of SAGUAPAC's water supply and sewerage services
to be provided under new projects undertaken by SAGUAPAC (includ-
ing the Project), the fixed charges such as derecho de matricula,
derecho de suministro, derecho de desagUe, and cuota de agua y
alcantarillado which shall have been accepted by the Association
for purposes of Section 5.01 (d) (ii) of the Credit Agreement, and
shall set and thereafter maintain such charges at levels which
shall not be lower than the levels in effect as of the Effective
Date.
Section 4.06. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
and until the Closing Date, SAGUAPAC shall not undertake any
investment if , by undertaking such investment, the aggregate cost
'of SAGUAPAC's investments in any given year (other than invest-
ments for purposes of the Project) shall exceed the equivalent of
$500,000.
Section 4.07. SAGUAPAC shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to ensure that, at all times, its accounts receivable


﻿-9-
for water and sewerage services provided by. SAGUAPAC shall not
exceed the average amount of two months billings by SAGUAPAC for
such services within the twelve-month period immediately preceding
the date on which the calculation is made.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SAGUAPAC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SAGUAPAC of this event.
Section 5.03. All. the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required


﻿-10-
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SAGUAPAC:
Servicios de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado de Santa Cruz
Casilla de Correo 3284
Santa Cruz de la Sierra
Bolivia
Cable address:
SAGUAPAC
Santa Cruz, Bolivia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SAGUAPAC may be taken or executed by
the General Manager of SAGUAPAC or such other person or persons as
such General Manager shall designate in writing, and SAGUAPAC
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto,, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above writtena
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicolås Ardito Barlet ta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO
DE SANTA CRUZ (SAGUAPAC)
By // Miguel Zalles
Authorized Represent Ive
ja


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SAGUAPAC shall prepare and
forward to the. Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. SAGUAPAC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to SAGUAPAC of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿-13-
Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bolivia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of SAGUAPAC and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Bolivia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿-14-
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to 3 below, contracts for civil works (other than
those referred to in 2 below) estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent and contracts for goods estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent may be procured through competitive bidding on
the basis of local advertising under procedures satisfactory to
the Association; provided, however, that the aggregate estimated
cost of the contracts for civil works and goods to be so procured
does not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for civil works for Parts A.2 and B.5 of the
Project estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may be
procured, after SAGUAPAC has obtained quotations from not less
than three contractors previously registered with SAGUAPAC,
through direct negotiations between SAGUAPAC and one of such
contractors; provided, however, that the aggregate estimated cost
of the contracts so procured does not exceed $200,000.
3.   Contracts for Part C of the Project may be awarded through
normal commercial channels; provided, however, that the foregoing
will not apply if such contracts do not give SAGUAPAC the right to
supervise the works thereunder.
4.   Data processing equipment included in Part D of the Project
may be procured by SAGUAPAC by exercising its option to buy the
data processing equipment which is presently being leased by
SAGUAPAC; provided, however, that the foregoing will not apply if
SAGUAPAC has not shown, in a manner satisfactory to the Associ-
ation, that the use of such option is the least costly solution
for SAGUAPAC.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or more and to all contracts for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SAGUAPAC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
Aw


﻿-15-
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SAGUAPAC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 2.02 (i) of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform SAGUAPAC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The.terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SAGUAPAC shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SAGUAPAC and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of


﻿16 -
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, SAGUAPAC shall inform the
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsister-t with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform SAGUAPAC
andi state the reasons for its determination.
LA


