RESTRICTED
Report No. PE-44a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENr
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SPAIN
May 15, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURRECY MEIVAIENTS
1 US Donlar    - Ptas. 64.147
Ptag. 1          US$ 0.0155
Ptaa. 100      - US$ 1.55
NMRSURES
1 i2           -  1.20 sq. yd
1  2           - 1076 sq. ft
1 b2           - 0.38 sq. mile8
1 hectare      a 2.47 acres
Fiscal Year - Janmary 1 - December 31



SPAIN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SflMY7APY ANlD CONCLIUSIONS  ...............................   i-iii
I.    I'lTROD)UCTION  ..........................................                          1
II.    TILE SETTING  ...........................................                           1
Economic Growth in the  1960s  .............            ............. .            1
Labor Force and Employment ....................... ....                            2
Economic Development Strategy                            .           .             3
Manpower  Requirements  ................................ .                         4
III.    THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM  ................................                            5
The Educational Reform  ................................                           5
Financial  Implications  of  the Reform  ..................    11
IV.    THE PROJECT ...........................................    12
General . ...............................................  12
Comprehensive  Secondary Schools  .......................    12
Vocational  Training  Centers  ...........................    13
Palencia Agricultutral  Institute  .......................    14
Engineering  Education  .................................    14
Institutes  of  Education  ...............................    16
Manag,ement and  Staffing  of Project  Institutions  .... ...    17
Technical Assistance  ..................................    17
Cost of  the Project  ...................................    18
V.     ITPLEJ1ENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT  .......................    19
Administration           ...................        .....................    19
Professional  Services  ................                  .................    20
Sites  .................................................    20
Procurement         .....................         ......................    21
Disbursements          ....................         .....................    21
VI.    AGREEMENTS REAClIET) AND RECOMMlENDATION  ....                     .............    21
APPENDICES
CIARTS
ANNEXES
IMAP
This report is based on the findings of a preparation/appraisal mission
which visited Spain in September/October 1971. The mission consisted of
Messrs. R. Johanson (educational planner), A. de Capitani (economist),
S. Burmester (economist), E. Vergara (architect), K. Anderson (architect -
Unesco), H. Baritsch (technical educator - Unesco), J. Crosnier (agricultural
educator - consultant) and B. R. Teare (engineering educator - consultant).






SPAIN
APPENDICES
1.   The Educational Reform and Its Implementation
2.   Features of the Second Project
3.   Technical Assistance
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Traditional Education and Training System
2.   Reformed Structure of the Education and Training System
3.   Schedule for Implementation of the Educational Reform
4.   Organization of the Ministry of Education, 1971
5.   Educational Pyramid
6.   Project Implementation Schedule
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Basic Economic Indicators
3.   GDP, Employment and Productivity by Sector, 1960-1980
4.   Educational Attainment of the Labor Force, 1969
5.   Projected Manpower Requirements, 1971-1980
6.   Projected Educational Requirements, 1971-1980
7.   Projected Demand for Engineers, 1971-1980
8.   Enrollments Under the Traditional Structure, 1960-1970,
and Projections for the Reformed Structure, 1970-1980
9.   Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers by Level and Type of
Education, 1969-1970
10.   Vocational Training Enrollment, Graduates, Teachers, 1960/61 -
1969/70
11.   Tech-nician Training:  Enrollments and Graduates 1960/61 - 1969/70
12.   Engineering Education:  Enrollment and Output by Specialization,
1960/61 - 1969/70
13.   Projection of Teacher Requirements, 1971-1980
14.   Public and Private Expenditures on Education, 1960-1970
15.   Central Government Expenditures on Education by Levels, 1968-1971
16.   Financial Requirements to Implement the Educational Reform,
1971-1980
17.   Vocational Training:  Enrollment and Graduation Capacity by
Center and Specialization
13.   Barcelona Polytechnic University:  Proposed Enrollment by
Specialization and Year in 1980
19.   Unit Capital Cost, Use Factor and Student:  Teaclher Ratio
by Project Item
20.   Project Cost Estimates by Type of Expenditure
21.   Contingency Allowance
22.   Forecast of Disbursements
!1A P
Nap of Spain (Showing Project Schools)






GLOSSARY
Basic Education:  (Educacion General Basica)
The first level of general education under the reform program
extending over grades 1-8 and comprising a lower school (grades
1-5) and an upper school (grades 6-8).
Comprelhensive Secondary: (Baclhillerato Unificado y Polivalente)
Secondary school covering grades 9-11 which combines the former
separate academic, science and technical secondary schools. It
provides access either to tthe pre-university course or second
level vocational training (Charts 1 and 2).
liglher Technical Schools:  (Escuelas Tecnicas Superiores de Ingenieros)
University level schools, each providing instruction in only one
of the following technical engineering fields: aeronautical, civil,
naval, telecommunications, industrial (i.e., mechanical, electrical,
chemical, operations research, etc.), agronomy, forestry and
architecture. Sixteen of these schools have been integrated to
form three polytechnics, thus combining a range of courses within
one institution; however, thirteen specialized schools remain.
Institutes of Education: (Instituto de Ciencias de Educacibn)
Teacher training organizations within the universities to train
and retrain personnel to carry out the reform. Educational research
is also conducted (Chart 2).
National Board of Universities: (Junta Nacional de Universidades)
Consists of the rectors and the presidents of the advisory boards
of the 18 universities. Assists the Ministry of Education in
planning university level education, curriculum development,
creation of new universities, degree requirements and distribution
of budget funds for higher education.
P.P.O.: (Programa de Promoci6n de Obreros)
Scheme of adult vocational training carried out by the Ministry of
Labor sinlce 1964.  Courses are typically part time, highly
specialized, intensive and vary in content from year to year.
Syndicates: (Sindicatos)
Organizationis of employers and employees, financed by memberst
fees, composed of 26 branches representing various economic sectors
within a national union. Their principal functions are: (i) pro-
moting the welfare of the members through social security and
placement service, (ii) negotiating labor disputes, (iii) repre-
senting the members in the various parts of the Spanish political
system.






SPAIN
BASIC DATA 19701/
Total Population                                      34.0 million
Annual Growtll Rate (1960-1970)                   1.1% p.a.
Labor Force                                           12.7 million
Annual Growth Rate (1960-1970)                    0.8% p.a.
GDP Growth Rate at Constant Prices (1960-1970)         7.5% p.a.
First Level Enrollment (Ages 6-13) as
Percent of Age Group (Including Overaged)             91%
Second Level Enrollment (Ages 14-16) as
Percent of Age Group 2/                               29%
Third Level Enrollment (Ages 17-21) as
Percent of Age Group                                  12%
Central Government Expenditure on Education
as a Percent of Total Central Government
Expenditures                                          11.2%
Public Expenditures on Education as a
Percent of GU)P                                        2.4%
Private Expenditures oll Education as a
Percent of GC)P                                        1.1%
1/   See Annex 1 for comparative educational data.
2/   Including first level vocational students, ages 14-15.



-2-
National Placement Service: (Servicio Nacional de Encuadramiento y
Colocaci6n)
Employment offices, organized on a national basis through the
Syndicates with a relatively well developed network of provincial
and local offices responsible for (a) registering unemployment
insurance claimants, (b) classifying job seekers according to
job requirements, (c) registering apprenticeship contracts and
(d) collecting statistics on internal migrations of workers.
With a budget of about Ptas. 150 million and a staff of about
1,200 people, the placement service has lhandled an average of
about one million job requests annually since 1965.



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In August 1970 the Spanish Cortes (Parliament) passed a sweeping
educational reform, unique both in its ambitious scope - covering all levels
and types of education - and its potential impact for developing the
country. The reform dramatically alters the educational structure, thereby
making the educational system more responsive to the needs of three groups:
(i) students who are unable to continue formal education, (ii) workers
who wish to resume their education after acquiring work experience, and
(iii) employers who need adaptable workmen with practical skills. The
objective of these changes is to make Spanish education better adapted to
changing economic conditions of the country and social aspirations of the
Spanish people. The reform, which has substantial popular support in Spain,
also has great significance for other developing countries seeking solutions
'Io similar problems, and has aroused widespread interest among countries in
Latin America and elsewhere.
ii.       This report appraises a project for financing the second phase of
the education reform in Spain. A Bank loan of US$12 million was made in
1970 to support the first phase designed to establish an institutional basis
for the reform and introduce it in general education. Under that loan the
Bank is assisting the re-organization of the Ministry of Education and the
construction of eight teacher training institutes, 19 basic schools and
20 comprehensive secondary schools.  The execution of this project, after
some initial administrative delays, is progressing smoothly. Now a loan of
US$50 million equivalent is proposed mainly to introduce the reform in
vocational and technical education.
iii.      Transformation of Spain from a rural society into a fully
industrialized economy gathered momentum during the 1960s. Spurred by
foreign technology and an adaptable work force, manufacturing was the
fastest growing sector featuring the emergence of technically sophisticated
industries. For this growth to be sustained, Spain needs to reduce its
dependence on foreign technology and to provide its work force with a more
practical and flexible training. Projected manpower needs for continued
growth, particularly among engineers and skilled workers, cannot be met
either in number or quality by the present system.
iv.       The educational system failed to keep pace with the transforma-
tion of the economy in the 1960s. It continued to follow a generally rigid,
complex and outmoded structure which did not offer equal educational oppor-
tunity among socio-economic groups or supply the practical training most



relevant to economic growth. However, these problems are being effectively
dealt with, under the reform program. Under the reform, a compulsory basic
education of eight years is being introduced, followed by a common secondary
education of three years, each level introducing practical studies. Struc-
tural changes, which have not yet been put into practice, include: (i)
creating new points of exit to the labor market through intensive vocational
training at three levels, (ii) introducing a first cycle of practical
diploma studies in higher education, (iii) consolidating most specialized
engineering schools into polytechnic institutes, and (iv) opening up multiple
avenues for further education, including re-entry to formal education for
those in the labor market. These changes will be accompanied by important
pedagogical innovations, such as compulsory teacher training at all levels,
steps to make teaching a full-time career and comprehensive curricula
planning to ensure coordination of studies. While these concepts are
sound in principle, much needs to be done to put the reforms into effect,
especially in technical and vocational education.
V.        The project, which is designed to further the objectives of the
reform, includes:
(a) construction and equipping of:
-    39 comprehensive secondary schools (Grades 9-12)
-    37 vocational training centers (Grades 9-10, 12)
-     1 agricultural technical institute (Grades 13-15)
-     1 polytechnic university (Grades 13-17)
-     4 Institutes of Education (Grades 16, 18)
(b) equipping of the Valencia Polytechnic University;
(c) related technical assistance.
vi.       The project secondary schools, offering a balanced program of
academic and practical studies, would meet requirements for new schools in
areas of high population growth. The vocational schools would demonstrate
the operational implications of the vocational reforms at first and second
levels (Grades 9-10, 12). The Barcelona Polytechnic would be relocated,
reorganized and expanded to produce the engineers needed for the developing
Spanish industry. The Institutes of Education would fill a crucial gap by
introducing teacher training for vocational and technical subjects.
vii.      Technical assistance will be required for the implementation of
both the reform plan and project items in key areas. Thirty-six man/years
of fellowships and 35 man/years of expert services would be financed by
the loan, mainly for (i) management training and curricula development for
vocational training, (ii) university planning, administration and curricula
development for the Barcelona Polytechnic, and (iii) developing programs
for vocational teacher training at the Institutes of Education.



- iii -
viii.     The proposed project costs would amount to US$152.5 million
equivalent, including contingencies. Cost data are based on detailed
schedules of accommodation and contracts for similar work. Contracts would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$50 million.
ix.       The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$50
million equivalent, for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5
years. The loan would cover approximately 33% of the total estimated
project costs, equal to the estimated foreign exchange component.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In August 1970 the Spanish Cortes (Parliament) approved a compre-
hensive new education law embodying sweeping changes at all levels and de-
signed to make the educational system more flexible, egalitarian and prac-
tical. A Bank loan (699-SP, June 1970) is helping to finance the first
phase of the reform which focusses on administrative reorganization and
general education. The first project consists of 19 basic schools, 20 com-
prehensive secondary schools, 8 institutes of education and related technical
assistance to demonstrate the reforms in general education at the regional level.
Initially the implementation of the project was delayed owing to administra-
tive problems in establishing the project unit and to agreeing on architec-
tural standards, but implementation is now progressing smoothly.
1.02      In early 1971, the government prepared plans to extend
implementation of the reform to technical/vocational education and requested
Bank assistance. Following a Bank reconnaissance mission in May, 1971,
agreement was reached on the items to be considered for Bank financing. A
preparation/appraisal mission visited Spain during September/October 1971
consisting of Messrs. R. Johanson (educational planner), A. de Capitani
(economist), S. Burmester (economist), E. Vergara (architect), K. Anderson
(architect-Unesco), H. Baritsch (technical educator-Unesco), J. Crosnier
(agricultural educator-consultant) and B. R. Teare (engineering educator-
consultant).
1.03      During appraisal the project was modified by the (a) addition of
training for technical/vocational teachers, (b) reduction of proposed engi-
neering enrollments in accordance with projected manpower demands, (c)
elimination of the proposed vocational training centers for agriculture
because of the need for further planning and coordination, and (d) the
addition of technical assistance. The estimated total cost is US$152.5
million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$50 million.
II. THE SETTING
Economic Growth in the 1960s
2.01      The decade of the 1960s has been a period of unprecedented economic
growth for Spain. GDP increased at an average rate of 7.5% in real terms
during 1960-70 (Annex 2), while population grew by only 1.1% p.a. to reach
34 million in 1970. These factors combined to increase real average per capita
income at 6.4% p.a. to reach almost US$1000 in 1970. Despite this impressive
growth record, striking inequalities in income distribution persist. Income per
capita in the highest income regions (Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao) is probably
about 2.5 times that of the lowest income regions (Inner Galicia, Extremadura
and Western Andalucia). The latter regions have also been underprivileged in
the distribution of educational opportunities.



2.02      Significant internal population shifts occurred between the two
census periods of 1960 and 1970; the number of persons living in rural
areas (population 2,000 or less) declined by 704,000 (-1.7% p.a.) while the
number residing in cities (population 500,000 and above) grew by 1,770,000
or 3.5% p.a. The migration of people to the largest metropolitan areas
(Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Sevilla, etc.) is increasing the pressure on
urban educational and social facilities.
2.03      Industry has been the fastest growing economic sector, both in
terms of output (9.8% p.a.) and in terms of productivity (7.2% p.a.),
(Annex 3). Industrial growth was spurred by the emergence of modern
industries, such as metal transformation, chemicals, automobiles and
machinery. Spain's success in developing new industries is due to the
introduction of modern technology, mainly imported, and to relatively low
wage rates. Industrial development has shown a marked concentration in a
few "growth areas", the most important in terms of output being the region of
Catalonia which includes Barcelona. With about 15% of total Spanish poptula-
tion, Catalonia produces more than 20% of the national output and about 25%
of the industrial output.
2.04      The agricultural sector also has undergone significant modernization.
The constraint imposed by insufficient and irregular rainfall has been
reduced during the 1960s through the execution of major irrigation works
covering an area of over 2.5 million ha. In addition, the consolidation of
fragmented land holdings into cooperatives permitted large-scale farm
mechanization and contributed to productivity gains averaging 5.8% per
worker during the decade. In absolute terms, however, productivity and
incomes in agriculture still remain well below the country's average.
Labor Force and Employment
2.05      The Spanish labor force of 12.7 million adapted remarkably well
to the changing structure of the Spanish economy. More than one million
persons left farming and found employment in the industrial and service
sectors, either in Spain or abroad.  Consequently, the agricultural share
of the labor force was reduced from 42% in 1960 to about 29% in 1970 while,
over the same period, employment in industry increased from 32% to 37% and
services from 26% to 34%. Newer industries (including some with relatively
sophisticated technology) grew quite rapidly, absorbing an increasing
percentage of the total labor force. As a consequence of technological
growth, new professions have emerged while the functional content of others
has changed radically. In addition to rapid economic growth and the adapt-
ability of the labor force, net emigration of some 600,000 mostly unskilled
workers during the 1960s helped to keep the overall rate of unemployment at
a frictional level (2%). This net emigration, mainly to E.E.C. countries,
is expected to stabilize at around 50,000 p.a. during the next few years.
Owing to this absence of overall unemployment, Spanish authorities have felt
little need for employment forecasting and manpower planning.



- 3 -
2.06      More recently, however, a sudden upsurge in the graduation
of engineers, resulting from the elimination in 1964 of formerly strict
admissions requirements, has created an oversupply of graduates which now
amounts to about 10-15% of a stock of 20,000 engineers. As qualified
engineers are still in great demand, the apparent oversupply of graduate
engineers is attributable mainly to their unsuitable training and unrealistic
expectations. Graduate engineers generally do not possess the practical
qualifications which employers require. In addition, the unrealistic
expectations of recent graduates often does not permit them to take advantage
of available 4ob opportunities. The oversupply of graduates is not
significant except in Madrid, where graduates prefer to remain in hopes of
getting highly paid administrative jobs rather than move to other areas
where engineering job opportunities are better.
2.07      Productivity of the labor force has remained low by European
standards due partly to low educational attainment. In 1969, about 91% of
the labor force had attended only primary schooling, 3.7% had completed only
secondarn, 1.5% had completed some post-secondary education, and 4% were
illiterate (Annex 4). Partly as a result of this, the degree of social
mobility, as measured by the percentage of children who remain in the
same socio-economic category as their father, was poor. For instance, in a
recent O.E.C.D. study, Spain ranked second lowest among 19 countries on
the comparative distribution among levels of education of students by
socio-economic categories, e.g. relative chances of lower stratum youth
studying higher education. 1/ This rigidity represents a potential mis-
allocation of human resources and a major source of disparities in income
distribution.
Economic Development Strategy
2.08      During the 1970s, Spain is expected to complete its transformation
from a zural into a fully industrialized society. In addition to attaining
a high economic growth rate, to maintaining low unemployment despite the
rapid exodus from rural areas, and to improving income distribution, which
were objectives of the first two development plans, the Third Plan (1972-75)
emphasizes the need for more balanced growth and for the development of
applied research to decrease the reliance on imported technology. The
intent is to strengthen the social and economic structure of the country e-
a basin for closer economic relations with E.E.C. countries, as provided
in the recent Preferential Trade Agreement (1970). The Spanish authorities
believe that reliance on foreign technology has become excessive and should
be reduced gradually. This attitude is influenced by both political and
economic considerations. Imported technology, in addition to its direct
cost, sometimes restricts potential exports 2/ and results in lack of control
1/ "Group Disparities in Educational Participation," Conference on
Policies for Educational Growth, O.E.C.D. 1970.
2/ Patents often are sold for internal production only and prohibit exports.



over key sectors which generate and disseminate innovations. Moreover, as
Spain liberalizes its economic relations with the Common Market its fastest
industrial growth is likely to be in such industries as metal fabrication,
machinery, forgings and castings, shipbuilding, automobiles and chemicals
which would need to be sustained by further applied research and development.
All of these activities are large employers of engineers and tend to be
concentrated in the Bilbao and Catalonia areas.
2.09      Over the period 1971-1980, CDP is expected to grow at 6.5% p.a.,
as a result of about an 8% increase in industry, 6% in services and 3% in
agriculture. Corresponding growth rates of employment are 1.8% for the
economy as a whole, 3.4% p.a. for industry, 2.6% p.a. for services, and
with provision for a decline of -2.6% for agriculture. Consequently,
the economy is likely to absorb about 4.2 million new entrants into the
labor market during 1971-1980 (Annex 5) and the rate of unemployment is
expected to remain around the current frictional level of 2.0%.
Manpower Requirements
2.10      The effectiveness of this development strategy will depend,
however, on a better coordination between the supply and demand for
trained manpower. The natural adaptability which the labor force
exhibited in the 1960s cannot be expected to suffice for long in a rapidly
changing technological environment. It must be supported by a properly
functioning vocational training system capable of producing workmen who
are readily trainable and adaptable to new functions and occupations.
Industrial growth in competitive sectors and the generation of local
technology will require, in addition to investments in applied research and
development, new supplies of engineers capable of applying the laws of
engineering and science to practical problems and creating new designs.
Continued modernization of agriculture will require a new type of agricul-
tural technician, trained to handle both the management and mechanization
of large scale irrigated cooperatives (para 2.04).
2.11      Labor force requirements between 1971 and 1980 by level of
education (Annex 6) demonstrate a need to expand the capacity of the present
educational system:
Demand       Supply /1
1971-1980      1971-1980
Vocational Training (First Level) 2,700,000        1,600,000 /2
Secondary Education                   920,000        500,000
Vocational Training (Second
Level)                           700,000       400,000 /2
Technician Training                   330,000        160,000 /2
University Graduates                   90,000        110,000
of which:  Engineers              28,000        21,000
/_   Projected at current rates of output.
/2   Including non-formal education.



- 5 -
Meeting the above requirements will entail a major expansion of output,
especially in vocational programs. The growth of higher education, where
supply may exceed demand slightly, will need to be controlled. Industrial
growth in engineering-based industries is expected to generate sufficient
jobs to justify an increase in engineering output to around 4,000 p.a. by
1980 (Annex 7).
III. THE EDUCATION REFORM (Appendix 1)
3.01      The principal deficiency in the Spanish educational system has been
its failure to keep pace with the transformation of the economy during the
1960s and its continuation of a generally rigid, complex and outmoded edu-
cational structure (Chart 1). Although great progress was made in increasing
enrollments (an additional 2.5 million students between 1960 and 1970
increased enrollments by 60%, Annex 8), the formal educational system did
not offer equal educational opportunity for children from low income groups
or supply the practical training most relevant to economic growth.
3.02      In response to these problems the Cortes (Parliament) passed a
sweeping educational reform in August 1970, unique both in its ambitious
scope - covering all levels and types of education - and its potential impact
for developing the country. The reform dramatically alters the educational
structure (Chart 2, the differences between Charts 1 and 2 are explained
below), thereby making the education system more responsive to the needs of
three groups: i) students unable to proceed to higher levels of academic
education, ii) workers who wish to resume their education after having
acquired employment experience and, iii) employers who need adaptable
workmen with practical skills and the ability to learn on the job. The
objective, in addition to this built-in flexibility, is to make the educa-
tion system more egalitarian and practical. These changes will make Spanish
education far better adapted to changing economic conditions of the country
and social aspirations of the Spanish people. The reform was first published
as a White Paper in early 1969 which stimulated nation-wide discussions and
resulted in various amendments. Although some opposition by vested interests
remains, on the whole the reform has strong public support. This reform,
in addition, has great significance for other developing countries seeking
solutions to similar problems, and has aroused widespread interest among
countries in Latin America and elsewhere.
3.03      The reform will be implemented in three phases over a period of
ten years (Chart 3). The first phase, now under implementation, is concen-
trating upon reform of educational administration and general education
(primary and secondary). The second stage, would extend the reform to
technical and vocational education. The proposed project would assist in
the implementation of both phases. A third phase, to be implemented within
three years, will include multi-purpose educational centers, vocational
training in agriculture, technician training, and third level vocational
training. Plans for the third phase are only beginning and will require
close cooperation among the Ministries concerned. If appropriately dev-
elop, this phase could provide the basis for a possible third Bank educa-
tion project.



-6-
3.04      The present educational system is in a state of transition, com-
bining a few elements of the reformed structure with that of the traditional.
The following profile by various levels and types of education describes
the problems which gave impetus to the reform and indicates the reform
measures designed to solve them.
3.05      The centralized administration of the Ministry of Education and
Science, until recently, was too complex, and caused overlapping and duplica-
tion of efforts. Responsibility for public education was diffused among
several agencies and little control was exercised over private education
which forms an important part of Spanish education, accounting for 30%
of primary enrollments, 70% of general secondary, 57% of vocational and
11% of higher education (Annex 9).
3.06      Under the reform, the Ministry of Education (Chart 4) has been
assigned responsibility for the supervision of all education and training,
including that offered by private agencies as well as by other ministries
of government. With financing provided under the first Bank education
project, the Ministry's administration is being reorganized, exchanging
traditional line divisions for four functional directorates to spearhead
the reform. Routine administrative control functions, e.g., budgeting,
supervision and execution of school building programs, are being delegated
to the 50 provincial authorities. Basic working agreements, however, still
need to be established regarding interministerial cooperation.
3.07      Among the major factors giving rise to the reform was the inade-
quacy of general education at primary and secondary levels. Although
enrollments in primary education grew rapidly from about 3 million in
1960/61 to 5.1 million students in 1970/71, 500,000 children, or 9% of the
compulsory age group 6-13, were still left out of school. Until recently,
an examination in grade 4 was used to determine whether a student would
move to secondary education at grade 5 or remain in primary school for a
comparatively low quality education in primary grades 5-8. Performance on
an examination at such an early age, however, tended to be influenced by
the socio-economic status of the parents. Thus it discriminated against
talented children of low income groups who were not accorded training
commensurate with their abilities, and deprived the econoemy of their
potential contributions.
3.08      Secondary education nearly tripled its enrollments betw.een 1960
and 1970, moving from 479,000 students to 1,352,000. 1/ However, only about
one third of primary students found places in general secondary education
and only 50% of secondary students were able to pass the examination at
the end of the lower cycle, thus narrowing the middle of the educational
pyramid considerably (Chart 5). In 1970/71 secondary enrollments accom-
modated only 29% of the age group 14-16. Moreover, secondary education
was dxcessivelv theoretical and unsuitable for the majority of its students.
1/ 28% of the enrollments were "free" students, those who studied for
examinations independently without attendance at courses.



-7-
The elementar-, cycle of secondary education, four years in duration, offered
3tr.ctly academic courses for all students.  The two year upper cycle was
provided in separate academic and technical schools, but 90% of total
enrollments was in the academic schools (Annex 9).  In addition to academic
cortent1 part-t4mo teaching and lack of systematic teacher training have
conri uted to a  :thoretical approach to learning.  This pattern of educa-
t'cn  tal    .o proaidod the balanced combination of academic and practical
studia  hich -ould prepare the majority of students,  who were terminal,
o   mpla-.ment.
3.09      The present reforms in primary and secondary education are designed
to equalize the opportunity for educational advancement and to bring about
a better balance between academic and practical studies. The new law
eliminated the overlapping of primary grades 5 to 8 with the first four
years of secondary schooling. Under the reform, all children between 6 and
14 yea-rs must follow a common course for eight years of basic education,
Which includes practical subjects in the last three years. Following this,
students will prceead either to vocational training, compulsory for one year,
or to secondary education. The specialized types of secondary education
are to be merged into a common curriculum of three years, featuring optional
coursez is tach1aology, home economics, commerce, and agriculture.  Career
infor=ation ar.d gu'dance will be provided. Final examinations will be
supplemented by continuous evaluation of students, thereby eliminating
the pof..I.bility of "free" students. For the first time, curricula will be
plawn.d zomprehensively to coordinate successive levels of education and
to elliLdate overlapping.
3.10      Implementation of these reforms already started in the academic
year 1970/71 for grades 1-4 of basic general education, and reached grade 5
in 1971/72; it will be extended to grade 6 of basic education and the first
year o2 secondary education in 1972/73 (Chart 3). Under the first loan,
provision has been made to test, demonstrate, and promote the benefits of
conmmn basic education and more practical curricula at basic and secondary
levels. It provides for the construction, equipping, and development of
new curricula for 19 basic schools and 20 comprehensive secondary schools,
mostly concentrated in Galicia, one of the least developed areas of Spain.
Now a greater effort must be made to broaden the coverage of the reform
throughout the country so as to provide an adequate pre-vocational basis
for the reorientation of technical and vocational education. The proposed
second project would help by financing 39 additional pilot secondary schools
in key locations of high population growth throughout the country (para 2.02).
The two projects together would account for 11% of the planned increase In
secondary enrollments by 1975/76.
3.11      Formal vocational traininR, which enrolled approximately 183,000
students in 1970/71 (Annex 10), has also been inadequate. Lengthy, often
theoretical and overly specialized, it generally has not supplied the
practical training responsive to labor market needs. Responsibility has
been divided among various agencies (the Ministries of Education, Labor,
Commerce and Agriculture, the Syndicates and the Church) which has not
allowed a satisfactory degree of coordination.



3.12      After two initial years (waived for primary school graduates),
courses are taught in two stages, craftsman and foreman, lasting a total of
five years. Students frequently have regarded this training as a dead-end
path since almost no avenues are available for further education. Tile
lengthly structure seeks to prepare narrowly specializedl craftsmen, and
employers have complained that it does not provide the students witlh a
sufficiently broad background for adapting to new requirements on the Job.
The curricula, prepared in Madrid, have been slow to clhange and often hiave
disregarded local needs.
3.13      No administrative mechanism has existed for involving employers
either in the actual training or in adapting curricula to trends in occlupa-
tional demand. Teaching has tended to be overly theoretical with little
continuity between classroom and workshop topics because the teachers
are untrained and lack practical skills. Quality also has suffered from
part-time teaching.
3.14      Vocational training in agriculture is offered part-time in
"planteles," agricultural youth clubs with a combined enrollment of 28,000,
and full-time in "Escuelas de Capataces" (16-25 years, 3,400 enrollment,
Annex 10) at the second level. Both are integral parts of agricultural
extension, but tend to be oriented toward traditional agriculture. Recently,
perhaps because of an awareness by farmers of the unsuitability of the
training being provided, there has been difficulty in recruiting qualified
practicing farmers for courses at the "Escuelas de Capataces." This,
together with lack of trained teachers, has caused facilities to operate
at only 60% of capacity in 1970.
3.15      Partly to compensate for failure of the formal system, effective
complementary efforts were made by various public and private agencies in
developing non-formal vocational training. The success of this non-formal
training was a major factor in adapting the labor force to changing economic
conditions in the 1960s (para 2.05). One such scheme, the "Programa de
Promocion de Obreros" (PPO), was created by the Ministry of Labor with OECD
support in 1964. Approximately 130,000 adult workers annually receive short
intensive skill upgrading courses from the PPO in industry, services and
modern agriculture. The effectiveness of the prograrm can be attributed
to the careful occupational analysis on which courses are based and to the
practical knowledge of instructors who are required to have previous work
experience.
3.16      Although the reform does not deal with non-formal vocational
training, the second phase of the reform will reshape formal vocational
education in accordance with the requirements of a modern industrial
society.  Vocational education will be shortened and divided into three
distinct levels (Chart 2) for greater adaptability to changing labor market
conditions. At three main points of the school ladder, the new vocational
system will offer short intensive courses to complement the basic knowledge
achieved in the previous cycle, as follows:



- 9 -
(S)  after basic general education, training of one to two years to
produce semi-skilled workers;
(iia after comprehensive secondary, training for six months to one
year to produce skilled workers and lower technicians; and
:ii'  after the first cycle of higher education, training for up to
six months to produce higher technicians.
3.17      The new structure would also eliminate the dead end associated
with traditional vocational training (para 3.12). Transfer from any of
the t;hree vocational levels to other academic levels will be allowed. In
ad'itio., programs to facilitate re-entry to formal education by persons
in the labor force, and programs for on-going adult education will be
developed for implementation during the third phase of the reform.
3.18      While this vocational concept relates soundly to the needs for
change, much has to be done to put the reform into effect. Its operational
implications must be formulated, agreements reached among the various
agencies ar.d a well organized scheme prepared for curricula and materials
developnment. The project would help the government implement the vocational
reforms by providing for the formulation of the operational implications
and put'ting them into practice in 37 pilot institutions, by assisting
cturricula development and by providing for inter-agency cooperation in
vocational training.
3.19      Higher education is comprised of three separate systems under the
aegi3 Gf the Ministry of Education: (i) technician and university schools re.
three years duration, (ii) engineering schools and (iii) universities,both of
five years duration. The crucial problems in higher education have been lack
of overall planning and low quality of technical education. The partial
autonomy of universities and the status of certain professions have limited
the control of the Ministry of Education over enrollments, which increased
during the sixties without benefit of systematic national policy or guidance
from manpower plans. Balance among specializations (Annexes 11 and 12) is
consistent with manpower needs, but output in most engineering special-
izations has exceeded requirements, thus resulting in some surpluses
(para 2.06).
3.20      The reform calls for a change in the structure of higher educatic-
by dividing the five year program into two cycles, three and two years,
respectively. On completion of the first cycle, students who are considered
unlikely to benefit from higher studies or who do not wish to continue
zoward3 a degree may pursue brief third level vocational training leading
to a diploma. The other students will continue in the two year second cycle
degree program of specialized studies. The new system would thus provide a
much needed terminal course to prepare for employment students who are unable
tc complete their university courses and who, because of the theoretical nature
of their studies, are ill-prepared for employment.



- 10 -
3.21      Engineering education traditionally has been offered in higher
technical schools, each providing instruction in only one engineering specia-
lization. Between 1966 and 1968, 16 of the 29 specialized schools were
consolidated to form three polytechnics (in Madrid, Barcelona, and Valencia)
to achieve economies of scale. While rectors have been appointed and
provisional legislation approved, the intended physical, academic and
administrative consolidation has taken place only in Valencia. The other
specialized schools still operate largely independently.
3.22      The Barcelona Polytechnic suffers from many of the problems typical
of Spanish engineering education. The absence of selection procedures for
admission has contributed to an uneven quality of students and burgeoning
enrollments, which resulted in enrollments exceeding capacity by 45% in 1971.
Lecture methods of teaching emphasize a theoretical approach to learning,
and students are given relatively little exercise in solving practical problems.
Laboratory work is included in the curricula, but is ineffective because of
lack of equipment, overcrowding, and unfamiliarity of professors with laboratory
techniques. These factors have reduced the effectiveness of the academic
program and the efficiency of the institution. Failure rates are high at about
40% overall and, between 1966 and 1971, 24 student-years of enrollment were
required to produce one graduate from a five-year course. Graduates are ill-
prepared for solving practical problems or for design work, and are not re-
garded highly by potential employers.
3.23      Reforms in engineering education, in response to the need for
better training in the practical application of engineering and scientific
theory, will entail the introduction of applied research, the expansion of
laboratory work and a reorientation of curricula to include exercises in
solving realistic problems. The relocation, reorganization and expansion
of the Barcelona Polytechnic provides an opportunity to initiate measures
which would be new to Spanish engineering education and which would demon-
strate how such engineers could be produced efficiently.
3.24      Until recently, teacher training was offered only to prospective
primary teachers in 160 three-year teacher training colleges and to prospec-
tive school inspectors and teacher trainers in five university schools of
education. No institution provided systematic secondary or vocational
teacher training and research on education was virtually non-existent.
3.25      The reform would improve teaching standards at all levels through
compulsory teacher training, research on teaching methods and steps to make
teaching a full-time career. Institutes of Education have been established
within the fifteen universities for training and upgrading academic teachers
for basic and secondary levels under the coordination of the National Center
of Educational Research. Eight of these Institutes and the National Center



- 11 -
are included in the first Bank project. Enrollment projections to 1980
(Annex 8) show an annual need for approximately 7,800 teachers of academic
subjects and 4,300 teachers of practical subjects (Annex 13) during the
1970s. The new Institutes can meet the need for academic teachers, but a
crucial gap exists in vocational and technical teacher training. The proposed
project would help fill this gap by developing such programs at four new
Institutes.
Financial Implications of the Reform
3.26      Public expenditures on education have grown at the high average
rate of about 21% p.a. (17% in real terms) between 1960 and 1970, as the
public sector assumed increased responsibility for financing the educational
system. Despite this growth, in 1970, private expenditure still accounted
for about 30% of total national expenditure on education. Total expenditure
on education (public and private) represented only 3.5% of GDP (Annex 14) in
the same year, low by European standards. Capital expenditures on education
by the Central Government increased from 1.5 billion pesetas in 1960 (Annex
14) to 12.2 billion in 1970 (Annex 15), a yearly increase of 23% (19% in
real terms). Despite the rapid growth of capital expenditures, the ratio of
funds committed: budget authorizations for the Ministry of Education
consistently has remained at high levels (generally over 90%), indicating
efficiency in project implementation.
3.27      The Third Plan (1972-1975) outlines the government's immediate
financial proposals for implementing the reform. Education and Culture
will receive Ptas.100 billion, or 11.5% of the total Plan allocation and 14%
of the Central Government's share, about the same proportion as in the Second
Plan. Some Ptas.76 billion, or Ptas.19 billion per year will be for implemen-
tation of the reform. This is a total of about Ptas. 5 billion short of the
investment needed to keep the reform on schedule up to 1975/76.
3.28      To meet the enrollment targets by 1980 Spain may require total
recurrent expenditures on education (both public and private) in the order
of Ptas.210 billion in constant 1971 prices (Annex 16). This would amount
to about 5.4% of GDP, which would be more consistent with that of Spain's
European neighbors and Spain's development objectives. Public and private
recurrent expenditures on education would need to rise by about 13.6% p.a.
and 8.4% p.a., respectively, above the present levels. Public recurrent
expenditures on education would then absorb about 13.9% of the total public
recurrent budget (Appendix 1). The increases are substantial and the
availability of funds required to meet them will depend mainly on developing
new sources of public revenues. If they cannot be found, the enrollment
targets could be cut back in marginal areas to less ambitious levels, espe-
cially in higher education, without jeopardizing the essential features of
the reform.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would assist the government in achieving the
objectives of the education reform by (1) extending the coverage of the
reform in general secondary education to major population centers, thereby
ensuring an adequate foundation of pre-vocational education on which to
extend the reform into technical education and (ii) introducing the new
concept of vocational, technical and engineering education along with
related teacher training. While the principal purpose of the project is to
improve the quality of education by advancing the reform, it would also
increase the output of trained or trainable manpower in needed areas
(para. 2.11).
4.02      The proposed project would include:
(a) construction and equipment of 82 educational institutions, 811
public and coeducational, as follows:
Type of                         Student   Annual      Annual  Teaching Staff
Institution  Grades   Number      Places  Enrollment   Output   Requirements J1
Secondary     9-12      39       31,600      31,600      8,000       1,365
Vocational   9-10,12   37        18,600      28,260 /2 18,960        1,940
Agricultural
Institute    13-15       1          360         360        100          25
Polytechnic  13-17       1        9,610       9,610      1,200         730
Institutes
of
Education    16,18       4           850      1,700/3   1,700            52
/1   full-time equivalent
/2   double shift enrollment.
73   two five-month courses per year.
(b) equipment of the Valencia Polytechnic University; and
(c) technical assistance related to items (a) and (b) above.
Comprehensive Secondary Schools
4.03      The proposed 39 secondary schools would promote and expand, with
minor modifications, the pattern of secondary education being financed
under the Bank's first education project. The project schools would be
located in major urban areas (see Map) and designed, equipped and staffed



- 13 -
to (a) serve as experimental schools for continued implementation of the
first phase of the education reform and (b) meet requirements for new
schools in areas of high population growth.
4.04      The curricula, consistent with reform objectives, would
allocate 20Z of the timetable to practical options and 20% to electives
including technical subjects. Over the three-year course, students would
take two of the following options:  industrial technology, commerce and
home economics. Technical assistance under the first Bank project is
helping to refine the objectives, content, construction, and equipment
requirements in each of the practical options.  The Institutes of Education         _
are organizing special training courses on managing the new comprehensive
schools.
Vocational Training Centers
4.05      Thirty-seven vocational training centers would be constructed and
equipped to launch vocational training reforms at first and second levels
(grades 9-10, and 12, respectively). All major occupational fields would
be covered, except agriculture, which could not be included because basic
agreements were lacking between the Ministries of Agriculture and Education.
As the centers would enroll 18,600 first level and 9,660 second level
students daily on a two-shift basis, the project centers would accommodate
20% of planned new enrollments by 1975. The impact of the centers, however,
would exceed their direct enrollment as they would function as pilot schools
to test and demonstrate innovations for all formal vocational training in
the public and private sectors.
4.06      The locations of the proposed centers, Galicia, Andalucia, the
Canary Islands and Tierra de Campos, as well as six of the largest urban
areas (see Map), would conform with government priorities for regional
development. A degree of local autonomy over curricula would be allowed to
ensure that nationally-designed training programs are adjusted adequately
to local conditions (para 3.12).
4.07      Curricula would be innovative.  Training courses would be modern-
ized, replacing traditional trades with important activities previously
neglected, such as construction, business administration, and food process-
ing. The range of specializations and duration of programs to be offered
by level are shown in Annex 17. Appendix 2 describes the proposed pattern
of training.
4.08      To overcome the chronic problem of obsolete and irrelevant curri-
cula, the government has agreed to ensure that within two years of signing
the loan agreement, the Ministry of Education will collaborate with the
Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of Commerce and the Syndicates (especially
the National Placement Service) to:
(i) develop new curricula, to be presented to the Bank for
comment, for all new vocational centers, based on careful
analysis of occupations in demand and their skill content;



- 14 -
(ii)  review and revise these curricula triennially there-
after in accordance with changes in the labor market;
(iii) establish advisory boards, comprising representatives
of employers, Syndicates, the Ministries of Education,
Labor and Commerce, and the managers of each center, in
relevant provinces to provide liaison with the business
and industrial communities and help to adapt national
curricula to local needs; and
(iv) establish placement services for graduates of the centers.
In addition, assurances have been provided that after the new centers
commence operation:
(i) satisfactory procedures will be introduced for proper
maintenance and replacement of equipment in accordance
with revisions in curricula; and
(ii)  each center will use its best efforts to maintain accurate
records of the employment of its graduates for five years
after graduation.
Agriculatural Technical Institute at Palencia
4.09      This project item would include the construction, furnishing and
equipping of an agricultural technician institute for 360 students at
Palencia with an annual output of 100 from a three-year course (40 in farm
mechanization and 60 in animal/plant production). It is designed to help
satisfy the projected national shortage of 200 agricultural technicians
per year by 1980. About 80% of the graduates would remain in the Palencia
or nearby regions, for which there is no current local supply of technicians.
About half of the graduates are expected to work in the private sector and
half in public services, such as extension, training and research. The
increase in output would allow an improved ratio of technicians to farm
holdings from 1:1,200 in 1970 to 1:600 in 1980 (vs. an average of 1:300
throughout Western Europe).
4.10      In addition to meeting manpower requirements, the Institute would
be innovative and would serve as a model to existing schools in ways to
improve the quality of training. In contrast with existing schools, the
Palencia Institute would have full-time teaching staff and a well-equipped
teaching farm of 30 irrigated ha. Curricula would include about 60%
practical work (in laboratories, workshops and farms) and would introduce
new subjects, e.g., management, marketing and nutrition. The government
has given assurances that within two years of signing the loan agreement
it will establish an advisory board, consisting of representatives from
agricultural research, extension agencies, cooperatives and agro-industries
to review the training program from the viewpoint of employers of agricultural
technicians.



- 15 -
Engineering Education
4.11      The Barcelona Polytechnic University.  This project item would
comprise the construction and equipment of the Barcelona Polytechnic University
at a new location about 28 km from the center of Barcelona. The project
would assist the new university in realizing its objectives of a) meeting
the projected increase in demand for qualified engineers in the Catalonia
region, b) initiating the diploma level course for those unable to complete
the degree program, c) rationalizing the present system of separate schools
by consolidating three specialized engineering institutes with a combined
full-time enrollment of 5,290 at present, and d) improving the quality of
engineering education and introducing the type of training required for
industrial development (paras. 2.10 and 3.23).
4.12      Of the total enrollment, 1,600 would be in architecture, and
8,010 would be divided among telecommunication, civil, and industrial
engineering. Its expanded output of engineers from the present 526 in
1971 to 1,000 by 1980 (Annex 18) is justified by the anticipated sustained
industrial development in northeast Spain.
4.13      The major contribution of this project item, however, would be
to upgrade the quality of engineering education and to produce engineers
capable of solving the practical problems of Spanish industrial development.
It is expected that the project would have a far reaching effect as it
would demonstrate measures to combat the present ills besetting Spanish
engineering education (para. 3.22). The innovative features, described in
detail in Appendix 2, include: organization of teaching by departments,
60% full-time staff, new emphasis on problem-solving through greatly expanded
laboratory work, work experiences in industry for each student, and the
establishment of three research institutes, directed by teachers and
financed by industry, in which students can apply their knowledge to solve
real problems. These proposals are the result of plans prepared by the
Technical Cabinet of the Barcelona Polytechnic. This group, which has the
support of the administration, the Board of Trustees and a majority of the
staff, will be an important factor in bringing about the proposed changes.
4.14      The government has provided assurances that prior to the opening
of the university at its new location:
(i)  satisfactory facilities will be arranged to enable
students residing in Barcelona to commute to the new
site at a reasonable cost; and
(ii)  all administrative, teaching and research units, other
than the Textile Research Institute in Tarrasa, will
be located at the new site.



- 16 -
In addition, assurances have been obtained that: the equivalent full-time
teacher:student ratio will be appropriate, as agreed by the Borrower and
the Bank, for the academic and research programs of the Polytechnic and that
class sizes will not exceed the number of students for which teaching spaces
are to be constructed.
4.15      Valencia Polytechnic.  The proposed project would include $2.7 mil-
lion for laboratory equipment and $0.8 million to equip a computer center at
the new Polytechnic University of Valencia. The equipment would allow a)
students to follow a more practical curriculum of laboratory teaching, b)
introduction of civil and industrial engineering programs, and c) expansion
of enrollment from 2,000 at present to about 4,000 in 1980. The government
has provided assurances that enrollments will be carefully phased in
accordance with national plans and capacity to recruit new staff.
4.16      Lists have been prepared which are modest and adequate in the amount
and choice of equipment. The computing facilities would be used to teach
computer technology as a regular part of university engineering studies and
rationalize administrative procedures. Technical assistance would be required
for the development of a plan for efficiently utilizing the computing facilities
in priority areas. The plan, agreeable to the Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement for this project item.
Planning Higher Education
4.17      In view of the need to exercise control over enrollments in higher
education (para. 2.11) and to ensure that investments are made in areas of
highest priority, the government has agreed to establish a permanent
technical secretariat in the National Board of Universities. The purpose
of this secretariat, to be comprised of full-time specialists in planning,
economics of education and operations research, will be to prepare national
plans for higher education, including engineering, in accordance with
educational and economic priorities. Its first plan is to be prepared
within two years of signing of the proposed loan.
Institutes of Education
4.18      The effectiveness of the reform in technical/vocational education
will depend on an adequate supply of properly trained teachers, but such
training is not offered at present. To assist in providing this training,
the project would include three new Institutes of Education (grades 16 and
18), at the Barcelona Polytechnic, Valencia Polytechnic and at Sevilla
University. The latter would also offer training for academic teachers and
would include three experimental practice schools: basic general, compre-
hensive secondary and vocational training. In addition, a branch of the
Institute of Education in Valladolid would be established at the Palencia
Agricultural Institute for agricultural teacher training. Whlen completed,
the Institutes would have a capacity for 850 students (university graduates
or diploma holders) in five-month courses and would graduate about 1,500
practical teachers and 200 general teachers annually. From 1975, when the
project institutes would be in full operation, they would satisfy about 35%
of the annual needs for agricultmural teachers and vocational teachers (Annex 13).



- 17 -
The Institutes also would offer upgrading courses during the evenings and
summers to about 2,500 in-service teachers and administrators annually. Plans
are being formulated to train additional technical teachers at the Madrid
Polytechnic and other Institutes of Education.
Management and Staffing of Project Institutions
4.19      The required number (para. 4.02) of teachers for the comprehensive
secondary and post-secondary institutions in the project can be produced
through the present Institutes of Education and existing post-graduate
courses; however, until vocational and technical teacher training is
established, the project vocational centers would need to recruit their
staffs from the existing teacher force. Consequently, it would be necessary
to develop retraining programs for introducing traditional teachers to
the new curricula and teaching methods. Moreover, in view of the pioneering
and experimental roles of the project institutions and to ensure adequate
staff, managers and most teachers would need to be appointed on a full-time
basis. Therefore, the government has provided assurances that prior to the
opening dates of the institutions included in the Project:
Si) the principal administrators of each institution,
and a number of additional supervisory staff at the
Barcelona Polytechnic to be agreed with the Bank, will
be appointed to work on a full-time basis;
(ii) where technically feasible all teachers at the project
secondary schools, and at least 60% of the required
teaching staffs (para. 4.02) at all other project
institutions, will be appointed to teach on a full-time
basis; and
(iii)  On the basis of a training program acceptable to the Bank,
teachers of the comprehensive secondary schools and voca-
tional training centers will he given training, where tech-
nically feasible, on the new curricula, teaching methods and
equipment relevant to their specializations.
Technical Assistance
4.20      Technical assistance, amounting to US$1.4 million, is currently
being provided by the UNDP and Ford Foundation to strengthen general teache
training and research at the National Research Center for Educational Devel-
opment. This assistance does not cover vocational curricula development,
technical teacher training or university planning, three key areas of both
the reform plan and the project items. The proposed project would fill this
gap by including the cost of specialists and fellowships needed for the above
areas. Assistance, as presented in Appendix 3, would be provided mainly (i)
in curricula development and management training for the vocational training
centers, (ii) in university planning, administrative reorganization and
academic programs for the Barcelona Polytechnic, and (iii) in vocational
teacher training programs at the project Institutes of Education.



- 18 -
Cost of the Project
4.21      The estimated construction costs for the proposed project have
been derived from recent school building costs in Spain and from experiences
with the first project. Costs of construction reflect the requirements of
the new curricula and for the introduction and use of modern techniques and
education techology. Space requirements are based on detailed schedules
of accommodation for each institution. Depending upon the type of school,
use factors vary between 75-85% for classrooms and between 60-80% for prac-
tical rooms on the basis of 30-40 hours per week (Annex 19).
4.22      The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the items
in the proposed project are summarized below 1/.
Pesetas               U.S. Dollars       % of
(millions)              (millions)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local Foreign Total  Total
39 Comprehen-
sive Secondary
Schools           1,344.6    446.1  1,790.7   20.9   6.9    27.8   22.4
37 Vocational
Training
Centers           1,789.4    933.7  2,723.1   27.7  14.5    42.2   34.0
Palencia Agri-
cultural Tech-
nicial Institute    53.5      22.0      75.5    0.8   0.4       1.2    1.0
Barcelona Polytech-
nic University   1,895.8    910.3  2,806.1   29.4  14.1    43.5   35.0
Valencia Polytech-
nic University       92.0    133.6    225.6    1.4   2.1       3.5    2.8
Four Teacher Train-
ing Institutes      158.2     52.6    210.8    2.5   0.8       3.3    2.7
Technical
Assistance         12.2     79.3      91.5    0.2   1.2      1.4    1.1
Project
Administration    79.2       -        79.2    1.2  --        1.2    1.0
Total            5,424.9  2,577.6  8,002.5   84.1  40.0   124.1  100.0
Contingencies   1,143.3    686.8  1,830.1   17.8  10.6    28.4   22.9
Project
TOTAL COST       6,568.2  3,264.4  9,832.6  101.9  50.6   152.5
say, 50 million
1/   Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 20.



- 19 -
4.23      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
factors equal to 8.8% of the estimated cost of civil works, furniture, equip-
ment and services. A provision for 14.1% in price increases also is included,
based on recent average annual increases in Spain and Europe. Foreign and
local prices have been treated separately. Altogether, the contingency
allowances amount to 22.9% of the total project cost excluding contingencies
(Annex 21), or 18.6% including contingencies.
4.24      The foreign exchange component has been calculated on the basis
of i) 18% for building and site development, ii) 21% for furniture, iii) 59%
for equipment, iv) 95% for fellowships, v) 85% for specialists, and vi) 5%
for professional fees. The estimated foreign exchange component totals
US$50 million, or about 33% of the total project cost of US$152.5 million.
4.25      Unit capital costs per place, US$836 for secondary schools,
US$1,440 for vocational centers, US$2,725 for the agricultural institute,
and US$1,550 for the institutes of education, are within the ranges of
costs of other Bank projects (Annex 19). The cost per place at the Barcelona
Polytechnic University, US$3,730, compares with costs of previous Bank
projects in engineering education (Singapore US$3,640 (1971) and Zambia
US$3,720 (1969)).
4.26      At full operating capacity the project institutions would require
Ptas. 3.3 billion in annual operating costs per year, corresponding to
about 2.0% of the projected recurrent budget of the Ministry of Education
by 1980. The Barcelona Polytechnic is expected to reach an annual operating
budget of just over Ptas. 1 billion, or 1.9% of the projected higher educa-
tion budget (Annex 16). All these project items have priority in the reform
program and the government will meet its share of the project capital costs
and the resulting recurrent expenditures.
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01      The project would be implemented over a period of four and one
half years after signing the loan agreement; the secondary schools would be
completed in two years owing to advanced designs, vocational schools in
three years, and the Barcelona Polytechnic in four years (Chart 6). An
additional six months would be required for completion of payments and
withdrawals.
Administration
5.02      The Project Unit established within the Ministry of Education to
supervise implementation of the first project would also be responsible for
the financial and administrative control of the second project, The
Director of the Unit would continue to report directly to the Under-Secretary
of the Ministry of Education. A vocational educator and procurement officer,



- 20 -
together with appropriate supportive staff, would be added to the Project
Unit. In addition, a Project Sub-Unit would be established within the first
Project Unit for the purpose of supervising the part of the project relating
to the Barcelona Polytechnic University. This is necessary because of (a)
the special characteristics and complexity of the proposed institution, and
(b) the magnitude of construction and equipment involved. The Barcelona
Project Sub-Unit would be comprised of a Director, architect, procurement
officer and an engineering educator. The Director of this Sub-Unit would
report to the head of the first Project Unit and would maintain liaison with
the Rector of the University.
5.03      The responsibilities of the first Project Unit would remain sub-
stantially the same, namely, (i) supervision of project implementation,
(ii) coordination with the Ministries and other agencies involved in the
project, (iii) liaison with the Bank, and, in addition, (iv) supervision of
the Sub-Project Unit. Both Units would prepare comprehensive project
implementation charts regularly in order to minimize delays in implementation.
The first charts summarizing major events are to be prepared within 90 davs
after the effective date of the loan. These charts will be revised and
modified at least tri-monthly until completion of the project.
5.04      The expansion of the first Project Unit, and establishment and opera-
tion of the Barcelona Polytechnic Project Sub-Unit, as specified above, includ-
ing the appointment of principal officers in consultation with the Bank, and
adequate supporting staff, would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
Professional Services
5.05      Consultant architects would be employed by the Project Units to
design the buildings, prepare working drawings, assist in the evaluation of
civil works bids and in overall supervision of construction. Routine super-
vision at the building sites would be carried out by the provincial offices
of the Construction Department of the Ministry of Education. The Borrower may
choose an alternative approach for the comprehensive secondary schools and
vocational centers in which bids for final design and construction would be
awarded on the basis of preliminary designs, specifications and cost estimates
prepared by consultant architects. Under this procedure, whlch is the usual
practice of the Spanish government, the civil works contractors would prepare
working drawings to be reviewed by the consultant architects. Consultants
would be employed to prepare master plans, including complete briefing
papers, for the vocational centers and the Barcelona Polytechnic University.
The government has provided assurances that consultants acceptable to the
Bank will be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Sites
5.06      Locations have been selected for each institution in the project
according to a national school location map, which adequately reflects the
needs for new schools. School sites are to be provided by the government
without cost to the project. Satisfactory sites for all project institutions



- 21 -
have been selected  with the exception of the secondary schools and vocational
training centers; approximately 40% of these sites have yet to be chosen.
During loan negotiations the government gave assurances that title to all sites
will be acquired prior to the scheduled start of construction.
Procurement
5.07      Contracts for civil works, furniture, and equipment would be awarded
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding.
The Project Unit and Sub-Unit would be in charge of preparing and issuing ten-
ders, evaluating bids and awarding the contracts. Detailed equipment lists
would be prepared by Spanish experts in collaboration with the Project Units,
submitted to the Bank for review prior to procurement, and grouped to the ex-
tent practicable to form sizable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement.
Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the existing rate of
duty, whichever is lower. The normal range of import duties on the furni-
ture is from 22% to 40%, and on the equipment from 0% to 47%. On furniture
and equipment coming from EEC countries duties are one to six percentage
points lower. However, the Ministry of Education has informed the Bank that
it would not he their policy to take these preferences into account in
evaluating these bids. It is expected that relatively few foreign firms would
submit bids for civil works since Spain has a well developed and competitive
construction industry. Equipment and furniture, however, are expected to
attract considerable international bidding.
5.08      The project is well within the capacity of the Spanish building
industry to implement. The estimated construction cost would be only
1.7 percent of the total construction in the country in 1970. Procedures
for tendering, evaluating bids and supervision of construction are well
established and conform to the Bank's guidelines. The Barcelona Polytechnic
University and the government employ similar auditing procedures which
are satisfactory.
Disbursement
5.09      The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange component which
is estimated to be US$50 million equivalent, approximately 33% of the total
project cost. The proposed loan would be disbursed (Annex 21) on the basis of
100% of the ex-factory price or c.i.f. price of furniture and equipment, 100%
of foreign exchange technical assistance costs, and 20% of the costs of civil
works contracts. The civil works percentage would be adjusted in the event
of cost increases to distribute dishursements over the project period. ITn-
disbursed funds would be available for cancellation.



- 22 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  Procedures and frequency of curricula development for vocational
centers; and establishment of advisory boards and placement
services; (para. 4.08);
(b) location of all relevant units of the Barcelona Polytechnic
University at the new site; and maintenance of mutually
acceptable teacher:student ratios and appropriate class
sizes (para. 4.14);
(c) limiting enrollment increases at the Valencia Polytechnic
University (para. 4.15);
(d) establishing a technical secretariat in the National Board
of Universities to prepare national plans for higher education
(para. 4.17);
(e) the appointment of principal administrators and most teachers
of project institutions on a full-time basis; and training of
teachers in the new curricula, teaching methods and equipment
(para. 4.19);
6.02      A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the satisfactory
expansion of the existing project unit and establishment and operation of
the Barcelona Polytechnic Project Sub-unit, including the appointment of
principal officers, in consultation with the Bank, and adequate supporting
staff (para. 5.04).
6.03      A condition for disbursement of Bank funds for computer equipment
at the Valencia Polytechnic would be the preparation of a development plan
for the Computer Center, agreeable to the Bank (para. 4.16).
6.04      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$50 million to Spain, for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years.



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION
1.        In August 1970 the Cortes (Parliament) approved a comprehensive
educational reform based on a widely circulated policy paper (White Paper)
which diagnosed the educational system. The new law deals only with broad
issues, leaving administrative and operational directives to be established
through ministerial regulations.  A major task of the Ministry of Education
and Science since passage of the bill has been to revise the existing regu-
lations and draft new regulations in the spirit of the reform philosophy.
2.        The basic aim of the reform plan and the law is to modernize and
rationalize education and training to ensure an efficient and productive
system, responsive to the economic and social needs and to the aspirations
of the nation in the last decades of the twentieth century. The educational
system is regarded as an organic unit. The reform takes into consideration
the fact that all part of an educational system are interrelated; a change ix.
one part creates changes in others. Therefore, all aspects of the reform
are integrated; the implications on the system as a whole from the redefini-
tion of objectives, managerial reorganization, structural changes and
curricular revisions have been considered.
3.        A comparison of Charts 1 and 2 indicates how many of the complexi-
ties of the present system will be eliminated and how new channels for further
education will be opened. Discrimination between post-primary and lower
middle, or secondary education will disappear. All students in the compul-
sory school period of ages 6-14 will have a common course of basic general
education (Grades 1-8); channelling of students thus begins at age 14 instead
of age 10. This structural change is accompanied by a change in the
curriculum of the second stage of basic general education (Grades 6-8).
Practical subjects, such as handicrafts, industrial arts, agriculture and
home economics, form an integral part of the curriculum; mathematics and
science are given new emphasis.
4.        There will be a thorough integration of vocational training and
general education. Following every major level of education school leavers
can enter a vocational center for intensive skill training which takes int.
account their previous pre-vocational training (Chart 2). Vocational trai,,
ing of at least one year will be compulsory for those who enter at the first
level. Thus waste through dropout will be minimized since all leavers may
enter vocational school at the appropriate level. By dividing vocational
training into three distinct levels, rather than offering courses parallel
to general education as before, the training can be more closely related
to occupational demands. Based on pre-vocational courses introduced under
the reform in general education, vocational training also can be more
intensive and shorter in duration. Thus the new structure of vocational
training is a major step towards making the educational system relevant
and flexible in its response to economic conditions.



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
5.        Another innovation is the new structure and reorientation of
secondary education. The reformed curricula will be based on the needs of
the students, catering for the varying aptitudes, interests and career
prospects. A common core of studies will be supplemented by additional
studies chosen by each student from a wide range of academic and technical
subjects. In addition, every student will receive instruction in one or
more technical areas which include the elements of industrial technology,
commerce, agriculture and home economics. Testing and counselling services
will enable a more appropriate channelling of students either into the
university preparatory year with its science, arts and technical branches
(and subsequently into a university), or into one of the numerous skill
courses to be offered in the second-level vocational centers, or directly
into employment better prepared for on-the-job training.
6.        Higher education institutions of full university status, including
the engineering schools, will have two cycles of education, three years and
two years. Students unable to complete a five-year course will have
improved career prospects in comparison with dropouts from the present
system on completion of the recognized first cycle and receipt of a diploma.
This new gradation of output from higher education will also enable the
educational system to be more adaptable in providing for economic demand.
Complementary vocational courses will be available for technicians and"
regular technician courses will run parallel to the first cycle of uni.versity
studies.
7.        Extensive revisions in the pattern of higher education will
accompany these structural changes. University level education will become
associated with scientific research. In the future all persons entering
the professional teaching corps will be required to dedicate at least 3V
hours per week to teaching activities, thereby greatly reducing the I'll
effects of part-time teaching. Each institution will be allowed to contract
professors directly to fill some of its vacancies. Teaching is to be
organized by department, rather than by "chairs" as in the past. This,
together with the establishment of an overall study commission in eacii
university, will allow more effective planning of curricula. The appointment
of permanent business managers and commissions to study economic problems
in each university should promote greater efficiency.
8.        Additional flexibility will be built into the educational system
through provision at a later stage for adult education and compensatory
training. Although the concepts have not been formulated adequately yet,
the objective is to allow persons in the labor force to return to formal
education and to provide meaningful continuing education for those who
have left the formal system.
9.        Primary teacher training has been upgraded and the curriculum is
being revised to meet the demands of the new basic general schools. A
further innovation is the establishment of 15 Institutes of Education within
the universities to train secondary and higher teachers, to undertake



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
research under the auspices of the coordinating body, the National Center
for Educational Research, and to provide educational advisory services at
the national and regional levels. Three new Institutes will be created
within the polytecnic universities to train teachers in practical subjects.
10.       Teaching methods will be introduced which involve the students
more actively and the potential of modern educational technology will be
explored systematically. Examination practices are being revised and the
flow of students within the basic level is being made smoother by a process
similar to automatic promotion. The changes are likely to have a beneficial
impact on reducing repetition and dropout. To maintain and improve academic
standards compulsory teacher training, full-time teaching and guidance
services will be introduced. To further improve efficiency the workload
of students is to be increased from 24 to 32 hours a week at first and
second level and from 180 to 210 days per year.
Implementation of the Reform
11.       According to a timetable published by the Ministry of Education
implementation of the reform will be phased over ten years (Chart 3).
Implementation started in the academic year 1970/71 for grades 1-4 of basic
general education and was extended to grade 5 in 1971/72; it will reach
grade 6 of basic education, the first year of vocational training and the
first year of secondary education in 1972/73 and successive grades in the
following years.
12.       Other ministerial decrees have (i) made basic general education
free and compulsory for state schools and cooperating private schools, (ii)
established governmental control over fees charged by private educational
centers, (iii) created pilot and experimental centers for testing the
reforms, (iv) eliminated the terminal examination at the lower bachillerato
level in favor of continuous joint evaluation of a student's progress,
(v) developed an experimental course for basic general education and the
university orientation course and (vi) established a broader degree of
university autonomy with regard to financing and contracting of professors.
13.       Perhaps the most important step towards implementing the reform in
the long run has been the reorganization of the Ministry of Education and
Science is accordance with the new legal responsibilities placed upon it.
This reorganization has created four functional directorates to achieve a
greater degree of coordination among the various types and levels of educa-
tion, namely: Directors General of (i) Pedagogical Planning, which includes
curricula planning and teacher training, (ii) Programming and Investments,
which covers matters related to educational planning and budgeting, (iii)
Personnel and (iv) Technical Services. Vocational training and university
affairs are major divisions carried over from the previous organization.
An important feature of the administrative reform is the delegation of
responsibility for managing, coordinating, programming and budgeting to the
provincial level. This decentralized administration will be established



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
by 1973 in each of the 50 provinces; it already exists in areas such as
Galicia, Andalucia, Canary Islands, Cadiz, Tierra de Campos and Catalunia.
Training courses for provincial office personnel have been organized by
the National School of Public Administration and the middle level inspecto-
rate is being reinforced. Still to be addressed is the chronic problem
of dividing responsibilities for various types of education among ministries
of government.
14.       The Third Plan (1972-1975) outlines the government's long range
enrollment targets to 1980 and its physical and financial proposals for
implementing the reform. The priority is to achieve universal basic
education by 1975 and to increase access to first level vocational training.
Enrollment projections to implement the reform, shown in Annex 8, are
summarized below by level:
ENROLLMENT TARGETS
Thousands of Students       % Age Group
Age Group       1970/1  1975/6  1980/1           1980/1
First Level
Pre-school                2-5           834     957      995             39.4
Basic General             6-13        5,069   5,557   5,100              99.5
Vocational Training 1   14-15           155     267      292             22.4
Second Level
Comprehensive Secondary 14-16           202     626   1,370              70.0
University Orientation   17             50       106     226             35.1
Vocational Training 2    17             28       55      256             39.8
Third Level
First Cycle              18-20         264      352      472             25.0
Second Cycle             21-22          55        82     124             10.0
Doctorate                23-24           3        12      48              4.1
Vocational Training 3    21              0         6      25              4.0
About half of the total education investment in the III Plan will be used to
construct one million new places for basic general education (mostly for a
consolidation scheme in rural areas and to accommodate rural migration to
towns), and 125,000 places for first level vocational training. University
level will receive Ptas.17.1 billion to create six new general universities.
In addition, 200,000 new comprehensive secondary places will be constructed
as well as 50 centers for adult education.
15.       The success of the reform will depend greatly on the capacity of
the government to expand the output of newly trained teachers. Based on
the above enrollment targets, the following number of additional teachers
will be required by broad specialization annually during the 1970's
(Annex 13):



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
Annual Teacher Requirements
1970-75              1976-80
Ac     cSubjcts (Total)                7,400                 8,200
Basic General                        4,800                2,700
Secondary                            2,600                5,500
Practical Subjects (Total)             4,100                 4,500
Basic and Secondary                  2,700                1,500
Vocational, of which:                1,400                3,000
Agriculture                        (300)                (700)
Industry/Services                (1,100)               (2,300)
While the 15 Institutes of Education are capable of producing the needed
numbers of academic teachers, efforts will need to be made to organize
courses for teachers of practical subjects in the polytechnics.
16,       The following table indicates the level of recurrent expenditures
necessary to carry out the plans for reform (Annex 16):
Recurrent Expenditures on Education
(Billions of Ptas.)
Actual         Estimated   Projection (1970 prices)
1960   1968        1970          1975           1980
1.  GDP              576.6  1,681        2,087         2,886          3,923
2. Recurrent
Public
Expenditures      75.7    318          424           710          1,178
3. Recurrent
Education
Expenditures
Public             5.5      26.5        46            98            164
4. Recurrent
Education
Expenditures
Total             10.0      37.0        66           118            210
(4) as % of (1)         1.7      2.2         3.2           4.1             5.4
(3) as % of (2)        7.3       8.3        10.8          13.8            13.9



APPENDIX 1
Page 6
17.       Public recurrent expenditures on education are expected to grow by
13.6% p.a., exceeding the projected annual increase in total public recurrent
expenditures (10.8%), but less than the 17% p.a. increase achieve(d by educa-
tional recurrent expenditures in the 1960s. The achievement of these levels
of expenditure will depend mainly on the generation of additional public
revenues and on inter-sectorial priorities.
18.       In short, the effectiveness of this strategy for reform depends
upon an adequate response to the need for (i) refining and applying the
concepts of the reform in vocational, technical and polytechnic education,
(ii) the establishment of programs for training practical teachers; and (ili)
control of enrollments, especially in higher education, to keep the supply
and demand of manpower in reasonable balance and to limit recurrent
expenditures.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
FEATURES OF THE SECOND PROJECT
Vocational Training
1.        The goal is to produce adaptable workmen.  Courses at the first
level (Grades 9-10) would start with six months of basic training in tech-
niques common to a variety of occupations. This would be followed by more
intensive training in a narrower range of skills performed in a related
group of occupations. Training would be made to approximate real working
conditions by integrating practical and theoretical aspects of workshop
practice and by interspersing institutional training with brief work expe-
riences. Graduates would be prepared to gain experience on the job and to
upgrade their skills further through various non-formal courses. Courses
at the second vocational level (Grade 12), following on practical courses
offered in the new secondary curriculum, would be limited to skill-intensive
training over a six to twelve month period.
Engineering Education - The Barcelona Polytechnic
2.        The project would make fundamental changes in the quality of
engineering education. A new structure would be introduced in higher
education. Following selection at the end of the third year, 550 students
would take a short terminal technician course for a diploma at another lo-
cation, thus helping to achieve a better balance between engineering and
technician enrollments. Curricula for the first time would follow an over-
all integrated pattern and would be supervised by a studies commission.
Courses would be offered by 15 departments to be created (none exists at
present). About 1,000 class hours at practical instruction in labs (26%
of the total over 5 years) would be included, vs. 70 at present. Each
student of the five-year course would have three on-the-job experiences
in industry to complement his academic training. Class hours would be kept
at 25 per week (vs. 35-40 at present) to allow time for independent study.
Three research institutes would be established to develop closer links be-
tween industry and teaching. These institutes, in petro-chemicals, cyber-
netics (automatic control devices), and construction, would be directed by
teaching staff and financed largely through contracts with private enter-
prise and would allow advanced students a chance to apply their knowledge
in solving real problems.
3.        An estimated 730 teaching staff will -be required when the poly-
technic is in full operation, corresponding to a teacher-student ratio of
1:13, a significant improvement over the 1:20 equivalent at present. About
60% would teach full-time vs. 19% at present. All teaching staff would
undergo training in pedagogical techniques at the attached Institute of
Education. The Technical Cabinet of the Polytechnic has prepared a staff
development plan showing annual recruitment by department to move from the



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
present stock of 640 professors (270 full-time equivalent) to the 730
required by 1980. This task is greatly facilitated by the new Education Law
which streamlines recruitment procedures in allowing universities to contract
personnel directly.
4.        The proposed Barcelona Polytechnic would also be a more productive
institution than at present. Dropout and repeater rates were so high
between 1966 and 1971 that it took the equivalent of about 24 years of
classroom space and teacher effort for each student who graduated. At
the average operating cost per year, US$540 (1968 average at 1971 prices)
it cost about US$13,000 to produce a graduate.  The annual per student op-
erating cost of the new institution owing to the above improvements in qual-
ity, is expected to be about US$1,540 (1971 prices), almost three times as
high as is being spent on traditional engineering education. flowever, qual-
itative changes are expected to reduce the amount of time it takes to produce
a graduate to about eight student years, or a total cost of about US$12,300
per graduate. In short, it would cost more for each student enrolled in
school, but slightly less for each graduate.
5.        Acceptable schedules of accommodation have been prepared with
Bank assistance. Space utilization would be efficient, about 60% for
laboratories and 75% for classrooms, based on a 40 hour week. A central
laboratory would be provided for expensive equipment to ensure accessability
and efficient use. Residential facilities would be provided for 3,300 stu-
dents out of 9610.



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The proposed project includes a provision for 35 man/years of
specialist services and 36 man/years of fellowships to help implement the
project items and related reforms. The total cost is estimated at US$1.4
million, 3% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the total project,
of which US$1.2 million would be for specialist services and US$0.2 million
for fellows. The technical assistance is intended mainly to help in build-
ing up an apparatus for managing the project institutions and in training
Spanish management to take over the institutions. The detailed outline
which follows is a preliminary estimate which may be altered during imple-
mentation.
2.        Specifically, the technical assistance would include:
(a) Vocational Training:
(i)   Two hundred man/months of fellowships at 4 months each
for 50 directors of the centers and two man/years of
expert services to develop local training programs for
managers;
(ii)   Eight man/years of expert services on job analysis,
and curricula development, including programmed instruc-
tion to develop pilot programs in mechanics.
(iii)   One man/year of expert services on facility design and
construction.
(b) Agricultural Technical Institute at Palencia:
(i)   Six man/months of fellowships for the director and
one man/year for a resident advisor on the adminis-
tration and academic program;
(ii)   Twenty man/months of fellowships at four months each
for five department heads.
(c) Barcelona Polytechnic University:
(i)   Twelve man/months of fellowships and three man/years
of expert services in university planning;
(ii)   Twelve man/months of fellowships and two man/years of
advisory services on administration and organization;
(iii)   Ninety man/months of fellowships and four man/years of
expert services on planning the academic program by
department;



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
(iv)   Twelve man/months of fellowships and 3 man/years of
advisory services on such topics as preparation of
equipment lists, layout of laboratories, cooperative
programs with industry and in-service teacher training;
(v)   Four man/years of fellowships and 3 man/years of advisory
services in developing the computer centers at both
Barcelona and Valencia.
(d) Institutes of Education: Thirty-two man/months of fellowships
and three man/years of expert services on the development of
teacher training courses in technical, vocational and agri-
cultural subjects.
(c) National Board of Universities: Two man/years of expert serv-
ices in establishing a technical secretariat for planning higher
education.
(d) Educational Complexes: Three man/years of expert services for
developing master plans for multi-purpose educational centers.
3.        All specialists would be acceptable to the Bank and would be
selected under the Bank's guidelines for selecting consultants. The
recruitment and supervision of the technical assistance would be carried
out by the respective project units. Implementation would extend through
1975, as shown in the Annex to this Appendix.



S P A I N
SCHEDLE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE*    (Calendar Years)
1972            1 9 7 3                1   7         -1 9 7 5                  Total
Specialists in:                  3rd            Q U A R T d    -        U A R T E R   -          A R T E R        Man/
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ _  ~J~~h   ~ Ist    2nd    3rd 14th Ist    2nd      lt    2d      rd    4th  Months
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
A.  Training Programs
for Management                                                                                                   2L
B. Job Analysis                                  1    1    1    1                                                      12
C. Curriculum Development                        1    1    5    1       1    1    5    14                             60
D. Programmed Instruction:                                                                                                  132
Mechanics                                             1    1       1    1    1    1       1    124
E. Facility Design and Construction                                     1    1    1    1                              12
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
Curricula Development and Adminis.                         1                      1                      2             12    12
BARCELONA POLYTECHNIC
A. University Planning               1    1      1    1    3    1       1    1    2                                    36
B. Administration and
Organization                                          1                      2            1    1    2    1        2
C. Curricula Planning                                                  4                                 8             48
D. Equipment Lists                                          2    1      112   1
E. Placement                                                                      1                      16
F. laboratory Layout                                       1    1                                                       61
G.  In-Service Teacher Training                                                   2                      2             12J
VALENCIA & BARCELONA
Development of Computer Centers                  1    1    1    1       1    1    2    1       1    1    1             36    36
INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
Developing Training Courses                      1    1    3    1       1    1    3    1                               36    36
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY COUNCIL
High Level Manpower Planning                     1    1    1    1       1    1    1    1                               24    24
EDUCATIONAL COMPLEXES
Master Plans for Multi-purpose
Educational Centers                                        1    1      2    2    2    2       1    1                  36    36
T O  T A  L                     1    1      7    7   26   11      11   10   28    9       4    4    20   1             420x |
$ R-fh ,iiH;it m rifies three man-months of professional services, except for the summary columns at the right.






SPAIN: STRUCTURE OF THE TRADITIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
| a          HIGHER EDUCATION
-MIDDLE LEVEL EDUCATION                                                                         LABOR
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                                                  UNIVERSITIES                            FORCE
MEDICAL FACULTIES
ARTS AND SOCIAL SCIENCE          DOCTORATE    PRCOFESSION AL
HIGHE  TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
KEY                                                                    UPPER                          ENGINEERING                 DOCTORA
*   Lover Bachilierto                                                SCHOOLS
3Bachillerato                                                      ARTS
TECHNICIAN TRAINING INSTITUTES
II Pre-Uni-ersity Year                                               SCIENCE
El Evening Classes                                                                 PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING CENTERS                                TECHNICIAN
TECHNICAL       --         -       -       -       -^-_ S-_I                     LEVEL
Courses Outside the
Formal Syre1                                                                   MARINE & FISHING TRAINING CENTERS
"-__--"~~~~~--   - --                - Q -- - - -  - -- -- -- - --
Accelerated Training
Agricultural or Industrial                                               COMMERCIAL SCHOOLS
@) Shills lPPO)                                                                           _       _f _i L i         m      u         m n
LICENCIADO                                                                          l
[: INGENIERO                                                                        3
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING SCHOOLS                                            SKILLED WORKER
LOWER SECONDARY                           ,,-      "Capt_acSILEDWOKE
SCHOOLS              mmmmm-9.),m                    -                                                  LEVEL
P.P.0.
OCATIONAL CENTERS          a  a                                             @             O
"l.wici-ro"        "otic,aha"aa
SEMI AND UNSKILLED WORKER LEVEL
PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                                                            E-IAStC AGRICULTURAL TRAINING |
COURSE                                                                                                            "P~~~~~~~~~~" lante e I
YEAR 1                                                                                                                                                 QD   o    rrrrrrrrrnnnnnnnnrrrrP~~L
GRADE   1       2       3      4       5       6      7       8       9      10      11     12      13     14      15      16     17      18
AG,  OF  i      l       l       l      l       l       l      l       l       l      l                              i i    i
ENTRY   6       7       a      9       10     11      12      13     14      15      16     17      18     19      20      21     22      23
COMPULSORY LOUCATION                          AUTHORITIES
1) VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS: Minisrp of Education: Mintiary of Labor: Syndicrte SchIool, Labor Unicorsitaes; Church, Private
2) AGRICULTURE: Ministry of Agriculture
3) MARINE and FISHING: Ministrv of Con-erce                                                                          I
4) ACCELERATED TRAINING: Ministry of Labor (Programa de Promocion de Obrer-PPO); Ministry of Agriculture             >
Woeld san-k62651Ri 






SPAIN: REFORMED STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
LABOR FORCE
DOCTORATE               PROFESSIONALS
KEY                                                                                                                                                  6        7.......N
KEY                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNIVERSITIES (ARTS & SCIENCE)OCTR EPO   510AL
* Bachillerato                                                                                        I I                                    1
o  Diplom,ado                                                                                                                                          ...........................
* Licenciado                                                                                                                                          DOCTORATE
0  Ingeniero
z Ingenlero ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POLYTECHNIC UNIVERSITIES  
VT 1:vocational Training: First Level
::VT 2:Vocati-nal Training: Second Level
:: T 3 Vocational Training: Third Level
UOC University Orientation Course
C  Cornpeeat-ry Training for Reentry                                         _      _ _       _._._._._
to For-aI Education                                                                                                           INSTITUTES OF EDUCATION
J3A Adaptation Course
A- en.at.d Non forr,r1 Training in.
OAgricltural and Industria Skills                                                 l|                                                                     ....................
-Institutions Included in Proposed                                                                                                  VT3
Second Prolect t
TECHNICIAN                        a       0...........................  TECHNICIANS
INSTITUTES
i3_    UNIVERSITY SCHOOLS.
COMPREHENSIVE SECONDARY                           I
SCHOOLS                                                   .....................................
BASIC GENERAL SCHOOLS
...........  -             '',SKILLED WORKERS
A
SECOND CYCLE       |                          *                                                                     0 0 0 0 0 0                      u           i4<<***-*******|^ (
d}9Gq3 ~~~~~~~.............                      ........................                      ........    .I......
FIRST CYCLE
------------L     AD.............................................................................          UNSEMI-SKILLED AND
D _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~UNSKILLED WORKERS
GRADE    1         2        3       4                          7        8        9       10       11       12      13       14       15             16       17         18       19          A
AGE       6        7       8        9        10       11      12       13       14       15       16       17      18       19       20             21       22         23       24
1            FIRST CYCLE              I.    SECOND CYCLE   .1                        |                          FIRSTCYCLE41            SECOND            DOCTORATE
BASIC GENERAL EDUCATION -             .       .         SECONDARY EDUCATION           4|4                    HIGHER EDUCATION
World Bank-6276(3R) Ni






SPAIN
SCHEDULE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM, 1970-71 - 1980-81
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__                   I                           I                   I         I I      I  
Academic Years
Level and Type             1970-71 1971-72 1972-73 1973-74  1974-75 1975-76  1976-77 1977-78 1978-79 1979-80 1980-81
I. FIRST LEVEL
A.  Basic General (First Cycle     1-4  |
B.   Basic General (Second Cycle) I                   6
C.  Vocational Training 1- _- _   _         - - -11                                          2 -           , -                          |
IL. SECOND LEVEL
A.  Unified Secondary          _                   E    |1 | l      2   | ||          |]             3 | 
B.  Compensatory Course                                                                     1
C .   V o c a t i o n a l   T r a i n i n g   2. _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
D.   University  Orientation  Course         E_____ --------    -------------L- .        -         --------
Ill. THIRD LEVEL
A.  Technician Schools                                                                             ---
B.  Polytecnic (First Cycle)            j                    EI_IiI__I_liilI |I 1
C.  University (First Cycle)-___      --      -                                                            I2----3--
D.  Vocational Training 3____       ..             _______-._______-_______-|-1-| -------L---- 1w-
E.   University (& Polytecnic)                              ___                    4     |      1----_             _|4 |    5
(Second Cycle)              _           _--_                                                                               _
F.  Doctorate ---J 6----- -- -------------------                                                   D E
Experimentation                        -t
Nation-wide Implementation  Numbers refer to grades.
* Implementation Completed
Source: Ministry of Education, "Implantation de la Reformna del Sistema Educativa."                                    World 8ank-6292(2R)






SPAIN
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, 1971
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
MINISTER
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL                             TECHNICAL OFFICE
|ADMINISTRATIVE OFCE     
*   |          ~~UNDER-SECRETARY          
SECRETARIAT   | | DIRECTOR GENERAL      DIRECTOR GENERAL      DIRECTOR GENERAL        DIRECTOR GENERAL       DC     G              DIRECTOR GENERAL      D
TECHNICAL SERVICES    OF PEDAGOGICAL        OF VOCATIONAL        PROGRAMMING AND           UNIVERSITIES          OF FINE ARTS           ARCHIVES &             PERSONNEL
PLANNING              TRAINING            INVESTMENTS             & RESEARCH                                    LIBRARIES
&LANNING        UNIVERSITY
STUDENTPLANNINGIA                                              FINEARTSISSOIALTAION
TECNICALVICE  CURRICUL-A  AFAIRS          PROGRAMMING              REGULATIIONS 
|   PROV5NCIAL    | |  o  <  |   IN5PECTORATE  l    ~~OCIA  MATERS
METHODS  ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ BDGTPESNNLPERSONNEL
& AUTOMTION  &  VALUATON             TRIIGFINANCIN                                 PESONE
TEACHER             PERMANENT            EDUCATIONAL               RESEARCH
TRAININO                         C& SPECIALSERERE  
TRAINITEDUCATION            CENTRES
UNIVERSITY
CENTRES
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION
I 
50 PROVINCIAL DELEGATI1ONS77
CLrNCI J                 EA   D  SRTECHNICAL
CUCL              LEAjDVSRINSPECTORATE
PROVINCIAL SECRETAR
ADMINISTRATIVEJ       I cuLTURAL
P  SERVICES             ACTIVITIES             PROGRAMMING           CONSTRUCTION0
I
World Bank-6256(2R)






SPAIN: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1967-1968
BY AGE AND LEVEL OF EDUCATION
AGE                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
30     __  _ __   _ __   _ _
29                                     . . .           . .
28                                                                                 __
27..                                                                               ..
26..
25                                                                                                     q   . . - .  . .
24
23
22                                                                                                             ...
21
20
18
14
1 3
1 2
1 0
9                   F
8
7
4
3..
300        20          20         10          10          s                        0101                             200        250         300
(IN  THOUSANDS)
1:  Total popuation in agegroup              Primar                                               Vocational and Primary Teacher Training>
Pre-School                                    Secondary General and Technical                       Higher Education 
World Bank - 4693(4R)






CHART 6
S P A I N
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FIRST YEAR               SECOND YEAR                THIRD YEAR               FOURTH YEAR               FIFTH YEAR
1     2      3     4      5     6      7     8      9     10 I  l      12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
COMPREHENSIVE SECON'ARY
Professional Services                      **o   000            6      4     4      6     6      J     6      4      6
Civil Works                                             BB+   +++   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx
Furniture & Equipment                                   =BB   B++   ++v   vw    vvv   vvv   v
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Profe ssional Services                     **M   MMB   Moo   000   o          6     4     6      6      6     6      6     6      6     6      6
Civil Works                                                           BB   B++   4+x   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xx
Furniture & Equipment                                   ===          BBB   +++   ++v   vvv   vvv    vvv    v    wv
AGRICULTURE TECHNICAL TRAINING
Professional Services                      ***   MIM   o0o    ooo            .4     . 06         6      4     6      6     6      4     6
Civil Works                                                          BBB    -.          xx    xxx   xxx   xxx
Purniture & Equipment                                                      =BB   B++   ++v   vvv   vvv  vwv   w
BARCELONA POLYTECHNIC
Professi-oal Services                      **M   MMM   MM.o  .oo    ooo   ..0   00 o             $      4     6      6 d          6 J          6      4     6      l
Civil Works                                                                             BEB  -H+   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx    cX
Furniture & Rquipment                                                                          BBB   ++   -+   vwv   vvv   wv   vwv   vvv
VALENCIA POLYTECHNIC
Computer                                                                    = =          BBB   +++   +- w vvv   vvv             v
Teaching Equipment                                                   BBB   +++   +vv   vwv  VSv   VV
TEACHER TRAINING CENTERS
Professional Services                      **o   000 000       00             6     4      4     6      4     4      4      .4    4      4
Civil Works                                                      B   BB+   ++-   xxx    xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx
Furniture & Equipment                                          =       B   BB+   +++   vvv   vv-v  vvv   vw    v
Technical Assistance -T                                                           TTTTT   TT   TTT   TTT   TTT   TTT   TTT   TTT
Legend:  * - Design and planning teams appointed                                      + - Tender and contract awards
M - Master plan development                                                  x - Construction
o - ArchitecLural design                                                       - Preparation of master lists
- Co-stru-tion supervision                                                v - Manufacturing and reception
B - Bank reiew                                                              T - Technical assistance
1/  -cr nc tails on technieal assistance see Annex  .






n   -  x n w c o o 8-        8 n         .C>ss8    o     
' -4- t8 -m  >-        8;>g      8      n   iv    X    8 .L I-oa       f
__~~~~~~~t                                    j
m   >P>F>F>>Wt@@  9:FFFMO@<&894C8C gX2.4B
W~~~~~~~~18   &-                                                                                 8-I     X>XNXBOE      
E ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     444               4.48- n ';- 3   SS- 7                                      -. 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 3I   8-8IE
W_s_- __s_~~~~8 C8-8
-   OW 44.4444   -U                                                                                             "'-'           8- >v   OOSS;:eS     S;OWW OeWu;ji      o
m~~~~~~~~~~~ -WntUWWm.                                       OUWr                   
WG.7WS   ss     E   Sowi _SS9g wtw   XSwWS  gi'i=SW   twww  wo: owoe o__   w ei iiv_ws  wSSi    | w       2$-
.~~~~ '; I;tM; _ > >VMf>WP         >>>PD      > ;;;                       ?z.        
E  wwWW9G>bS_  ie_w  wwe i vee-ie owwo_o.wszvoi~ sWo iwleoSwvoW n | c  5t<;18-
r   w   m n   G   < W    P W   W W              n                j o w n n n    l  G         _1
xweow x wweW S wvw_c    gs   w    owPz   >~gsr   Sorwwswwo.ew rwkwi re   t   ug_w            _  a                I-'
Wn7e2  Nq   CssS    ew_sov                    w           s_.vw.avW_w ww  vow    D    w_ >.ow -w                         r GSI
O n i E w e  V   b                                                                                  M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I iG 
e~~~~~~~~ -n   3" 2-    aiooiiw  o    w.o         v            o_   _WW_ii_        t_ wtWoDi   
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~444 C4' 4448 o  w1oow-GV S   O                                    "r   W.  |-         a
18t    -E -E                                                                                                      .444<                C
CgS   yv  s      i wowwSe:g9Ye    SEYog   YYgwww gewwtweWosgsw _gv  _  _$S   C@$S$ $$$$ 4             _      8eC1 
X   W  W O   I; X X    K  KX   PW  K O    W e x   1- K   X Se            G                        X~~~~-~  18
Ann~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~- ';   ' W  ws-o9o  vwe weww W_so wWptsgiiWW                             s;w~             i         iig
e e e   sws   j;~Sp5Y8   o_wei_v   goziP>_   _:eroDs:Piiw>:owS>=- -. 8-:i;l,.4                       W 44
o>_4 W      xn    PK  -K                                                                   -4 sP     e P K X2   9<   -






SPAIN: BASIC ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(billions of Ptas.)
1960     1965      1966      1967      1968      1969      1970          1975               1980                Average Growth Rates p.a.
(prov.)   (III Plan Proj.)    (Proj. 1970           1960-70   1970-75   1970-80
(1970 prices)          prices)
l.  Population (thousands) 1/           30,583   31,762   32,127   32,452   32,783   33,113   34,033             35,572               37,659              1.1        1.0        1.0
2.  GNP (market prices)                  770.9  1,166.2  1,260.6  1,314.1  1,388.6  1,495.2  1,587.9                                                      7.5
3.  GDP (current factor cost)            576.6  1,198.3  1,372.6  1,514.0  1,681.2  1,862.8  2,087.1              2,886                3,923              7.5 2/     6.7        6.5
of which: Agriculture              136.8    215.5    241.0    243.6    271.7    280.1    277.3                321                  373             2.9        3.0         3.0
Industry                203.3    433.4    488.0    523.7    573.8    658.3    740.2             1,113                1,598              9.8        8.5         8.0
Services                236.5    549.4    643.6    746.7    835.7    924.4  1,069.6              1,452                1,952             7.7        6.3         6.2
l.  Labor Force (thousands)-/           11,817   12,177   12,284   12,405   12,520   12,593   12,732             13,542               l5,083              0.8        1.2        1.8
of which: Agriculture              4,923    4,040    3,962    3,936    3,902    3,801    3,706             3,371                2,870          (-) 2.9   (-) 2.0   (-) 2.6
Industry                3,757    4,324    4,426    4,483    4,549    4,653    4,746             5,534                6,672              2.4        3.1         3.4
Services                3,137    3,813    3,896    3,986    4,069    4,139    4,280             4,637                5,541            - 3.2        1.6         2.6
5.  Unemployment  Rate(% of
Labor Force)                         1.5       1.5       1.4       1.9       1.9       1.5      1.6           1.5                  1.5
6. Net Emigration of Labor
Force (thousands)                   38.1      56.2       0.3  (-)24.3      52.8      76.0      48.4          50.0                40.0
7. Public Current Revenues:
- absolute amount h/               105.9    233.5    268.2    369.8    404.2    471.2          n.a.          750                  n.a.                        8.0 6/
- % of GDP                          18.4      19.5      19.5      24.4     24.0      25.3      n.a.           260                 n.a.
8.  Public Expenditure: h/               101.9    227.2    263.4    352.0    390.2    458.5           n.a.          915                  n.a.                       12.2
of which: Recurrent                 75.7    171.3    198.4    280.3    318.3    365.5          n.a.           710                  n.a.                      11.7
Capital V/               26.2      55.9      65.0      71.7      71.9     93.0      n.a.           205                  n.a.                      14.0
Sources: Census Data; Contabilidad Nacional de Espana; Encuestas Sobre la Poblacion Activa (various years); Anuario Estadistico 1970; Cuentas
de las Administraciones Publicas (various years); III Plan; Staff Estimates.
v Includes Centa, Melilla and Sahara.
2/ Real growth rates.
Y  Revised series; data refer to last quarter of each year.
l/ Includes Central Government, Social Security System, Autonomous Agencies (except marketing agencies) and Local Authorities
5i Gross Fixed Investments and Capital Transfers (Net).
e Projected Growth Rate 1969-1975.






SPAIN: GlP,# Bploy'ment and Prouewti sty b  Sector 1960-1970
with FroleotionA to 19W
A. Actual and Projected Growth Rates p.a.
1960 '-1970                          1970'-1975                                 1970 -1980
GDP   Productivity  Empqoyment       GDP   Productivity   Enploynent           GDP    Productivity  Unployment
1.  Agriculture     2.9       5.8        t-) 2.9          3.0        5. o(-) 2.0                   3.0         5.7         (_) 2.6
2.  Industry        9.8       7.2            2.4          8.5        5.3           3.1             8.0         4.6             3.4
3.  Services        7.7       4.4            3.2          6.3        4.6            1.6            6.2         3.5             2.6
4. Economy          7.5       6.7            0.8          6.7        5.5            1.2            6.5         4.7             1.8
Sources:  III Plan, I.N.E., Staff Estimate.
B. Employment by Sectora
(thousands)
1960        1965        1966         1967        1968        1969         1975        1980
1.  Agriculture, Forestry
and Fishing            4,923      4,040        3,962       3,936       3,902        3,801       3,371         2,870
2.  Industry                 3,757      4,325        4,426       4,483        4,548       4,653        5,534        6,772
of which:
- Mining                 195         152         144         136         i33          126          92            54
- Manufacturing        2,645      3,123        3,185       3,210       3,252        3,345       3,912         4,808
- Construction           837        965        1,011       1,049       1,074        1,092       1,366        1,707
- Electricity, Gas
and Water               80         85           86          88           89          90          164         203
3. Services                  3,137       3,812       3,896       3,986        4,070       4,139        4,637        5,541
of which:
- Commerce               965      1,165        1,211       1,270        1,287       1,321        1,462       1,718
- Transportation         546         594         609         619          633         640          726         886
- Others               1,626      2,o53        2,076       2,097        2,150       2,178       2,449        2,937
4. Total Employment 2        11, 817    12,177      12,284      12,405       12,520      12,593       13,542      15,183
Sources: I.N.E., Poblacion Activa (various years); III Plan; Staff Estimate.
1/  Including frictional unemployment



SPAIN: EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT OF LABOR FORCE (1969)
(percentages)
Having         Having      Having
Completed      Completed  Attended
Pos-SeconHary   seconda       Primay   Illiterate    Total
1.  Farmers and Farm Workers              0.1            0.2         92.1        7.6          100.0
2. Professionals and Higher
Technicians                        72.9            9.9        17.2         ...          100.0
3. Managers and Executives                4.7           14.1         81.2         -           100.0
4. Sales Personnel                        1.3            2.5         94.6        1.6          100.0
5.  Clerical                              1.0           12.0         86.8        0.2          100.0
6.  Technicians                           4.6           71.5         23.9         -           100.0
7.  Craftsmen, Foremen                    0.1            0.6         98.3        1.0          100.0
8.  Laborers                               *--           0.1         94.5        5.4          100.0
9.  Service Workers                        ...           0.2         91.4        8.4          100.0
10. Others                                0.9            9.3         86.9        2.9          100.0
TOTAL                                 1.5            3.7        91.0         3.8          100.0
Source: Adapted from I.N.E., Encuesta Sobre la Poblacion Activa (1969)



SPAIN:  PROJECTED MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS, 1971-1980
(thousands)
1971 Manpower Stock       1980 Manpower                        Net Demand 1970-1980
1971 Manpower Stock 1/        Surviving to 1980 2/    Requirements3/
Occupational Groups                 (Rounded Figures)                                                              Replacement        Expansion          Total
1. Professional and Higher
Technicians                              190                           160                    320                     30                 130            160
2.  Managers, Executives                         170                          150                    270                     20                 100             120
3.  Sales Workers                              2,130                        1,820                  2,630                    310                 500             810
4.  Clerical                                   1,200                        1,030                  1,960                     170                760             930
5.  Technicians                                  380                          330                    660                     50                 280             330
6.  Craftsmen, Foremen                         3,350                        2,830                  4,900                    520               1,550           2,070
7.  Laborers                                   1,040                          880                    600                    160              (-)440          (-)280
8.  Service Workers                              900                          760                  1,100                     140                200             340
9.  Farmers & Farm Workers                    3,460                         2,950                  2,740                    510              (-)720          (-)210
10.  Others                                        50                           40                     -                       10             (-) 50          (-) 40
TOTAL            12,870                        10,950                 15,180                  1,920               2,310          4,230
Total Education Requirements4/         4,760
1/ Based on linear extrapolation of 1964-1969 trend in occupational coefficients.
2/ Survival factors (allowing for mortality and retirements) were applied to the Spanish occupational structure for 1971. Because of lack of data,
the retireznent coefficients used are not occupationally specific, and no allowance was made for inter-occupational mobility.
3/ The following set of occupational coefficients, derived with some adjustments from linear extrapolation of 1964-1969 trend, was used for the
projection of 1980 manpower requirements.
4/ Includes the need for retraining workers displaced by technological progress (some 280,000 laborers, 210,000 farmers and farm workers, and 40,000
workers from other occupational groups).  It does not include the need for upgrading the educational level of the existing manpower stock.
Sectors             1                 2                  3                4               5              6               7                  8
Agriculture,
Occupational                    Forestry &                         Manufacturing   Construction   Electricity,                     Transport and          Other
Groups                         Fishing            Mining           Industry          Industry      Gas & Water    Commerce    Communications           Services
1                            0.003             0.020             0.008             0.015           0.036         0.005            0.010              0.075
2                            0.001             0.013             0.025             0.028           0.016          0.030           0.010              0.010
3                            0.009             0.040             0.109             0.106           0.075          0.678           0.254              0.168
4                            0.002             0.040             0.123             0.074           0.210          0.220           0.232              0.209
5                            0.007             0.035             0.024             0.035           0.090          0.006           0.040              0.136
6                            0.020             0.610             0.630             0.667           0.519         0.040            0.419              0.034
7                            0.001             0.229             0.078             0.072           0.010         0.017            0.021              0.011
8                            0.001             0.013             0.003             0.003           0.044         0.004            0.014              0.357
9                            0.956        -     .....                               ...              ...           ...             .....
10                              -                 -                 -                 -               -              -                                  -
1.000            1.000              1.000            1.000            1.000         1.000            1.000             1.000



SPAIN: PROJECTED EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 1971-1980 1/
(thousands)
Primary Education &                   Vocational                          Other
Vocational Training                    Training                        Third Level
Occupational/Education          First Level      Comprehensive  Second Level                          (Higher
Groups       Levels         (or equivalent)       Secondary   (or equivalent)    University    Technicians)    Total
1. Professional & Higher
Technicians                                        -               32                 80             48            160
2.  Managers, Executives                 -                  84             18                 6            12             120
3.  Sales Workers                        486               243            -                                 81            810
h.  Clerical                             279               558            -                  -              93             930
5.  Technicians                           33               -              198                -              99             330
6.  Craftsmen, Foremen                 1,652               -              418                                            2,070
7.  Service Workers                      255                34             51                -             -               340
TOTAL DEMAND 1971-80               2,705               919            717               86             333          4,760
1/ The following occupation-education matrix, based on international comparison of educational requirements for new
entrants in the labor force, was used for projection.
Primary Education &                  Vocational                          Other
Vocational Training                   Training                       Third Level
Occupational/Educati cnal        First Level       Comprehensive  Second Level                       (Higher
Groups     Requirements      (or equivalent)    Secondary   (or equivalent)    University    Technicians)    Total
1                                           -            0.200             0.500          0.300          1.000
2                                         0.700          0.150             0.050          0.100         1.000
3                      0.6co              0.300            -                 -            0.100         1.000
4                      0.300              0.60o            -                              0.100          1.000
5                      0.100                -            0.600                            0.300          1.000
6                      0.800                -            0.200               -              -           1.000
7                      0.750              0.100          0.150               -              -           1.000
0\o



SPAIN: PROJEWTED DEMAND FOR ENGINEERS 1971-1980
1971 Stock
1971 Stock      Surviving to      1980 Manpower
Sectors           (estimate) 1/       1980 2/         Requirements 3/      Replacement      Expansion      Total
1. Agriculture,
Forestry and
Fishing                   176               146               378                   30             202         232
2. Mining                       543               452                 98                  91         (-) 445      (-) 354
3. Manufacturing
Industry               6,540             5,439             16,538               1,101           9,998      11,099
4. Construction
Industry               2,500             2,079             10,770                 421           8,270        8,691
5. Electricity,
Gas & Water             1,228            1,021              3,846                 107           2,618        2,725
6.  Commerce                    200               166                260                  34              60          94
7. Transport and
Communication             725              602                888                 123             163          286
8.  Other Services            6,156             5,118             10,259               1,038           4,103       5,141
TOTAL                18,068            15,023             43,037               3,000        nb-25,000   -w28,000
1/  Based on Instituto de Ingenieros Civiles de Espana, Informe MKatut.
2/  Assuming that the probability of death and retirement for engineers is the same as for the group professionals,
higher technicians, managers and executives.
3/ Staff estimate, based on the pattern of change in occupational coefficients in the period 1965-1970.
SPAIN: PROJECTED ANNUAL DEMAND FOR ENGINEERS 1971-1980
Average Annual                    Total Annual
Time                    Expnsion                       Replacements                        Demand
tl  (1971-72)             1,569                            300                              1,869
t2                        1,726                            300                              2,026
t3                       1,898                             300                              2,198
t4                        2,088                            300                              2,388
t5                        2,297                             300                             2,597
t6                        2,526                            300                              2,826
t7                        2,77n                            300                              3,078
t8                        3,056                            300                              3,356
t9                        3,362                            300                              3,662
tlO (1980-81)             3,700                            300                              4,000
TOTAL                25,000                          3,000                             28,000



S P A I N
ENROLLMENTS UNDER THE TRADITIONAL STRUCTURE (1960-1970)
AND  PROJECTIONS  FOR  THE  REFORMED  STRUCTURE (1975.1980)
Number of Students Enrolled
Actual                       Estimates              Projection               Increase 1960-1970         Increase 1970-1980
Level and Type                               1960/1          1965/6           1968/9         1970/1        1975/6           1980/1          Enrollment      %          Enrollment      %
I.  FIRST LEVEL EDUCATION (Total)                  3,859,320       4,768,040       5,545,440       6,058,430      6,781,880        6,387,000       2,199,110       57.0        328,570        5.4
A. Traditional Structure                                                                         (1,973,160)
1. Pre'School                                  } 3,387,350        3,942,190         725,180            -              -                -
2. Primary Education                                                              3,664,820         667,570           -                -
3. Elementary Bachillerato                          394,630         697,290       1,005,620       1,149,950           -                -
4. Vocational Training                               77,340         128,560         149,820         155,640           -                -
B. Reformed Structure                                                                            (4,085,270)
1. Pre-School                                          -               -               -            834,210        957,000          995,000
2. Basic General                                        -              -               -          3,251,060      5,557,490        5,100,000
3. Vocational Training - First Level                   -               -               -               -           267,390          292,000
II.  SECOND LEVEL EDUCATION (Total)                    160,570        254,170         328,050         335,630        786,800        1,852,000         175,060      109.0      1,516,370      451.8
A. Traditional Structure
1. General Bachillerato                              60,210         108,890         166,890         190,980           -                -
2. Technical Bachillerato                            23.970          49,800          32,230          11,310           -                -
3. Pre-University                                    19,220          28,110          37,500          50,400           -                -
4. Vocational Training                               11,030          19,070          24,900          27,940           -                -
5. Other                                             46,140          48,300          66,530          55,000           -                -
B. Reformed Structure
1. Unified Secondary                                   -               -               -               -           625,800        1,370.000
2. University Orientation                               -              -               -               -           106,000          226,000
3. Vocational Training - Second Level                  -               -               -               -            55,000          256,000
II.  THIRD LEVEL EDUCATION (Total)                     174,270        260,420         308,110         327,160        452,000          669,000         152,890       87.7        341,840      104.5
A. Traditional Structure                                                                           (284,960)
1. Middle Grade Technical                            43,750          65,530          66,130          69,170
2. Primary Teacher Training                          43,130          63,120          54,540          47,840
3. Higher Technical Schools                          15,020          32,900          40,930          39,600
4. University                                        62,100          92,980         134,840         158,550
5. Other                                             10,270           5,890          11,670          12,000
B. Reformed Structure
1. First Cycle                                         -               -               -                           352,000          472,000
2. Second Cycle                                        -               -               -               -            82,000          124,000
3, Doctorate                                            -              -               -                            12,000           48,000
4. Vocational Training - Third Level                    -               -              -                             6,000           25,000
T 0 T A L                                      4,194,160       5,282,630       6,181,600       6,721,220      8,020,680        8,908,000       2,527,060       60.3      2,186,780       32.5
Source: 1960 - 68: National Institute of Statistics
1970 - 80: Bas-d an III Plan targets
Other Includes: Fine Arts, Social Welfare



ANNEX 9
S P A I N
ENROLIMENTS, GRADUATlS AND TEACHERS
BY LEVEL AND TYPE OF EDUCATION, 1969-1970
E N R O L L M E N T S                            T E A C H E R S
% IN PUBLIC     %     GRADUATES          ESTIMATED FULL-TIN
TOTAL     EDUCATION   FEMALES               TOTAL      EQUIVALENCY
Pre-Primary                  797,139      ...        50%       n.a.      21,000
Primary                    3,758,222        .49%               n.a.    129,277
Total Pre-Primary
and Prinary               4,555,361      70%        49%       n.a.    150,277       146,800
Middle Level General & Te ihnical
Secondary General
(Lower) (Grades 5-8)   1,108,488      30%         46%     106,580
Secondary General
(Upper) (Grades 9,10)    202,049      28%        40%       52,877
Secondary Technical
(Upper) (Grades 9,10)     22,230       65%        44.                 2,800         1,765
Pre-University                44,461      39%        30%      26,835      . ...
Total Middle Level        1-1,377,228     30%        43%      n.a.       46,088       32,500
Miiddle Level Vocational
'Vocational Industrial      150,997       33%         4%      54,057    11,567        4,000
Arts and Crafts              61,300       60%        63%       ...        1,654       1,250
Commerce                     27,741       23%        38%       1,941       890         oo
Para-Medical                 10,637       40%        80 X       ..       2,103         ...
Techneian                     62,239      54%         3%       5,544      3,822       3,380
Others                        3,799      100%        0%                    353
Total Middle Level Voc.      316,713      43%        20%                 20,389
1-igher
Universities                 150,094      90%        30%        9,568    11,500       6,350
Higher Engineering           40,696       9cA         2%       2,300     4,171        2,100
Primary Teacher Trg.         41,183       86%        58%      13,911     4,050        3,200
Others                        4,005      68%         64%       ...         290          200
Total Higher                235,978       89%        31k                 20,011      11,850
n.a.: not applicable
... : not available
Source: Compiled from data provided by the National Institute of Statistics



S P A I N                                                      ANEX10
Vocational Training: Schools. Enrollment, Graduates, Teachers
ITE M                                  C A T E C 0 R Y                    1960 - 61            1965   66            1969 - 70
No. of Schools                    Total No. of Schools                   370                  393                  518
Public                                 99                   101                  119
Privatel/                             271                  292                  399
Average School Size                    177                 318                   291
(No. of students)
Enrollment by Type                Total Enrollment                   65,429              125,080               150,997
of                        Public                              21,196               36,819               50,350
School                       Private-I/                          44,233               88,261              100,697
% Public                             32.4                  29.4                33.3
Enrollment by Level               Total Enrollment                   65,429              125,080               150,997
of                        Initiation (Grades 7-8)             17,308               31,763               34,086
Training                      Craftsmen (Grades 9-11)            45,000               81,940               99,953
Masters   (Gradesl2-13)             3,121               11,377                16,958
Graduation                        Total Graduates                     n.d.                  9,927                n.d.
(Public Schools only)             Craftsmen                           2,682                 7,570                n.d.
z                                               Masters                              n.d.                 2,402                n.d.
Output as a /r of Enrollment         -                    36.8
Teachers                          Total No. of Teachers                7,592                9,935               11,567
Estimated Full-time equivalent   4,264                   5,452                6,388
Student per equivalent
Full-time Teacher               15.3                 22.9                 23.6
Public 1/                           2,924                3,025                3,779
Private-                            4,668                6,910                7,788
% Public of Total                    38.5                  30.4                 29.2
No. of Schools                    Total No. of School-                    42                   43                   42
Students per School                    516                 484                   660
Average School Size
(Students)
Total Enrollment                   21,663               20,829               27,741
Enrollment by Type                Full-time Students                   n.d.                 4,536                6,155
"Free Students"                     n.d.                16,293               21,586
% Full-time                          -                     21.8                 22.2
Enrollment by Level               Total                               21,663               20,829               27,741
Lower Level                        15,030               14,948               20,952
5,                                               Higher Level                         6,638                5,881                6,789
Graduation                        Total                                3,153                1,672                1,834
As a % of Enrollment                  14.6                  8.0                  6.6
o
Teachers-/                        Total                                1,420                  914                  959
Students per Teacher                 15.2                  22.7                 28.9
Teacher:Student                        -                    5.0                  6.1
No. of Schools                          24                   28                   47
Students per School                     53                   65                   70
`c                                               Total Enrollment                     1,275                1,811                3,300
Total Graduation                      428                   990                 n.d.
Graduates as % of Enrollment         33.6                  54.7
Teachers                          Total Teachers-/                       256                  312                  350
Students per Teacher                   5.0                  5.8                  9.3
Legend
1/  Syndicates, church, private schools, and labor universities.
2/  Full-time teachers, part-time teachers, and workshop instructors and assistants.
3/ Mission estimates, based on presently prevailing conditions.
4/ Private schools which are used by "free students" are not accounted for.
5/ All levels; it is not possible to estimate full-time equivalent.
6/ "Escuelas de Capataces," second level schools
n.d. = No data available
Source: Ministry of Education



S P A I N
TECHNICIAN TRAINING
ENROLLMENTS and GRADUATES
1960/61 - 1969/70
.  1960/1                                           1967/                     1969/70
Enrollments  Graduates    Enrollments  Graduates   Enrollments  Graduates   Enrollments  Graduates
Architecture             3,321        155           9,664       450          11,908*      700     1   14,152        957
Aeronautics                -           -            1,002        68             920       108             909        39
Agriculture              2,831        289           3,924       390           3,859       686           4,306       327
Forestry                   672         49             423        27             299        40             273        29
Industry                27,230     1,523           39,172     3,535          38,806     4,649         32,591      3,294
Mining                   3,396        343           3,186       363           3,044       500           2,850       287
Naval                      -           -              641        60           1,181        95             981       119
Publieworks                893       104            2,451       200           2,999       276           3,584       324
Telecommunication        1,163        298           1,496       122           2,156       132           2,318       122
Topography                 264        54              323        53             379        37             335        46
Other                      140          7             143        24              -         -      :        _
T c t a 1               39,910      2,822          62,425     5,292          65,551     7,223          62,299     5,544
* Estimated
Source: National Institute of Statistics



S P A I N
ENGINEURING EDUCTION
ENADLIMENT  AND  W1JTPJT  BY  SPEIIZAL TION
(1960/61 - 1970/71)
'CI4IN1~~I ..ING   . 1960/1       1965/6            1966/7            1967/8             1968/9            1969/70
SPWCIAIIZ-   Enroll-  Gradu-  mnroll-  Gradu-  inroll- Gradu-  iroll-  Gradu-  laroll-  Gradu-  !snrol1-  Gradu-
A'TILON       ment      ates    ment      ates    ment      ates    ment      ates    ment      ates    ment       stes*
GLCIhl-p C"Afi.l;  1,350  93    6,066      191    6,855      153    8,158      2)46    8,718    297      8,548      325
AL'(OIIUTICS     64)4    32    1,113       66    1,329       42    1,294       66    1,518      44      1,557       50
GJRICULMU,'   1,603      63    3,157      106    3,178      139    3,290       79    3,233    258       3,210      280
CTTIVII         1,008     79    2,897      15,7    3,658      44    4,969      147    4,998    298       3,790      300
INDU3TrIAI -   7,683    385   14,733       535   15,268      7,48   16,256     868   17,758    838    17,876   1,000
kINL G            877     67    1,626       83    1,395       o5    1,328      111    1,203    148       1,231       90
P0ft<hSrRY        41)4)   47       671      26       625      36      556       46       495      68       477       45
{AVAI             471     19       902      49    1,056       42    1,156       55    1,208       65     1,247       60
T LLLCO-U.'imUI - ,                 
CAkIOi'JS         5)48    39    1,731       66    2,580       96    2,672      100    2,743    137       2,760      150
tTEXTIL.         390     28       895      20    1,049       1)4 1                      2/       2/       2/
TOTAit    115,018     852   33,791   1;599   36,993   1,399   39,679   1,725   41,874  2,153    40,696   2,300
Including both official and free students
x 1.stsimates
1/  Industrial includes electrical, mechianical and chemical engineering
2/  Included in industrial
Source: National Institute of Statistics
HE



S  P  A  I  N
PROJECTION OF TEAC21ER REQ11IREMENTS
for Selected ilypes of Ed-catio- and Trainilg
1971-75 c-l 1976-80
P R 0 3 E C T I 0 N S                                     TEACHER  REQUIREMENTS  1971 - 75                            TEACHER  REQUIREIENTS  1976 - 80
19 70/ 71                 1975/76                     1980/81             Change   Replacemcnt   Needs   Ave.Req.irnm-enL          Change  Replacement  Needs  Ave.Requirement
ENROLLMENT  TEACHERS    ENROLLMENT  TEACHERS          LNROLLIMENT  TEACHERS       7C-75      71 - 75       71-75         71 - 75           76-80    76 - 80    76-80           76 - 80
I.evel and Type                                       (1)         (2             3           4)             (52         K62          (7)         (8)          (9              I)(11)                     (1)        (3)            (14)
BASIC GENERAL : TOTAL                                 5,069,000   166,300        5,557,000   173,670        5,100,000    170,000       7,370       16,630       24,000          4,800          - 3,670       17,000   13,330          2,670
of which:  Industrial Arts                               -          3,000            -          6,980          -           7,350      3,980           300       4,280             860             370          700    1,070            215
onme Economics                               -          2.000            -          6,980       _              7          4 980           Z00       5,180           1,035             370          700    1,070             215
COM?PREhENSIVE SECONU3ARY: TOTAL                        202,300      9,200          625,800    23,180       1,i70,000      48,930    13,980            920      14,900           2,980          25,750        2,320   28,070          5,615
of which:   nidostrial Option                                                        -          1,550          -           3,425      1,410             -       1,410             280           1,875          155    2,330            410
Co-mercial Option                           11,309        470                       I 1,350        _           3,425       1,410            -       1,410             280           1,875         15      2,030           410
Home Econ--ics OpLion                   )                                -          1,310                      2 7,780    1,170             -       1,170             235              970         130    1,100            220
Arict-Iral                                                                            510          -            1_120        510                      510             100              610          50       660            130
UNIVERSITY ORIENTATION:  TOTAI.                          50,400      2,020          106.000      4,240        226,000       9,140       ',220          200       2,420             485           4,900          425    5,325          1,065
of w hich: Technical Option                              -            -              -            140    _                   285         140            -         140              30             145           15       160            30
VOCATIONAI. TRAINiNG 1: IOTAL                          155,640      6,240          267,400    10,700         292,000       14,700     4.450           625       5,075           i,015           4,000        1,070    5,070           1,115
Ind-stry/Servic-s                          121,990      5,590         227,000       9,080        237,000      11,850      3,490           560       4,050             810           2,270          910    3,180            735
Agricult.r_    33.650                                     660          40,000       1,620         55.000       2,850         960           65       1 025             205            1,230         160    1,390             280
VOCATiONAL TRAlNING 2: TOTAL                             27,940      1,365           55,000      2,750        256,000       11,640      1,385          135       1,520             305            8,890         275    9,165          1,835
Industry/Services                           24,305      1,050          48,500       2,410        231,000       9,890       1,360          105       1.465             295           7,480          240    7,720          1,545
AgricuIture                                 _3.635         315           6,500        340         25,000        ,730          7 5          30          55              10           1,410           35    1,445             290
hI,ttnated On1 tile basts of cnrol-l,nnts and teacher cqspval.nces in         . . p brahle Iypcs ,,,-tl level-   of e-l-aItion   ,dde- tte old,
Enrollment ProJei-lons ar-  based on the III Pla.  (1972-1975).                                                                                                        SUi4FlARY OF AVERAGE ANNUAL REQUIRE IENES
T-earler Oeqircmenls deriv-d bv applying targeted teacher/srtdent rati.s.                                                                                                        BY  SPECIALIZATION
Colun- 7 - Aidi tial tc-eh-rt  r-rnircd h- c-r-l Imcnt  bsptc-nin,: betwen 1971-1975; Cot. 11   chanc  in st-ls betwecn 1976-bU                                                                   197i-_5         1976-8D       1971-1980   1971-1980
'olumn 8 - llepl-.cmost of existing stock in 1971 U 21i p.a.; Col. 12 - replacemcnt of 1975 sotkh    2-1. p.a.
Colsmn 9   O S.m of Colune 7 and 8; CoE. 13 - s-m  of CoIn. 11 anI 12                                                                                              ACADINIC (fetal)                 7,4UU            8,20u
Colun,   108  Colnm,s 9, 5 to get asnn.I average; Col. 14 = Col. 13   5 to get anneal   ero.ge                                                                      Basic Gen-eral                  4,bUU            2./00
Comprehensive Secondary        2,100           4,500                       7,800
University Orientation           500            1,000
AGRICULTURAL (Coral)              310              700
Comprehemoive Secondary          100              130         500
Vocational Traiinig 1            200              280
Vocatio-al Training 2             10              290              i
INDUSTRY/SERVICES (Total)    3,830               i12                      4,300
BasiC General                  1.900              450
Comprehensive Secondary          800            1 040       3,807
University Orie,itation           30               30
Vo-atioal Training 1            800              740
Vocational Training 2            300            1,550



SPAIN: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
(billions of Ptas.)
1960       1962       1964       1966       1968       1969       1970         1975
(1970 prices)
(a)  GDP                                        576.6      762.7   1,014.5   1,372.6   1,681.2   1,862.8   2,087.1             2,886
(b) Public Expenditure on
Education:
- amount                                  7.5       10.8       17.5       28.9       37.7       45.6       49.4           117
- % of GDP                                1.3        1.4        1.7        2.1        2.2        2.4         2.4          4.1
(c) Private Expenditure on
Education:
- amount                                  5.8        7.0        8.5       13.0       15.7        19.3       23.7           18
- % of GDP                                1.0        0.9        0.8        0.9        0.9         1.1        1.1          0.6
(d) National Expenditure on
Education:
- amount                                 13.3       17.8       26.0       41.9       53.4       64.9        73.1          135
- % of GDP                                2.3        2.3        2.5        3.0        3.1        3.5         3.5          4.7
(e)  Central Government Expend-
iture on Education: 1-                    6.9        9.8       16.3       25.8       26.8       35.6       43.9           106
of which: - Recurrent2/                   5.4        7.9       12.6        19.9      20.7        28.9       31.7           82
- Capital  3/                  1.5        1.9        3.7        5.9         6.1        6.7       12.2           24
(f) Ministry of Education expend-
iture:
- amount                                  5.2        6.2        9.6       18.5       22.4       30.7       40.6            96
- 7, of Government Expenditure           75.4       63.3       58.9       71.7       83.6       86.2        92.5         90.0
on Education
(g)  Central Government Recurrent
Expenditure on Education as a
% of Government Current
Revenues                                     7.8        8.1        9.7       10.5        8.6       10.1       10.1          18.1
(h)  Central Government Capital
Expenditure on Education as a
% of Government Capital Expend-
itures                                       6.6        7.7        9.2       10.6        9.9        9.4       15,8         19.8
(i)  Central Government Expenditure
on Education as a % of GDP                   1.2        1.3        1.6        1.9        1.6        1.9        2,1           3.6
Sources: Ministry of Education; National Institute of Statistics; III Plan; Staff Estimates.
1/ A functional classification of public expenditare was introduced for the first time in 1968.  Therefore data for previous years
are not strictly comparable.
2/  Includes goods and services; wages and salaries; subsidies and current net transfers to the rest of the public sector.
3/ Includes gross fixed investment and (net) capital transfers.



SPAIN: Central Government Expenditure on Education by Levels
(Million pesetas and percentage)
1 9 6 8         11 9 6 9                      1970 (prov.)           1 971(Budet Authoriz.
____Amount________%___of_ T~~Total                      Amount A    of Total      Amount    % of Total      Amount    % of Total
A. RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
1. Primary                  11,995         58.0       17,829         61.8       18,875         59.6       22,230         52.4
2. Vocational                1,566          7.6        1,754          6.1        1,801          5.7        2,354          5.5
3. Secondary General          3,126        15.1        4,475         15.5        4,884         15.4        6,617         15.6
4. Technical                   808          3.9        1,253          4.3        1,322          4.2        1,717          4.0
5. University                1,589          7.7        2,005          7.0        2,801          8.8        3,572          8.4
6. Administration and
Other Expenses            1,587          7.7        1,506          5.3        1,997          6.3        5,941         14.1
7. TOTAL RECURRENT          20,671        100.0       25,822        100.0       31,680       100.0        42,431        100.0
B. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
1l  Primary                   3,127        50.9        3,806         56.3        5,008         40.8        7,231         44.0
2. Vocational                  190          3.1          221          3.3          436          3.6          756          4.6
3. Secondary General         1,477         24.1          931         13.8        3,059         24.9        3,376         20.5
4. Technical                   503          8.2          641          9.5        1,224         10.0        1,744         10.6
5. University                   798        13.0        1,059         15.6        2,370         19.3        2,899         17.7
6. Miscellaneous                 46         0.7          108          1.5          170          1.4          423          2.6
7. TOTAL CAPITAL             6,141        100.0        6,766        100.0       12,267        100.0       16,429        100.0
C. TOTAL RECURRENT & CAPITAL 26,812                     35,588                   43,947                    58,860
Source: Cuentas de los Administraciones Publicas (1968 and 1969);
Presupuestos Generales del Estado (1970 and 1971)
1J



SPAIN:   FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS TO IMPLEMENT THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM
(in millions of pesetas)
1970/71 _                          1975/76                             1980181                 Number of       Capital      III Plan
Enrollment (OGOs) Recurrent Exp.       Enrollment      Recurrent Exp.b/   Enrollment        Recurrent Exp.   New Places        Cost       Allocation
Level and Type             Total   Public   Total   Public   Total   Public   Total   Public   Total   Public   Total   Public  1970/1-1980/1   (Public)    (Public)
(Public 000s)
I. First Level Education
(Total)     6,058    4,241  44,473   30,074   6,781    6,025  70,924   63,726   6,387    5,635  92,822   83,015            2,203          106,736        55,103
1. Pre-School                 834       392   5,754    2,705       957      479   9,112    4,561       995       498  12,976    6,494         145           5,800       3,221
2. Basic General            5,069    3,802  34,976   26,234   5,557    5,279  52,914   50,267   5,100    4,845  66,509   63,184             1,808          75,936      47,331
3. Vocational Training        155        47   3,743    1,135       267      267   8,898    8,898       292       292  13,337   13,337         250          25,000        4,551
II. Second Level Education
(Total)       335       111   4,912    1,615       787       394 15,774      7,903   1,852       926  53.321   26.660         796          61,195        6. 400
1. Comprehensive Sec.         202        61   2,787       842      626      313  11,922    5,961   1,370         685  35,732   17,866         577          31,735
2. University Orienta.         50        20      690      276      106       53   2,019    1,009       226       113   5,895    2,947          98          5,390
3. Voc. Training II            28         8      676      193       55       28   1,833        933     256       128  11,694    5,847         121          24,070
4. Other                        55       22      759      304        -                                   -
III. Third Level Education
(Total)       327       270  16,922   13,972       452      378  32,065   26.780       669      569  64,232   54.448          374         35,000       14,419
1. First Cycle Univ.          264       211  13,662   10,919       352       282  25,138   20,139      472       378  46,181   36,984         228          21,090
2. Second Cycle Univ.           55       52   2,846    2,691        82        78-  5,856    5,570      124       118  12,132   11,545          76           8,010
3. Doctorate                    3         3      155      155       12        12     857       857      48        48   4,696    4,696          45           3,400
4. Voc. Training III            0         0                          6        6      214       214      25        25   1,223    1,223          25           2,500
5. Other                         5        4      259      207        -         -
TOTAL                    6,720    4,622  66,307   45,661   8,020    6,797 118,763   98,409   8 908    7,130 210,375  164,123             3 373        202.931        75,922
(students)       (pesetas)          (students)       (pesetas)          (students)        (pesetas)
Total Project Recurrent Expenditure                                                          2,401                               3,257
Of which:
Barcelona Polytecnic                                                                     763                                1,021
Project Recurrent Expenditure as % Total Public Recurrent Expenditure                         2.4                                 2.0
Barcelona Recurrent Expenditure as % Third Level Education                                    2.8                                 1.9
a/ Refers to academic, rather than fiscal year
b/  Unit recurrent costs are assumed to grow by 6.7% annually from 1970 to 1975, and 6.5% annually from 1975 to 1980.
Sources:  1970/1 Edirollments: Ministry of Education, Spanish Model for Educational Development
1970/1 Recurrent Expenditure: Ministry of Education
1980/1 Enrollment Targets: III Plan, 1972-1975
New Places, 1970-1980: Appraisal Mission Estimates based on number of new places required plus 10% replacement of
existing places.
1980 Recurrent Expenditure: Appraisal Mission Estimates



a-  -.  .a.a.a . .         . .
a a            g
a   a-
a-a- ~~~~~~~~~~~aa~ ~ ~
a-    a-a-                                  a     a    a     L~~~~~7 1 
a-a-a  a  a-a    a   a-         a-                  a-....a-                              .a-C






S P A I N
Barcelona Polyteenic Univesity
Proposed Enrollment bY Specialization and Year in 1980
Y e a r  (G r a d e)
S p e c i a I i z a t i o n s           First  Cycle          Second  Cycle                                  Annual Graduates
1  i     2   1    3   1 _4           5c       Total Enrollment          From Second Cycle
I ARCHITECTURE (Total)          (400)    (360)   (300)    (240)    (220)               (1,600)                  (200)
A) Urban Planning               _        _                 100       90                 190                     80
B) Building                     -                          14 -  10  1   130            270                    120
II. ENGINEERING (Total)         (2,200)  (1,880)  (1,700) (1,210)  (1,100)               (8,010)                (1,000)
A) Telecommunication            -        _        350      250      220                 780                    200
1) Telecommunication           _ -               -         -        60                  60                     50
2) Electronics                 _ -               -         -       160                 160                    150
B) Civil (Total)                -        -        400      280      260                 890                    240
1) Cement and Structural       _ -                -        -        95                  95                     90
2) Transpowt and Ports         -        _        _         _       130                 130                    120
3) Hydraulics                  _ -               -         -        35                  35                     30
C) Industrial (Total)           -        _        950      680      620               2,140                    560
1) Energy                      -                  -        75       70                 145                     60
2) Chemical                    _ -               -         85       80                 165                     70
3) Elect,ical                  _ -                -       145      130                 275                    120
4) Mechanical                  _ -                -       170      155                 325                    140
5) Managdment                  _ -               -        135      120                 255                    110
6) Metalurgical                _ -                -        35       32                  67                     30
7) Textile                     -             - _           35    _3                     68                     30
T 0 T A L                   2,600    2,240    2,000    1,450    1,320                 9,610                  1,200
Source: Technical Cabinet of the Barcelona Polytecnic as modified by Appraisal Mission.
*  It is assumed that about 28% of the students in the third year (550) will proceed to
start third level vocational training for the diploma certificate.






S P A I N
UNIT CAPITAL COST, USE FACTOR AND TEACHER:STUDENT RATIO
By Project Itea
Use  Factor
Per  Student  Place  (in  US$)                          Previous                          for        No.  -   Teacher;
2       Site                                                         Bank Projects          for        Practical   Weekly    Student
Type of Facilities         M     Development   Building   Furniture   Equipment   Total    CurrentP (U$2             Classrooms      Rooms      Periods    Ratio
r.  ACADEMIC & COMMUNAL
Secondary               5.9         95           520           65          155        835            700              89%        70-80%          30        1:24
Vocational             12.0         70           710           60          600      1,440          1,500              75%          66%            302/      1:15
Agricultural
Institute              19.9        120         1,635          170          800      2,725          2,250              75%          72%            38        1:14
Polytecnic             11.7       465          1,470          175        1,620      3,730          3,6403/            75%          60%            40        1:13
Institute of
Education               9.5        120           955          125          350      1,550          1,100               -            -              -         -
II. STUDENT RESIDENTIAL
Barcelona Poly-
tecnic                 12.0          -         1,300          195            5      1,500          1,300               _            _              _
- not applicable
1/  Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
2/  Will be used on two-shift basis, i.e. 60 hours per week.
3/  Based on three projects only: Zamnbia (1969), 3,720; Singapore (1971), 3,040; and kPakistan (1969), 2,260.



ANNEX 20
SPAIN
Project Cost Estimates
Type of ExPenditure
Pesetas (millions)       U.S. Dollars (millions)      % of
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Total
1. Construction
a. Academic & Commanal
Facilities         2,811.0     617.1  3,428.1   43.6        9.6     53.2       42.9
b. Student Residential 232.7         51.1     283o8   3.6       0.8       4.4       3*5
c.  Staff Housing         55.4       12.2      67.6   0.8       0.2       1.0       0.8
d.  Site Development    516.6       113.4     630.    8.0       1.8       9.8       7.9
ea Professional Fees   293.3         15.4     308.7   4.5       0.3       4.8       3.9
Sub-Total         3,909.0     809.2   4,718.2  60.5       12.7     73.2       59.0
2.  Farniture             318.6       84.7     403.3   5.0       1.3       6.3       5.1
3.  Equipment           1,105.7   1,604.5   2,710.2  17.1       24.9      42.0      33.8
4. Technical
Assistance             12.2       79.3      91.5   0.2       1.2       1.4       lol
5. Project
Administration         79.2         -       79.2   1.2        -        1.2       1.0
Sub-Total        5,424.6   2,577.6   8,002.5  84.1        40.0    124.1      100.0
6.  Contingencies       1,143.3      686.8   1,830.1  17.8      10.6      28.4      22.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST    6        55892 3326424   101.9           50.6    152.5
say, 50 million



l   _.                      l        _        ~~~~~~~~ANN:(21
O  a,  '.    N-        '.   I     r      UN  S  N-
Eq      H      N-       N        HH I   N       NA .
U)                     a'. .    -.'.0     ^
_. C-  UN    UN          N-               H      NP'
X      |   |      A1      -       1 N  -~  '.
9                  __                        -H
7    tt n 7   17
Z;~~~ @                   K                                  HDt $ r 1        e )
1 ~}   sb                                           g      A
I   pI:o      I H         N1i I    I       - 1 
I  H I                     N-        -. I    CIc'I  I  N 1A
RIco~ ~ a'  co' -i1  iI                    r 
1}                   1 aI  ,  
I  X    s    1f        I   UNN   I      11     1    0
I  Is    m  I  I ~          H I      N-     0       '.
I  19    n  }     1l        I     Z  I      {t I   I     ,
OCt                 UN 1 8   t
I             I     o           H!          jUNo |  
I            N- OH             
I~ ~~~~N I0N 0'                               -   IE 1  1p  l 
1_   18 1I                                     1 



ANNEX 22
S P A I N
FORECAST OF DISBURSENBTS OF LOAN
Undisbursed
Disbursement                                           Balances
Implementation      Quarterly                OCmulative
Quarter           US$ 000          %        US$ 000        %        US$ 000       %
First Year
1                                -           -           -         50,000     100.0
2                  -            -            -           -         50,000     100.0
3                  150          0.3          150        0.3        49,850      99.7
4                  200          0.4          350        0.7        49,650     999.3
Second Year
5                  300         0o.6          650        1.3        49,350      98.7
6                2,800         5.6         3,450        6.9        46,550      93-1
7                3,600         7.2         7,050       14.1       42,950       85.9
8                6,750        13.5        13,800       27.6        36,200      72.4
Third Year
9                6,700         13.4       20,500       41.0        29,500      59.0
10                6,350         12.7       26,850       53.7        23,150      46.3
11                6,100         12.2       32,950       65.9        17,050      34.1
12                3,350          6.7       36,300       72o6        13,700      27.4
Fourth Year
13                3,250          6.5       39,550        79.1       10,450      20*9
14                3.,200         6.4       42,750       85.5        7,250       14.5
15                3,100          6.2       45,850        91.7       4,150        8.3
16                1,650          3.3       47,500       95.0        2,500        5.0
Fifth Year
17                1 250          2.5       48,750        97 .5      1,250        2. E!
18                1,250          2.5       50,000      100.0          -          -



*VOCATILONAL SCHOOLS              WCOAAp EMENSIVR SECONDARY(BU.P.
MAJDRIDBa                                                                                                Is     y
V 2 sab-o                          C-S  Mod,,d
V-3 M.d~d                          CSMa                                        LACORUNA
V-4 MdOf.g.                        C-4  M.od,~                                      V3'
V-S  S-olIa                        C-V  M.d6dC 3
a43   V-R  VaIe-ao                        C-A  IHod,d                                                          v
V-7 MAao,-doICop.                  C-P  M.did                                                             GOaa
I/-A  VIIp,dld                     C-9  AWMI d.  e,o4MNOI
A- I orn                           C-lA  VIko-do                                       35     EEaO*
V-I   OOoo                         C-Il coo Ro-                                      FOTEVEAR             V-V9HS
V-OV L.-.1.                       BARCELONA                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANDCORFA  ,.   '~
V 13 La 0000-                      C-I12 soooI                                                    *V-S-        VALERCO  S S3
A 14 I.PoNI,1 doOC- CG.-           C- 1 E,pfi,q. d.                                                                                                                                                                      HUESCAo  )   *V--
V IA Ala  C-IS Coallo AC LIabogo,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V.                                                            ALNCA                                                                                                                    CI
V-IT Coda  C-La So lao POOP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                           C1
A-lB C.,-.a                        C  17 RAIZRcCA  
A-I 19   aaN                       C-lB  SZrdayk
V-20 J.- do Lal-olo               SETILLA                                                                                                        -7                                                                                                                    RCRICNA
V-S1 La 1-.                        C-IA1 .OL, lDNbELCMI
A-2S 001-                          C-2 VI- Il
am V-23 A oaia                        C-SI So. J.- do AaoalRo-
V.-Z4 A~dos                        C-22 La A-crdo                                                                                   SALAMANICA                     C:
V-7555  aC-S3Caoa 
V-26 Gl-da                         C-3d i.bra.C
V-V7 J-e                          VALENSCIAC                                                                                                                       C7
V-2s La C-olica                    C-V5 AlocoaAIVc
V-V9 B.,. doVaId..c a              C-VA MI-AN_o
V-VA El F6 ..I                     C-2T                                                                                                                 VI oa5rol
V-31 t.   loC-28T.-I.l
V- I2 L5O.                        CADIZ P                                                                                                                                                                               -
AVSa Moolar d. Lac-                1-29 Cado~2
V 34 Ooooo            ~~~~~~~~~       ~~GRANADA                                                                                                                                                              -
V-V35 P-le ,dr                     Co3A O-rooCERE
V- 6V/Po',                         C-SI Baco                                                                                                                                                                                  LElI
V- 37 VMa                         MALAGA
ATEACAEEZ TRAINING CENTERS          C-32 Pdaglo
T -1 S-/la                            C-V3 Al-an                c
S V Naoolcaa             ~~~~~~ASIURIAS            o                            sc-                                  UV                                                                    LBACETE                                                                              9
1-3 VI/al-o                        C-VA Moo-__
oRovtYTCHNIC IJNiVBBSITY          ZARAGOPA.
P I Rac-co  Pc10di                 C -Sd Z.,.".
INSTITUTEP51141             CANARY ISLANDS                                                                            Ck
Alj 'aloa                           -8 So. C- odoT-oofoR2
C- 9 La- Palogo2
SPAINMC31                                                                                                                               V2
SECOND  EDUCATION  PROJECTJEEDELFRNRAO4AMRI
A        SDLNEAIAAP VAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _
elLONIETER5
IV  Icl,AocIc,o~c VA01, Vc Vl14 V
WlVddar1arclllclJlc,cc                                                       ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANARY    ISLANDS
FEIRLARI lASS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



