Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053299 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(OECS: Protected Areas and Associated Livelihoods Project) 
 
between 
 
THE ORGANISATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated July 14, 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053299 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2004, between THE ORGANISATION OF 
EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient is a duly established international organization and 
represents that it has the necessary legal capacity and powers to enter into this Agreement 
and perform its obligations herein set forth; 
(E) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; 
(F) 
the Recipient intends to contract from the 
Fonds Français de 
L’Environnement
 
Mondial
 
(FFEM), a grant in an amount of Euro 1,312,000 (the FFEM 
Grant) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and FFEM (the FFEM Grant 
Agreement); 
Page  3
-
2
-
(G) 
St. Lucia, one of the Participating Countries (as defined below) intends 
to contract from the Organization of American States (OAS), a grant in a principal 
amount of $349,800 (three hundred forty-nine thousand eight hundred dollars) (the OAS 
Grant) to assist in financing those Parts of the Project that pertain to St. Lucia, on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between St. Lucia and 
the OAS; and 
(H) 
the Participating Countries, as ultimate beneficiaries of the Project have 
agreed to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of the Project, as is expected to be 
detailed in the corresponding Participation Agreement (as defined below); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) 
to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
the first part of Section 4.01 (until the semicolon); Section 4.06; 
(v) 
Sections 5.01, 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.08 and 5.09; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
the second sentence of Section 10.01, and 10.03;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the GEF; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient, except in Sections 6.02 (f) and 8.01 (b), 
where the term “Borrower” shall mean a Participating Country; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the 
account opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is 
credited;  
(vi) 
the phrase “in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor” 
shall be replaced by the phrase “in the territory of, a Participating 
Country” in Section 5.08.  For purposes of this subparagraph, the 
term “Participating Country” shall have the same meaning as in 
Section 1.02 (j) of this Agreement; 
(vii) 
the words “and/or the Association, as the case may be,” shall be 
added after the term “Bank” in Section 6.02 (f) (i); and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(viii) 
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “(q) An extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the Grant 
would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
Global Environment Facility.” 
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “Associated 
Livelihoods
 Subprojects
”
means subprojects supporting 
associated livelihoods consistent with the conservation and/or sustainable use of 
biodiversity, and to be carried out by a Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) in or around 
Project-supported protected areas; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means an association, a community group, an enterprise or 
a
non-governmental organization duly established or recognized in a Participating 
Country’s territory, in accordance with its laws and which is eligible to receive financing 
for an Associated Livelihoods Subproject in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the Project; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan dated March 31, 
2004, and duly adopted by the Recipient, and referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the 
Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(f) 
“ESDU” means the Environment and Sustainable Development Unit of 
the Recipient; 
(g) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(h) 
 “NICE” means any of the national implementation coordination entities 
referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
 “Operational Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the Bank and 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;  
(j) 
“Participating Country” means any of the following countries: (i) 
Antigua and Barbuda; (ii) Commonwealth of Dominica; (iii) Grenada; (iv) St. Kitts and 
Nevis; (v) Saint Lucia; and (vi) St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and the term 
“Participating Countries” means collectively all said countries; 
(k) 
“Participation Agreement” means any of the agreements entered into 
between the Recipient and each of the Participating Countries on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of governing the assistance to be provided by said 
Participating Countries to the Recipient under the Project, each such agreement to 
include, 
inter alia
,
the terms set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Process Framework” means the framework dated March 31, 2004 and 
duly adopted by the Recipient, which sets out the mitigation measures to be taken under 
the Project with respect to potential livelihoods impacts under the Project, as such 
framework may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(m) 
“Report-based Disbursement” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.7 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(n) 
“SIE” means any of the site implementation entities to be selected at the 
national level to undertake the day-to-day management of specific protected areas to be 
covered by the Project;  
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(p) 
“Sustainable Livelihoods Subproject Agreement” means an agreement 
referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to three million seven hundred thousand Dollars ($3,700,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Recipient, through its ESDU, declares its commitment to 
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with the assistance of the Participating Countries (as provided 
in the corresponding Participation Agreement), with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, social and procurement 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors consistent with the 
Environmental Management Plan, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Recipient shall cause the Participating Countries to provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project, as stipulated in the corresponding Participation Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 (e) of the Project, the 
Recipient shall cause the Participating Countries, pursuant to the corresponding 
Participation Agreement, to: 
(a) 
after having selected an Associated Livelihoods Subproject, enter into an 
agreement (the Associated Livelihoods Subproject Agreement), with a Beneficiary, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(b) 
exercise its rights under any Sustainable Livelihoods Subproject 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Participating 
Countries, and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
any Sustainable Livelihoods Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.04.  The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project activities; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.05.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with a Project 
operational manual which includes, 
inter alia
:
(i) the names of all the NICEs; (ii) criteria 
for selecting protected areas to be covered by the Project; (iii) the Recipient’s operating 
procedures, internal controls and accounting and reporting functions; (iv) the actions to 
be undertaken by the Recipient to improve its procurement and financial management 
capacity; (v) the Project financial management, disbursement and procurement 
procedures; (vi) the guidelines for the set up of the SIEs; (vii) criteria for selecting the 
Associated Livelihoods Subprojects; and (viii) the indicators to be used in the monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.06. (a) (i)  The Recipient shall enter into a Participation Agreement 
with each Participating Country and shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under each Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Participation Agreement be duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by, the relevant Participating Country 
and be legally binding upon such Participating Country in accordance with the relevant 
Participati
on Agreement’s terms. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall ensure that each of the Participation Agreements is 
fully consistent with this Agreement. No provision of any of the Participation 
Agreements shall in any way limit the obligations of the Recipient set forth in this 
Agreement.  In case of discrepancy between the provisions of any Participation Agreement 
and those of this Agreement, the provisions set forth in this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.07. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the ESDU is, at all times during 
Project implementation, headed by a Project director, and assisted by a Project 
coordinator, a protected areas specialist, a communications officer, an accountant, an 
administrative assistant, and, as required, other professional and administrative staff, in 
numbers and all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.08. 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
implement the Environmental Management Plan and the Process 
Framework in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and ensure that the Project is 
implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and standards; and 
(b) 
without limitation on the provisions of (a) above, and with respect to 
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, prior to commencing works under said Parts of the 
Project: (i) prepare an environmental impact assessment in a manner and substance 
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) carry out such environmental action plans in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall: (a) not later than May 31 of each year of Project 
Page  10
-
9
-
implementation, starting in the year 2005, prepare and furnish to the Bank, an annual 
work program, acceptable to the Bank, containing the Project activities to be carried out 
during the calendar year following the date of presentation of said program to the Bank, 
and a timetable for the completion of said Project activities during the year in question; 
and (b) thereafter carry out said program in accordance with its terms, and in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.10. The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
set forth in the Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare with the assistance of the ESDU and the Participating Countries, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank each July 31 
and January 31 during Project implementation, starting with the report due on July 31, 
2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the six-month period preceding the date of 
presentation of each said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the following six-month period; and  
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, FFEM, OAS (with respect to the Parts of the 
Project pertaining to St. Lucia) and the Participating Countries each September during 
Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the pertinent reports 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take, and/or cause to be taken, 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
Page  11
-
10
-
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.7 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements)
 
or on the basis of  
statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.10 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish  to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
Any Participating Country shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Participation Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Participating Country will be able to perform any of its obligations under the 
corresponding Participation Agreement. 
(c) 
The FFEM Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
June 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the satisfaction 
of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement. 
(d) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the FFEM Grant shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the corresponding agreement providing 
therefor. 
Page  13
-
12
-
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under any of such agreements; and 
 
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination 
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
that each Participating Country has identified and staffed its NICE as 
provided in paragraph (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
that separate Participation Agreements have been entered into between 
the Recipient and at least three (3) Participating Countries; 
(c) 
that the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted 
by the Recipient; and 
(d) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been appointed. 
Section 6.02.  The date October 12, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 
7.01.  The Director General of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) 
Morne Fortuné 
P.O. Box 179 
Castries, Saint Lucia 
 
Facsimile: (758) 4522194 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT), 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
248423 
(RCA) 
 
64145
(WUI) or 
 
82987
(FTC) 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Castries, St. Lucia, as of the day and year first above written. 
ORGANISATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES 
 
By/s/ Len Ishmael 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By/s/ Pierre Werbrouck  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
171,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(2) Works 
273,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
1,234,000 
100% subject to 
 
(including audits) 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(4)  Training and workshops 
834,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(5)  Goods, works and services 
300,000 
100% subject to 
 
required for Associated 
 
Paragraph 8 below 
 Livelihoods 
Subprojects 
 
 
 
(6) Operational Costs: 
 
 
(a) Project Coordinator 
100,000 
100% until  
 
12/31/2005, 75% 
 
until 12/31/2006, 
 
50%
until 
 
12/31/2007,  
 
25%
until  
 
12/31/2008 and 0% 
 
thereafter 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(b) other Operational Costs 
653,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
(7) Unallocated 
135,000
TOTAL 3,700,000 
 
======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Training and workshops” means expenditures (other than those 
for consultants’ services) incurred by the Recipient to finance reasonable transportation 
costs and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), rental of training and workshop 
facilities and equipment and the required training materials under the Project; and 
(b) 
the term “Operational Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures 
that would not have been incurred absent the Project, for remuneration of the Project 
coordinator and one administrative assistant, transportation and per-diem costs, 
consumable items, utilities, communication charges, office equipment, office supplies, 
and operation and maintenance of vehicles, boats and other equipment assigned to the 
Project (included spare parts for said boats, vehicles and equipment), all needed for the 
implementation of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $370,000 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 1, 2004, but not earlier than twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) 
expenditures under Category (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
unless the accountant referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement has been appointed. 
4.
 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts 
for goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent each with the exception of: (i) 
the first contract for goods to be procured under Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) the first contract for goods to be procured under Part C.2 of 
Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (c) under 
Page  18
-
17
-
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first two such contracts.  
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
6. 
In case the Recipient loses its tax exempt status with respect to any of the 
Participating Countries in which procurement of goods, works and/or services will be 
carried out, the percentage financed shall be adjusted pursuant to Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions. 
7. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request.  
8. 
The percentage expressed on the 
“expenditures to be financed” figure for 
category (4) in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be 
100% only when the goods, works and services required for an Associated Livelihoods 
Subprojects are procured through a tax exempt organization such as the OECS, or when a 
Participating Country has granted a tax exemption of the applicable taxes, levies and 
other duties levied in its territory for the goods, works and services necessary for the 
execution of an Associated Livelihoods Subprojects in said Participating Country. In all 
other cases, the percentage shall be adjusted pursuant to Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  19
-
18
-
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.7 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Recipient and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Recipient and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
Page  20
-
19
-
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $350,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree the authorized allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$200,000 until the Bank determines based on the amounts and frequencies of withdrawals 
applications that a higher amount is required for the operation of the Special Account, 
such amount not to exceed the amount of the authorized allocation. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  22
-
21
-
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.7 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity 
of global importance in the Participating Countries by removing barriers to the effective 
management of protected areas and increasing the involvement of civil society and the 
private sector in the planning, management and sustainable use of said protected areas. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Protected Areas Institutional Framework
1. 
Harmonization of the Participating Countries’ institutional framework governing 
the creation and management of protected areas, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the carrying out 
of a review at the national level of the existing legal, policy and institutional frameworks 
in each Participating Country; (b) the preparation of a comparative analysis based on the 
review mentioned in (a) herein, including recommendations for the development of a 
harmonized policy, legal and institutional framework for the establishment and 
management of protected areas in the Participating Countries; (c) the development of a 
harmonized policy, legal and institutional framework for the establishment and 
management of protected areas in the Participating Countries; and (d) the implementation 
of all the necessary actions at the national level for the adoption of the harmonized 
framework mentioned in (c) herein.  
2. 
Strengthening of the capacity of the Participating Countries to update and prepare 
new national protected areas system plans, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the carrying out of a 
review at the national level of the existing protected areas system plans and  thereafter 
preparing a comparative analysis of the preparation and updating procedures in each 
Participating Country, including recommendations for the development of a common 
procedure for the preparation and updating of said system plans; (b) the carrying out of a 
public consultation campaign on the selection and inclusion of sites into the protected 
areas system plans; (c) development of draft national system plans based on consultations 
with the pertinent stakeholders; (d) the implementation of all necessary actions at the 
national level for the adoption of the common procedure for the preparation and updating 
of protected areas system plans mentioned in (b) herein. 
3. 
Identification of critical constraints affecting the conservation of biodiversity in 
the Participating Countries, through
,
inter alia
:
(a) the carrying out of an assessment of 
Page  25
-
24
-
the constraints affecting the conservation of biodiversity in each of the Participating 
Countries; (b) the carrying out of an evaluation of existing and potential mechanisms for 
the sustainable financing of protected areas; and (c) carrying out of demand driven 
capacity-building studies. 
Part B
:
Protected Areas Management and Associated and New Livelihoods
1. 
Establishment of new and strengthening of existing protected areas in the 
Participating Countries through
,
inter alia
:
(a) the carrying out of basic project areas 
management activities including: (i) carrying out site inventories, demarcation and 
mapping of protected areas; (ii) development and implementation of a monitoring and 
evaluation program; and (iii) updating of existing or preparation of new protected areas 
management plans; (b) the upgrading and expansion of infrastructure located in existing 
protected areas and the construction of new infrastructure in future protected areas 
(visitors centers, protected area headquarters, park management operation centers, and 
sanitary facilities); (c) the provision of the necessary equipment to support protected area 
management responsibilities, including vehicles, boats, fire suppression gear, radios, 
computers and uniforms; and (d) the provision of training and technical assistance to 
protected area managers, including on planning, budgeting, conflict resolution, 
monitoring and evaluation and personnel management. 
2. 
Supporting economically viable and environmentally sustainable new and 
associated livelihoods activities, specially when existing activities threaten the integrity 
of protected areas, through
,
inter alia
:
(a) the carrying out of field studies and workshops 
to identify potential economic alternatives; (b) the evaluation and selection of the 
economic opportunities identified by the studies and workshops mentioned in (a) herein, 
based upon their compatibility with conservation objectives, feasibility and cost-benefit 
criteria; (c) the development of participation criteria to determine Beneficiaries’ 
involvement in livelihood activities; (d) the provision of training and technical assistance 
to Beneficiaries; and (e) the preparation and implementation of Associated Livelihoods 
Subprojects. 
3. 
Strengthening of the institutional capacity at the regional and local levels, 
through the preparation of annual workshops and other supporting activities. 
Part C
:
Capacity Building for Biodiversity Conservation, Protected Areas Management 
and Increasing Environmental Awareness
1. 
Strengthening of the capacity at the national level for biodiversity conservation 
and sustainable management of protected areas, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the preparation of 
an assessment of the related national and regional training needs; and (b) the design and  
Page  26
-
25
-
implementation of national and regional training programs on protected areas 
management and sustainable alternative livelihoods. 
2. 
Increasing of public awareness of the ecological, economic and social 
significance of protected areas, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the design of national public 
awareness strategies and country specific action plans; (b) the implementation of the 
action plans referred in (a) herein; and (c) the provision of the necessary equipment to 
support the implementation of public awareness strategies. 
Part D
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation and Information Dissemination
1. 
Strengthening of the capacity of the Recipient for the purposes of carrying out 
the Project, through, inter 
alia
:
(a) the provision of specialized technical assistance and 
staff; and (b) the acquisition and use of appropriate office equipment. 
2. 
Updating of the Recipient’s existing monitoring and evaluation system. 
3. 
Carrying out of campaign activities, through all means of communication and 
national and regional workshops, to promote and disseminate the objectives of the 
Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2009. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  28
-
27
-
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
4. 
Procurement under Subprojects
Goods and works to be procured by Beneficiaries for Associated Livelihoods 
Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the procedures specified in the 
Operational Manual, which shall provide that goods and works shall be procured 
whenever possible in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.2 above 
for contracts estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more, up to $50,000
;
and for 
contracts estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent, through direct contracting 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.  
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and each contract for works to be 
awarded under Part B above; (b) the first contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.1 
above; (c) the first contract for small works to be awarded under Part C.3 above; and (d) 
the first contract for subprojects to be awarded under Part C.4 (b) above,  the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Consultants’ services for specialized Project activities and tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and, if applicable, said consultants’ services may be 
selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Page  30
-
29
-
3. 
Consultant Services under Subprojects
Consultants services to be procured by Beneficiaries for Associated Livelihoods 
Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the procedures specified in the 
Operational Manual, which shall provide that: (a) services for subprojects for contract 
amounts below $20,000 will be procured on a single source basis; and (b) for contracts 
above this threshold, services will be procured through consultants qualifications or 
individual consultants, as appropriate.  
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants
’
services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first contract to be awarded 
under C.3 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)   With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
Page  31
-
30
-
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms reference of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  32
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Terms and Conditions of Participation Agreements 
Each Participation Agreement shall include the obligation of the Participating 
Country to: 
(a) 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the in-kind 
contributions, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, as stipulated 
in an annex to the Participation Agreement; 
(b) 
(i) take or cause to be taken all action to permit the Recipient to carry out 
the Project; and (ii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the Recipient’s compliance with its obligations under this Agreement; 
(c) 
(i) establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, a national implementation coordination entity (the NICE) 
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to assist the corresponding Participating Country in 
the carrying out of its obligations under the pertinent Participation Agreement; and (ii) 
ensure that the NICE is, at all times during Project implementation, headed by a qualified 
and experienced national focal point representative, and assisted by qualified and 
experienced professional and administrative staff; 
(d) 
afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives of the Bank and the 
Recipient to visit any part of its territory for purposes related to the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant; 
(e) 
provide to the Recipient the necessary information and/or 
documentation, as requested by the Recipient in writing, to enable the Recipient to 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; 
(f) 
(i) assist the Recipient in the preparation of annual work plans and the 
progress reports referred to in Section 3.09 and 3.10 (b) of this Agreement, respectively; 
and (ii) participate in the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.10 (c) of this 
Agreement; and 
(g) 
ensure that the respective Participating Country has granted a tax 
exemption of the applicable taxes, levies and other duties levied in the territory of the 
respective Participating Country for the goods, works and services necessary for the 
execution of an Associated Livelihoods Subprojects in said Participating Country.
Page  33
-
32
-
