                                                                                 RP239


      Attachment 1: Process Framework for Mitigating Potential Livelihood Impacts

Project Summary.

The objective of the OECS Parks and Protected Area and Associated Livelihoods Project is to
contribute to the conservation of biodiversity of global importance in the OECS region by
removing barriers to effective management of protected areas and to increase the involvement of
civil society and private sector in the planning, management and sustainable use of these areas.

No Physical Displacement.

During project implementation there will be no involuntary physical displacement or resettlement
of persons from the selected protected areas being supported under the project.

Potential Impacts on Livelihoods.

Overall the project is expected to improve livelihood opportunities throughout the project areas in
particular by identifying and supporting sustainable livelihood subprojects for low-income
neighboring communities, and by local involvement in PA management as well as expected
additional or improved opportunities from park management and nature-related tourism.

However, some livelihood activities could potentially be impacted due, for example, to the
limiting of fishing areas through zoning, limiting fish catches or restricting certain fishing and
agricultural practices in sensitive areas. It should be noted that some restrictions curTently exist in
the proposed areas but are not regularly enforced because of capacity issues. This Process
Framework outlines the criteria and procedures that the project will follow to ensure that eligible,
affected persons are assisted in their efforts to restore or improve their livelihoods in a manner
that maintains the environmental integrity of the proposed PAs. These criteria and procedures
would be detailed in the Management Plans to be developed for the PAs. In all such cases, the
project would address the livelihood issues of affected populations in a manner which is fair, just,
and in accordance with local laws, as well as consistent with the World Bank's Safeguard Policies
on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) and Natural Habitats (OP 4.04).

Targeting.

The project activities for mitigating potential nonphysical displacement would target local low-
income communities that neighbor and use natural resources in the PAs that have been selected
,for project support.

 Protected Area Establishment and Management.

 During project preparation considerable efforts went into biophysical and participatory social
 assessments of the three pre-selected PAs. Through a collaborative process the following issues
 were evaluated: (i) geographic and habitat classification; (ii) the conservation status of marine
 and estuarine flora and fauna and their ecological relationships with the physical enviromuent;
 (iii) history and development of the proposed protected area; (iv) current human use and
 development; (v) the extent to which ecosystems and species of conservation concern can survive
 under existing levels of human use and disturbance, and (vi) potential land tenure or use rights
 issues. New sites to be developed under the project will also undergo biophysical and social
 assessments prior to being selected for project support.



 18
The project -ipproach is that local commitment and participation is vital to the SuLce>.,tLIl
                                                                                          indicated
implementation of PAs. The three site specific social assessments already carried out
broad local support for establishing the pre-selected PAs with a concomitant interest in local
involvement and improving livelihoods that are environmentally sustainable.

Component 2, Protected Areas and Associated Livelihood Opportunities, would
                                                                                       uses of PA
finance a series of activities that would permit a thorough understanding of hunian
                                                                                      strategies, plan
resources, identify any specific adverse effects on livelihoods, develop n,il; ;ti-,r
                                                                                         In addition,
and implement alternative livelihood activities, and address any identified conflicts.
                                                                                               of the
the project would support the active involvement of local communities in the formulation
protected area management plans as described below.

The process for area declaration and zoning will include the following elements:
                                                                                                     may
.        A review of pertinent biophysical/social data including any management plans that
                                    opportunities and limitations within the protected  area  sites as well
         exist in order to identify
         as the need to collect any  additional data which would   be undertaken  at each  site during
         project year one and two;
                                                                                                      help
*  Formulation of an action plan with local communities at each PA site that would
                                         in relation  to  the protected   area  that the  project  may
   define the types of local activities
                                                                                                    livelihood
   support, including, among others, opportunities for support for new or alternative
                               with project  objectives),   technical  assistance,   training   opportunities
   subprojects (compatible
   and involvement in possible PA co-management plans, where relevant;
                                                                                                             be
   During project year one additional analysis of potential.livelihood limitations would
   carried out to identify specific  impacts   on  resource   users  such   as fisherman     and agriculturists
                                                                                                              of
   who may be impacted through project activities. This process would involve an analysis
   existing practices, proposed    project  activities, conflicts  and   potential remedial     actions;
                                                                                                       proposed
 * Broad stakeholder participation and public consultation, to develop and review
                                              permitted    uses  would   be the  guiding    principle   for all
   area boundaries, zoning schemes and
   planning;
                                                                                                     developed
   Physical demarcation of proposed protected areas as well as all zoning would be
                                                         stakeholder    participation.    This  would     be part
    in a participatory manner through broad based
                                                  management      plans.   Stakeholders     would   include
    of the process of preparing the proposed
                                                                                                    and
    relevant government agencies, NGOs, resource users, local community members
    landowners. Notices for meetings would         be  announced    and   proposed   areas   and  zoning
    demarcations would be published.
                                                                                                    by the
 * Mitigation measures in cases where livelihoods have clearly been compromised
                                                         Sustainable   Livelihood    subcomponent         and
    project, these would be linked to the Project's
                                                             of new   or alternative   livelihoods    that   would
    focus primarily on assistance in the development
                                                                Alternatives    could   include:  (i)  training
    improve the econornic condition of affected people.
                                                                                                         (ii)
    and employment opportunities such as tour guiding, park ranger and warden patrol;
                                                        techniques,    pesticide  use,   as well  as  product
    training for agriculturists to improve planting
                                                                                                                or
    development and marketing; and (iii) subprojects such as sustainable sea moss harvesting
     sustainable charcoal production, among      others.
                                                                                                          the PA
   *Enforcement of new restrictions as a result of zoning would be the responsibility of
    Manager, the relevant government agencies and/or           the co-management        committees      which
     may be established to oversee the proposed areas. No new restrictions that can be
     demonstrated to restrict legitimate livelihood activities would be enforced until mitigation
     measures have been developed and mechanisms for their implementation exist.




    19
     An analysis of potential conflicts based on current and past resource use patterns whether
     legal or not; the project would build upon lessons learned at the Soufriere Marine Management
     Area for conflict resolution. Conflict resolution will be addressed through a thorough
     assessment that would include an identification of the nature of the conflicts and the
     stakeholders involved. Stakeholders would be afforded the opportunity to participate in the
     resolution of conflicts.

Irii-l.;li.:!Ii_c!.itin 1'

Project implementation will be carried out under the direction of the OECS-ESDU with guidance
from the Policy Steering Committee. On the ground activities may be carried out by a variety of
implementing agencies including government agencies working in the area, subcontractors,
NGOs, community groups or consultants, with the National Technical Advisory Committees
playing an advisory role. The Site Implementing Entities would have direct responsibility of
idc!t![i', uk! conflict issues in the field and scheduling resolution activities. All incidents would be
carefully documented following a protocol established by the OECS-ESDU. This would facilitate
monitoring and evaluation while providing a level of project accountability.

Monitorinn and evaluation                     -


The monitoring and evaluation of the Process Framework implementation would-be included as
part of the overall Project M & E activities and the results will be made available for all
stakeholders. In addition, beneficiary assessments will be undertaken yearly beginning in year
two by the OECS-ESDU Field Officer and included in the material presented during review
nissions.




 2020
                               Attachment 2: Cultural Property

The three pre-selected proiecicd areas to be supported under the project include several historical
sites and one includes small archeological findings. FutLre sites to be supported may also be
found to include cultLrally important or historical or archeological sites. The management plans
to be developed for all protected areas under the project would include regulations and procedures
for the appropriate protection and preservation of these cultLral properties consistent with World
Bank Operational Policy Note 11.03, CultLral Property.




 21
                            Social Assessment and Public Participation
                                                                              4
                   (with Process Framework and Cultural Property Attachments)
                    OECS Protected Areas and Associated Livelihoods Project

Introduction

The development objective of the project is to contribute to the economic development of six of
the nine Small Island Developing States (SIDS) in the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
(OECS)5 region through: (i) the strengthening of existing and creation of new protected areas
(PAs); and (ii) providing environmentally sustainable economic opportunities for communities
living in the surrounding areas. This will be accomplished by: (i) improving the relevant legal,
policy and institutional arrangements (collectively termed institutional framework) in the
participating OECS countries; (ii) establishing or strengthening a number of pilot PAs including
providirg support for the development of sustainable livelihoods for communities living in
proximity to these sites; and (iii) improving institutional capacity to manage PAs in the region.
The principal project outcomes will be: (i) common, updated and comprehensive institutional
frameworks supporting national systems of protected areas; (ii) establishment of new or
strengthening of existing pilot PAs; (iii) development and enhancement of environmentally
compatible economic opportunities in communities nei-ghlbcrin- ilie prop-osedPAs; and (iv)
                                                                          on and protected area
increased public awareness of the importance ofbi:)didi er iry co,n,rex.:uii
In.lagc ine rit in the sustainable economic development of SIDS.

The global objective of the project is to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity of global
importance in the OECS region by removing barriers to the effective management of PAs, and to
increase the involvement of civil society and the private sector in the planning, management and
sustainable use of these areas. The end-goal of the program is to create an integrated system of
protected areas among the OECS Member States which will protect and conserve ecologically-
sustainable, representative samples of the region's rich biodiversity endowment, while creating
sustainable livelihoods for communities in and around these protected areas.

In order to ensure that the prospective commrunities in and around the targeted sites benefit
meaningfully from this project intervention, a social assessment was undertaken during project
preparation. The objectives of the social assessment with respect to the three pre-selected PA
sites6 were to: (i) carry out a stakeholder analysis; (ii) carry out consultations with stakeholders;
(iii) describe baseline socio-economic conditions with an emphasis on natural resource use issues;
(iv) evaluate social criteria for site pre-selection; and (v) identify key issues for the human
communities (both opportunities and potential conflicts or problems) to contribute to site specific
action plans to be developed under the project. Social criteria for site pre-selection included: (a)
degree of local support for the PA; (b) relatively well-defined land tenure and use or access rights;
(c) ensure no physical resettlement; (d) socio-cultural values of the proposed site; and (e)
educational value of proposed site (see Amnex 11 PA Selection Criteria and Site Profiles for more
detail). The other objectives of the social assessment were to: (i) define the steps for carrying out
social assessments during project implementation for other PAs to be de, eloped under the project;
(ii) define participatory processes during project implementation; (iii) provide insights for the
design of the sustainable Livelihoods sub-component; and (iv) formulate a Process Framework

4   This annex summarizes the complete social assessment report which is available in the project files.
5 The six OECS States included in the project are: St.Kitts and Nevis, Antiguta and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of
Dominica, St.Lucia, St.Vincent and the Grenadines, and Grenada. OECS States not included in the project are: The
British Virgin Islands, Montserrat, and Anguilla.
6 Pre-selected PA sites include (I) Point Sable, St. Lucia, (2) Tobago Cays, St. Vincent and the Grenadines; and (3)

North Sound Islands, Antigua and Barbuda.



8
for the project for potential nonphysical displacement (see Attachment 1). The project will not
involve or affect indigenous people, and will not cause involuntary resettlement.

Regional Context

The OECS is a grouping of nine states of the Eastem Caribbean established in 1981 of which six
are included in the project: St. Kitts and Nevis, Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of
Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Grenada. The economies of the region7
(witlh the exception of Montserrat and Anguilla) have been experiencing downward trends during
the 1990s characterized by ainual growth rates averaging 4.5 percent. The vulnerability of the
OECS economies is characterized by issues such as: the decline in agriculture and agricultural
exports, changes in commodity agreements for agricultural exports, problems in atta i iini greater
diversification in OECS exports, transportation problems, and human resource development. The
economies of the sub-region are in transition and there are specia-l challenges posed by
liberalization and current trading arrangements.

Unemployment is a major challenge facing the OECS countries. Although the importance of
 agriculture since 1996 has steadily declined, the sector remains-a significant employer (23
.percent) in the Windward Islands. The OECS economies have been restructured away from
                                                                     8
 agriculture and manufacturing towards the provision of services. Tourism is of great importance
 throughout the region (contributing between a third to a half of GDP in most of the OECS
 countries). It is a priority sector targeted for further development throughout the region often with
 significant reliance and effects on natural resoturces. Poverty levels in the OECS persist at
 unacceptably high rates coupled with on-going structural inequalities in the areas of education,
 health, and employment opportunities. The Gini Coefficients for the sub-region indicate a
 significant level of inequality ranging from .044 in St. Kitts-Nevis to a high of .056 in St. Vincent
 and the Grenadines .9

In addition to the above structural issues, the small size of the Eastern Caribbean Islands and their
related ecosystems create substantial risks for local habitats and the species they feed and shelter.
The biological resources of the region are under great-pressure from a diversity of development-
related activities. The lack of integrated planning mechanisms in the region has been identified as
a major cause for the "one-sided" approach to national development. This lack of connectivity
betveen economy and environment, the ecological fragility of the islands, and the vulnerability to
natural hazards require the OECS states to maximize sustainable development initiatives and
investment opportunities in order to maintain their natural resource base. Another issue is that of
inadequate legislatiotincovering conservation and the dispersed institutional aild administrative
arrangements for coordinating environmental initiatives.

 The present project represents a significant first step in fostering a number of critical common
 elements, which over time could evolve into an integrated regional system. These include: (i)
 promoting the development of a common or similar institutional framework governing protected


 7 Based on information from the 2000 OESC Human Development Report.
   According to the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) Annual Statistical Digest 2001, for the period 2001, the
 sectoral composition of the Gross Domestic product were as follows: the Windward islands recorded 11.9%
 (agricultLre), 20.3% ( trade), 17% (government), 10.1% (construction), and 7.3% (manufacturing); in comparison, the
 Leeward islands recorded 3.4% (agriculture), 11.3% (trade), 20.7% (govemment), 16.6% (construction), and 4.5%
 imanufacturing).
   The Gini coefficient is a measure of the degree of concentration or conversely, equality of a variable. The coefficient
 ranges between zero where there is no concentration (i.e., perfect equality) and one where there is total concentration
 (perfect inequality).



 9
areas, (ii) the strengthening of institutions with shared'mandates, and (iii) supporting regional
training and public awareness of the importance of conserving the region's biodiversity. The
programmatic approach has the additional advantage of providing the goal, context and roadmap
leading to goal achievement that will guide interventions over the next 15 years.

Stakeholder Participation

Participation durinz project preparation

The original project proposal deVeloped by the St. Lucia National Trust (May 2002) focused only
on St. Lucia and was developed through a series of consultations over three years involving local
and national St. Lucian stakeholders. In October 2002, the project was refornulated to become a
regional project and it was considered vital that the regionalized project required a similar
consultative process to collectively determine the objectives, elements and outputs, to secure
broader buy-in and ownership, and to obtain important baseline information to help define project
components. During a workshop on the regional project held in November 2002, a
comprehensive matrix of critical stakeholders representing local, national and regional protected
area interests was developed which served to guide subsequent consultations. These included
among others, for example: (i) regional and international agencies such as the OECS Secretariat,
the Caribbean Environmental Health Institute (CEHI), United Nations Environment Program-
Regional Coordination Unit (UNEP-RCU) and the Caribbean Conservation Association (CCA);
(ii) national Ministers and relevant a-2enciesin each of the countries; NGOs; and (iii) site-specific.
 constituencies such as fishennen, farmers, dive operators, tour operators, local associations and
others.

A series of workshops, meetings, consultations and field visits was carTied out from November
2002 through October 2003. These consultations contributed to the current design of the project
as well as the selection of the first three target PAs as well as raising awareness among
stakeholders of the multiplicity of issues surrounding areas of critical biodiversity on the islands.
The stakeholder groupings and the general populace in the region concur on the need to protect
these areas and discussions with them revealed a willingness to conipl\ .itih new management
systems. Local interviews and consultations revealed strong concems with natural resource
preservation, controlling pollution and other destructive practices, and interest in improving
livelihoods, further detailed in the site specific assessments. A broad regional stakeholder
workshop to solicit feedback on the project design was scheduled in November 2003 as a
means of ensuring that PMS inputs are consolidated into the project document, and that
consensus on national considerations, project elements and provisions was secured.

Participation during project implementation

Participatory processes have been thoroughly integrated into the project design. Some of the
methods that will be used by the project include stakeholder analysis and social assessments to be
cairied out to prepare new PA sites to be developed under the project; development of local action
plans for each PA to help determine local priorities for activities that might be eligible for
financing under the project that could include among others, opportunities for support for
alternative livelihood subprojects, technical assistance, training opportunities and involvement in
PA co-management plans.

 The project's Component 2. Protected Areas and Associated Altemative Livelihood
 Opportunities, includes a subcomponent to facilitate and finance sustainable livelihood
 subprojects with communities living in and around the targeted PAs. It is anticipated that this


 10
subcomponent would be supported by the existing OECS Small Project Facility (SPF). A project
specific operational manual detailing application criteria and procedures has been
developed. In addition, other subcomponents of Component 2 would finance the social
assessments for new sites preparation, preparation and implementation of management plans, and
periodic stakeholder workshops.

In addition, Component 3, Capacity Buildina for Conservation Plannina and Manaaement will
include a stubcomponent for technical assistance and training opportunities in support of
development for future sustainable livelihood activities.

When new sites are being prepared under Component 2, the following processes, in the sequence
identified below, will be employed. Step one would be to identify stakeholders and carry out a
participatory social assessment focusing primarily, on the communities that potentially might be
affected by the establishment of the protected area with the goal of assessing the social criteria for
site selection and identifying stakeholder concerns. Step two would be to develop
action plans in consultation with stakeholders that would clarify potential benefits and,methods
by which the local communities might be involved in project attivities, preliminary identification
and prioritization of potential alternative livelihood subprojects,. and clarification of institutional
 and organizational arrangements. These actions plans would also provide input for anrdLUide
 local involvement in the development of the PA management plans....

Participatory monitoring and evaluation will be used at the project level in Components 1 and 3,
and at the site level in Component 2 to undertake assessments of project activities, policy
interventions and institutional arrangements.

Site Specific Social Assessments

Site specific social assessments were cairied out for: (i)-proposed North Sound Islands National
Park (Antigua and Barbuda); (ii) the proposed Point Sable National Park (St. Lucia); and (iii) the
                                                                           0
Tobago Cays National Marine Reserve (St. Vincent and the Grenadines).' These are summarized
below..


Site specific social assessment for North Sound Islands National Park (proposed). Antia a and
Barbuda

 Introduction and site description. Antigua and Barbuda is located in the middle of the Leeward
 island chain in the Eastern Caribbean. The islands are the largest of the English speaking
                                         2            2
 Leeward Islands, encompassing 280 km and 161 kin , respectively.

 The proposed site is the 3,100 ha North Sound Island National Park (NSINP) and consists of six
 uninhabited islands: Great Bird Island, Little Bird Island, Redhead Island, Rabbit's Island, Great
 Exchange Island and Little Exchange Island. Together they comprise some of Antigua's most
 pristine natural resources: a cluster of limestone islands and the surrounding coastal and marine

 ISThe St. Lucia site social assessment was carried out by The Nature Conservancy in collaboration with the Point Sable
 Park Steering Committee, the St. Lucia National Trust Southem Office and communities. The Tobago Cays National
 Marine Reserve (St. Vincent and the Grenadines) and the proposed North Sound Islands National Park (Antigua and
 Barbuda) social assessments were carried out by OECS-ESDU in collaboration with the Tobago Cays Management
 Park Board and the Environmental Awareness Group respectively, and communities. Methods included secondary data
 review, interviews and consultations with a broad spectrum of stakeholders including govemment agencies, local
 organizations and community members.



 11
ecosystems including mangroves, coral reefs, sea grass beds, rocky shores, sandy beaches, coastal
                                                                       2
vegetation and dry scrubland vegetation. The total area covers 30 mi northeast of the mainland of
Antigua and is refuge to many species of rare and unique endemic flora and fauna (some of which
no longer exist on the mainland). For example, several traditionally used medicinal plants that
have become rare on the mainland are still abundant on the islands. The area also contains
artifacts from the Arawak indigenous people from the pre-colonial era. The marine ecosystem of
the area provide nurseries for fish, couch, lobster and other species. The great beauty and
protected reefs of the proposed site make it a prime tourist destination. Several of the offshore
islands boast pristine and underdeveloped white sand beaches which are appreciated greatly by
both tourist and local recreational users.

Through the NGO Environmental Awareness Group (EAG); and the Antiguan Racer
Conservation Project (ARCP) much work in the North Sound has been done with regard to
protecting the endangered racer snake, conservation of indigenous flora and fauna and public
awareness. As a consequence of this work, the ARCP has graduLallyevolved into a broader
Offshore Island Conservation Programme (OICP). The goal of.the. OICP is to conserve
indigenous and globally significant populations of flora and fauna of the offshore islands, and to
promote the sustainable use of the resources.

In September 1999, EAG held a workshop for tour operators to increase awareness of the tour
operators for conservation and management. In August 2000, another workshop was held for
recreational users of the area.

Baseline social conditions. The six offshore islands of the proposed NSIPA are uninhabited but
are widely used to support tourism, and tourist-related activities, fisheries and local recreational
activities. The communities on mainland Antigua within a few kilometers of the PA are the most
intensive users. These are Seatons, Parham, Willikies, and Glanvilles with a total population of
about 2,000 persons. Key features of natural resource use include diving, anchorage, fishing
(mainly recreational), bathing, swimming, snorkeling, picnics, and day tours. Local institutions
include one NGO (EAG) and three churches.

Among human pressures on the environment, current fishing practices are placing too much
pressure on near-shores stocks. Anchoring by tour operators and "ghost"fish traps are taking a
toll on the coral reefs. Recreational activities on island beaches are another major source of
environmental stress. It is estimated that the area receives over 20,000 visitors per year including
local recreational tourists.

With respect to land tenure, the Govemment owns the six islands proposed for iiiclusion in the
PA. Other offshore islands are mostly privately owned hence will not be included within the PA
until ownership transfer will be negotiated.

Local stakeholder issues. Local stakeholders consulted included a broad cross-section of
stakeholders ranging from representatives of the National Parks Authority, Fisheries and Forestiy
Divisions to fishermen, tour operators, recreational users and the private sector, among others.
The social assessment clearly identified a high level of interest and commitment to the proposed
PA. The main concems highlighted included need to: (i) protect the reefs from damage (such as
from anchors, divers, snorkelers and fish pots); (ii) implement a protected area (including, among
others, demarcation buoys, new signage, employment of a park warden, better law enforcement
and establishing user fees); (iii) control illegal types of fishing (though fishing groLnds are mostly
outside the proposed park); and (iv) improve management of solid and liquid wastes. There were



 12
also interests expressed in alternative livelihood options, specialized training, and recreational
uses.

Lessons learned. The environmental organizations working here have recognized the importance
of community involvement and have supported public awareness efforts. As a result, there
appeared to be strong interest in further establishment of a protected area. There are clear needs
for an updated management plan, institutional strengthening of the National Parks authority, and
greater involvement of local populations and NGOs in PA management.

Site specific social assessment for Point Sable National Park (proposed). St. Lucia

Introduction and Site Description. St. Lucia is a small island economy with a population of
approximately 159,000, and a growth rate of 1.6 per cent. The majority of the population is
concentrated in the capital city of Castries and in the northern towns and villages of the island.
The island's economy is based on a few agricultural products for export but is also undergoing a
structural transformation to services as the main growth sector with tourism playing an
increasingly important role.

The proposed 250 hectare Pointe Sable National Park is located on the southeast coast of St.
Lucia. The PA spans four coastal ecosystem types: coral reefs, mangroves-(including the largest
remaining stand of coastal mangrove forest in St. Lucia),,sea grass beds; offshore islands and a-
sandbank; a representative sample of-tropical Caribbean island coastal ecosystems in a relatively
intact state. St. Lucia's largest mangrove and longest fringing coral reef are found in this area. An
overall management strategy would amalgamate several existing protected areas including five
marine reserves, several nature reserves, the recently declared RAMSAR site at the Mankote
 r,n-rr, e. historic sites and a national landmark-with other as yet undeclared natural and historic
sites into onemanagement umit, the Pointe Sable Protected Area.

 Baseline Social Conditions. The populations that are or would be potentially affected by the
 proposed protected area reside around the inland and coastline communities of the Eastern and
 Southern areas of the town of Vieux-Fort. Permanent human population within the PA,is
 negligible. A total of seven communities with a combined population of about 14,000 people
 constitute this area including: Belle Vue,. Beausejour, Moule-A-Chique, Retraite, Pierrot,
 CacoaNVige.The communities have access to schools, hospitals and health centers and a
 significant number of households already have piped water.

 While these communities are located outside the limits of the proposed protected area, natural
 resource uses are many and competing including timber harvesting for charcoal production,
 fishing, crab hLunting,sea moss cultivation, community based tourism, agricultural production,
 and recreational activities. The major natural resource users in the region are: charcoal
 producers; fishermen (some of whom are involved in crab hunting and sea egg harvesting); sea
 moss farmers in the Savaine Bay area; watersports users (scuba divers/snorklers); livestock
 farmners;and restaurateurs.

 The ANiank:ote Mangrove with four distinct types of mangroves, covers an area of approximnately
 63 acres and it is the largest area of mangroves on the island. In the early 1980s, there was an
 effort made to protect the area by giving the community a stake in managing and protecting the
 resources within the mangroves and the community-based Aupicon Charcoal and Agricultural
 Producers Group (ACAPG) was established which produces charcoal on a sustainable basis.




  13
The Savannes Bay is highly utilized for fishing and to a lesser extent for sea moss production. In
      , according to statistical data for the Department of Fisheries (DOF), there were 362 licensed
  '1"2'
fishermen, and five sea moss cultivators in the Vieux-Fort area.

The economy of the region is primarily agricultural, and the area is considered to be one of the
largest fishing communities on the island, with expanding service and tourism sectors. However,
during the social assessment process, it was noted that in the Vieux-Fort area, tourism has not
been able to attract the scale of investments needed for the sector to be an integral component of
the southern region's economic base.

Some surrounding communities have spearheaded eco-tourism efforts with incipient
infrastructure development (bird watching tower and trails) and guLided   tours in the community in
order to supplement their incomes. Visitation to these eco-tourism sites, while minimal at the
present time, would likely increase significantly after designation as a protected area, promotion
of the tourism product,- and as nature based tourism opportunities are developed under the project.
The govemment's policy is to create and strengthen economic opportunities at the local level
         heritage tourism. The Point Sable protected area proposal would help reduce pressure on
.l irouoih
other areas such as reef dive sites and, also increase local community revenues by providing
recreational altematives in new areas.

The majority of the land in the area is tenured under the Government of St. Lucia (GOSL), but
vested in the statutory bodies of the St. Lucia Air and Sea Port Authority and The National
Development Corporation (NDC). The NDC has ownership over most of the land within the park.
Over the years, the Pointe Sable Beach has been opened to conservation groups and many
developmental 'agencies have initiated sustainable activities within the area. It. is anticipated that
legally binding agreements such as land trust arrangements or conservation lease agreements will
be negotiated as part of project implementation. The National Trust, Departnent of Planning,
Department of Forest and Lands, and the National Conservation Authority together have the legal
authority and power to deal adequately with the various techniques and instruments for land use
conservation.

 Local Stakeholder Issues. Local stakeholders consulted included community representatives and
 pertinent government agencies (e.g. Forestry Department, Fisheries Department and others).'The
 main local concerns highlighted by the social assessment in relation to the proposed protected
 area included interests in ensuring local involvement in co-management of the proposed protected
 area; protecting the mangroves; ensuring livelihoods from charcoal production, sea moss
-cultivation and fishing; and promoting recreational uses in the area and eco-tourism. There
 appears to be a high level of local support for the proposed PA. Other concerns included
 ambiguities about land tenure status in some areas, dumping of garbage and waste in rivers,
 mangroves and the sea; and use of agrochemicals. The assessment noted some distrust of
 government information on environmental issues and that some farmers' land management
 practices were based on erroneous assumptions such as that land clearing increases fertility.

Lessons Learned. The previous experience of the establishment of the Aupicon. Charcoal and
Agricultural Producers Group (ACAPG) in the Mankote mangroves is highly instructive for the
current project. Lessons learned include the importance of strong involvement of national
resource management agencies, in this case the DOF. Second, DOF granted exclusive rights to
the ACAPG to harvest'in the mangrove. This improved the morale of the group and also provided
a mandate for protecting the mangrove from outside harvesters. The other lesson learned from the
Mankote experience is that of local participation. It is noteworthy that when the need for
protecting the mangrove was first recognized, there was no organized local stakeholder group to


 14
work with, yet the proposal to foirmally involve the economic and socially marginalized charcoal
producers was controversial, and was largely based on three considerations: (i) their knowledge
of the ecology of the mangrove was extensive and would be necessary for developing strategies
for protection and regeneration, (ii) their stake in the protection of the mangrove was too large to
be -ignored, and (iii) the failure to involve them could have resulted in their active resistance to the
project. This experience therefore suggests that in attempting to involve local organizations in
managing mangroves or other harvested resources, consideration should be given to (i) the nature
of their interests in the area's management, (ii) tangible potential benefits as balanced against
costs, (iii) the likelihood of the organization being able to participate over an extended timeframe,
and (iv) attention to technical assistance and other support the local organization may require.

A second case in the south of St. Lucia that provides lessons for participatory management
involves the work carried out by the DOF in sea urchin management. According to the DOF, after
a period of closure brought about by excessive harvesting of sea urchins, a new participatory
system of sea urchin management was adopted in order to curb previous overexploitation of this
resource. This new system involved the issuing of harvest permits to persons-who complete
a number of requirements and who also agree to harvest under conditions specified
by the department (e.g. assisting in the annumalpre-harvest monitoring and assessment of the sea
urchin resource; participating in meetings to assess previous. harvests; etc.). What has occ-rred is
the involvement of licensed harvesters in surveillance of the harvest area and demonstrates that (i)
such involvement of a user group can play an important role in ensuring sustainable exploitation;
(ii) this-system of co-management will work under conditions where the user community has sole
access, proximity to the resource, and where the resource is sufficiently small to be managed by
the group; and (iii) such approaches require joint negotiations -and development-of a system with
 the involvement of all relevant parties.

Site specific social assessment for Tobago Cays National Marine Reserve, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines

 Introduction and Site Description. St. Vincent and the Grenadines is a small Eastem                 Caribbean
                                                                                                 2
 island state   consisting  of 30  inlets and Cays,  which    have a total land  area of  345 kmn  . The island
 of St. Vincent   has  84  km  of coastline  and  a central  mountainous    terrain (rising to an  elevation  of
 1234m    at its highest peak,   La   Soufriere Volcano)    running  north-south    with  numerous    valleys that
 drain  into the  narrow   coastal  belt. The  Grenadines    consist of Bequia,   Mustique,   Canouan,
 Mayreau, Union Island, Palm Island, Mayreau, Petit St. Vincent and the Tobago Cays. The
 Grenadines are mutch snzillcr and less rugged than St. Vincent, with white sandy beaches due to
 coral-reef deposition. The population of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is approximately
  115,460 people, with more than 90 percent located on St. Vincent; 27.7 percent live in the capital
 of Kingstown and its environs. St. Vincent and the Grenadines is heavily dependent on
 agriculture which continues to employ over 40 % of the workforce. The 2002 agriculture census
 showed 6,871 persons in root crop and banana cultivation.

 The overall area of the Tobago Cays Marine Park is rectangular in shape with a total area of 1,400
 ha. The marine area includes the Tobago Cays, five small uninhabited islands (Petit Rameau,
 Petit Bateau, Jamesby, Baradal and Petit Tabac), that enclose a sand bottom lagoon and the island
 of Mayreau. A 1995 survey indicates that some 14,000 yacht people, 25,000 charter-boat day
 trippers and 10,000 cruise-ship passengers visit the Tobago Cays each year.

 The Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines (GOSVG) began the process of establishing
 the Tobago Cays National Marine Reserve (TCNMR) in the 1980s designating the initial area and
 working on planning with the OAS. In the 1990s, the French provided technical cooperation for


 15
the marine park, a board was established, regulations promulgated and a manager hired. In 1998,
the first management plan of the park was developed. In 1999 the GOSVG finalized the purchase
of the area from a private party who sold on condition that the area would remain a park. The
area's management plan was revised in 2000 and is not yet approved. Although considerable
 groundwork has already been done - including extensive community consultations and public
 awareness campaigns - to date the steps taken to protect, conserve and improve the natural
resources of the Tobago Cays remain more on paper than in effect. In addition, much of the
 currently unapproved management plan remains unimplemented.

Baseline social conditions. The Southem Grenadines where the PA is located are small unique
islands where all communities - plant, animal and human - are limited and ecologically fragile.
According to the 1991 census, only about 2.7 percent of the country's population lives in the
southern islands, approximately 3,000 persons (of which the labor force is about 1,300 persons).
The unemployment rate is about 20 percent.

Sixty-eight per cent. of the population resides on Union island which is the administrative center
and the conduit for daily excursions to the Tobago Cays, Mayreau, and Palm Island. The tourism
industry is the main source of income and white sandy beaches, coral reefs, sheltered waters,
yachting and day excursions characterize its tourism product. Approximately 14 percent of the.
labor force are directly employed in tourism and about 2 percent work indirectly as vendors, and
craftsmen. The remainder of the labor force are involved in small-scale subsistence agriculture
(mainly pigeon peas, sweet potatoes, com and some livestock) and fishing, with others involved
in construction. As early as 1980, the fishing industry had begun to experience difficulties for
reasons such as the decline in fish catch (most of the fish were sedentary), limited fishing
technology, and inadequate market intelligence. Consequently, most fishermen complement their
incomes usually in tourism related activities.

 Direct natural resource users of the PA include fishermen who-dive for lobsters and conch and
 indirect users are primarily ship peddlers or boat boys (who sell fruits, vegetables and seafood
 and other commodities to the yachtsmen and also act as agents for grocery shops on Union Island
 and Mayreau). Other indirect users are local craftspeople, souvenir and-t-shirt-peddlers and
 itinerant hair-braiders. There are also expatriate resource users and these include: yacht operators
 of which some 3,000 anchor in the lagoon annlually; day-charters which are organized and
 operated mainly by foreign nationals to Palm Island, Mayreau and the Tobago Cays; and cruise
 ships.

 The socio-cultural patterns of the Southern Grenadines are similar to the wider OECS region. The
 family structuLreis matrifocal related in part to male migration to other parts of the region and
 North America. The levels of support for many families are precarious and dependent on limited
 economic opportunities and shifting conjugal alliances. Southern Grenadines are mainly of
 African descent with a very small but economically powerful white population. Expatriates own
 most of the high-end hotels. Social stratification in the region, especially in small rural
 communities, is complex and entails more than wealth as color, education, reputation and
 respectability, and tastes are factored in. Major social inlstitutions include the Tobago Cays NMR
 Board, Tourist Board, lending institutions, NGOs (such as Union Island Association for
 Ecological Protection (UIAP), Union Island Eco-tourism Movement (UIEM), Roots Connection
 Culture Club, Lions Club of Union) as well as churches.

 Local stakeholder issues. Local stakeholders consulted included a broad cross-section of
 inhabitants and users from representatives of the Mayreau Environmental Development Board
 and TCNMR Park Board to yacht owners and dive operators to fishermen and boat taxi operators,


  16
among others. The main local concerns highlighted by the social assessment in relation to the
proposed protected area included: (i) interests in protecting and regulating the Cays and its reefs
as well interest in demarcation, zoning, user fees, and education and training on the ecological
and economic values of the natural resources; (ii) eaming livelihoods from the use of the Cays
(e.g., vendoring; and enhancing the water taxi - boat boy - business) and reducing conflicts
between yachts and taxis and between taxis; (iii) conducting day-tours to the Cays; (iv) reducing
illegal fishing by locals and visitors (such as spear fishing or off-season); (v) managing liquid
wastes and garbage; and (vi) recreational uses. There are also concerns expressed about boat
overcrowding and boat safety (including theft).

Lessons learned. The barriers to the effective management of the Tobago Cays over the past 15
years were created by the absence of a system to ensure accountability at the various levels of
management. The development of three management plans that were not implemented signals
deficiencies within the Tobago Cays Board to ensure effective execution of recommendations. In
addition, the absence of empowerment to enforce Board decisions, the disconnection between
Board decisions and their implementation, and insufficient involvement of all stakeholders in the
decision-making and implementation process contributed to the lack of progress to date.

The expressed opinion of many stakeholders was that new endeavors should build upon previous
initiatives, yet should be more effective, particularly in terms of building stakeholder ownership,
accountability, and conflict resolution processes. In recognition of the aforementioned
difficulties encountered in past efforts, and to ensure success, this project will incorporate the
following lessons: (i) the importance of a proper management system with broad stakeholder
support, involvement, and accountability; (ii) the need for an on-site manager; -(iii) a framework
to ensure timely execution of recommendations (cited as problematic in the past); and (iv) the
need for an extensive public awareness campaign to distinguish the project from previous efforts.




 17
