Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re"tNo. P-2920-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 4, 1980
docmnt bu a reticted ditIbuton ed may be msd by ripints ndy in te pewfoance of
thelr ofel  dutfle Its cotents may nt Otherwise be discoed witbout Word Dank auborzatW.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since August 13, 1979, the Bangladesh Taka has been pegged to a
basket of major currencies, with Pound Sterling as intervention currency.
Consequently, the Taka-Dollar rate is subject to change. In the twelve month
period July 1979 through June 1980 this rate fluctuated between Taka 14.61
and 16.27 per US$, with an average for the period of Taka 15.48 = US$1.
On October 13, 1980, the Taka-Pound spot exchange rate (buying
rate) was officially set at 38.40 to the Pound Sterling. This compares with
the rates of Tk 34.69 set on August 1979 and Tk 36.20 set on July 31, 1980.
Unless otherwise stated the rate below has been used throughout this report.
US$1          =   Tk 15.5
Tk 1               US$0.0645
Tk 1 million  =   US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Barrel (bbl)               =    0.159 cjbic meters (m )
1 cubic foot (cf)            =    0.028 m
1 British Thermal
Unit (btu)               -    0.252 kilocalories (kc)
1 Kilowatt hour (KWh)             2.978 kc
1 metric ton (mT) of
oil 0.85 specific
gravity                  =    7.4 bbl
1 kilometer (km)             =    0.621 miles
CFD                          =    cubic feet per day
MCFD                         =    thousand cubic feet per day
YMCFD                        =    million cubic feet per day
TCF                          =    trillion (1,000 billion) cubic feet
toe                          =    tons of oil equivalent in heating
value
lW-    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW                           =    Gigawatt (1,000,000 kilowatts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BGSL   -   Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited
BPC    -   Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB   -   Bangladesh Power Development Board
BPL    -   Bangladesh Petroleum Limited
CNG    -   Compressed Natural Gas
ERL    -   Eastern Refinery Limited
FRG    -   Federal Republic of Germany
GOB    -   Government of Bangladesh
KPM    -   Karnafuli Paper Mill
OECF   -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(an agency of the Japanese Government)
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:             SDR 64.7 million (US$85.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard.
Relending Terms:   US$80.5 million equivalent from the proceeds of the proposed
credit would be on-lent to the Bakhrabad Gas Systems Ltd
(BGSL) for a period of 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 12% p.a. GOB would bear the foreign
exchange risk. US$4.0 million for studies would be on-lent
to Petrobangla on standard IDA terms and US$0.5 million
would be retained by the Government for additional studies.
Purpose:            The project would be implemented over a three-year develop-
ment period (FY81-FY83) and would include: the drilling
of four wells and the recompletion of an existing well; the
provision of the necessary gas gathering and conditioning
facilities; the construction of a 24" gas transmission
pipeline, 110 miles in length, from Bakhrabad to the city
gate station in Chittagong; the construction of a 20"/16"
gas distribution system supplying the major consumers in
Chittagong; the construction of a 10" gas spur line to the
Karnafuli Paper Mill and supplying industrial estates en
route; the provision of ancillary maintenance, administra-
tion and communications facilities; the provision of advis-
ory services for project implementation and studies; the
provision of training; and, the provision of technical
assistance and studies to assist in development of
Bangladesh's energy resources, including a pilot project
to test utilization of compressed natural gas (CNG) as an
automotive fuel. The project would assist Bangladesh in
reducing its present over-dependence on imported oil and
petroleum products through the replacement of liquid hydro-
carbons with indigenous natural gas and would make available
the use of gas as a feedstock for fertilizer production,
thereby resulting in substantial foreign exchange savings.
The project would involve the usual geological and opera-
tional risks associated with gas development and pipeline
projects. All practical measures have been taken to minimize
such risks and none is considered a significant deterrent to
project implementation. The risk of inadequate gas reserves
at Bakhrabad is covered by uncommitted reserves in the Titas
and Habiganj fields. To minimize the risk of delay in
project implementation BGSL would prepare a critical path
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
master plan listing target dates for completing various
actions. Project implementation has already begun and is
proceeding satisfactorily: consultants have already been
appointed for managing the Bakhrabad gas field development
program and for engineering and project management services;
a contract for drilling has been negotiated and the first
well is scheduled for spudding by February 10, 1981.
Co-financing:       The OPEC Fund would support the proposed project with a
loan of US$21.0 million. The OPEC Fund loan will be for a
period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with a
service charge of 3/4 of 1%. In addition, the OECF (an
agency of the Japanese Government) would provide parallel
financing in an amount of US$26.0 million equivalent.
Estimated
Project Costs:                                       Local      F.E.  Total
----US$ million
Bakhrabad Development
5 Gas Wells                 0.7     13.5    14.2
Gas Field Facilities        0.7      5.1      5.8
Base Cost Estimate          1.4     18.6    20.0
Physical Contingency        0.1      1.9      2.0
Price Contingency           0.5      5.5      6.0
Sub-total                2.0      26.0    28.0
Gas Transmission and
Distribution
24" Transmission Line    13.7       45.4    59.1
20"/16" Distribution
Line                      3.6     13.0    16.6
10" Spur Line              2.3       7.0      9.3
Engineering, Management
and Supervision          0.7       5.0      5.7
Training                    0.1      1.0      1.1
Technical Assistance,
Studies and CNG Pilot
Project                  0.5       3.5      4.0
Base Cost Estimate         20.9     74.9    95.8
Physical Contingency        2.5      9.3    11.8
Price Contingency           6.6     21.8    28.4
Sub-total               30.0    106.0   136.0
Total Estimated
Project Cost               32.0 /a 132.0   164.0 /a
/a   Of which duties and taxes amount to about US$4.1 million.



- 1iii -
Financing Plan:                                Local    Foreign    Total
------US$ million-------
IDA                  -          85.0       85.0
OPEC                  -          21.0      21.0
OECF                  -         26.0       26.0
GOB                32.0 /a /b    -         32.0 /a /b
Total        32.0        132.0      164.0
Estimated
Disbursement:                            FY81      FY82       FY83     FY84
------------US$ million----------
Annual          3.0       32.0       42.0       8.0
Cumulative      3.0       35.0       77.0     85.0
Economic Rate
of Return         Over 55%
Appraisal Report   Bangladesh:  Bakhrabad Gas Development Project,
Report No. 2956-BD, dated October 31, 1980
/a   Of which duties and taxes amount to about $4.1 million.
/b   In addition, GOB would also finance interest payments during the project
construction period, meet debt service for the first year of operation and
working capital requirements estimated to total about US$19 million.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMEMT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for 64.7 million SDR (the
equivalent of US$85.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to assist in the
financing of a Bakhrabad Gas Development Project. About US$80.5 million
equivalent from the proceeds of the proposed credit would be onlent to the
Bakhrabad Gas Systems Ltd. (BGSL), a wholly state-owned company, at an interest
rate of 12% p.a. for a period of 15 years, including five years of grace. The
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) would bear the foreign exchange risk. US$4.0
million for studies would be on-lent to Petrobangla on standard IDA terms, and
US$0.5 million would be retained by GOB for additional studies. In addition
to the proposed IDA financing, the OPEC Fund would support the proposed
project with a loan of US$21.0 million, and the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF), an agency of the Japanese Government, would provide parallel
financing in an amount equivalent to US$26.0 million. The OECF loan would
finance the well development program and related gas field installations. The
OPEC Fund loan would finance some equipment plus the distribution network
supplying the major consumers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in FY72 and FY73 and by devastating floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76; foodgrain
imports averaging over two million tons per year were required between FY72
and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggre-
gate output in manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in
FY75, as the sector needed to overcome the destruction and disruption caused
by the struggle for independence and, in its aftermath, the departure of
skilled labor and managers and widespread shortages of spare parts and
crucial inputs. The production of jute, the predominant export commodity,
declined sharply, and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity almost entirely preoccupied with matters of relief and
rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration.



- 2 -
4.         Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners and policy makers the opportunity to
turn their attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development.  It was not until FY75 that'GDP recovered to the pre-independence
level, but between FY75 and FY80, it has increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.), despite serious setbacks in agricultural production in
FY77 and again in FY79/FY80. Output in manufacturing (as measured by the
production index for large and medium-scale industries) rose by about 7.5%
annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the
jute industry. The late 1970s may be seen, therefore, as a period of economic
consolidation. The Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended as an opportunity
to complete this economic consolidation and to reconsider development priori-
ties before the country embarked on its Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).
5.         The last two years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh had been governed under martial law.
In elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were won
by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who
had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional seats,
reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet appointed.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Economic growth, which had been rapid in FY78, slowed substantially
in FY79 and remained relatively modest in FY80. Mostly as the result of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real terms) in FY78, following a 2% rise in
FY77. But the experience of FY79 and FY80 again demonstrated the vulnerability
of the Bangladesh economy to unfavorable weather conditions. A severe and
prolonged drought affected adversely four successive rice crops as well
as the size and quality of the FY80 jute crop; this had significant reper-
cussions throughout the economy. The shortfall in foodgrain supplies led to a
rapid rise in rice prices, and inflation accelerated to an annual rate of
about 18% in the first half of FY80. The rate of growth of GDP fell consider-
ably and inequity in income distribution increased as lower income groups were
affected more severely by the foodgrain shortages and fast-rising prices than
the middle and higher income groups.  The balance of payments, which still had
been in overall surplus in FY79, deteriorated markedly in FY80, mainly as a
consequence of costly food and petroleum purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and
FY80 averaged no more than 4.5% p.a.; with population growth still estimated
at about 2.7% annually, average incomes improved only moderately.
7.        This disappointing overall performance somewhat overshadowed
a number of encouraging developments and positive policy steps during this
period. These included: (i) the successful mobilization and distribution
of nearly 2 million tons of imported foodgrains in the first half of FY80;
(ii) continued rapid growth in wheat production and in fertilizer consumption;



(iii) a variety of policy measures taken to improve agricultural input avail-
abilities, to maintain incentive output prices for farmers, to strengthen the
administration of the family planning program, and to foster a more active
role by the private sector; (iv) increased capacity utilization in several
industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, reflecting a strengthened tax
administration and some reductions in subsidies; (vi) substantial growth of
development expenditures and of project aid disbursements; and (vii) the
conclusion of a Standby Arrangement with the IMF.
8.        The slow growth of foodgrain production and its still extreme vul-
nerability to adverse weather conditions have become principal concerns of
Bangladesh's political leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP) gives top priority--together with the containment of population
growth and the achievement of mass literacy--to the expansion of foodgrain
production, aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end of the Plan
period. The experience of FY79 and early FY80, when a severe drought (combined
with serious slippages in expected foodgrain imports) caused a dangerous
erosion of food stocks in the country and required an all-out effort by the
administration to avert a major famine, served to highlight the importance of
reducing the threat of crop failures and widespread starvation. At the same
time, the Government's efforts to contain the crisis--although efficiently
executed and successful--demonstrated the high cost of such a diversion of
scarce administrative resources and public attention from long-term priorities
to short-term crisis management.
9.        The foodgrain supply situation stabilized somewhat in 1980 with
good boro, wheat and aus crops and with sizeable import arrivals to supplement
stepped-up grain procurement from the domestic crops. The government's efforts
to ensure adequate consumption levels for the population and to build up
public grain stocks required to provide some security against future crop
failures or natural calamities were markedly effective during the first nine
months of 1980; relief for the victims of severe regional floods during the
past monsoon was provided quickly and effectively, and public foodgrain stocks
reached a level of over 1.1 million tons by the end of September 1980.
10.       Efforts to secure stock levels sufficient to operate the public
foodgrain distribution system and to provide security against future temporary
supply shortfalls or emergencies cannot yet be relaxed. The rapid stock draw-
down during the 1979 drought illustrated the still tenuous nature of the
country's foodgrain security situation. Public foodgrain stocks, although
currently higher than at any previous time in history, are still below the
recommended level. While further stock build-ups are to some extent con-
strained by the limited public sector storage capacity, this constraint is
expected to ease substantially in the course of the next 9-15 months when
additional storage facilities under construction will be completed. Further
replenishments of public stocks from domestically procured grain could be
substantial, since the forthcoming aman crop is forecast at a record level
of about 7.6 million tons, but sizeable additional foodgrain imports will



- 4 -
nevertheless be required during the second half of FY81 in order to bring
stocks near the recommended level of 1.5 million tons by June 30, 1981. 1/
11.       The prospects for rapid overall growth in FY81 are relatively
favorable, provided the weather remains good and the volume of commodity aid
is sufficient to permit increased imports of fertilizers, cement, petroleum
and other raw materials and intermediate goods. These conditions permitting,
foodgrain production could increase by more than a million tons above the
FY80 level and overall GDP growth might be as high as 7-8%, despite the
unfavorable short-term outlook for the jute sector and for jute goods exports.
The Balance of Payments
12.        Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earn-
ings in FY80 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 3% of the import
bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute
and jute goods, which together accounted for 74% of total export earnings.
The 1979 foodgrain shortage had an adverse impact on the balance of payments,
as the need to finance commercial purchases of foodgrain imports led the
Government to curtail other imports, which fell considerably below targets.
Bangladesh's FY80 foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone accounted for over
three-quarters of the 51% increase in imports in that year. Total merchandise
exports rose by some 18% in FY80, mainly due to exceptionally high prices of
jute goods exports, but because the import growth was so much greater the
trade deficit widened from about US$950 million in FY79 to some US$1.6 billion
during FY80.
13.       The current account deficit in recent years has been considerably
smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the rapid growth of workers'
remittances from the Middle East. These receipts, which totalled US$163 mil-
lion in FY80, are now the second most important source of foreign exchange
earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. The FY80 current account
deficit of US$1.48 billion was largely covered by disbursements of US$377
million in food aid, US$422 million in commodity aid and US$487 million in
project aid--total aid disbursements roughly 22% more than in FY79. In addi-
tion, however, reserves were drawn down by some US$140 million. At the end
of FY80, these reserves stood at US$250 million--equivalent to little more
than one month's projected FY81 imports. Even though the capital flows which
finance Bangladesh's deficits continue to consist almost entirely of grants
or loans on very concessional terms, debt service payments nevertheless comprise
a significant burden. These payments rose to US$95 million in FY79 and an
estimated US$110 million in FY80, notwithstanding some debt relief measures
undertaken by various donors; the debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5%
in FY78 to 15.3% in both FY79 and FY80.
1/   A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was held in January 1980 to
consider the country's foodgrain situation, import and stock requirements
and policy measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the 1979
crisis. A report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues" (IBRD Report
No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979) was prepared for consideration at
that meeting and distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1979.



- 5 -
14.       Between August 1978 and October 1980, GOB undertook a series of
exchange rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 35% against
the Pound Sterling. However, since the Pound Sterling has appreciated vis-
a-vis US dollar, the Taka/dollar rate has remained close to Tk 15.5 = US$1
during the last two fiscal years. In July 1979, the IMF approved a Standby
Arrangement for a period of one year in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 mil-
lion. Net of repayments, and including disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund
and new SDR allocations, the IMF covered about US$60 million of Bangladesh's
external financing requirements in FY80. The Standby Arrangement was the
third since 1972. In addition, Bangladesh has made extensive use of Fund
resources under the oil and compensatory financing facilities. The financial
program agreed under the Standby Arrangement was designed to limit the expan-
sion in overall domestic credit. While the monetary targets embodied in the
financial program had to be revised upwards, the goals of the program were
largely met. The specific ceilings in the program on credit to the public
sector were exceeded largely because of unanticipated deficit financing by
the Government in the last month of FY80. A proposed Extended Fund Facility
is expected to be presented to the IMF Board during the latter part of
November.
15.       The FY81 balance of payments situation is expected to be difficult.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import
prices. Moreover, the anticipated shortfall in commodity aid availabilities
in FY81 implies that imports may increase by only 15% in nominal terms (a
negligible change in real terms) in the next fiscal year.
Public Finance
16.       Government finances improved considerably in FY79 and remained
relatively strong in FY80; in both years, the current budget surplus increased
in both absolute and relative terms. The overall budget was balanced in FY79,
but borrowing from the domestic banking system was a significant source of
budget financing in FY80, amounting to some 8% of total Government expendi-
ture. Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are
needed if the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the
levels of recent years.
17.       The task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving a broadening of the tax base and a strengthening of public sector
business enterprises and utilities as well as a reduction of the major subsi-
dies on food and fertilizer. The latter task has to be carried out with due
regard for both equity and production considerations. Reflecting its growing
awareness of the problem, the Government appointed a Taxation Enquiry Commis-
sion in 1977 and five special committees in 1978 to review various aspects
of public financial resource mobilization. The five committees reviewed,
respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii) rationaliza-
tion of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) economic pricing
by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input subsidies, including
the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial performance
of public sector enterprises. The committees have concluded their work, and
the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted to the
Government in April 1979.



- 6 -
18.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups and of the measures suggested by the interim report
of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax adminis-
tration. In mid-1978, the Government increased railway fares, and in the
course of FY79 and FY80 it raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility
rates, and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer
prices, for example, were increased by an average of 28% in August 1979 and
petroleum product prices by up to 45% in November 1979; issue prices for food-
grains from the public distribution system were increased in May 1979 and
again in May 1980 by a combined 40%, as the Government began to move toward
a gradual elimination of the foodgrain subsidy. In some cases, these price
adjustments only kept up with inflation, but in others--notably the food and
fertilizer subsidies--they served to reduce the subsidy per unit of product
in real terms.  Petroleum product prices were raised by a further 45% in
mid-1980--an adjustment which should serve to greatly reduce if not eliminate
the subsidy on this account during FY81.
19.       The Government is expected to incorporate the essential long-term
recommendations of the various review committees concerning the reduction of
subsidies and the rationalization of the pricing policies of public sector
enterprises and utilities into a comprehensive fiscal strategy paper for the
SFYP period by April 1981. This strategy paper will set out a time-phased
action program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to improve the
mobilization of public sector financial resources for the financing of the
development program embodied in the SFYP.
20.       Current budget revenues increased by 21% in FY79 and by 19% in FY80,
reflecting primarily the continued liberalization and growth of merchandise
imports and, hence, of import duties and sales tax receipts. Current expendi-
tures rose by only 9% in FY79, but by 19% in FY80 owing to inflationary
tendencies in general and a large increase in the foodgrain subsidy in par-
ticular (caused by the need to purchase and distribute large quantities of
grains in order to avert a famine). Development expenditures (in current
prices) rose by almost 40% in FY79 and by 32% in FY80 and there were commen-
surate increases in project aid disbursements in both years. These expendi-
ture and disbursement increases reflected a substantial augmentation of
development activity as measured in real terms. Food-for-work allocations
in FY80 were more than double the FY79 level as large quantities of foodgrains
were made available in support of a countrywide canal excavation campaign and
other rural projects.
21.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked
primarily by excessive liquidity creation by the banking system) continued
into FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices
rose very rapidly. The cost-of-living index for urban consumers rose by 19%
between June 1978 and June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice
prices; since most of this rise occurred in the last months of the year,
however, the index for FY79 stood only 9% above the average for FY78. Rice
prices levelled off in the second half of 1979, and the inflationary pressure
eased considerably during FY80. Nevertheless, for the year as a whole, the
cost-of-living index was about 15% above the average for FY79, with overall
liquidity (money supply plus time and savings deposits) expanding by some 18%.



-7-
Development Planning and Policy Issues
22.       FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year Plan, which
was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for prepara-
tion of the Second Five-Year Plan. In the process of preparing the Plan, its
authors addressed the factors underlying the slow development of the economy
over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation
and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic resource
mcbilization, and social impediments to change. The planners also analyzed
the problems posed by the basic structural characteristics of the economy: an
environment prone to natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high
rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distribution of
income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme frag-
mentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural
population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy; high
unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities outside
agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for investment
financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.               -
23.       The Second Five-Year Plan, issued in draft form in May 1980 and
presently undergoing final public discussion, accords top priority to three
major efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85,
with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to an annual amount
of 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate
with a view of bringing the net reproduction rate down to unity by the year
1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through the vehicle of free,
universal primary education.
24.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and the available surface and ground-
water would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation; where irrigation is available, the increase
in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from
dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth of fer-
tilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past few
years have been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh
agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future. The Govern-
ment has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Produc-
tion Plan which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment
of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. l( While the feasibility
of this target is beyond doubt, its achievement will be possible only if the
Government demonstrates the determination and capacity to allocate the resour-
ces required to provide the inputs needed by the farmers, and to permit the
private sector to play a substantial role in the provision and servicing of
1/   The MTFPP target is flexibly set at the 18-20 million tons range, allow-
ing for a 10% shortfall due to adverse weather or other factors beyond
the control of the implementing agencies.



-8-
modern agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are
adequate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved farmer
extension and training, and appropriate farm income and incentive levels.
Without suitable attentioin to these latter factors, farmers demand for inputs
could soon start to level off.
25.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far. Recent projections 1/ indicate that, unless the net reproduction rate
is brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population
of Bangladesh, estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, could rise
to 143 million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts in Bangladesh have
suffered thus far from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently there has been some encouraging progress, however.  The coordination
of birth control activities within the Government is improving, while training
programs for field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time,
considered adequate. GOB has decided to prepare a medium term implementation
plan for population and the Bank has agreed to provide technical assistance
in preparing this plan.
26.       Vigorous pursuit of the measures that have been identified to improve
performance should enable GOB to come gradually to grips with the population
problem. It should make it possible to double approximately the number of
acceptors of family planning during the SFYP period (from 14% of couples of
reproductive age in FY79 to 28% by FY85). Officially, the planners aim at
reducing the net reproduction rate to the level of one by 1990, although they
note that, as yet, no other country has succeeded in reducing reproduction at
such a rapid rate. This target is clearly not achievable, but the Government
means to use it to galvanize institutions at all levels as well as the popu-
lation itself into determined action to stabilize the size of the population
as early as possible.
27.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drLve for
general literacy. The planners recognize that its attainment will take
longer than five years, but they have set themselves the target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national
non-formal mass education scheme for those already past primary-school age.
28.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a
significant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn
will require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and the
inflow of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to
which project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite
project implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
1/   IBRD projections prepared for the World Development Report 1980.



-9-
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities
such as education and rural development should be carried out in a decen-
tralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
29.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. A consolidation loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit
of about US$31.0 million, approved in 1975, provided for Bangladesh's assump-
tion of liability for portions of IBRD/IDA loans and credits for projects
visibly located in Bangladesh completed before independence. In addition, as
of October 31, 1980, 47 new credits have been approved, totaling US$1,371.7
million; of these, US$665 million have been for program credits (nine imports
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of October 31, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for a shipbuilding company
and an investment promotion company) have been approved.
30.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5% in FY78
to 15.3% in FY79, but improved in FY80 to 13.2%. 1/ The debt service ratio
might exceed 20% by the mid-1980s unless careful debt management policies are
pursued and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's
total outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over
US$3 billion as of June 30, 1980, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan
accounting for 25% of the total. In FY80, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of
Bangladesh's total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely
in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
31.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 36 new projects approved since independence (excluding reactivated
projects), and two fertilizer imports credits). This is consistent with the
country's needs and the Government's priorities. Particular emphasis con-
tinues to be placed on projects that provide agricultural inputs, including
in particular the provision of adequate fertilizer supplies to farmers.
Emphasis is also given to the provision of irrigation, improved seeds, exten-
sion, credit and storage facilities, which all tend to increase the demand
for fertilizer.
32.       In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed
upon projects in other sectors which facilitate agricultural development or
which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall performance.
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.  If workers' remittances
are added to total merchandise export earnings, the debt service ratio
would drop to 11% in FY79 and 10.8 in FY80.



- 10 -
In transportation, for example, improvements are required to facilitate the
movement of imports and to bring domestic products to market. Future projects
will focus on improving rural transportation services, eliminating key bottle-
necks interfering with commodity flows, and improving the maintenance of
facilities. Similarly, in power we expect to emphasize rural electrification
and eliminating shortages of generation capacity or distribution facilities
which have been a major impediment to utilization of existing industrial
capacity.
33.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and several DFC
and small-scale industry projects. IFC is currently in the process of identi-
fying further suitable investment opportunities.
34.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and availability
of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary education.
35.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Progress
has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement performance is
improving. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical assist-
ance credits to assist in improving planning, project preparation and imple-
mentation capabilities.
36.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors--such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment--where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
37.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a dialogue
between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and development
strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of external assistance
within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this
area have concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and
increased domestic resource mobilization.



- 11 -
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
General
38.       Energy consumption in Bangladesh is characterized by a heavy reliance
on traditional fuels such as animal and vegetable wastes. Consumption of com-
mercial energy is extremely low compared to other countries in the subcontinent
and the average for the less developed world in general. Measured in oil equiv-
alent per capita, it is estimated at 34 kg per annum. In terms of resource
endowment, Bangladesh has an abundant potential supply of natural gas. However,
except for a modest hydropower potential, Bangladesh has had to depend on oil
imports to meet its commercial energy requirements. Even at present low levels
of consumption, oil imports absorb about 60% of Bangladesh's export earnings.
Energy Resources and Energy Balance
39.       Except for the northern hills of Chittagong, Bangladesh is a flat
deltaic country with limited hydro-potential. The Karnafuli River has been
harnessed at Kaptai with an installed capacity of 80 MW and an additional
50 MW under construction. Natural gas was first discovered in 1955 and so
far, nine gas fields having estimated gas reserves in place of about 9.0 tril-
lion cubic feet (TCF) have been identified. About 75% of these reserves
should be recoverable through normal production methods. Four of these fields
have been partially developed with Titas, which supplies the Dacca market,
being the most important producer. Coal deposits exist near Jaipurhat, but
because of their quality and technical difficulties in extraction, it is not
considered economic to tap them. So far, there have been no commercial
discoveries of crude oil.
40.       Non-commercial sources, mainly crop residues and animal wastes, are
the predominant form of energy.  A 1976 UNDP study estimated the total energy
derived from such sources to be equivalent to about 5 million tons of oil or
about 60% of total energy consumption in 1979.
41.       Natural gas constitutes 42% of the estimated hydro-carbon consump-
tion; in 1979, the consumption of natural gas was 43,540 million standard
cubic feet (MMCF) equivalent to about 1.1 million tons of oil, 70% of which
was from the Titas gas field, with the remainder being met from imported crude
oil and petroleum products.
Electricity Generation and Distribution
42.       Bangladesh has two separate electric power grids divided by the
Jamuna River. In 1978, the Bangladesh Power Development Board's installed
capacity in the east and west zones amounted to 526 MW and 226 MW, respec-
tively. However, a number of the power generating units are in a state of
disrepair and available capacity is considerably less. Power in the west
zone is generated from imported fuel and diesel oil. In the east zone,
natural gas is the predominant fuel for power generation. An east-west
power connection is currently under construction across the Jamuna River to
link the two grids, which would permit power generated in the east zone to



- 12 -
be transferred to the west zone. This would enable the substitution of
indigenous natural gas for imported fuels for power generation for the west.
Exploration
43.       Exploration activities have resulted so far only in gas discoveries.
In 1974, GOB entered into production sharing contracts in offshore areas witl
six oil companies. Seven wells were drilled with no positive results except
for one gas discovery. The companies have now relinquished their concessions.
However, the Federal Republic of Germany is providing financial assistance
for seismic surveys and an exploratory onshore drilling programn. The program
is being implemented over a five-year period and would provide for the drill-
ing of 20 wells. In addition Bangladesh has recently announced increased
incentives designed to attract further exploration efforts by foreign oil
companies. IDA is providing technical assistance to the Government in plan-
ning its exploration program (paragraph 50) and further assistance is proposed
under this credit (paragraph 66).
Oil Refining, Distribution and Marketing
44.       Bangladesh's only refinery, in Chittagong, has a nominal annual
capacity of 1.5 million tons. In 1979, the throughput was of the order of
1.38 million tons. Facilities are included for extracting and bottling 6,000
tons per year of liquified petroleum gas (LPG). An asphalt plant and oil drum
manufacturing facilities are under construction and are expected to be com-
pleted by 1982. The existing refinery capacity is inadequate, and consequently
about 200,000 tons p.a. of crude are being refined under contract in Singapore.
A second refinery at Khulna is currently under consideration. However, any
refinery plan will have to take into account the disproportionately high
demand for middle distillates.  Refining in Singapore is a partial solultion to
this problem in that any surplus product such as naphtha and fuel oil can be
sold on the spot market.
45.       The distribution and marketing of petroleum products are currently
being handled by three companies: The Burmah Eastern Company, Jamuna Oil
Company and Megna Petroleum Company. All three companies are controlled by
the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC). However, Burmah Oil holds a 49%
interest in the Burmah Eastern Company which has the major share (40%) of the
market. Two other subsidiaries of BPC, namely, the Standard Asiatic Company
and the Eastern Lubricating Plant Ltd. are engaged in blending and marketing
lubricants and special products.
Gas Consumption Pattern
46.        Initially the use of natural gas was confined to the Fenchuganj
Fertilizer unit (commissioned in 1961) and the Chhatak Cement Factory. How-
ever, subsequent to the discovery of the Titas gas field in 1962, gas produc-
tion was stepped up and its use diversified to include generation of power,
production of fertilizer, and other industrial, commercial, and domestic uses.
In 1979, the consumption of natural gas was 43,540 MMCF, equivalent to about
1.07 million tons of oil.



- 13 -
Pricing of Petroleum and Natural Gas
47.       GOB's policy is to pass on all petroleum price increases to con-
sumers and, consequently, there has been a sharp escalation in domestic prices
of petroleum products following the recent major increases in the imported
price of crude oil and other petroleum products. The consumer has not only
had to absorb international price increases, but also successive increases
in domestic prices arising from the erosion in the value of the Taka in rela-
tion to the US dollar. On the average, prices have increased seven-fold over
the last seven years.  Motor gasoline prices increased the most over this
period, from Tk 3.74 to Tk 45 (US$2.90) per gallon. This helps explain the
almost zero growth rate in consumption of liquid hydrocarbons.
48.       The current well-head price for natural gas is Tk 1.48/MCF (US$0.1/
MCF). GOB levies an excise tax on natural gas, which was i:creased for FY81
from Tk 3.0/MCF to Tk 4.5/MCF for fertilizer and power consumption and to
Tk 5.0/MCF for other users. The price at which the distribution companies
further effect sales depends on the consumer and the end use of the product.
GOB increased gas rates in June 1979 by an average of 42% and by a further
12% in June 1980. After the recent excise tax increases, gas prices range
between Tk 8/MCF for fertilizer and power to Tk 19/MCF for commercial con-
sumers with the average sale price being about Tk 9.25/MCF. Even these
revised prices for gas are well below the international price of fuel oil
which in terms of heat value would be equivalent to about Tk 63/MCF. In
pricing gas at thesc levels, the Government hopes to provide incentives to
new and existing domestic industries, and in the context of the proposed
project to encourage greater development activities in Chittagong. Some
degree of incentive pricing for gas is appropriate given its low cost of
production and low economic cost (Tk 13/MCF). Nevertheless, gas pricing
policy would be reviewed annually under the proposed project along the
lines discussed in paragraphs 74-76, below the results of which should lead
to further increases in gas prices.
Future Development
49.       Bangladesh urgently needs to reduce its present dependelnee on
imported oil to meet its energy needs, by increasing the economy's absorptive
capacity for natural gas. In addition, it could augment its foreign exchange
earnings by the export of gas through a pipeline to a neighbouring country
or by establishing export-oriented industries which are energy intensive
or use gas as a feedstock. There are, however, technical and financial con-
straints to the substitution of gas for oil and to the development of gas
based industries. Further studies are therefore required to evaluate options
available for Bangladesh and to evolve appropriate strategies for the devel-
opment of its gas resources. Estimates of Bangladesh's gas reserves need to
be firmed up. Present assessment is based on the results secured from a very
limited number of wells and is therefore somewhat speculative. Investment
in a fuller appraisal of Bangladesh's gas reserves through additional drill-
ing appears advisable. Firm estimates of gas potential would enable Bangladesh
to determine the opportunity cost of gas, the pace of exploitation, and the
export options.



- 14 -
50.        Bangladesh would, in addition, need to intensify its search for oil.
Exploratory efforts so far have been unsystematic and sporadic. Oil companies
which too'k out offshore concessions in FY75 have, after a few exploratory
wells, ceased operations. There is a need for GOB to: (i) initiate an
extensive seismic program; (ii) collate and reinterpret existing geophysical
and drilling data; and (iii) step up exploratory drilling. GOB is already
receiving technical and financial assistance from the Federal Republic of
Germany in this area, but this would need to be supplemented. Better identi-
fication of prospective areas may help revive the interest of foreign oil
companies, particularly in view of the Government's preparedness to offer
greater incentives to such companies. The studies Flinanced under this credit
(see paragraph 66 below) will address some of these crucial sector issues.
In addition, IDA has agreed to finance consultants' services to identify
Bangladesh's requirement for technical assistance in planning a suitable
program of oil and gas exploration and development. Based upon the results
of this initial effort further technical assistance may be financed under IDA
Technical Assistance Credits.
51.        Approximately 56% of Bangladesh's commercial energy requirements are
currently being met from imports. Excluding marginal quantities of coal, these
energy imports consist entirely of crude oil and petroleum products. Sharply
rising oil prices have imposed an increasingly heavy burden on the country's
foreign exchange resources. In 1980, petroleum imports are expected to accoint
for about 60% of projected export earnings. The proposed project would make
available to industrial consanuers, in the Chittagong area, indigenous natural
gas to replace imported fuel oil and diesel oil products currently being used.
Natural gas also would be used both as a source of energy for new industries
and as a chemical feedstock for fertilizer production.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.      The proposed project was appraised by a mission that visited Bangladesh
in January/February 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 2956-BD dated
October 31, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held
in Washington, D.C. in September 1980: the Bangladesh delegation was led by
Mr. A.S.H.K. Sadique, Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
Project Description
53.        The proposed project provides for the initial development of the
Bakhrabad gas field and a pipeline for transmissiLon of the gas for distribu-
tion in Chittagong, Bangladesh's second largest city and major port. The
Bakhrabad gas field consists of four potentially petroleum bearing structures
(culminations) identified by seismic interpretation. In 1968, a well drilled
into one of the structures (designiattd the B-1 culmination) by Shell Oil
Company struck gas in commercial quantities. However, plans for developing
and marketing the gas were interrupted by the war of independence and the
subsequent nationalization of foreign owned assets, including Shell's. Since
the first well was drilledl there has been no further drilling in the field.



- 15 -
54.       In-place gas reserves in the B-1 culmination have been estimated by
consultants financed by the Association at 1.6 TCF proven and an additional
1.0 TCF probable. It is expected that with further drilling additional
reserves can be classified as proven and recoverable. The consultants also
evaluated the reserves of the neighboring Titas and Habiganj gas fields which,
if necessary, could be utilized to supplement production from Bakhrabad. Esti-
mated recoverable reserves in these fields have been stated as 1.3 TCF proven
and an additional 1.5 TCF probable for Titas, and 1.0 TCF proven and 0.3 TCF
probable for Habiganj. Titas gas is now essentially committed to the Dacca
area market, but the bulk of the Habiganj reserves are uncommitted and could if
required be almost exclusively dedicated for the Chittagong market. Habiganj
field is being linked to Titas, and these two fields could if necessary be
linked to Bakhrabad. The combined gas reserves from these three fields provide
a firm basis on which to assure adequate natural gas reserves to meet the needs
of the proposed project, until the year 2000.
55.       Meeting projected demand in the Chittagong project area would require
a cumulative production of about 0.8 TCF up to the year 2000. However, a higher
level of reserves, about 2.6 TCF of gas in place, is required to supply the
delivery capability necessary to meet the projected growth in demand of the
Chittagong markets, particularly in the later years when gas demand requirements
are projected to increase more than three-fold over those of the initial years.
In the event that this level of proven reserves could not be assured through
successful future drilling in the Bakhrabad field, the shortfall would be made
up from the Titas and Habiganj fields. To ensure that the supply of gas would
be adequate to meet the projected growth in demand in the project area:
(a) GOB would allocate funds, as and when required to meet market
demand, for developing additional gas production from the
Bakhrabad field or alternatively, from the Titas/Habiganj
fields with an interconnecting pipeline (Section 3.01(d)(iii)
of the DCA). GOB would also develop and make available or
cause to be developed and made available to BGSL, sufficient
gas to meet domestic demand at Chittagong up until the year
2000 (Section 3.05 of the DCA).
(b) GOB would ensure that 1.6 TCF of proven in-place reserves
from Bakhrabad gas field are committed to the Chittagong
market and that an additional 1.0 TCF of proven recoverable
reserves from the Titas/Habiganj fields are committed to
the Chittagong market until such time as the same amount
of gas reserves and deliverability is established from
Bakhrabad or elsewhere (Section 3.06(a) and (b) of the DCA;
and
(c) the reserves committed under (a) and (b) above would take
precedence over all other reserve commitments, except for
any future reallocations agreed with the Association
(Section 3.06(c) of the DCA.
56.       The proposed project would be implemented over a three-year
development period (FY81-FY83) and would include:



- 16 -
(a) the drilling of four deviated wells from an earthen pad
in the B-i culmination and the recompletion of the
existing well;
(b) the provision of necessary gas gathering and conditioning
facilities;
(c) the construction of a 24" gas transmission pipeline, 110
miles in length, from Bakhrabad to the city gate station
in Chittagong;
(d) the construction of a 20"/16" gas distribution system
supplying the major consumers in Chittagong;
(e) the construction of a 10" gas spur line to the Karnafuli
Paper Mill, supplying several industrial estates en route:
(f) the provision of ancillary maintenance, administration,
and communications facilities;
(g) the provision of advisory services for project implementa-
tion and studies;
(h) the provision of training; and
(i) the provision of technical assistance for identifying other
prospective areas for exploratory drilling, evaluating
options for the future utilization of Bangladesh's energy
resources (including a pilot project for the use of compressed
natural gas (CNG) as an automotive fuel), and for determin-
ing appropriate levels of gas tariffs.
57.       The feasibility of developing the Bakhrabad gas field and transport-
ing and distributing gas to consumers in the Chittagong area was studied by
consultants financed by the ADB in connection with a proposed fertilizer plant.
The proposed project facilities would be designed to meet the projected growth
in demand in Chittagong. Current projections suggest the optimum transmission
system for satisfying the projected growth in demand would be a 24" pipeline
having a maximum capacity of 350 MMCFD without compressor stations. The
Chittagong distribution system would be installed in two stages. The first
stage, to be financed under the proposed project, would satisfy projected
demand requirements up to 1990, after which it would then be necessary to
complete the distribution ring to match transmission capacity. Similarly,
the initial five-well program is expected to meet the projected demand in the
project area until 1994, following which production would then have to be
increased by drilling additional wells at Bakhrabad.
Project Execution
58.       The Bangladesh Minerals, Oil and Gas Development Corporation was
created by a Presidential Decree of March 1972 and entrusted with all activities
in the oil and gas sector. In 1974 the Corporation was split into two sector



- 17 -
corporations, and the oil and gas development functions were vested in the
Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation (Petrobangla). However, as of January 1,
1977, the functions relating to the importation of crude oil, and refining
and marketing of petroleum products were transferred to the newly created
Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation, with Petrobangla retaining all residual
responsibilities in the sector. Petrobangla is a holding company and
discharges its responsibilities through a number of subsidiary companies.
It is managed by a Government-nominated Board of Directors consisting of
four members, including a Chairman. The Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral
Resources has overall responsibility for Petrobangla.
59.       Primary responsibility for implementing the proposed project would
rest with the Bakhrabad Gas Systems Ltd. (BGSL), a newly established, wholly
government-owned subsidiary of Petrobangla. Established under the Companies
Act of 1913, BGSL is answerable to a Board of Directors appointed by Petro-
bangla and consisting of five members, including a chief executive as general
manager who participated during credit negotiations and whose qualifications
and experience are acceptable to the Association. The BGSL would have an
authorized capital of Tk 1 billion (US$64.5 million) consisting of 10 million
shares of Tk 100 each, to be subscribed by GOB as and when required.
60.       The BGSL's senior staffing needs would initially be met by drawing
on competent and experienced personnel from Petrobangla. Petrobangla's exist-
ing cadre of professional staff is well qualified and experienced in the
petroleum industry. Approximately 12 BGSL staff with relevant training and
experience in the pipeline industry, would participate in the execution of the
proposed project. BGSL has employed an engineering firm, with qualifications,
terms and conditions of service satisfactory to the Association, to assist in
the engineering, project management, procurement, construction supervision,
commissioning and training needs of the proposed project (Section 2.02 of the
BGSL Project Agreement). A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
would be that the key BGSL staff responsible for the implementation of the
proposed project have been appointed (see Sections 6.01(e) of the DCA and 2.08
of the BGSL Project Agreement).
61.       Construction of the pipeline would of necessity be undertaken during
the dry season, October to May, and is estimated conservatively to be completed
in FY83. A condition for the award of contract for the construction of the
pipeline would be the acquisition of right of way for the proposed pipeline
route (Section 2.03(b)(ii) of the BGSL Project Agreement).
62.       The successful completion of the drilling program and related pro-
cessing facilities would be critical to the success of the proposed project.
BGSL has employed consultants whose qualifications, terms and conditions of
service are satisfactory to the Association to assist in the preparation and
supervision of the well drilling program (Section 2.02 of the BGSL Project
Agreement). A Letter of Intent has already been issued to the Japanese
Exploration Company for the Bakhrabad well-drilling program.
63.       On the basis of the one well drilled to date, consultants have esti-
mated that proven recoverable reserves are sufficient to justify the project.
These estimates are considered to provide sufficient basis for proceeding



- 18 -
with the proposed credit. Nevertheless, it would be prudent to corroborat.e
the earlier estimates of gas reserves at Bakhrabad through the drilling of at
least one additional well before committing any significant investments in
the construction of the proposed gas pipeline. Consequently, no civil works
or equipment contracts for the pipeline would be let until one additional well
had been drilled and its results analyzed and found satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.03(b)(i) of the BGSL Project Agreement).
64.       Implementation of the proposed project would require the assistance
and close cooperation of various government agencies. BGSL (with the assist-
ance of the engineering consultants) would prepare, no later than March 31,
1981, a detailed critical-path master plan for the project satisfactory to
the Association and would take all appropriate steps to adhere to this plan
and schedule (Section 2.10 of the BGSL Project Agreement). The plan would
delineate clearly, inter alia, the respective activities and actions to be
undertaken by each agency, including the target dates for their completion.
Training
65.       While BGSL would be assigned a nucleus of trained and experienced
personnel from other Petrobangla organizations, the bulk of the staff would
have to be recruited and trained in the various administrative, operating
and maintenance requirements of the company. Depending on job classification,
the training needs would comprise technical courses, assignments with pipe-
line companies abroad, and on-the-job training, both during the period of
project implementation and after the commissioning of the project's facilities.
The terms of reference of the consultants appointed to assist in project
implementation include provision for assisting BGSL in the preparation and
implementation of a training program. BGSL would submit the details of its
recruitment and training program to the Association for its review not later
than six months after the date of the proposed credit (Section 2.09 of the
BGSL Project Agreement). Submission of a satisfactory training program for
BGSL staff is a condition of disbursement for the training component (paragraph
4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the DCA).
Technical Assistance and Studies
66.       The proposed credit would provide US$4.0 million to Petrobangla
for technical assistance and studies. Of this amount, US$2.7 million would
finance technical assistance for undertaking seismic surveys and processing
and interpretation of existing and new seismic data with a view to identifying
prospective areas for further exploration activities. The remaining US$1.3
million would finance a study and demonstration project on the use of com-
pressed natural gas (CNG) as an automotive fuel. The proposed credit would
also provide US$0.5 million to GOB to assist in the financing of a study to
ascertain appropriate levels of gas prices and their impact on the economy,
including an evaluation of options for optimizing the use of natural g5s in
Bangladesh (see paragraph 76 below).
Cost Estimates
67.       Total project costs are estimated at US$164.0 million, including
about US$4.1 million in duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is



- 19 -
estimated at US$132.0 million or about 80% of total project costs. A physical
contingency of 15% has been included in the pipeline construction costs and
10% in all other costs. Price contingencies have been estimated at 10.5%
during 1980 and 9%, 8% and 7% during subsequent years for foreign expenditures,
and 10% p.a. for local expenditures. The contract for the drilling consultants
for the Bakhrabad gas field development amounts to US$1.3 million, in foreign
and local costs, based on 85 man-months of work. For project engineering
implementation services the contract amounts to US$3.8 million based on 670
man-months of work.
Financing
68.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 64.7 million (equivalent to US$85.0
million) would finance 64% of foreign exchange costs (or 52% of estimated
total project costs, excluding taxes and duties). In addition, the OPEC Fund
would provide a loan of US$21.0 million, and the OECF would provide parallel
financing in an amount of US$26.0 million equivalent. The OECF loan would
finance the foreign exchange cost of the well drilling program and related
gas field installations. The OPEC Fund loan would be for a period of 20
years, including five years of grace, at a service charge of 3/4 of 1% and
would finance the foreign exchange cost of the civil works contracts for the
distribution network supplying the major consumers and some additional equip-
ment. IDA would administer this loan on behalf of the OPEC Fund. The proposed
IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange cost of the remainder of the
equipment, the civil works contract for the main pipeline from Bakhrabad to
Chittagong, and technical assistance and training. However, any savings on
the IDA financed components would be available to finance cost overruns on
components currently expected to be financed by OECF or OPEC Fund, as long as
the items to be financed were procured in accordance with IDA requirements.
GOB would finance the balance of local costs of the project, estimated at
US$32.0 million (including US$4.1 million of taxes and duties). In addition,
GOB would also finance interest payments during the project construction
period and meet debt service for the first year of operation and working
capital requirements through appropriations from its national budget. GOB
would also be responsible for providing any additional foreign exchange
required to complete the Project. (See Section 3.01(d) (i) and (ii) of the
DCA). To ensure prompt provision of budgetary funds and hiring of project
staff, approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Borrower would be a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(f) of the DCA). Effectiveness of
the loans from OPEC Fund and OECF and the execution of satisfactory onlending
agreements for the IDA credit would also be conditions of effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a), (b), (c) and (d) of the DCA).
Procurement
69.       All procurement for the proposed project and recruitment of consul-
tant services, excluding the well drilling and gas field facilities funded
through tied OECF aid, would be by international competitive bidding in
1/   An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for the
release of funds and the hiring of staff.



- 20 -
accordance with the Association's procurement guidelines. Tenders for the
construction of the pipelines would be submitted by prequalified foreign
contractors. A number of local contractors are expected to qualify and
compete with foreign firms in bidding for the construction of the 10" spur
line. Items costing less than US$100,000 may be procured through limited
international tendering, up to an aggregate amount of US$4 million. All bid
packages of a value of US$500,000 or above (about 16 of the total 40 esti-
mated) would be subject to review prior to contract award. The others will
be reviewed subsequently.   Any goods or equipment which might be available
from local suppliers would be granted the usual 15% preference or customs
duty whichever is less. Qualified domestic construction contractors would
be granted a 7.5% preference.
Disbursements
70.       Disbursement from the IDA credit for goods and equipment would be
made against (i) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of items directly imported
or the ex-factory cost if manufactured locally and (ii) 70% of total expendi-
tures for items procured locally off-the-shelf. For the 24" pipeline construc-
tion contract, consultants, training, and technical assistance, disbursement
would be against 100% of the foreign exchange cost. It is expected that the
credit would be fully disbursed by mid-1984. Disbursements from the OPEC loan,
to be administered by IDA, would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
the 20"/16" and the 10" distribution pipelines and also a portion of goods and
equipment.
Market
71.       On the basis of various demand forecasts including those made by
consultants financed under IDA technical assistance credits, a projected
demand profile for the proposed project area was agreed in 1979. This shows
an increase in peak demand from an initial 50 MMCFD to 320 MMCFD by the year
2000. A major consumer of gas in the proposed project area in the early years
would be a proposed urea plant at Chittagong for which financing is being
arranged from a consortium of lenders coordinated by the Asian Development
Bank. However the Bakhrabad project would be economically and financially
viable even without the proposed Chittagong urea plant.
Safety and Environmental Considerations
72.       Although pipelines have a good safety record compared to other modes
of transportation, fire from leaks in gas pipelines is a real danger. It can
be minimized, however, by strict adherence to safety codes and proper design,
construction, operation and maintenance. The proposed project pipelines would
be designed in accordance with appropriate international standards and codes,
including the provision of adequate cathodic protection against corrosion. The
proposed training program would be implemented by experienced personnel and
would include, and emphasize, safety and preventive maintenance. In addition,
the gas will be odorized at Bakhrabad, thus making leaks more easily detectable.
73.       Neither the pipelines nor the gas field facilities are expected to
pose a significant ecological hazard. Preparation of an environmental impact
statement has been included in the terms of reference of the implementation



- 21 -
consultants to be appointed under the proposed project (see paragraph 62
above). The pipelines would be buried and all drainage and other surface
features would be restored. Some crop damage along the right of way would
be unavoidable and compensation would be paid to the respective owners.
Trenching at river crossing would temporarily increase the turbidity of the
water, and its effects would be addressed in the environmental study. A
small quantity of brackish water would be separated from the gas at Bakhrabad.
However, based on test results from the discovery well, the quantities and
salinity involved will not be significant enough to warrant special disposal
procedures. This issue will be examined further in the environmental impact
statement.
Pricing Policy and Financial Requirements
74.       GOB has stated its pricing policy objectives for natural gas in the
context of the proposed project to be: (a) to ensure that gas distribution
companies are financially sound; (b) to ensure that natural gas prices fully
reflect domestic inflation and take account of movements in the international
price of fuel oil; and (c) to ensure domestic resource mobilization at the
national level, through the levying of an appropriate level of excise duty on
gas sold, while maintaining adequate incentives for development of gas based
industries.
75.       In order to realize the objective of financial viability of BGSL,
GOB would ensure that the average gas price received by BGSL (net of excise
duty) is maintained at such a level, so as to generate sufficient revenues
to achieve a rate of return on revalued gross fixed assets of at least 5% in
1985 and 10% thereafter (Section 4.03(b)(i) of the BGSL Project Agreement and
Section 3.03(a) of the DCA). These arrangements would imply an average price
to BGSL of Tk 17/MCF (net of duty) in 1985, increasing thereafter to Tk 31/MCF
in 1989. This should ensure a sound financial position for BGSL throughout
the project period.
76.       In order to achieve the objectives discussed in paragraph 74 above,
GOB would as a first step increase the average price of natural gas to consumers
by at least a further 20% (beyond the recent increases noted in paragraph 48
above) no later than June 30, 1981. Thereafter, GOB would periodically in-
crease the average price of natural gas to fully reflect domestic inflation.
Such increases would also take into account movements in the international
price of fuel oil and would provide a further margin for domestic resource
mobilization. GOB would review annually with the Association its proposals to
meet its stated pricing policy objectives (see Section 3.03(b) and (c) of the
DCA). In order to assist GOB in refining its long term gas pricing strategy,
the proposed credit would finance the services of consultants who would assist
in determining (i) the economic cost of gas in Bangladesh, (ii) the prices
required by the gas distribution companies for financial viability, and (iii)
an appropriate margin for mobilizing resources efficiently for the economy
while maintaining adequate incentives for industrial development (Section 3.02
of the DCA). The terms of reference for the proposed study would be agreed
with the Association.



- 22 -
77.       Based upon the pricing provisions referred to in paragraph 75
above, BGSL's debt/equity ratio is expected to reach 55:45 in 1986. This
should leave a margin for further borrowings. BGSL would not incur any long-
term debt without prior agreement with the Association, except in those cases
where the maximum future debt service is covered 1.5 times by net income
before charging depreciation (Section 4.03(b)(iv) of the BGSL Project Agree-
ment). Present forecasts indicate that BGSL may have surplus cash and may be
able to distribute dividends after 1985. However, in order to protect BGSL's
financial viability, any surplus funds from operations would be distributed
and/or applied to purposes other than gas operations only after ensuring that
sufficient funds are available for meeting debt service, operating expenses
and investment requirements (Section 4.03(b) (iii) of the BGSL Project Agree-
ment) BGSL has also agreed that accounts receivable would be kept lower than
three months' sale of gas (Section 4.03(b)(ii) of the BGSL Project Agreement).
This will require efficient billing and collection efforts, and Government
assistance in ensuring that its agencies pay their bills promptly.
Accounts and Audit
78.        BGSL and Petrobangla are required by law to prepare each year full
accounts of their financial positions and the results of their operations.
The accounting information system of the existing Petrobangla group is satis-
factory. BGSL would, no later than September 30, 1981, provide the Associa-
tion with an acceptable plan regarding the design of an accounting information
system as well as the staffing and organization of BGSL's accounting and
finance departments (Section 2.11 of the BGSL Project Agreement). For internal
control purposes, GOB would cause the BGSL to maintain its own internal audit
staff, in line with the practice of Petrobangla's existing affiliates. In
addition to internal audit, BGSL and Petrobangla would, as required by law,
be subject to two types of audit: (i) external audit by a firm of chartered
accountants appointed at the general meeting of stockholders; and (ii) Govern-
ment's commercial audit, whose report is submitted to the concerned Ministry
of the Government. BGSL and Petrobangla would supply to the Association
copies of its independently audited financial statement each year, no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the BGSL
Project Agreement). Petrobangla would submit audited accounts of expenditures
under the studies which it is carrying out (Section 3.02 of the Petrobangla
Project Agreement).
Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
79.       The economic rate of return from investment in the proposed project
is estimated at over 55%. The project's primary justification is the savings
which will accrue to the economy by replacing imported liquid hydrocarbons
with indigenous natural gas. Additional benefits would accrue from making
urea production possible in Chittagong at lower prices than equivalent imports.
In estimating the project's benefit streams, it has been assumed that the
natural gas used by existing industry and power has a value based on the
thermal equivalence of gas and fuel oil and the September 1979 c.i.f. price
of US$164/ton for fuel oil imported from Singapore. This value is assumed
to increase by 3% in real terms every year. All the incremental gas demand



- 23 -
from the industry and power sectors subsequent to the completion of the
project has been assumed conservatively to be induced, and the value of the
induced demand has been estimated at Tk 25/MCF representing 50% of the dif-
ference between the economic cost of gas and the cost of imported fuel. The
value of gas used as a feedstock for urea production is calculated as the
value added by gas in fertilizer production which would leave the economy
indifferent between domestic production and import.
80.       Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project would remain econ-
omically viable under reasonable assumptions. If the Chittagong fertilizer
plant is delayed by two years, the economic rate of return would be 51%. Under
a scenario where the fertilizer plant is delayed by two years, the gas avail-
ability restricted to 80 MMCFD and the project cost increased by US$30 million
to supply gas from Titas/Habiganj, the project would still have an economic
rate of return of 35%. This would also mean, however, that an oversized pipe-
line system had been installed, but the incremental investment for such over-
sizing would be relatively small, assuming demand does not deviate radically
from the present forecast.
81.       Besides the substantial foreign exchange savings, the project will
provide a number of unquantifiable benefits to the economy. It will give a
strong incentive to the development of industrial activities (including those
which will be part of a new export-oriented industrial zone) as a result of
the availability in Bangladesh's major port region for the first time of
adequate and secure supplies of gas. Furthermore, the domestic resources
generated (through excise duties for example) could be used by GOB to finance
investment projects elsewhere in the economy. Finally, there will be environ-
mental benefits in terms of reduced atmospheric pollution in the Chittagong
area as natural gas replaces fuel oil.
Risks
82.       The project carries the geological and operational risks generally
associated with gas development and pipeline projects. All practical measures
have been taken to minimize them, and none is considered a significant deter-
rent to the implementation of the proposed project. The risk of inadequate
gas reserves at Bakhrabad is covered by the availability of uncommitted
reserves in the Habiganj field. Allowance has been made for accidents and
delays in completing the drilling program and pipeline construction. Since
no compressor stations are involved, there should not be any extensive service
interruptions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft BGSL Project Agreement between
the Bakhrabad Gas System Limited and the Association, the draft Petrobangla
Project Agreement between Petrobangla and the Association, and the Recommen-
dation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
84.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit would be: (i) the
execution of satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreements between: the Borrower
and BGSL; and, the Borrower and Petrobangla (paragraph 68); (ii) the completion
of all conditions of effectiveness of the OPEC and OECF Loan Agreements (para-
graph 68); (iii) the appointment of key BGSL staff for implementation of the
project (paragraph 60); and (iv) the approval of the Project Proforma by the
Borrower (paragraph 68).
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
December 4, 1980



-25 -                                                   Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7IAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            144.0                                MOST RECENT       LWW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICUJLTURAL     97.3              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0         60.0      90.0              197.9                     894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        ..        32.Ofe    43.0               166.0                    842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     53.2        68.1      84.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1           7.6      10.4               20.8                     39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     143.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       314.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      369.0       473.0     588.0               193.2                    376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    540.0       683.0     871.0               409.6                   2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3        46.4      42.9                42.0                     40.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        51.0      54.4                55.0                     56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.6       2.7                 3.0                      3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5        2.7                2.2                      2.4
URBAN                              3.9         6.5        6.9                3.9                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0        50.0       46.0               37.4                     28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.0         25.0      17.6               14.6                      7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5          3.1       3.2                2.6                       1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       345.6     903.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       8.9                15.6                     39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
FER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0       101.0      89.0               101.4                    116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   85.0        85.0      75.0                92.4                    10B.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        43.0       36.0               49.8                     60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0         9.0       6.4                12.0                     18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0        25.0       23.0               17.9                      5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0        40.0       47.0               50.8                     63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       153.0      139.0                 ..                     52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        45.0       53.0               30.2                     42.4
URBAN                               ..        13.0       15.0               66.0                     62.1
RURAL                               ..        47.0       55.0               20.0                     29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0        5.0               17.7                     52.8
URBAN                               ..          ..       40.0               71.3                     71.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  ..                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..      8430.01c  9260.0              6322.7                   4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                79850.Ojc 42080.0              9459.0                   2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               ..      6610.0/d  5490.0              1758.4                    819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               502.9
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                  ..                     28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                                           3. O/e
RURAL                               .            .         .



- 26-                                                    Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED Al,AES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)a
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  ib    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    ASIA 4 PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         61.0      81.0                 80.9                     98.6
MALE                  66.0         80.0      103.0                94.3                      99.2
FEMALE                26.0         42.0      58.0                 66.7                     97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      23.0                 26.6                     55.5
MALE                  14.0         30.0       33.0                34.8                     60.7
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                18.2                     49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.0        1.0                 9.9                     13.7
PUPIL-TEACEER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         49.0      55.0                 41.1                     34.6
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0      24.0                 20.5                     28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6/          ..      26.0                 40.9                     85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.4       0.4                  1.8                      9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                      25.8                    118.9
POPULATION                            ..          6.0      14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.4                 2.4                      39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       5.0                 13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                  ..                      4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0       23666.8   31000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.5      17.0                29.4                      36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9      74.0                 70.5                     51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3         3.5       11.0                11.6                      21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6      34.4                 37.9                     39.1
MALE                                  58.7         55.8      55.3                 51.3                     48.5
FEMALE                                11.4         11.8      12.1                 23.7                     29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.4                 1.2                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/L         16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/2         42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9jg          7.9/h     8.0/i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9/2         19.6./h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      139.0               107.8
RURAL                                 ..           *.     111.0                 66.5                    192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       86.0                46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0                51.7                      33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
if 1962; g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Escimated percent of national income.
April, 1980



- 27-                                                                               Ane 
DENTOSOF SOCIAL falICATORS                                                             Page    3
Notes:  hitheugh the dat.     r   ru   rmsucsgnrll   ugdcsms   uhrttv   and reb1liaIbl,ishudao be notdha  they may no  be tntsr-
thelss  use ..ful no. descibe orders ofmgitd,indicate s-eds, and cbrcetecranmjor dlffereo.e. hetseeu conties
Therfraegop  are (I the1 same.country grou p of the suhj-c  cutry and 121 I coutry group  ith amrthigh e --veag   1oon  than the county grop
ofthe sbject countr  (acet-       o  "Cait lluplus Ol  fnpotters     g           h-pe 'r "M'iddle inom   North Africa and Middle last  Is chosen bensua  of stronger
soIc-culture. affininisa)~ 1.   the lftrrec  group dana the averges  Ite popuet ios seighted arithmetic means for eac h indicator and gbav    iy eh.n at
leas  hal.   ftacuttsIn ar..phba  datafo   taInito. uSi.e the coaeaufcotts   nn  n h                                           lianr  depends oo the evatlbili oIf
data  nd i  netnlfon, cctio  mus  heonrcmd  In relting   --ergs of use Indicao to arther.  Thre  -v-rge  are oly u..ofo1 In comparing the value
of ens  .indcao  alaI ihe smun  the coutry and  rfeene  rops.
LANDP bll (thau..aod sq.km..                                                                   i'oulatlot car 1ca--at   I-Pp"ulaio   dittast ty Iomo  lIt practicig phy-
To-u  - Tota  nrfac.. ares copliitg ladae   u  iln    aes.scac 41.!  cdf                                              ona sdica   -h-uc  ac oilorrity leve.
E.iutua     Isfimat  of arcl a  are   uetmporaiy or purmretly                        Puonlatiun net- N-ur-o  Person - Ptpulatton divided by nubeufpatcn
fco crops, pamuc          k.,aha  end kitchen gardena ar to lie falloo; 1977 data,           ml  n   eaegrdaenre,pecie    uas   n  aeiacant                              lI
caaedb    Gcm          NPvr lotar,o   ani World   .a...Atla   (1T- Ti bain.... 19hl            urhs.tid cur    d ioidd by thefit touPrctic          me  of hospital beds
1111t,1 by   ..th.d I. Wlld E All.. (1                                  ::i~~an~lahi  Inpblic and private ganra1 and apenialred hospital sadye
0 d A.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~hhltats    eters-  ttospinalsarestabliah -at   nsm-etly stafad
nanaiYO NtltPtlTI PIt  IAPITA -A a  cunumtio  of c-mrlal energ. (coa  y '.a t lent one                                    : pyIcIn    Esimbliabete pruidieg priscipally cumndimi
g ydl--, -1-   bd 9-Oth.-I .1               coneda not permanenly stffed by a physiciae  (but by A medical assat
trick)  in  iloguna o  coa  equtieI_prc  ia   Oi   90  ad1T                              as,mdie  etc.)...c..ofertInracies  acco.i"n.dtineh andt prdnido -a
data,90  170                                                                  98limited  -agn  fseia  fatiia                               ..ecataia  parp...aea  ha
PiPMIATIlON AND ITALi  STATISTICS                                                                ianicue  il_rncplgnra   n   pci_sdbnital,adrua
Total  onulaton. Ci-T iar   i        As of July 1; 1960, 19T0, and 19T78ciastclc  rr    ortl   n  adcladmtri'  caner.
fryephspital   diie   y           ube   fhdL~LAM
Urhan Population (r-rcet of total) - hellodIfdurbanti total pupflatdn
differen t deIniirb fobae          aesspafc  cumyp-rbility of data                      HnOUtSe
aegcuonia; '1'96O0', 170,-and 1'9Tadata.                                            Aveag list of  hushod   rrnn  our I   hau..sh.ll-tnl   ra,adrrl
uuainPrujatlt ons-                                                                       A house:hold  oamso      ra  nf. aIdindu. I               share- lining qatr
Populationin oar lWi - Currec populaton projaciou  aebae  onit    ihiW.         and their  at  mels             . haderorlodger may or map non he included to
total population by age aud sea and chair  -ereainy  udf Irtlt   ae.                       tehneol o    ttsia    upss
PrpjaIttion p---ear  for sorealiny  Iat,, noPtios of three level aIasa-                 leA- e nuber of    ..n.n. Ier  tu-cnlf ochan  and ral   -Avrae o1
In  lfa tnanny at birh iureasig  ith cutr's  ptrcatt  incum                              fpron   a   ot,Iaalubn   n  core  occupied c-nveninoul
levn, adfml  lieepcoc    tailisingan7,7.5 year.. Th: pars-                                 doelligS, cep-ivey    D-hnsould   n-peran tr struc.ture   te
ea !ters  furfstility vntn also hav  thr.e 1-e1  asuiu  deoline in                        ...cupied pre
fertIIt  acodigtoh..l  incon   evel ed Pas  family planning perfnnne                     cestIleniiylecn   f dnnllinge) - ltonl   ra,  n   aa 
bad  countrylis thend afngne  one_,. oflbesr ic   uminreo   o   ar ity                  Annv..itohEl- doiogs wIthectitynloogqaeraspcnae
and  nrtiitytreos fr prje-i-ot       ---l.   hl  i   -9 t purpoes.                   o  total   -b-o  and cora  doelling   res...pectively.
thbicthii  nate Is eqoal cc thr drach rate, and also the age strunctoo  r-            ffllf
ma.m costn.   Ibis'h     I  achieved cuI  auft.t facilti.y. rate  deDUCeto              AdaTdIONru         thlo
tiItlaeatlee   f  vtvt  erdcto   at,,.Cnhgnralr                                           Prmr  cho.,onl!alIn   eml-rstttl,mlfedfml
ofvnnrpacsisl   nctl.Tesatoaypptit,,h   ', else ntd Enolan  of- alRgsantepimr   ee  a   enngao  rsetv
sentlovo         .                                                                        onfitntbunvrsl  daat                       _ erL Ises  ma Illsdil  prcn
nine has bneorsaobed.               -  fltliy    e  .  .p.l                     leccuday. schoo I-g total, mal and=sal   -1Cmptd.  asah val             scodar
PuuainDniy                                                                               educationtiequietreathleast ' four. yerso  apvdprmryistutin
Per so. ha. - tiid-yaar yopolanino yeTh  Y-ar  kiomte   p(lot becta..rtso) ofl proids -gneal,n             dttoal  ortt_       rtaiigisrciosPo   u
only.                                                                                          escltudolIh..    g,
Poo       idocla -trctr   percenti_ -e Chidre   (il-lu  ror ( ykig-g h  llt              includer technina-lt, idl     Ialb,y  uhn.  ffciraul oIchonete idepo
hAyas,  u   aind15ynradovr   sre naeno   l-yerpuo                                          -d-ntiy on as t. deatmant  of. aaotcn   _nCutos.d. b
year.  160 poplaton   for   1970Bt II-0-70  an  P91.                                           cceeeondnglevls
Irudr Winib bat (one thousand)- Annual lice  Imb tcnh     Ifusn   ofl. nUid-ysor
populalice: 19h1, 1971, and 19Th0dan  .                                           crnotd    ln  ta  egt  oecn  ancedt anblan ta beara1 ad
Iron  Pecdoinft-vrg    ubno   aieroeoel    erl                                                   IPiarInlena
bin  enrma.G,lh raRedoynie6p0ld  f 7       reenen        re-thnee ag -bynit  pfe-           lal  eeiea(a  ibuosne  declter     citya  e  rndv                            h.feta
of.. bEit-cetrl devica  unde  nuspicen el- biatin l tall p.....               rgar             a  t   fec:dtufrre nyed                   a  cotihe  onparY.e  snens
Poely ranina-1G,lnera0 Ictec   f  aridnde)-  aenegeo  mne
PIl1)  TtiTIIS960  1970  .ad1acodn Circula11tiohercean erlco)-Ioath   crg    icfa
IdClo_   adPeone           7o aia(1h-lll      ne   fyncrlaaoa1                                 dno  'al   eea "ihtvr pro tnesp -ee. defndaasidclpb
cutional average yreduc -Y' pric  rnghet; 19h1-b5, 19711, and 1978 daa               Redi  R-ilnunts
Po tcoli  soeyo_  aoie   pretc  cq ent)- opidIo
neogy   qaielec o  ne  fed  uppiesavalabe I  cunty rp rylt    LAh      t"ic
till  da        A-eiuhenppis  ipistetsl  predo-...            Ien,        1977rn   ler      ca  ne Fence (lbeutanda(A-lleomcall   aciv    r rsee,ic.1ludingrJ
cf ityal heu-  t  tenl-s                     f e-iennna  t...atte  bodly  c    n Pranle dereet)t -b- Peels~ lab r tents a  parnnf    ofP total llb    ene
and  na dneclonln ofpopuatio, ad a.men)i  10prst  foe'.   -aied at-               eclueiece               -tLabor forc  In          h forine re Iny   banning an
brun hild  b-io;  91-S,  1970  nod) 1977 dane.            -l   disvit-atpercntag  of toa   ao  fre   iO1T   n  1T   aa
PeLcriran   rid    nceet .,'laran  mcdy       rti   nne   rprtpt                         IdsRy. (concct) p      La t    oner to        T fiin,cnttut bt s.a..ade...
FOO cAN  NTRIpTIOfN odprb.Sispl  o   odi                        ieaaea    no-                .ned  Plnctic Py, eahnn an.d gasaspercenageo  netli .....  force:i lItO
qucroseoro fcr ull cenecnini ottaillut.tod hy USIA p- h..eegcld..rtib  f  ton. .sinleunt
.d.cti.. e                                                                     P~atiiaceelne(ucon)-evc  P;nn    o_fnl-aciiainc
yoloa ycccnic, ci chich 10 gruan sheuld be animal pretnie.  Thrarneend-~~~~~~~'fP"  "i:d ....  P.
urdn urn  Fontee, chb ne o   7dgaao   oa   cnIc ne-d 23 rdn fe  Id                       atvt f ail,E are cepnda.etl   aa edfn                         ae   focel as
-ood  dece a    Ai.u . eudpoten PIc fnrprb     yh-S,17   e  1977-bo-oIloeconicPr enden    ech   -bae  f        -lie  un.de  15 thd  -I. anIf
Child lanea 1-4) Tocealicy Once (erecceonandl - mcccl~~~~~~~~~~'9   .drah   pvdd ttens"d,cI'll pI
bet  ..d ..pplie.  -ilablcebrnoal lheLberco
at bIrth; 1960, 1971 ond 1979 data.~d bI  I   I   E   cti
Infceitrcllo ot  (rrihnag       d   -  C icolp d:~e_fh  orctoc   enn  c   oa           ocylltITlcr
11111,t.d by FAC b ... di                                  o-ri ivclyud -dr   in  pusnaenla  confed  nq i-1netdin  e
caner  opply(lecldna crcird   urfac  ont.en or duvtatib-hot  dccetah.ted_frcrahlc
neaaeab rh  cs.     clIdyytu   hehuelroreceno  cho,9,                   _t heshId           In   it-   adjnientfu  hIIer ves  at  -v-g i   r  naes
_iponol an  pcrcncfar  rhte                                                                       g reProic   ptula lec.foctta   a-IconoIcadSilltaivs
..,nPlcy inldecv  ol      tcc  and  Idcrea,tn  e  ailttrono,Ucenc                                                                sy ie eu  PeecOntlsata
of ha roeoeccecu ad aonto-ncnr ho nane-liret  yntovo  c Ife one  -c                                                       hp        1970 llh  178df.
cit cucto    lIla- Oenenlitdcoc



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:           89.5 million  (July  1980)
GN-P Per Capita:      US$90 (FY80)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (2)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (M)
(m.illion USS           (in constant FY75 prices)                (in current prices)
Indicator                              in current prices)
FY79              FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY60          FY70       FY75       FY80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b                      9,512.5                 4.0       -0.6        6.3    100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture /b                               5,174.0                 3.1       -1.3        4.3      59.9       56.9       63.6       51.9
Industry Lb                                  1,170.2                 7.9       -3.2        8.9       7.7        9.6        8.6       12.5
Services /b                                  3,168.3                 4.9        3.3        6.6      30.1       30.0       25.0       28.8
Consumption                                    9,187.5                 4.4       -0.7        6.7      92.4       92.8      100.0      102.1
Gross investment                               1,330.0                10.9      -10.9       13.5       6.9       11.3        7.0       15.0
Exports of goods & nfs                           603.0                 0.8      -11.7        4.3      10.0        8.3        3.1        7.1
Imports of goods & nfs                         1,603.0                 8.8      -12.0       14.4       9.3       12.5       10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                           465.0                26.5      -17.7        ...       0.9        6.1        0.9       -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (E)
(in current prices)
FY73        FY75       FY79      FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                              603.0                                               100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                        217.0                                               41.9         31.4       36.0      30.1
Manufactures                                   386.0                                                58.1        68.6       64.0      69.9
Merchandise imports                            1.603.0                                               100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0
Food                                           250.0                                               44.1         42.2       15.6     29.3
Petroleum                                      186.0                                                 3.2        11.1       11.6     17.6
Machinery & equipment                          382.0                                                13.8         9.6       23.8      25.8
Other                                          785.0                                               38.9         37.1      49.0      27.1
FY74         FY75         FY76         FY77         FY78         FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                   7.9661       8.8759      14.8521      15.4667      15.1215      15.2193
Export price index                                        104.6        132.9        108.7        117.7        136.7         168.9
Import price index                                        156.9        215.4        195.8        189.1        180.2         214.2
Terms of trade index                                       66.7         61.7         55.5         62.2         75.8          78.9
As S GDP
(at current prices)
FY73         FY75         FY77         FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                         5.0          5.4          9.5          10.3
Current expenditure                                                     6.5          4.5          7.8           7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                             -1.5         40.9         +1.7          +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                     8.8          3.1           9.8         11.4
Foreign financing                                                       7.1          2.4          7.8           8.5
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP grovth rate (%)                                                          4.2          -0.7            5.7
GN? per capita growth rate (S)                                               1.5          -3.3            3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (2)
/a At constant FY78 prices.
,'b At market prices; comonents are expressed at factor cost and will not add due toiexclusion of nec indirect caxes and subsidies.
- Sot available
n- ot applicable
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
page 5
lANCLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMEN1TS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millIon US$ in current price.)
Actual                                                 Protected
n74       FY75       tY76       FY77      rf78       FY79       1780       FY81 1Y82            vYi3
BALA7CE OF pAYME4ETS
Net export, of goods & seri.ces                             -565.7    -696.4    -847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Exports of goods & carvicos                               418.6      502.7      507.6     610.0      643.0      819.0      993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
Irports of goods & ceirecs                                984.3    1199.1    1355.0       950.3    1429.0    1684.0       2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Net transfers                                                  -         -          -
Current account balance                                     -565.7     696 4    -47.4    -3403        -780    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
DJrect privste investment                                      -         -          -          -        12.0       15.0        20.0      25.0       30.0       35.0
MLT lo.an  (net)                                             274.4     508.2      502.9      246.0     399.0      465.4       861.5     950.0      995.0    1145.0
Grante t. grant-like finds                                  347.0      395.6      244.5      229.7    386.1       495.2       504.5     810.0      950.0    1100.0
Other capital flove (net)                                      2.0    -358.8      L53.1    -216.1       14.0       13.4       88.0      -45.0      153.0      59.0
Ch-sge is raservcs (- . iscreaa)                             -57.8     151.3      -53.1      80.7      -25.2    -124.0        136.0     -22.0      -71.0      -50.0
Intern,atonal resertes (end of period)                      115.0      266.3      213.2    293.9       268.7      393.0      257.0      279.0      350.0     400.0
Becervec as enethb  of iaports of sant ypr                    1.15      2.36       2.69       2.47      1.91       1.81        1.09      1.04       1.18       1.26
FY74       m75       FY76      FY77       1778       FY79
GROSS DISBBRSIMS.NTS
Officil grants                                                347.0     395.6      244.5      229.7     386.1      495.2
Cr05.  dleb-reeto of MLT loan                                285.1      529.1      569.3     276.1      434.4      520.8
Conceesostal                                                  201.5     468.0      538.9      244.7     399.8      500.3
Bilateral                                                    82.4      305.6      357.3     117.3      237.3      226.8
IDA                                                          51.0      112.5      128.2      86.1       88.2      152.5
Other  aItilatersl                                           68.1       49.9       53.4      41.3       74.3      121.0
N.o-conc.e.ional                                              83.7       61.2       30.5      31.5       34.5       20.4
Official export credits                                      40.6       45.3       16.5       4.2        1.7        3.3
IRD
Other ceoltilatersl                                           3.4          3        1.2       0.5        0.5        0.1
Private                                                      37.7       15.6       12.8      26.8       32.3       17.0
EXTEIiNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and diebursed (ad of period)                490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2581.8    3005.1
official                                                    383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2642.3    2856.4
IBID                                                          -        54.9       54.8      54.9       54.9       54.9
EIDA                                                       105.6      255.3     379.8      465. 9     554.2    706.7
Other                                                      277.7      930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
Private                                                     107.3      118.3      104.7     116.3      139.4      148.7
Undibursb d Debt                                             590.2    1033.2       952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1847.5
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt cervice paymnts                                     18.0      31.0       88.3      58.5       67.4       95.4
Interest                                                      7.3       10.1       21.9      28.4       32.1      40.1
payments a. 7 export.                                          4.3        6.2       17.4       9.6       10.5       11.6
pay,mnts as 7. GNP                                              0.2       0.3        1.3        0.9       0.9        1.2
Averag  inearest rate on ner loans (7)                          3.2       2.0        1.7        1.6       1.5        1.7
Offiola1                                                       2.9       2.0        1.6        1.5        1.4       1.6
Private                                                       4.6        2.3        7.8        6.4       6.2        6.1
Avrage aeurity of sav loan. (yeas)                             25.7      35.5       41.7       40.1      37.8       34.7
Official                                                      28.3      35.8       42.2      40.8       38.1       35.1
Private                                                      13.4       15.2       11.3       11.0       9.5       14.8
BA.  GRO17P EX77OSURE (1
IBRDDot/totsl D0D                                              -         4.0        3.0         2.6      2.1         1.8
IBRD dl.burs.eete/totl gross disbursants                      -         -          -           -        -           -
IBRD debt nerica/total debt service                            -         -          1.8        5.6       5.0         4.0
IDA DOD/tota1 0DD                                              21.5     L8.7       21.0        22.5     21.4        23.5
IDA dicburcsnnts/totel grn's dI.buraenrts                      17.8     21.2       22.5        31.1     20.3        29.2
IDA debt aervice/tal debt service                               1.1      3.2        2.4         5.2      5.6         4.6
As   of Debt outstanding
at End of FY79
TERM STRUCT178E
Maturity structur, of debt outstanding (21
Maturities due althin 5 ysarc                                                         12.2
Maturities due etthin 10 yeers                                                        32.7
treer sttructure of debt outstanding (
Ioterect due vSthin first yar                                                          1.7
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1980)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million /a
Credit                                                                          Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 15 credits fully disbursed                      54.9    536.98       -
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                       13.00      0.02
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.00      1.30
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.30      0.03
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAN of 1964 and
1966)                                  21.00      3.08
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                    25.00      2.97
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                 7.50     3.41
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                      20.00      7.46
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00    10.13
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00      5.47
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    17.21
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    11.43
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00      6.52
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                      7.50      1.84
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                           16.00    10.76
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00      6.87
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                          US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                 -       16.00   13.53
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                 -       21.00   16.74
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research            -       10.00    7.47
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II         -        5.00    3.37
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                              -       21.00   16.31
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II              -       25.00   23.42
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II           -        7.00    6.21
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research             -        6.00    4.62
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        -       19.00   16.74
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII               -       75.00    2.71
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III          -       10.00    9.42
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -        6.00    5.80
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training               -       25.00   24.90
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -          32.00   32.00
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -       22.00   19.52
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                -       25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                   -      25.00   24.50
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -       10.00   10.00
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII              -       50.00   20.20
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                    -       37.00   37.00
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II        -       20.00   20.00 /b
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00   11.00
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II             -       25.00   25.00 /c
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -       40.00   40.00 /b
1065   1980   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry III          -       35.00   35.00 /b
1071   1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                -       65.00   65.00 /c
Total,                                                     54.9  1,551.28  659.00
of which has been repaid                                  0.0       0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,550.88
Total undisbursed                                           0.0    659.00  659.00
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
lb   Not effective.
/c   Became effective in November.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at October 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                        Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                           1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                             DFC                 -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                       1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -             -        -
Total commitments now held by IF'C                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                             0.65    1.05    1.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Project is completed except for arrival of some maintenance equip-
ment expected shortly.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural De-
velopment Corporation (BADC) component; processing equipment is being installed,
and all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are
poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varieties for multi-
plication. Marketing consultants have completed their report recommending
improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is
currently under preparation. Future prospects have improved as a result of
GOB's recent strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support
intensive seed production efforts, reflected, inter alia, by provision of full
ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to permit completion of their FY81 work
programs. The closing date, originally September 30, 1980 was recently
extended to June 30, 1981.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. Slow delivery of primary
pumps has delayed installation. Sluice gates and accessories are in process
of delivery. About 735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season,
irrigating about 30,000 acres. The extension and cooperatives components
of the project are short of staff which is slowing development.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making adequate progress having been behind
schedule due to initial delays in hiring project consultants, and more
recently due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with the con-
tractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works have
resumed. Sluice gates and primary pumps are being delivered. Budgetary
allocation for FY81 is only half of what is needed and a revised allocation
is needed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project progress continues to improve after a difficult start. The
increasing production and income levels among project farmers are now becoming
visible. Irrigation equipment and agricultural input supplies are now being
provided on a reliable basis. Field level management appears effective but
headquarters management still requires strengthening. The rural works program
is making good physical progress and is having a significant impact on project
area families. However, supervision of contractors work and maintenance of
completed works require improvement. The livestock, horticulture and extension
components continue to make satisfactory progress. The fisheries component
had been making good progress, but pond excavation has slowed recently and
improved progress is required in registration of fisheries cooperatives,
assignment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable
for development.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been progress in procurement of engines and pumps, tools
and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales of shal-
low tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has sold
its first phase of 2,050 pumpsets and procured its second phase of 8,450
pumpsets based on farmers' preference system. The construction of workshops
is proceeding with a modified program.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
The overall project implementation is about two years behind
schedule. Problems causing delays have been almost resolved. New pile driv-
ing hammers have been delivered and pile driving is being resumed. Concrete
placing started in June 1980 and continued through the rainy season. The
design of Feni Regulator has been reviewed resulting in some changes (without
delaying the construction) which increase the safety of structure, saving in
cost and time in sheetpile driving. Consultants have appointed a new Project
Manager and a new Construction Engineer who appear to have improved relation-
ship with WDB officials and the contractor. To reduce the increase in project
cost, IDA have given recommendations to WDB which, when followed, should result
in a substantial reduction in cost increase. Other project components progress
satisfactorily. However, close supervision is still required during the next
year to prevent further implementation delay.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP).
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, and the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Some jute farmers are switching
their jute area to rice production as was envisaged in the project. Higher
foodgrain production can be expected as a result. To maintain jute production
levels, further intensification of the production in the project area will be
necessary. Steps for ensuring such intensification were discussed and agreed
with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All Phase I sites (56,000 tons) construction is underway, of which
storage godowns with a capacity of 30,000 tons are at roof level or above.
Out of 53,000 tons of Phase II, 8,000 tons sites have been tendered; and
selection of locations for 36,000 tons of new construction is to be done in
February 1981. Two major components--godown rehabilitation and paddy drying
are about 12 months behind schedule. Selection of locations for Phase III has
been delayed to February 1981.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date:  November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Progress in the implementation of the technical aspects of Project
continues to be satisfactory. BARC headquarters building is under construction
and work has commenced on the civil works component of the three regional
research stations. Contracts for the provision of farm and laboratory equip-
ment have been finalized. Consultants on farm development and potato research
have been appointed but not for research monitoring. The National Research
plan has been published and the recommendations of the BARC technical working
groups have resulted in the generation of 39 sub-projects to be financed under
the research grant scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students
to take up overseas Ph. D. course and nine senior scientific staff have
attended career development courses. No progress has been made in the MSC
training program.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
There has been insufficient budgetary planning and management of
project finances. In order to avoid substantial cost overruns, BARC and BARI
have developed closer liaison and a consultancy accounting firm will be
employed to ensure that future expenditures are properly planned and managed.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) five regulators are under construction and
some embankment work has been completed. Some delays have occurred due to
difficulties in land acquisition. In Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) construc-
tion is underway. Some components proposed within this subproject have been
rejected as too costly, and the Government has been requested to prepare
modified proposals. Periodic project progress reports required under the
project are not being received.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Fisheries and engineering consultants have commenced field opera-
tions. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been prepared and approved
by IDA.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
project proforma. Delays have occurred in formalizing arrangements for CIDA
financing of consultants for the project. Nevertheless the consultants are
at work and have assisted in the preparation of reports on 15 subprojects.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Credit became effective on September 8, 1980 after having met
all conditions of effectiveness. Project Director has prepared a detailed
project Action Plan (timetable).
Cr. No. 1042   Mangrove Afforestation Project:  US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The two conditions of credit effectiveness, Plantation Trial Unit
(PTU) and Project Proforma (PP) approval have been fulfilled. The first
supervision mission has been completed and an action program is being
prepared.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending AgreemerK of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site was
undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for addi-
tional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing
was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The soil compac-
tion and foundation work has been completed and plant construction is now
progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being encountered due
to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials, but these delays
are still within the margin for contingencies provided in the schedule shown
at the time of IDA supplementary financing. The project is expected to start
production of urea in early calendar 1981.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of October 31, 1980, disbursements were about US$18.1 million
and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters of credit (QAR) had been out-
standing for US$1.8 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been good progress in training commercial bank
staff, distributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project
procedures, and advertising the availability of funds for small industry
loans. The project was fully committed by the commercial banks in July 1980.
Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun preparation
of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of October 31, 1980 disbursements were about US$72.3 million and
QAR were outstanding for US$1.8 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average of
about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariat of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds had been fully committed, but due to
currency fluctuations some additional fertilizer can now be ordered.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of October 31, 1980, QAR were outstanding for US$13.1 million and
US$29.8 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$29 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financ-
ing agreements have been executed.
Cr. No. 1032   Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project is making satisfactory progress, but is a little
behind schedule on hiring two of four sets of consultants required to assist
on some aspects of implementation. Flotation of the first Tender Notice for
procurement of rehabilitation spares is imminent. Tender documents for the
construction of two new training centers are in preparation. Disbursements
to first quarter FY81 were nil, but should begin in the second quarter to meet
expenses in connection with purchases of weighing scales, orders for which
have already been made, and to meet consultancy costs.
Cr. No. 1044   Second Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Agreed increases in fertilizer prices were announced on November 5,
1980.



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1065   Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1071   Ninth Imports Program:  US$65 Million Credit of October 17,
1980; Effective Date:  November 11, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
About US$40 million equivalent of import licenses and letter of
Credit authorizations have been issued.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building
of five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The BAU component is now about 85% complete. By the project closing date
(December 31, 1980), all civil works are expected to be completed except the
nonacademic buildings (gymnasium and auditorium) which may be completed in
three months time if adequate funds are allocated by the Government. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Equipment of procurement is progress-
ing well. Civil works associated with the technical education component are
complete and the polytechnics are now operating.   About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. No problems are
foreseen in procuring the remaining equipment before the closing date. Proj-
ect costs (in dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency
devaluation. Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported
goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances a variety of training institutions for agricul-
tural extension and rural development staff. Technical assistance is also
provided to assist in the improvement of the training programs. Implementa-
tion of the civil works associated with the training institutions is about 85%
complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured. The physical
aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However, the recruitment of
the consultants, who are to assist in conducting the studies and in improving
the training programs under the project, is delayed by about two years. This
is due largely to the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural
Training (NCRT) which is in charge of the educational aspects of the project.
To improve the effectiveness of the NCRT, IDA has agreed to hire under the
project local consultants who would assist the NCRT in performing its func-
tions. The appointment of these consultants is now being finalized.



-40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Implementation Unit manager and architect are in post.
All sites for project buildings have been made available. Agreements with
consulting architects have been signed and designs are in progress. The
equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA
approval. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training
Centers (TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have
been concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.
Cr. No. 1054   Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year generally has improved with better coordination and
cooperation between the Health and Population Control and Family Planning
Divisions following the appointment of a single Secretary in charge of both.
Training programs for field workers have recently been revised and upgraded,
which should improve their performance. Implementation of civil works compo-
nents, initially encouraging in several areas, has deteriorated, and is now
behind schedule across the board. Specific performance targets were recently
set by GOB in consultation with IDA to expedite the rate of progress of con-
struction components. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of
the credit has also shown less than expected improvements. A one year exten-
sion of the Closing Date will probably be required to complete the project
and full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of master plan for the project. Project architects have been
appointed and design development and tender document preparation are under
way.



- 41 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. IDA has agreed to a
request from the Government of Bangladesh for an extension of the closing
date of the credit to March 31, 1981 in order that credit funds may be used
to defray the cost of eligible components of the settlement.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1981
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed.  All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays. As the
implementation of the consultants recommendations is expected to extend
beyond the current closing date a further extension may be necessary.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
Project Proforma and in the appointment of consultants for supervision.
However, preparation for project construction is proceeding. Construction
equipment bids have been called but orders have just been placed and the Gov-
ernment of Bangladesh is currently identifying items of existing equipment
which can be temporarily diverted to the project. If such equipment can
be made available, contracts for the earthworks, bridges, and culverts are
expected to be placed in the near future, and it is expected that construction
will commence, as scheduled, at the beginning of the 1980/81 construction
season.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed as its closing date June 30, 1980. Three
of the four microwave systems provided under the project, the Dacca-Sylhat,
Dacca-Mymensingh and Dacca-Bogra systems were completed and are in operation
since the end of 1978. The fourth microwave system between Kushtia-Natore
and Rajshahi was part of a contract under Project 487-BD and was completed
and extended to service in July 1980. Physical completion of the project
was about four and one-half year behind schedule.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project execution is largely behind schedule due to delays in pro-
curement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone switching
equipment factory, combined with difficulties in ordering equipment under the
project and in completing local construction and installation. Also TTB,
reinstated to function as a "Government Board" since April 1979, encountered
difficulties and delays in organizing its finances and accounts and in manag-
ing efficiently its operations and development. In November 1979, the Govern-
ment was pressed by IDA to take promptly the decisions and the measures required
to enable TTB to improve its management and finances, to have the telecommuni-
cations accounts transferred from Government to TTB and to transfer to TTB
the assets from the cyclone project. An action program agreed to this effect
has been implemented by the Government and TTB during the first half of 1980.
Although the project is late, most of the outstanding problems have been reduced
or are being eliminated. Covenants under the project are now being complied
with. TTB is presently taking final procurement action to commit the funds
remaining under the project which represent about 30% of the credit. Corres-
ponding works will require about two years from order. In the absence of
satisfactory accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial position of
the beneficiary. A new action program to be implemented by December 1980 has
been agreed recently with TTB on the organization of its finances and on the
preparation of its future development program.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Twenty-four subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, a one year
extension of the Closing Date was necessary to provide time for completion
of agreed subprojects. Disbursements have recently improved and amounted
to US$5.7 million at the end of October 1980. The subprojects financed are
expected to have a significant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lend-
ing program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has begun, with 16 subprojects totaling
about $6.2 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects totaling
about $4 million have been approved in principle, and would be expected to be
committed within the next few months.



- 43 -                     ANNEX II
Page 14
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun design
work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.






sU- i - ' ; : : ~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
A T t<S  5 X \                 ~~~~~BokbraW-Chittagon4 Gas Pipeline Projc
f~~~~~~           W  WW   e|N,D IA-          
W          \9tEE                                              *>s iR  X'.>dJA   A*
<    f /                                 N    \    1    Nt   <   X  9e. X : Ly - - . eYtn9 NtG0 espwine~R . *
.~~~~~~~..J                                                                             :
y if < t g 0 C i ) 0 n O t ,2
_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     5
wagnv99teof999    CS>,~G       M4,LP,  U1R                                -    aD 
bXaSwesSh-h.        RAW y5H 4}0}t  tt5                               )  0    A 0 
larXfsfafilsaeserKt9   tt\   8  vt\ / J       *fulut4ys     0>l>JpH    <,GH
efw  rOtF-fffssftre   a  / t()       ~                         tt  . >,  Q   )Li
J.e.-.fSlV s   H                                                        ?i     
S   ^SANJSH4                  N 
\   />                              0 7t    t    J    pt  PA2
\   If  Itoy    2t   f 9 90fXf  ,0  ,    2p  ,    40    ,    tof    ,    97GAIL
\  t                            rulO.ene.S                          \\-i4<~~D  C 
21s Alt               B N-          9                    e                   2-    '



