Document of
The World Bank
~~~ y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2956-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 31, 1980
Energy Department
Petroleum Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   =   Taka (Tk.)
US$1.00          =   15.5 Tk.
Tk 1.00          =   US$0.065
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Barrel (Bbl)               =    0.159 cibic meters (m )
1 cubic foot (CF)            =    0.028 m
1 British Thermal
Unit (Btu)               =    0.252 kilocalories (Kc)
1 Kilowatt hour (Kwh)        =    2.978 Kc
1 metric ton (mT) of
oil 0.85 sp.gr.          =    7.4 Bbl
1 kilometer (km)             =    0.621 miles
CFD                          =    cubic feet per day
MCFD                         =    thousand cubic feet per day
MMCFD                        -    million cubic feet per day
TCF                          -    trillion (1,000 billion) cubic feet
Toe                          =    tons of oil equivalent in heating
value
MW                           -    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW                           =    Gigawatt (1,000,000 kilowatts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOB        Government of Bangladesh
BGSL       Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited
BMOGC      Bangladesh Minerals, Oil and Gas Development Corporation
BOGC       Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation (Petrobangla)
OGDC       Oil and Gas Development Corporation
BPC        Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB       Bangladesh Power Development Board
BGFCL      Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited
BPL        Bangladesh Petroleum Limited
ADB        Asian Development Bank
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
ERL        Eastern Refinery Limited
KPM        Karnafuli Paper Mills
CNG        Compressed Natural Gas
LNG        Liquified Natural Gas
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This report was prepared by Messrs. V. Nayyar, H. Schober, and
M. Wormser, Ms. S. Shum of the Energy Department.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   ENERGY SECTOR .........................1.................... 
Introduction .....    . ................................    1
Energy Balance ...... .................                     l
Resource Endowment ........ . . . . . . . ........... ....... . .  2
Pattern of Energy Use .... . ......... . ... .............. .  5
II.   OIL AND GAS SECTOR *................. o..*  ....*...*........**   5
Background ................... ..   ....................    5
Exploration ...... .....*......  *........* .........................  6
Natural Gas ........................................        6
Gas Distribution  ................. . . ................ .  7
Gas Consumption Pattern         ............................  8
Pricing of Natural Gas ............. * .. .............     8
Production and C,onsumption of Petroleum Products  ...    10
Investment in the Oil and Gas Sector ..      .............    13
Sector Issues and Role of the Bank Group ..........  .     13
III. BENEFICIARY              ..                   ...............  16
Background   ...........................................    16
Sector Corporation ....... ..........................      17
The Beneficiary ............................ ........      17
Project Implementation Considerations           .          18
Accounts and Audits    .               .20
Insurance                     ... 20
IV. THE PROJECT                       ......                           21
Project Objectives             ....21
Project Preparation. . .. .                                21
Gas Supply and Market...                                   21
Design Criteria                .... 23
Project Description    . ........        .     .24
Project Implementati.on          . . .25
Project Cost             ...26
Financing Plan .       ..................................  27
Procurement and Disbursement ..        .....................    28
Training      ...........................................   29
Ecology and Safety .... .................. . ..........    29
Land and Right-of-Way .       .............................  29
Project Risks ..................           .........       30
This document has a festricted distribution and may be used ;4y recipients . i in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disc!csed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                    Page No.
V.  FINANCIAL  ASPECTS  .......................................  30
Market   ............................   ............  30
BGSL  Revenues   ......................................  31
BGSL's  Financing  Plan  ..............................  31
Future  Finances   ....................................  32
VI.  ECONOMIC  ASPECTS  ........................................  34
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS   .........................................  35
ANNEXES
1.01   Estimates of Energy Supplied by Traditional Fuels
2.01   Important Gas Fields in Bangladesh
2.02   Production and Consumption of Natural Gas in Bangladesh
2.03   Refinery Yield and Consumption of Petroleum Products
2.04   Physical Program of Investment in Oil and Gas Sector
2.05   Natural Gas Powered Vehicles
3.01   Organization Chart of the Petroleum Industry of Bangladesh
3.02   Proposed Organogram for BGSL
4.01   Proposed Distribution System
4.02   Project Schedule
4.03   Estimated Cost pf Transmission Line
4.04   Estimated Cost of Distribution Lines
4.05   Breakdown of Foreign Expenditures
4.06   Estimated Annual Consumption
4.07   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
5.01   Income Statement
5.02   Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statement
5.03   Balance Sheet
5.04   Sources and Application of Funds
6.01   Economic Analysis
MAP      IBRD 14869



I. ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction
1.01      Energy consumption in Bangladesh is characterized by heavy reliance
on traditional fuels such as animal and vegetable wastes which, according to
a recent estimate, account for 60% of its overall requirement. Consumption
of commercial energy is extremely low, compared to other countries in the
subcontinent and the average for the less-developed world in general. Measured
in oil equivalent per capita, it is estimated at 34 kg per annum. In terms of
resource endowment, Bangladesh has an abundant potential supply of natural
gas; its reserves are currently estimated at 9 trillion cubic feet, equivalent
to 220 million tons of oil. Relative to availability, gas consumption is low
and currently is equivalent to one million tons of oil per atinum. Bangladesh
is otherwise poorly endowed in primary energy. The potential for hydropower
is extremely limited and has largely been harnessed. Coal deposits exist, but
are presently not considered economic to mine. Sporadic exploratory efforts
for oil stretching over the last seventy years have, so far, yielded no
results. Consequently, Bangladesh has to import all its requirements of oil
and petroleum products.  Even at the existing low level of consumption (1.5
million tons), in 1980 Bangladesh would need to dedicate 60% of its projected
export earnings for oil imports.
1.02      An apparent paradox characterizes the energy sector in Bangladesh.
While it is expending a major portion of its foreign exchange earnings on
import of liquid hydrocarbons, it may have what could be a relative surfeit of
primary energy in the form of natural gas. To reduce Bangladesh's reliance on
imported oil, energy policy for Bangladesh must assiduously aim at increasing
the economy's absorptive capacity for gas.  There are, however, tclihnological
and economic limits to the substitution of liquid hydrocarbons by natural
gas. Thus, Bangladesh twould simultaneously need to intensify its search for
oil, specially in prospects which are believed to hold high hydrocarbon
potential. This would require reinterpretation of the existing seismic data,
undertaking additional seismic surveys, and increasing the pace of exploratory
drilling.
Energy Balance
1.03      The commercial sources of energy in Bangladesh are hydropower,
natural gas, oil, and coal, the latter two being imported.  The table below
estimates Bangladesh's. energy balance, in terms of oil equivalent.



2-
ENERGY BALANCE 1979
(Thousand tons oil equivalent)
Production                               Consumption
(a)  Hydro Electricity 1/         168    (a)  Hydro Electricity          168
(b)  Natural Gas 2/             1,072    (b)  Petroleum Products    1,417
(c)  Non Commercial Energy 3/ 4,810    (c)  Refinery Losses               75
Total                     6,050    (d)  Natural Gas              1,072
(e)  Coal                      156
(f)  Non Commercial Energy 4,810
Imports
(a)  Crude Oil & Products       1,492
(b)  Coal                         156
Total                      1,648
Total Availability         7,698         Total Consumption       7,698
Resource Endowment
1.04      Hydropower and natural gas are the only two sources of primary
commercial energy currently available within Bangladesh. The specifics of
Bangladesh's energy resources are as follows:
(a) Natural Gas
1.05      In 1979 hydrocarbons accounted for 89% of the commercial energy
used in Bangladesh. While exploration for oil commenced as early as 1908, it
has so far yielded no positive results. Bangladesh has to import all its oil
requirements. Extensive gas deposits have, however, been identified and of
the nine gas fields discovered, eight can be exploited commercially. Gas
reserves are estimated at 9 trillion cubic feet. On account of the limited
1/   Conversion factor 1000 kwh = 0.286 tons of oil (assuming 30% efficiency).
2/   Average calorific value assumed at 1030 BTU/Standard Cubic foot (SCF).
3/   Estimate made by the UNDP energy study.



domestic market. only four gas fields have so far been partially developed.
Availability of natural gas has permitted Bangladesh to contain the growth
in the use of liquid hydrocarbons, which have to be imported, and presently
natural gas accounts for 44% of total hydrocarbon use.
(b) Power
1.06      Bangladesh's generating systems and the power grid, like the country,
are split into two by the river Jamuna. These two power systems exist as
separate entities, having no inter link with one another. In the East Zone,
besides hydropotential, gas in abundant quantities is available for gener-
ating power. The West Zone, however, has to rely on imported fuel oil and
diesel oi` for power generation.
(i) Hydropower:
1.07      Bangladesh, except for the northern hills of Chittagong, is a flat
deltaic area. The prospects of economic hydropotential development are there-
fore limited. Hydropotential of the Karnafuli River, flowing in the hills
of Chittagong, has largely been harnessed at Kaptai which has an installed
capacity of 80 MW (2 x 40 MW). The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
is currently engaged in installing a third unit of 50 MW which will be com-
missioned in 1982. Potential exists for adding two more units of 50 MW each,
but these would provide only peaking power. The hydropotential of the river
Sangu, also flowing from the hills of Chittagong, has been evaluated at 97
MW. To tap this potential, a dam at Tarasa Chara would need to be constructed.
Presently there is no proposal for tapping this source. The northern portion
of the river Bramahputra  (Jamuna) has a potential for a dam site with an
estimated capacity of 400 MW, but the size and large cost make it only a
remote possibility.
(ii) Thermal Power:
1.08      Both in terms of transmission and generating capabilities, the East
Zone is relatively better endowed than the West Zone. In 1978 BPDB installed
capacity, including isolated units, amounted to 752 MW, 1/ of which 526 MW was
in the East Zone and 226 MW in the West Zone. However, a large number of these
units are in a state of disrepair with the result that tot.il available capacity
in the East Zone is 450 MW, and in the West Zone, 122 MW. Power in the West
Zone is generated from fuel oil and diesel oil which have to be imported. The
East-West Power connector, which is currently afiler construction across the
river Jamuna, would link the two power grids and permit power generated in
the East Zone to be transferred to the West. This would enable Bangladesh
to substitute imported liquid hydrocarbons by indigenous natural gas. The
interconnector is expected to be completed in June 1982. It would initially
have a capacity of 200 MW which could subsequently be increased to 500 MW.
1/   There are in addition captive power stations, owned by various industrial
units, which cumtulatively have a generating capacity of 120 MW.



- 4 -
1.09      In 1978 the overall power system included about 1600 KM of 132 kv
transmission lines, about 5000 KM of 66 kv and 33 kv subtransmission lines,
and 13,200 KM of 11 kv lines. Total energy generated in 1979 was estimated
at 2140 GWh, of which about 1600 GWh was in the East Zone and 540 GWh in
the West Zone. The present quality of service is poor, characterized by
frequent breakdowns. This is attributable to outdated generating stations
and inadequate and overloaded transmission facilities. On the other hand,
consumption has been growing rapidly at an average annual rate of 13%, over
the last three years. Over the period 1979-85 power consumption is expected
to increase at 14.6% annually.
(c) Coal and Peat:
1.10      Bangladesh uses limited amounts of coal for railways, in industry
and as domestic fuel. This demand is met exclusively from imports; over
the last five years the annual imports of coal have been about 250,000 tons.
In 1979-80 Bangladesh expects to import 350,000 tons of coal involving a
foreign exchange expenditure of US$20 million. Coal deposits exist in
Bangladesh near Jaipurhat and the reserves are estimated at a thousand million
tons. However, coal seams lie at a depth of 3,000 feet and the overlying
formation is unconsolidated, or poorly consolidated, alluviums, sand-stone,
shale, and water-bearing lime stone. Various feasibility studies carried out
indicate that the cost of extraction will be high. It is not yet certain
whether coal extraction in Bangladesh is economic, and in view of the large
gas reserves, even necessary. In addition, peat deposits exist in Faridpur
and Khulna districts. However, both on account of the high cost of extraction
and low calorific value, at present, it does not appear economic to expLoit
this resource.
(d) Non-Commercial Energy:
1.11      Non-commercial sources are the predominant form of energy in
Bangladesh. While no systematic data base exists for quantifying the rela-
tive share of non-commercial energy, a number of estimates have been made,
including the recent energy study undertaken by UNDP. The major source of
non-commercial energy is crop residue and animal wastes. Annual production
of rice straw is estimated at about 30 million tons. While most of this
straw is used as cattle feed, it is estimated that at least 3-5 million
tons is used as an energy source. Rice hull production is estimated at 5
million tons. While a small proportion is used as cattle feed, a major
portion is used for parboiling of rice and as a fuel in small rice mills.
Jute sticks and bagasse together provide about 2.5 million tons of household
fuel, while firewood provides 1.75 million tons annually. With cattle popula-
tion reckoned at 10 million, animal waste becomes another important source of
energy. Use of dry dung as domestic fuel is estimated at 6 million tons



annually. On the basis of these estimates the UNDP study assessed that the
total energy provided from non-commercial sources amounted to 200 trillion
BTU, equivalent to 5 million tons of oil (Annex 1.01). As in other developing
economies, the level of utilization of this form of energy is high, although
the end use efficiency is low - typically of the order of 10% to 15%. While
in the future, the relative share of traditional fuels will be declining,
Bangladesh does not have the resources to sustain a major shift to commercial
energy. Concerted efforts are therefore required to augment the use of
non-commercial energy and upgrade its end use efficiency through improved
appliances, etc.
Pattern of Energy Use:
1.12      Estimates of the current end use of petroleum products, natural
gas and electric power, and the pattern that is likely to emerge in 1985,
are given in the following table. On account of the limited hydropotential
and in the absence of any oil find, Bangladesh will have to rely largely on
natural gas for meeting its commercial energy needs. Natural gas, which
presently constitutes 44% of Bangladesh hydrocarbon consumption, is esti-
mated to increase to 62% by 1985.  Major end users would continue to be
power generation and the fertilizer sectors.
Pattern of Energy Consumption
Petroleum Products       Natural Gas             Electricity
1979  %   1985  %    1979  %   1985  %    1979  %   1985   %
…----------   Thousand Tons of Oil Equivalent----------------
Fertilizer       -   -     -   -    441  41   869  31         -   -      -    -
Power          207  15    50   3    379  35   905  33         -   -      -    -
Industries    275  19   340  20    197  19   892  32    230  80   450   73
Transport      470  33   635  38       -   -      -   -       -   -      -    -
Agriculture    75   5   180  11        -   -      -   -      12   4    86   14
Domestic       390  28   470  28      55   5   124   4       45  16    78   13
Total       1417 100  1675 100   1072 100  2790 100    287 100   614  100
II.  OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Background
2.01      The quest for oil in Bangladesh dates back to the turn of the
twentieth century, but has so far yielded no positive result. In 1908, the
Burmah Oil Company carried out geological mapping over a few of the structures
in the Chittagong area. In 1914 this company drilled the first exploratory
well in the Sitakund structure and was followed by the Indian Prospecting
Petroleum company, which drilled three wells in the same structure. No
hydrocarbons were discovered. Again between 1922 and 1927, Burmah Oil Company



and the Whitehall Petroleum Company carried out geological mapping and drilling
in the Patharia structure of Sylhet district and in some parts of Chittagong -
but without success. Drilling was resumed by the Pakistan Petroleum Company
Ltd. (Burmah Oil Group) in the Haripur and Chhatak region in 1955 and by the
Pakistan Shell Oil Company, in 1957, in Titas, Habiganj, Kailashtilla, and
Bakhrabad. It was in search for oil in these areas that considerable reserves
of natural gas were discovered.
Exploration
Onshore Exploration:
2.02      The Exploration Department of Petrobangla is responsible for all
geophysical/seismic surveys and onshore drilling. Petrobangla has six geo-
logical and seismic parties for carrying out investigations in relation to
stratigraphy, structures and sedimentation of Bangladesh and is currently
concentrating on the southeast region. Over the Second Five-Year Plan
(1979-80 - 1984-85) it proposes to undertake geological surveys over 2000 sq.
km., gravity surveys over 17,500 sq. km. and seismic surveys over 6,000 sq.
km. In addition, it has recently commissioned an aeromagnetic survey which
would be undertaken over 120,000 sq. km. During this period it proposes
to drill 20 exploratory wells of which Petrobangla would drill 13 wells and
the balance would be undertaken by foreign contractors. The Federal Republic
of Germany will provide technical and financial assistance to Petrobangla for
undertaking seismic surveys and exploratory drilling.
Offshore Exploration:
2.03      For offshore exploration, GOB in 1974 entered into production
sharing contracts with six foreign oil companies. These oil companies
cumulatively drilled seven wells, of which only Union Oil Company struck
gas at Kutubdia, 55 nautical miles offshore from the Kutubdia island in the
Chittagong district at depth of 11,500 feet. As success attending these
efforts was limited, all foreign oil companies, including Union Oil, have
since relinquished their concessions and no offshore exploration is currently
being undertaken. In an attempt to attract back foreign oil companies, GOB
recently announced its willingness to depart from the provision of the earlier
negotiated production sharing contract so as to provide additional incentives
for poorer geological prospects and adverse tax laws in the country of origin
of the oil company. The Government has also announced its willingness to
accept foreign participation in onshore areas including those reserved for
Petrobangla. Although these concessions have so far failed to secure any firm
foreign participation, discussions have been in progress with British Petroleum,
for an onshore production sharing agreement, in northeast Bangladesh.
Natural Gas:
2.04      Bangladesh is well endowed with natural gas and so far eight gas
fields onshore, and one gas field offshore, have been discovered. All these
discoveries are confined to the East Zone. There have been few gas shows
in the West Zone, but data secured so far are inconclusive. Specifics of the



more important gas fields are provided in Annex 2.01. Whereas nine gas fields
have been discovered so far, no systematic attempt has been made to quantify
the reservoirs or even delineate the fields. The number of wells drilled in
relation to discoveries have been limited. However, on the basis of available
data, estimates of proven, possible, and probable reserves have been made by
Petrobangla. To arrive at an estimate of total reserves, probabilities of 1.0
were used for proven reserves, 0.5 for probable reserves and 0.25 for possible
reserves. On this basis gas in place is estimated at about 9 trillion cubic
feet, of which 75% should be recoverable through normal production methods.
The current gas reserves and other specifics of the gas field are indicated
below:
NATURAL GAS RESERVES AND PRODUCTION
Gas Fields   Year of   No. of wells  Reserve   Cumulative  Condensate  Calorific
discovery    drilled      estimate  production   recovery       value
-by 1979
Trillion   Trillion    Bbl/MMCF.   BTU/CF
CF         CF
Sylhet        1955           6        0.29-0.43   0.078          3.7        1050
Chhatak       1959           1         0.04        0.017        Trace        1007
Titas         1962           4         2.25        0.167         1.70        1036
Habiganj       1962          2         1.28        0.038         0.05        1020
Bakhrabad     1968           1         2.78-3.70  Not pro-       2.00       1022
ducing
Rashidpur      1960          1         1.06       Not pro-       0.30        1014
ducing
Kailas Tila   1962           1         0.6        Not pro-      Trace        1050
ducing
Semutang      1969           1         0.03       Not pro-      Trace          -
ducing
Kutubdia      1977           1         1.00       Not pro-      Trace        1043
ducing
Total estimated gas reserves
in place                          9.33-10.39
Total recoverable gas reserves          7-7.8
Gas Distribution:
2.05      At present only the Titas field is being exploited in any significant
measure. A 14" pipeline, 55 miles long, transports gas to Dacca via Ashuganj
and Ghorasal. There are three other lines, each of which connects a main
consumer to a particular field. The Chhatak Cement Factory is supplied from
the Chhatak field, the Fenchuganj Fertilizer plant from the Sylhet field, and
Shahjibazar power station from Habiganj field. As production facilities in
Titas are presently limited, Petrobangla proposes to supply the new Ashuganj
Factory with gas from the Habiganj gas field and for this purpose a 12" pipe-
line is currently under construction. The proposed project will link Chittagong
with the Bakhrabad gas field through a 24" high pressure pipeline. In addition



to these transmission pipelines, there are gas distribution networks in Dacca
and eight other towns of Bangladesh. These networks extend-over 1250 KM and
presently service 90,000 customers. The salient features of the existing
pipelines are given in the followirg table:
GAS PIPELINES
Pipeline                    Diameter  Length  Line flow         Existing working
inches   miles   capacity             pressure
I__MCFD_           psig      -
1.  Titas-Dacca                 14      60        175                 1000
2.  Sylhet-Fenchuganj            8      33         25                  650
3.  Chhatak-Cement Factory       4       12         9                  650
4. Habiganj-Shahjibazar
power station                8       1.5       36
5.  Habiganj-Ashuganj
Fertilizer Factory
(Under construction)       12       35        120
Gas Consumption Pattern:
2.06      Initially the use of natural gas was confined to the Fenchuganj
Fertilizer unit and the Chhatak Cement Factory. However, subsequent to the
discovery of the Titas gas field in 1962, gas production was stepped up and
its use diversified to include generation of power, production of fertilizer,
and other industrial, commercial, and domestic uses. Gas consumption in
different sectors of the economy, for the last 10 years, is indicated in
Annex 2.02. In 1979, the consumption of natural gas was 43,540 MMCF,
equivalent to about 1.1 million tons of oil.
Pricing of Natural Gas:
2.07      The producing companies (BGFCL and BPL) presently receive a well-
head price of Tk. 1.48/MCF ($0.1/MCF). GOB levies an excise duty on natural
gas, which as of 1980, has been increased from Tk. 3/MCF to Tk. 4.5/MCF for
the power and fertilizer units and Tk. 5.0/MCF for other users. The price
at which the distribution companies further affect sales depends on the
consumers and the end use of the product. In June 1979, GOB increased the
gas rates by an average of 42% and by a further 12% in June 1980. In spite of
the recent two increases, in terms of fuel oil equivalent, the tariff for gas
is well below the international price (Tk. 63/MCF). In pricing gas at this
level, the government apparently hopes to provide incentives to new and
existing domestic industries in Bangladesh. However, this has resulted in
prices being not only out of alignment with the international prices, but also
in relation to domestic prices of liquid hydrocarbons. The comparative cost
to consumers in Bangladesh between natural gas on the one hand, and substitute
liquid hydrocarbons on the other, is as shown below:



-9-
Natural Gas                             Domestic Price
Taka/MMBtu   $/MMBtu   Petroleum           Liquid Hydrocarbon
Product      Taka/MMBtu          $/MMBtu
Commercial        19         1.25      Kerosene           85               5.6
consumer                               Fuel Oil           47               3.1
Industrial        18         1.18      Fuel Oil           47               3.1
consumer
Fertilizer         7.75      0.51      Fuel Oil           47               3.1
& Power
Domestic          18         1.18      Kerosene           85               5.6
LPG               102               6.7
2.08      The levels at which gas should be priced requires careful consider-
ation. On account of its relatively abundant availability, Bangladesh has so
far been pricing the gas well below the cost of alternate fuel supplies. This
has resulted in adventitous gains accruing to industrial units and sectors
which are in a position to utilize gas by virtue of their geographical location.
Provision of gas in Chittagong would reduce the fuel cost to industries by a
factor of three to four. Domestic households, privileged to be connected with
gas, would reduce their fuel bill fivefold. Besides generating these distor-
tions, such a pricing policy is depriving the government of a unique oppor-
tunity to mobilize resources for the economy. Accordingly, gas tariffs should
be structured in a manner which would:
(a) ensure that revenue from the sale of gas is higher than the
economic cost of gas;
(b) ensure that the operating entity (BGSL) is a financially viable
organization; which would imply that its revenues after the
initial operating period cover operating expenses, ensure
debt service while achieving an adequate rate of return on
revalued gross fixed assets and generate sufficient cash to
contribute to its future investments; and
(c) mobilize resources for the economy.
2.09      The average economic cost of natural gas from Bakhrabad is estimated
to be Tk. 13/MCF; this includes a depletion premium of approximately Tk. 3/MCF.
In order to achieve the objective of financial viability, the Government
agreed to set the net revenue to BGSL in such a way as to reach a 5% return
on revalued gross fixed assets to BGSL in 1985 and 10% afterwards. According
to the projections, this would require a net revenue of Tk. 17 in 1985 (see
para. 5.03). The Government furthermore agreed to increase by no later than
June 30, 1981, the national average price of gas to consumers by at least
20% over the existing price. GOB also agreed to periodically increase



- 10 -
gas prices to fully reflect domestic inflation taking into account movements
in international prices of fuel oil, and in addition to provide a margin for
domestic resource mobilization.  GOB agreed to carry out a study, with the
assistance of consultants acceptable to the Association, in order to ascertain
the appropriate levels of gas prices and net revenues to gas distributors
necessary to achieve, inter alia, the financial viability of gas distributors
and the efficient mobilization of resources for the borrower's economy. GOB
agreed to review each year with the Association its proposals for increases
in gas prices.
Production and Consumption of Petroleum Products:
Import and Refining
2.10      The entire domestic demand for oil and petroleum products is met
through imports. In 1979, Bangladesh imported 1.58 million tons of crude
oil from Iran, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and U.A.E. As there is an imbalance
between the domestic consumption pattern and product yield, Bangladesh has
had to export a few products (naphtha and fuel oil), and import kerosene,
aviation fuel and diesel oil. Overall, however, it remains a net importer
of petroleum products. Import of oil has imposed a considerable foreign
exchange burden on the economy. The recent price increase has further
exacerbated this situation; in 1980 the import bill for oil and petroleum
products is expected to be of the order of $420 million, or about 60% of
the Bangladesh's export earnings target.
2.11      Imported crude oil is refined in Bangladesh's only refinery in
Chittagong which has a capacity of 1.5 million tons, with a throughput in
1979 of the order of 1.38 million tons. This refinery was established
by the Burmah Oil Company in 1963. It employs an atmospheric distillation
process and has a catalytic reforming unit and a hydrodesulfurization unit.
There are, however, no secondary processing facilities. In order to recover
butane and propane, which were earlier used as refinery fuel, it established
an LPG recovery and bottling plant with an initial capacity of 6,000 tons.
Separately an asphaltic bitumen and drum making plant is under construction,
which would be commissioned by 1982. This unit will not only meet the domestic
requirements of bitumen but would also increase the availability of middle
distillates. Current refining capacity is inadequate to meet the needs of
Bangladesh, and therefore part of the crude (200,000 tons) is being refined in
Singapore. The Government of Bangladesh is now considering the establishment
of a second refinery at Khulna with a capacity of two million tons.
Marketing:
2.12      Before independence, marketing of petroleum products was being
undertaken by Pakistani and foreign companies. These companies were taken
over or acquired by the Government after the formation of Bangladesh. In
January 1977 the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) was established as a
holding company and charged with the responsibility of importing, exporting,



- 11 -
refining, and marketing of crude oil and petroleum products. BPC, however,
does not distribute or market these products directly, but discharges these
functions through its various subsidiaries. The distribution and marketing of
petroleum products is currently being undertaken by three marketing companies.
The major share of the market (40%) is held by Burmah Eastern, a successor to
the Burmah Oil Company, which still retains 49% of the equity capital. The
management is however with BPC which owns a majority of the remaining capital.
The other major marketing unit is Jamuna Oil Company, the successor to the
Pakistani National Oil Company which is now fully owned by BPC and presently
markets 32% of the petroleum products. Meghna Petroleum Company (successor
to ESSO) controls 27% of the market share. In addition BPC owns two other
subsidiaries, the Eastern Lubricating Plant Limited and the Standard Asiatic
Company, which are currently engaged in blending and marketing lubricants and
special products.
Consumption Pattern:
2.13      Consumption of petroleum products over the last 10 years has been
almost stagnant and in some cases (motor spirit and kerosene) consumption has
decreased in absolute terms. The only product which has shown a significant
growth rate is diesel oil. Like all developing countries the consumption
pattern in Bangladesh is skewed in favor of the middle distillates (Annex 2.03).
Diesel oil, which is used in transport, power generation and agriculture, is
the most extensively used petroleum product (29%) followed by kerosene (28%),
which is used largely for illumination, and marginally as a domestic fuel.
However, over the last 10 years the consumption of natural gas has risen
sharply and in 1979 was equivalent to 1.1 million tons of oil. Thus while
the consumption of liquid petroleum products has fluctuated between 1.1
and 1.9 million tons over a ten year period, commercial energy derived from
hydrocarbons has doubled. The future consumption pattern will depend upon the
extent to which GOB succeeds in increasing the economy-s absorptive capacity
for gas. Some investment decisions have already been taken in this direction.
With the commissioning of Khulna power station (1981) it should be possible
to back down the diesel oil consuming power turbine station in the West Zone.
The East-West connector, when completed (1983), should enable the transfer of
gas generated power from the East zone to the West zone, thereby reducing the
consumption of fuel oil. Commissioning the Bakhrabad-Chittagong gas system
will enable the replacement of fuel oil by natural gas in the steel mill,
rerolling mills, power station, paper mill and other industries located in,
and around Chittagong. The rural electrification program will also help in
limiting the growth in the demand for kerosene. Working on the assumption
that these investments will go on stream as scheduled, the consumption pattern
of petroleum products, over the next five years, is likely to be as under:



- 12 -
Consumption of Petroleum Products
(1000 tons)
Product                -------Actual              ----Projected----
1970    1975   1979       1980   1983   1985
L.P.G.                         -       -       2          3      5       6
Naphtha                       43       9       4          -      -       -
Motor Gasoline               -72      54      66         72     83      90
Aviation Fuel                 41      24      35         37     46      55
Kerosene                     421     346    393         420    460    470
Diesel oil                   156     283    413        450    460    540
Jute Batching oil             44      28      32         32     39      41
Fuel oil                     495     401    452        490    650    450
Others                        29      13      20        21      24     25
Total:               1,301   1,158  1,417       1,525  1,767  1,677
2.14      It is anticipated that the demand for fuel oil would increase to
650,000 tons in 1983, but with the commissioning of the East West connector,
reduce to 450,000 tons in 1985. Further reduction may not be possible as
fuel oil will continue to be used in the West Zone for industrial uses and
for inland river and coastal transport. While diesel oil consumption for
power generation would gradually become nominal, growth in the road transport
would more than offset this saving. Estimates of diesel oil and motor gasoline
consumption are based on the expected growth in vehicle population and on the
assumption that diesel would cease to be used, except nominally, as a fuel for
power generation. Further, if there is delay in the implementation of projects
relating to the gas fired power stations, the East-West connector, or the
proposed pipeline project, then the demand for liquid hydrocarbons could
increase to 2 million tons by 1985. In the projected pattern of consumption,
the proportion of middle distillates will continue to be high (66% in 1985).
This would result in increased imbalance between the refinery product yield
and the consumption pattern, warranting additional investment in secondary
processing rather than investment on a new refinery as is presently being
considered by GOB (para. 2.11). This investment proposal will be reviewed as
a part of the proposed natural gas study.
Prices
2.15      As GOB passes on all price increases to the consumer, the last ten
years have seen a sharp escalation in the domestic prices for petroleum pro-
ducts. The consumer has not only had to absorb international price increases,
but also successive increases in domestic prices arising from the erosion in
the value of the Taka in relation to the US dollar. Over the last seven years
the prices of petroleum products in Taka, on the average, have increased seven-
fold. The price of motor gasoline, which was 3.74 Taka per imperial gallon
in 1972, now stands at 45 Taka. Similarly, over the same period, the price of
high-speed diesel oil has increased from 3.5 to 15 Taka per gallon and
kerosene from 2.2 to 13.5 Taka per gallon and fuel oil from 0.3 to 8.2 Taka
per gallon. Consumer resistance to rapidly rising prices in part explains the
almost zero rate of growth in the consumption of liquid hydrocarbons.



- 13 -
Investment in Oil & Gas Sector:
2.16      Bangladesh proposes to make substantial investment in the oil and
gas sector during its second five year plan. The physical program targeted for
the plan is indicated in Annex 2.04 and the sector investment tentatively
being considered for this purpose is indicated below:
Tentative Investment Plan for Petroleum Sector 1979-84
(In million Takas)
Total      Foreign Exchange
Cost            Component
1.   Geological Survey                             250               120
2.   Hydrocarbon Exploration                      2000              1250
3.   Gas Field Development                        1150               800
4.   Gas Transmission & Distribution              3400              2182
5.   Petroleum production & Disribution            900               610
6.   Development of Nonconventional energy         200               100
7.   Research & Training                           100                60
Total                     8000(US$516        5122(US$330
Milion)           Million)
Sector Issues and the Role of the Bank Group
(a) Gas Use
2.17      Bangladesh urgently needs to reduce its dependence on imported oil.
The success of such an effort depends critically upon the speed with which it
can increase the economy's absorptive capacity for natural gas. Natural gas
can replace diesel oil and fuel oil currently being used for power generation
in the West Zone and in the captive power stations all over Bangladesh.
Similar replacement could, to a large degree, be effected in the industrial
sector. Certain investment decisions in this direction are already being
taken. The East-West interconnector, when completed, will allow gas generated
power to be utilized in the West. The proposed IDA financed Bakhrabad-
Chittagong pipeline would permit the replacement of fuel oil and diesel oil
by gas for power generation and other industrial uses in Chittagong and in
adjoining areas. Gas will also be used as a feedstock for the manufacture of
urea permitting the substitution of imported fertilizer with a domestic
product. It must, however, be recognized that there are major constraints to
the substitution of gas for oil. Firstly, there are technical limits beyond
which gas cannot replace liquid hydrocarbons. Secondly, there are limits to
the feasible rate of capacity expansion in both the gas distribution sector
and the electricity sector. Thirdly, the capital cost of converting large
parts of the economy to natural gas, would create a large draft on the
economy's resources. The issue which therefore needs to be addressed is the
extent to which limited and otherwise fungible resources need to be dedicated
for restructuring the economy so that it can absorb larger quantities of gas.



- 14 -
(b) Gas Export
2.18      Even on the basis of very preliminary investigations undertaken
so far, the supply of gas would appear to be in excess of Bangladesh's
internal needs. Understandably, the policy makers in Bangladesh look upon
it as a means of shoring up the country's limited foreign exchange resources.
Bangladesh could:
(a) export the gas through a pipeline to a neighboring country;
(b) export the gas after liquefaction; and/or
(c) attract export-oriented industries which are energy intensive
and/or use natural gas as a feed stock.
Unlike crude oil, export of gas is beset with a large number of technological
and financial problems. Bangladesh could conceivably market the gas in India,
but this would require an East-West connector for gas. In any case such a
decision would be predicated upon a large number of political considerations
and it is not at all clear, whether at the moment, this represents a viable
possibility. Gas could be exported after liquefaction, but a LNG plant
capable of liquefying 500 MMCFD of gas, including tankers, is likely to
cost more than two billion dollars. In addition, considerable investment
would be required to create a deep-sea terminal or make alternate arrangements
as Chittagong harbour is incapable of accepting LNG tankers. In any event,
substantial new gas reserves will have to be found before an LNG plant can be
given serious consideration.
2.19      For purposes of determining the proportion of resources which would
need to be deployed for increasing the economy's absorptive capacity for gas
and also for evaluating the various options available to GOB in terms of gas
export including liquefaction, a detailed study would be required. As part of
this credit GOB has agreed to carry out such a study with help of consultants
and on the basis of terms of reference agreed upon between IDA and GOB. This
study will also evaluate the impact of increased domestic use of gas on
refinery requirements.
(c) Study/Pilot Project for Natural Gas Powered Vehicles
2.20      It is in the context of diversifying the use of natural gas that the
feasibility of using it to replace motor gasoline, and subsequently diesel
oil as an automotive fuel, needs to be examined. The use of compressed
natural gas (CNG) to power automobiles is well established in Italy where it
has been extensively used for the past 30 years.  New Zealand is undertaking a
large scale program to convert automobiles to CNG. The conversion is rela-
tively simple requiring no internal changes to the engine, and the converted
vehicle can switch fuels with a selector mounted on the dash board. Diesel
engines can also be fueled with CNG but the necessary technology related to
automotive engines has not yet been developed to the same level as is the case
with gasoline engines. For further details on the present state of the art of
natural gas powered vehicles see Annex 2.05.



- 15 -
2.21      CNG, even if it could partially replace motor gasoline and diesel,
will result in significant foreign exchange savings for Bangladesh. The
proposed credit contains a provision ($1.3 million) for undertaking a study,
establishing compression facilities, and converting a limited number of diesel
and gasoline vehicles to CNG. Petrobangla, with the assistance of qualified
consultants, will carry out the study/pilot project. The consuitants would,
inter alia, be required to evaluate the cost relating to conversion of vehicles
and compression of natural gas in Bangladesh and recommend necessary modifica-
tion in technology. The study would propose a price differential between
natural gas and gasoline so as to provide an adequate incentive for conversion,
identify target groups and assess the extent to which CNG penetration is feasi-
ble in Bangladesh. In addition,the consultants would be required to study
the technical feasibility of converting diesel powered vehicles to natural
gas, especially in the context of the limitation in range, which such a
conversion imposes on the vehicle. In this context consultants would also
study the logistics and the economic feasibility of setting up "satellite
stations" which would secure bottled CNG from compression stations located
on the high pressure transmission pipeline. Simultaneously, Petrobangla will
undertake a pilot project for converting a limited number of gasoline and diesel
vehicles and establish the necessary compression facilities. The results of
this project would constitute an important input in drawing up a future plan
of action.
(d) Demand Management and Exploration
2.22      There are, as indicated above, economic and technological limits
beyond which it may not be feasible to substitute natural gas for liquid
hydrocarbons. Current projections indicate that as a consequence of a more
extensive use of natural gas, the demand for fuel oil will begin to decline
from 1983. However, the demand for diesel oil and, if per capita income grows
as projected, the demand for kerosene will continue to increase. As a result
of these offsetting trends, the import requirement of petroleum products by
1985 would be at least 1.7 million tons per annum. Even at this level,
petroleum imports would impose an onerous burden on the balance of payments
of the country.
2.23      Bangladesh would therefore need to intensify its search for oil.
Exploratory efforts so far have been unsystematic and sporadic. Foreign oil
companies which took out offshore concessions in 1974/75 have, after a few
exploratory wells, ceased operations. Petrobangla now needs to:
(a) initiate an extensive seismic program;
(b) collate and reinterpret the existing seismic and
drilling data; and
(c) step-up exploratory drilling.
Clearly, Petrobangla does not have the resources or the capacity to implement
an adequate exploration program. It is already receiving assistance from
the Federal Republic of Germany in this area, but this will need significant



- 16 -
supplementation. As a first step toward identifying prospective areas for
further exploration activities, the proposed project includes US$2.7 million
for Petrobangla to undertake with the assistance of consultants seismic
surveys, and processing and interpretation of seismic data.
(e) Appraisal Drilling
2.24       No systematic attempt has so far been made to quantify or even
delineate gas fields, making the present reserve estimates somewhat specula-
tive. Investment in a fuller appraisal of Bangladesh-s gas reserves appears
advisable. Its justification goes beyond securing theoretical satisfaction in
having made an inventory of an important natural resource. Accurate data in
regard to reserves is necessary for determining the opportunity cost of gas
and hence its price, pace of exploitation and the export options. Association
financed consultants, on the basis of existing data, have firmed up reserves
estimates relating to Bakhrabad, Titas, and Habiganj gas fields. However,
additional appraisal drilling would need to be done on these and other gas
fields before any firm estimates can be made of the gas potential in Bangladesh.
(f) Traditional Fuels
2.25       A growing tightening in the traditional fuel market can be expected
over the foreseeable future. Bangladesh clearly does not have the resources
to contemplate a major shift to commercial energy for rural domestic uses.
Measures designed to alleviate the constraints of supply in the rural areas
will therefore have to focus on the traditional market itself. Improvement
in the energy efficiency of cooking appliances, given the importance of
cooking requirements in the fuel demand, could potentially have an enormous
impact on the fuel situation in rural areas. Improved stoves have been
developed which could reduce cooking fuel requirements by as much as 50%.
Prototypes would need to be developed and their extensive adoption promoted.
Separately, social forestry would need to be encouraged, which could augment
the limited supplies of firewood. A research and development program for
traditional fuels could prove rewarding.
2.26       These and other crucial sector issues can be dealt with only in
the context of national energy planning framework which evaluates the country's
present and prospective energy balance and identifies the gaps in information,
institutions and feasibility studies. Bangladesh clearly needs assistance in
developing a natural energy planning capability and the role of the Bank Group
in this area will be discussed with the Government in the coming months.
III. BENEFICIARY
Background
3.01      Natural gas was first discovered in Bangladesh in 1955 at Sylhet by
the Pakistan Petroleum Company. Gas use, however, became extensive only after
Shell discovered (1962) and developed the Titas gas field. In addition to



- 17 -
production and distribution of gas, these private companies, along with the
Government-owned Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), undertook explora-
tion for oil and gas on a limited scale. Immediately after independence GOB
assumed all Pakistani companies and subsequently took over Shell's interest
in Bangladesh.  In March 1972, through a Presidential Decree, Bangladesh
Minerals, Oii and Gas Development Corporation (BMOGC) was created. Through
an amendment of 1974, BMOGC was split into two sector corporations, and the
oil and gas development functions were vested into the Bangladesh Oil and
Gas Corporation (in short, Petrobangla).
Sector Corporation
3.02      Petrobangla was entrusted with all tasks relating to the exploration
and production of oil and gas, import of oil, refining and marketing of
petroleum products, exploration production, transmission and distribution of
natural gas. As of January 1, 1977 the functions relating to the import of
crude oil, refining and marketing of petroleum products were taken away from
Petrobangla and entrusted to a newly-created corporation, namely, Bangladesh
Petroleum Corporation (BPC). As with other sector corporations in Bangladesh,
Petrobangla acts as a holding company, with direct managerial and operational
tasks being performed by individual companies which function under its super-
vision and control. Natural gas is being produced by two companies under
this corporation, namely the Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited (BGFCL)
and Bangladesh Petroleum Limited (BPL). BPL was formed after GOB assumed the
assets of the Pakistan Petroleum Company and it presently owns and operates
the Sylhet and Chhatak gas fields. BGFCL was established in 1975 when GOB
took over Shell, and now operates the Titas and Habiganj gas fields. For
transmission, distribution, and marketing of gas, there are two separate
entities, namely Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Company and the
Jalalabad Gas Transmission and Distribution Systems. These companies purchase
gas from BGFCL and BPL and market it in the area of their respective franchise.
Sector organization is at Annex 3.01. Petrobangla is managed by a Board of
Directors presently consisting of four members including a Chairman; and
functions under the overall supervision of the Ministry of. Petroleum and
Mineral Resources. GOB nominates the Board of Directors. Its authorized
capital is ten million Takas of which ten per cent has been subscribed and
paid in by the Government. Petrobangla finances its expenses by splitting
them among the individual companies which function under its control.
The Beneficiary
3.03      For purposes of implementing the project and subsequently operating
the gas fields and the gas system, GOB has decided to set up the Bakhrabad Gas
Systems Limited (BGSL) - a new, fully government-owned entity, established
under the Companies Act of 1913. BGSL, like other companies in the sector,
will function under the overall supervision of Petrobangla.  Articles of
Association for BGSL have been drafted and the chief executive (designate),
along with a few key staff members, appointed. The proposed organization of
BGSL is shown in Annex 3.02.



- 18 -
Functions
3.04       BGSL's functions, as envisaged in the draft Articles of Association,
are as follows:
-     Develop and produce gas from the Bakhrabad, Comilla, or
such other gas fields as may be decided by the Government
from time to time;
-     Process and transport gas from the gas fields to the area
of its marketing franchise (Comilla, Feni, Chittagong, etc.);
-     Provide natural gas to industrial plants, power stations,
and residential areas;
-     Establish a marketing system to carry out the above
activities.
Capital Structure
3.05       The authorized capital of the company is Tk.1000 million, (US$64.5
million) comprising ten million shares of Tk. 100 each. The entire capital,
as and when required, will be subscribed by the Government. Normally,
Government channels all the funds to its companies through the respective
sector corporation as loans, under the annual development plan. GOB in this
case has agreed to transfer direct to BGSL local currency expenditure in the
form of equity.
Organization and Management Capabilities
3.06       BGSL, under its Articles of Association, is to be run by a
Board of Directors consisting of five members including the Chief Executive.
Petrobangla appoints the Board of Directors and can remove them from office
at its discretion. BGSL is a new entity established specifically for purposes
of implementing the project and subsequently operating the gas utility. To
man its senior levels, it has drawn upon competent and experienced personnel
from the oil industry, especially the Titas Gas Company; a company which has
operated successfully as a gas utility in Bangladesh for over fifteen years.
The existing managers of BGSL have experience in operating gas distribution
utilities and therefore can be expected to manage the distribution system
after it has been established. However, they have limited experience in gas
field development and laying of high pressure transmission pipelines.
Project Implementation Considerations
3.07       Project implementation as currently planned takes note of these
limitations. However, BGSL has so far made good progress in the initial
implementation of the project. It has appointed a reservoir consultant to
assist it in carrying out the Bakhrabad gas field development and drilling
program and an engineering firm for executing the pipeline and distribution
portion of the project.



- 19 -
Furthermore, the construction contract for the high pressure transmission
pipeline from Bakhrabad to Chittagong and distribution pipeline to the
fertilizer unit and the power station, would be the sole responsibility of a
prequalified contractor on the basis of international competitive bidding
(paras. 4.13 to 4.18).
3.08      Nonetheless, BGSL management and administrative capabilities are
critical to the successful implementation and completion of the project.
It would need to establish an organization capable of managing the contract,
ensuring extensive and effective supervision and operating and maintaining a
safe and dependable supply of gas. During the pre-construction stage it will
need to provide specific facilities for contractor, develop a manpower recruit-
ment and training schedule and create a corporate structure capable of managing
the project and supervising the contract. On account of the extremely tight
implementation schedule, it would be required to take prompt decisions related
to engineering and construction activities, avoid undue delays in processing
procurement documents, evaluating bids and awarding contracts and purchase
orders. It will have to exercise its prime project management responsibili-
ties; process bills, invoices, etc. and see to the acquisition and retention
of essential project documents and records. Finally, by the time the project
is completed it should have established an operational organization capable of
operating the gas utility and servicing the customers.
3.09      BGSL, for achieving these objectives, would require close coopera-
tion and assistance from various government agencies. This would, inter alia,
involve assistance in securing the right of way, timely release of foreign
exchange and local financing to BGSL, government approval to the award of con-
tracts, adequate delegation of financial powers, port and customs clearances
etc.
3.10      In view of the above, assurances have been obtained during negotia-
tions from the government, Petrobangla and BGSL that:
a)   by March 31, 1981, a master plan by the critical path method
would be prepared, which would include the time required by
and allocated for the relevant government and Petrobangla
activities;
b)   the government and Petrobangla would take all action, as is
necessary, to enable BGSL to maintain the project schedule;
c)   a condition of effectiveness of the credit would be appoint-
ment of key BGSL staff responsible for project implementation;
d)   within six months after the approval of the credit, BGSL,
with the help of its consultants, would prepare and submit
its recruitment and training program for review by the
Association.



- 20
Accounts and Audits
3.11      BGSL and Petrobangla are required by law to prepare full accounts
of their financial position and results of their operations. The accounting
information system of the existing Petrobangla group is satisfactory. How-
ever, in view of the fact that BGSL is to be formed as a new and separate
entity, during negotiations, BGSL agreed to provide the Association by
September 30, 1981, with a satisfactory plan regarding the design of an
accounting information system as well as the staffing and organization of
its accounting and finance departments. For internal control purposes,
BGSL is expected to have its own internal audit staff which is in line
with the practice of Petrobangla's existing affiliates.
3.12      In addition to internal audit, BGSL and Petrobangla would, under
law, be subject to two types of audit:
a)   External Audit by a firm of chartered accountants appointed
at the general meeting of the stockholders. The entity's
balance sheet and profit and loss accounts are to be presented
to the general meeting within eighteen months after the
incorporation of the entity and subsequently at least once
during each calendar year. Accounts are required to be
ready for external audit within nine months after the end
of the financial year and are reviewed within three months
after submission.
b)   Besides the external audit, each entity is subject to
Government s commercial audit. Its report is submitted to
the concerned Ministry of the Government within three months
after the end of each fiscal year.
During negotiations, BGSL and Petrobangla agreed to supply the Association
with copies of the financial statements, duly audited by the Controller and
Auditor General, and of the independent corporate auditor's opinion, no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Insurance
3.13      National statutes require that all insurance within Bangladesh
as well as on all imports be obtained from the state insurance corporation,
Sadharan Bima Corporation. Insurances involving high value risk which, in
the event of loss, are required to be replaced by imports involving foreign
exchange are reinsured abroad. The terms of reference of the project imple-
mentation consultants include provisions for assisting and advising BGSL on
adequate builders all risk coverage during the construction phase of the
proposed project. After construction completion and acceptance of the project
facilities, BGSL will take out a comprehensive insurance, which will include
third party liability and personnel and property damages.



- 21 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
4.01      Currently, 55% of Bangladesh's commercial energy requirements are
met through imports. Although marginal quantities of coal are included, the
energy imports essentially comprise crude oil and petroleum products; domestic
petroleum production is limited to natural gas which provides about 35% of
commercial energy requirements. Sharply rising oil prices have imposed an
increasingly heavy burden on the country's limited foreign exchange resources.
In 1980 the import of liquid hydrocarbons should account for about 60% of
projected export earnings. The proposed project aims at substituting indig-
enous natural gas for imported fuel oil and diesel oil currently used by
various industries in the Chittagong area. The project would also enable
kerosene to be replaced by natural gas as a domestic fuel and provide a source
of energy and feed stock for new industries, particularly fertilizers, planned
for Chittagong.
Project Preparation
4.02      Williams Brothers Engineering Co. (USA) have completed a feasibility
study of the Bakhrabad-Chittagong pipeline and its distribution system. The
study was carried out in conjunction with the overall Chittagong Fertilizer
Project study financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). It includes a
preliminary route survey and optimization of pipeline sizes for the gas trans-
mission and distribution pipelines, and it will form the basis for detailed
engineering.
4.03      The ADB financed study also included an evaluation of the recover-
able gas reserves in the Bakhrabad field and a recommended drilling plan to
produce the required quantities of gas. This work was assigned to DeGolyer
and MacNaughton (D & M) who have completed their assignment. D & M have
recommended that four slanted wells be drilled from an earth filled pad. Work
on filling the drilling area and an access road is scheduled to be completed
in May before the onset of the 1980 monsoon season.
4.04      BGSL has employed an expatriate engineering firm and drilling and
reservoir consultants with qualifications and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Association to assist it in carrying out the pipeline project
and the Bakhrabad gas development program.
Gas Supply and Market
4.05      The Bakhrabad field consists of four potential petroleum bearing
structures (culminations) identified by seismic interpretation. In 1968 a
well drilled into one of the structures, designated the B-1 culimination, by
Shell Oil Company struck gas in commercial quantities. Its plans for develop-
ing and marketing the gas were interrupted by the war of independence and the
subsequent nationalization of its assets. There has been no further drilling
in the field. Reservoir consultants engaged by the Association (James E. Lewis



- 22 -
Engineering Co., Canada) have estimated that proven gas-in-place in B-l
culmination at 1.6 TCF of which 1.3 TCF will be recoverable. In addition,
probable reserves at this culmination are estimated at 1.0 TCF. An earlier
estimate by D & M, who participated in the ADB fertilizer study, estimated
proven recoverable reserves to be 1.1 TCF. The extent to which additional
reserves can be classified as proven will depend on future drilling results.
4.06      The Association's consultants also evaluated the neighboring Titas
and Habiganj gas field reserves which, if necessary, could supplement Bakhrabad
production. Estimated recoverable reserves in these fields were reported to
be 1.3 TCF proven and 1.5 TCF probable for Titas and 1.0 TCF proven and 0.3
TCF probable for Habiganj. Titas gas is now essentially committed to the
Dacca area market but the bulk of the Habiganj reserves are uncommitted.
If necessary, the Habiganj gas can be almost exclusively dedicated for the
Chittagong market. Presently Habiganj gas field is being linked to Titas.
Subsequent linking of Titas to Bakhrabad, which would require an investment
of about US$30 million, would provide necessary flexibility to the proposed gas
system to supplement shortfalls in Bakhrabad from either Titas or Habiganj.
4.07      Over the next 20 years, the projected Chittagong demand would
require a cumulative production of about 0.8 TCF of gas. However, a consider-
ably higher level of reserves (minimum gas-in-place reserves of 2.6 TCF) is
required to supply sufficient gas to maintain the projected growth in demand.
In the event that these reserves are not proved and developed by future
drilling in the Bakhrabad field, it will be necessary to make up the shortfall
from the Titas/Habiganj fields to meet the peak demand forecasts for 1993 and
beyond. To ensure an adequate gas supply for the Chittagong market, assurance
has been obtained from GOB during negotiations that:
(a) funds would be allocated, when required to meet market demand,
for developing additional gas production from the Bakhrabad
field or, alternatively, from Titas/Habiganj along with all
gathering facilities and interconnecting pipelines;
(b) 1.0 TCF of proven in-place reserves from the Titas/Habiganj
fields would be committed to the Chittagong market until
such time as the necessary gas reserves and deliverability
are established at Bakhrabad or another gas field; and
(c) the reserves committed under (b) above would take precedence
over all other reserves commitments except for any future
reallocations agreed to by GOB and the Association.
4.08      The Chittagong gas market has been surveyed by a number of organi-
zations.  Shell Oil undertook a detailed survey of the existing market and
future growth potential in 1969, after the Bakhrabad discovery. In 1978,
Hydrocarbon Consultants Ltd. (Bangladesh) completed a market survey and projec-
tion of future demand sponsored by ADB as part of the Chittagong fertilizer
study, led by the prime consultant, Unico (Japan). Also in late 1978, Chem
Systems (UK/USA) undertook a similar study under the auspices of GOB and the
Association. The different demand forecasts were reconciled during a meeting



- 23 -
of representatives from GOB, the Association and ADB in May 1979. Projected
demand forecast by different categories of consumers is shown in Annex 4.06
and forms the basis for sizing the proposed facilities. Peak and average
demand is projected to grow to approximately 320 and 203 MMCFD respectively
by the year 2000 AD.
4.09      By 1985, it is anticipated that the Chittagong demand from the power
plant, steel mill, paper mill, industries, etc. will average about 35 MMCFD.
The fertilizer plant would significantly increase the demand to about 80 MMCFD.
ADB has preappraised the project, and according to its present estimates, the
foreign exchange requirements would be about US$285 million. So far, US$177
million financing has been committed in principle by 5 agencies. An addi-
tional US$105 million is under consideration by various financing agencies.
While slippage in the implementation of the fertilizer plant would adversely
affect the cash flow of BGSL, the project would still be economically and
financially viable, even without the proposed urea plant. In the event
that financing of the ADB sponsored fertilizer plant at Chittagong cannot
be consummated, a condition of the proposed credit is that apart from the
urea plant already proposed at Chorasal the next urea plant would be located
at Chittagong.
Design Criteria
4.10      The proposed project facilities comprise a gas well drilling program,
gathering and conditioning facilities, a transmission pipeline, and a distribu-
tion system. Based on an analysis of the various parameters affecting the
optimum sizing of pipelines, the feasibility study recommends a 24" transmis-
sion line operating at 960 psi maximum pressure without compressors. A 22"
line with an intermediate compressor station in 1996 is marginally less expen-
sive on a discounted cost basis. However, simplicity of operation and lack of
maintenance problems with complex machinery outweighs the slight cost advant-
age. In the event additional reserves are not developed at Bakhrabad, it will
be necessary to extend the pipeline to Habiganj during 1993 to meet peak demand
forecasts for that year and beyond. This would mean an additional expenditure
of approximately US$30 million (1980 prices). The impact on the project's
economic rate of return, however, would be marginal since, as can be seen in
Section VI, the rate of return would still be acceptable. The transmission
and distribution pipelines were sized on the basis of the market forecasts
rather than presently established gas reserves because:
(a)  the possibility of confirming additional reserves at
Bakhrabad is high, with probable reserves being estimated
at an additional 1 TCF. Additional gas discoveries in
the area also cannot be ruled out;
(b)  even if no additional reserves are proven in Bakhrabad, the
demand in the Titas/Chittagong market could still be met by
connecting the Titas/Habiganj gas fields with Chittagong,
in the early 1990s; and
(c)  although it is recognized that there is a possibility of
slippage of some of the potential consumers, a gas system
with a technical life exceeding 30 years, needs to be
designed to handle anticipated peak flow requirement.



- 24 -
4.11      The proposed distribution system will have an initial capacity of
approximately 160 MMCFD which will satisfy the projected demand until about the
year 1990 when the system will have to be expanded. Annex 4.01 shows the dis-
tribution system prepared by the consultants. The Phase 2 portion completing
the distribution ring would increase the system capacity to 350 MMCFD to match
the maximum pipeline capacity. The pipeline route and gas fields are shown in
Map IBRD 14869.
Project Description
4.12      The proposed project includes the following:
(a) Development of the Bakhrabad gas field comprising four
deviated wells in the B-1 culmination to a depth of 9,000
to 15,000 ft from an earthen pad approximately 300 ft by
400 ft in area and 12 ft high and recompletion of the
existing well, BK-1.
(b) Flow lines (6" in diameter) from each well-head to a
central area containing metering, pressure regulating,
separation and dehydration and odorizing facilities.
A small quantity of liquid hydrocarbons will be recovered
at this point, and provisions will be included for storing
and transferring it to tank trucks.
(c) A 24" buried gas transmission pipeline, approximately 110
miles long, from the Bakhrabad facilities (under (b) above)
to a city gate station outside Chittagong and all necessary
ancillaries.
(d) A gas distribution system along with operating and main-
tenance facilities, including pressure regulating and
metering facilities and service piping to consumers,
comprising approximately 11.7 miles of 20" piping from the
city gate station south to the Eastern Refinery and steel
mill area, 13.5 miles of 16" piping from this point to the
proposed Chittagong fertilizer plant and to the WAPDA power
station including 0.6 miles of twin 12" river crossings at
Karnafuli River and-29 miles of 10" piping from a point
on the 20" line approximately 4.5 miles south of the city
gate station to the Karnafuli Paper Mill and serving the
Nasirabad and Kalurghat industrial estates in Chittagong.
(e) consultants for drilling, project engineering, management
and construction supervision services.
(f) Staff training (para. 4.25).
(g) Technical assistance comprising seismic surveys and pro-
cessing and interpretation of seismic data with a view
to identifying prospective areas for possible exploratory
drilling (para. 2.23).
(h) Studies on gas utilization and pricing and a compressed
natural gas pilot project (paras. 2.09, 2.19 and 2.21).



- 25 -
Project Implementation
4.13      Implementation of the proposed project will be the responsibility
of Petrobangla and BGSL. A qualified expatriate engineering consulting firm
satisfactory to the Association has been appointed to assist in providing
complete project management, engineering and training services for implement-
ing the transmission pipeline, the distribution system, and the gas field
facilities portion of the project. The services to be provided by the
consultant comprise engineering and design, general project management
functions, procurement, contract administration, construction supervision,
start-up, and commissioning assistance and training. The BGSL staff will
include about 12 members trained abroad and with previous gas distribution
experience who will participate in project implementation. Appointment of
key staff with appropriate qualifications and experience would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit. The project implementation schedule
is given in Annex 4.02.
4.14      Construction of the transmission pipeline and the distribution lines
will be tendered to prequalified foreign contractors. For the construction
of a 10" distribution line, domestic contractors will also be prequalified.
There are several such contractors who have the experience and capability to
install high pressure pipelines in the smaller diameters.
4.15      Pipeline construction will have to be limited to the dry season,
roughly from about October to May. It is essential to complete the construc-
tion during one season to avoid the expense of mobilizing and demobilizing the
contractor twice or paying standby charges during the period no work can be
undertaken. To achieve a one season construction schedule, all equipment and
materials must be on the job site on or before the scheduled construction
start-up date. BGSL has set the construction target for the 1981-1982 dry
season, and there is a reasonable chance that it can be achieved as the
consultant have been mobilized, and the detailed engineering for the project
has been initiated. However, to be conservative the appraisal of the project
is based on a 1982-1983 construction period.
4.16      BGSL has appointed a qualified consultant satisfactory to the
Association for managing the Bakhrabad gas field development and well drilling
program. The key personnel provided by the consultant for this assignment
include a drilling adviser, a reservoir engineer, two geologists and two tool
pushers (drilling supervisors) for continuous well site duty and an overall
coordinator and manager of the program. Their chief responsibilities on
behalf of BGSL will be procurement of well materials and services, preparation
of the work program for each well, monitoring and analyzing drilling, logging
and testing results, supervision of the drilling contractor and reservoir
evaluation studies.
4.17      BGSL, with the assistance of its drilling consultant, has completed
negotiations of a drilling contract for the Bakhrabad wells with the Japanese
Exploration Company (Japex). A letter of intent was signed on September 17,
1980, which requires that Japex deliver the drilling rig to Chittagong by



- 26 -
January 1, 1981 and spud the first well by February 10, 1981. A condition of
the proposed credit is that no materials procurement or pipeline construction
contract will be awarded until this first well has been completed and the well
data has been analyzed to confirm the results obtained from the discovery
well.
4.18      The above implementation arrangements are satisfactory.  Tenders
can be issued for the pipe and pipe laying contract while the first well is
being drilled. If no drilling problems arise and the results are satisfactory,
BGSL should be in a good position to achieve the 1982 completion goal.
Project Costs
4.19      Including contingencies, the project is estimated to cost US$164
million of which the foreign exchange component is US$132 million or 80%.
The proposed credit of US$85 million represents 64% of the estimated foreign
expenditures and 52% of the total estimated project cost. Sector studies and
technical assistance to be financed by the proposed credit but not directly
related to the project are estimated to cost US$4.5 million. Import duties,
which have averaged about 10% for imported goods and equipment on past pipeline
projects, contribute US$4.1 million to the project cost. Interest during
construction amounting to approximately US$13 million is not included in the
above costs.
4.20      Letters of intent have been signed (September 1980) for the project
engineering and implementation services and management of the gas field
development and drilling program. The engineering contract amounts to US$3.8
million, including local and foreign costs based on 670 man-months (370
expatriate and 300 local personnel). The drilling contract amounts to US$1.3
million in local and foreign costs based on 85 man-months (64 expatriate and
21 local personnel). These costs are slightly less than the amounts in the
project estimate not including contingencies. US$400,000 have been allocated
from Credit 622-BD (Subproject 24) to cover initial payments for these
services prior to effectiveness of the proposed credit. A physical contin-
gency of 10% was applied to all costs except for construction to which 15%
was applied, since no detailed survey has been made of the pipeline route.
The price contingency was calculated on the basis that local costs would
escalate at an annual rate of 10% and foreign costs at 10.5% during 1980,
9% during 1981, 8% during 1982, and 7% during the remaining project
implementation period.



- 27 -
4.21      The following table summarizes the project costs.  Gas transmission
and distribution costs are detailed in Annexes 4.03 and 4.04.
Local   F.E.   Total    Local   F.E.   Total
(In Taka Millions)        (In US$ Millions)
Bakhrabad Development
1. 5 Gas Wells                         11     209      220       0.7   13.5    14.2
2. Gas Field Facilities                11       79      90       0.7    5.1      5.8
Basic Cost Estimate                 22      288    310       1.4   18.6    20.0
Physical Contingency                 2       29      31       0.1    1.9     2.0
Price Contingency                    7       85      92      0.5    5.5      6.0
Sub-Total                           31      402    433       2.0   26.0    28.0
Gas Transmission and Distribution
3. 24" Transmission Line              212       704    916      13.7   45.4    59.1
4. 20"/16" Distribution Line           56       202    258       3.6   13.0    16.6
5. 10" Spur Line                       36       109    145       2.3    7.0      9.3
6. Engineering, Management
and Supervision                   11       77      88      0.7    5.0      5.7
7. Training                             2        16     18      0.1    1.0       1.1
8. Technical Assistance                 -       31      31        -     2.0     2.0
9. Studies & CNG Pilot Project          8       23      31      0.5    1.5      2.0
Basic Cost Estimate                325     1162   1487      20.9   74.9    95.8
Physical Contingency                39       144    183       2.5    9.3    11.8
Price Contingency                  105      338    443       6.6   21.8    28.4
Sub-Total                          469     1644   2113      30.0  106.0   136.0
Total Estimated Project Cost       500     2046   2546      32.0  132.0   164.0
Project Financing Plan
4.22      The financing plan is based on the GOB providing equity from the
national budget to cover the US$32.0 million equivalent (including contin-
gencies) local expenditure costs of the proposed project. Of the US$132
million foreign exchange cost US$85 million is proposed to be financed from
the IDA Credit, and the balance from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) of Japan (US$26.0) and from the OPEC Fund for International Development
(US$21.0 million). The proposed allocation is indicated below. A detailed
breakdown of the foreign exchange expenditures is given in Annex 4.05. To
ensure prompt provision of budgetary funds and timing of project staff,
approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by GOB would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
1/   An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite
for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



- 28 -
IDA      OPEC      Japan     Total
1.  Wells and Gas Field              -         -        26.0       26.0
2.  Goods and Equipment             40.3      3.1        -         43.4
3.  Construction 24" Line           31.9       -         -        31.9
4.  Construction 20"/16 Line         -       11.9        -         11.9
5.  Construction 10" Line            -        6.o        -          6.0
6.  Engineering Consultants          7.0       -         -          7.0
7.  Training                         1.3       -         -          1.3
8.  Technical Assistance             2.7       -         -          2.7
9. Studies and compressed
natural gas pilot project    1.8         -         -         1.8
TOTAL          85.0      21.0       26.0     132.0
%            64        16          20       100
4.23      The proposed IDA credit would be to GOB.  GOB, in turn, will relend
US$80.5 million to BGSL for 15 years, including a grace period of five years,
at an interest rate of 12 percent per annum. GOB would bear the foreign
exchange risk. US$4.0 million will be relent to Petrobangla on IDA terms
for financing items 8 and 9 above except for one study (about US$0.5 million
equivalent) which would be carried out by GOB. A condition of effectiveness
would be that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOB and BGSL and
Petrobangla has been executed. GOB would further be required to fulfill all
conditions of effectiveness of the OPEC and OECF Loan Agreements before the
IDA credit is made effective.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.24      All procurement for the proposed project, including the OPEC Fund
financed portion but excluding the well drilling and gas field facilities
funded by the OECF Loan, will be by international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures set forth in the Association's procurement guide-
lines. Items costing less than $100,000 of a specialized nature available
from a limited number of suppliers or not of sufficient value to attract
wide international competition, may be procured through limited international
tendering up to an aggregate amount of US$4 million. All bidding packages
US$500,000 or above (about 16 of the total 40 estimated) would be subject
to prior review. Any goods or equipment which might be available from local
suppliers would be granted the usual 15% preference or customs duty if less.
Qualified domestic construction contractors would be granted a 7.5% preference.
4.25      Disbursement for goods and equipment up to a maximum of US$40.3
million would be made against 100% of the foreign exchange cost of items
directly imported or the ex-factory cost if manufactured locally and 70%
of total expenditues for items procured locally off-the-shelf. For the
(i) 24" pipeline construction contract; (ii) consultants; (iii) training and
(iv) technical assistance disbursement would be against 100% of the foreign
exchange cost. Annex 4.07 gives the estimated disbursement schedule. The
credit would be fully disbursed by June 1984, and the closing date would be
December 31, 1984.



- 29 -
Training
4.26      BGSL will have a nucleus of trained and experienced personnel
recruited from other Petrobangla organizations, but the bulk of its staff
will need training for the various administrative, operating, and maintenance
functions of the company. Depending on job classification, the training needs
will comprise technical courses and assignments with pipeline companies abroad
and on-the-job training during engineering, construction and commissioning of
thc project facilities. The terms of reference of the project implementation
consultant include provisions for assisting BGSL with the preparation and
implementation of a training program for its personnel (see also para. 3.10(d)).
Submission of a satisfactory training program would be a condition of disburse-
ment for the training component.
Ecology and Safety
4.27      Neither the pipelines nor the gas field facilities are expected
to pose a significant ecological hazard. Preparation of an environmental
impact statement is included in the terms of reference of the implementation
consultants. The pipelines will be buried and all drainage and other surface
features will be restored. Some crop damage along the right of way will be
unavoidable and compensation will be paid to the respective owners. Trenching
at river crossings will temporarily increase the turbidity of the water, and
its effects should be addressed in the environmental study. A small quantity
of brackish water will be separated from the gas at Bakhrabad. However, based
on test results from BK-1 (the discovery well), the quantities and salinity
involved are not significant enough to warrant any special disposal measures
other than the natural drainage system of the area.
4.28      Although pipelines have a good safety record compared to other
modes of transportation, fire from leaks in gas pipelines is a real danger.
It can only be minimized by strict adherence to safety codes and proper design,
construction, operation, and maintenance. In this regard, the proposed project
pipelines will be designed in accordance with the appropriate international
standards and codes including the provision of adequate cathodic protection
against corrosion. BGSL's training program will include, and emphasize, safety
and preventive maintenance. In addition, the gas will be odorized at Bakhrabad,
thus making leaks more easily detected.
Land and Right-of-Way
4.29      Petrobangla and BGSL will have to acquire rights-of-way and easements
along the pipeline route and land for the well facilities, pipeline terminal,
and other above ground installations. No major problems are foreseen in this
respect since the government can exercise its power of eminent domain on
behalf of BGSL. However, to ensure that no costly delays will occur a condi-
tion of the proposed credit is that no contract for civil works or goods for
the pipeline shall be awarded until the right-of-way for the pipeline route
has been acquired.



- 30 -
Project Risks
4.30      Gas field and pipeline projects carry geological and operational
risks which are common to the petroleum industry. They can be minimized, but
not entirely eliminated. In addition, the proposed project carries the risk
of the market not growing at the projected rate. These risks are discussed
below; none is considered a significant deterrent to the project.
4.31      The gas production potential of the Bakhrabad field is considered
to be highly promising by various experts who have examined existing geo-
logical and well data. However, only one well has been drilled into the
structure. Additional drilling and geophysical study are necessary to
delineate the production zone and ascertain with a high degree of certainty
the magnitude of the gas in place, and the rate at which it can be delivered.
The project is to a large extent protected from this risk in that back-up
reserves from the Titas and Habiganj fields can, if necessary, supplement
the Bakhrabad production. Furthermore, as shown below, even if gas deliveries
amount to only 80 MMCFD, the economic rate of return from the project will
still be quite attractive.
4.32      Finally, the possibility exists that the market will not grow,
as predicted, to an average rate of 203 MMCFD by the year 2000 AD. Including
the fertilizer plant, the initial market which can be foreseen with reasonable
certainty amounts to an average consumption of 80 MMCFD or 0.5 TCF cumulatively.
Sensitivity analysis shows that this consumption level is sufficient to make
the project economically sound with a rate of return of about 50%. Therefore,
future market growth is not a significant factor in the economic viability
of the project. Nevertheless, failure of the market to grow to the projected
levels would have the consequence of having invested in an oversized pipeline
system from which maximum benefits cannot be derived. However, the incremental
investment for such oversizing would be relatively small assuming demand does
not deviate radically from the forecast.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
5.01     Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited (BGSL) will be incorporated as a
separate entity within the Petrobangla group. BGSL will be responsible for
field development as well as marketing of the gas of the Bakhrabad field.
Its revenues will be derived exclusively from the sale of the gas to the
Chittagong area consumers. BGSL will account for and depreciate its own
assets, incur operating expenses, and generate revenues in order to meet its
debt service requirements. It will ensure that most of its future expansion
in terms of distribution network and production facilities will be met from
within its own resources after the initial implementation period.
Market
5.02     The market for gas is expected to develop as follows:



- 31 -
Gas Consumption: MMCF per year
1985     1990      1995     2000
Industrial                 10,163   18,084   38,545   44,358
Fertilizer                  8,100   17,325   17,325   17,325
Power                       2,683    2,683    7,246   12,356
Commercial/Domestic            11       77       158       173
TOTAL            20,957   38,169   63,274   74,212
These figures were based on the consultants- market study as revised by IDA
and agreed upon with GOB.
BGSL Revenues
5.03     GOB has agreed that gas tariffs should be set at such levels as
will meet the objectives mentioned in para. 2.08. Regarding the financial
aspect, BGSL should be a financially sound organization with revenues suffi-
cient to cover, after the initial operating period, operating expenses and
debt service, while achieving adequate rates of return on revalued assets and
generate a reasonable proportion of BGSL-s future development requirements
(see para. 5.07). It is estimated that the revenue to BGSL (net of excise
duty) which will meet this financial objective should be Taka 17 per MCF in
1985, Tk. 18 in 1987 and Tk 31 in 1989, as described in paras. 5.06 and
5.07.
BGSL's Financing Plan
5.04      The table sets out below a summary of BGSL's estimated capital
requirements for the four-year (FY 1981 - 1984) construction period of the
project and the sources from which they would be met. Further details are
given in Annex 5.04.



- 32 -
Taka     US$        %
(millions)
Requirements
Fixed Investments                       2,468    159.2      92
Interest during Construction              203      13.1      7
Working Capital                            17       1.1      1
Total Requirements                  2,688    173.4    100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                   155      10.0      6
Less:  Debt Service                       (230)   (14.8)    (9)
Net Internal Cash Generation               (75)    (4.8)    (3)
Government Contribution                    785      50.7     29
IDA Credit                               1,248      80.5     47
Japanese Loan                              404      26.0     15
OPEC Loan                                  326      21.0     12
Total Sources                       2,688    173.4    100
5.05      The Japanese loan will be made to GOB at the rate of 1.25% with a
repayment period of 20 years including 10 years of grace period and onlent to
BGSL at an interest rate of 12% per annum.  The OPEC loan will be relent to
BGSL at 12% rate of interest per annum, for a period of 15 years including 5
years of grace. On the basis of a subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to
the Association, the proposed credit would be onlent to BGSL at a rate of
interest of 12% for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of five
years. GOB will bear the foreign exchange risk of these borrowings. GOB will
furthermore contribute the balance of the funds needed by the company presently
estimated at about US$51 million. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained from GOB and Petrobangla that they will make available to BGSL on a
timely basis any local and foreign currency funds including cost overruns that
may be needed to complete the project.
Future Finances
5.06      Projected income statements, balance sheets and statements of
sources and applications of funds are shown as Annexes 5.01, 5.03 and 5.04,
with related assumptions in Annex 5.02. Salient financial indicators for
the first six years of BGSL's operation are presented below:



- 33 -
Fiscal Year    1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989
Sales (MMCF)                     11,942   20,957   32,634   33,784   34,445   34,988
Net Revenue to BGSL(Tk./MCF)       15.0      16.6      16.9     17.9      26.3      30.6
Net Income before Interest
(Tk. million)                         6       157      344       377       586      453
Net Income after Interest
(Tk. million)                      (224)      (80)     119       175       408      299
Return on Revalued Gross Fixed
Assets (%)                          0.2       5.0     10.0      10.0      14.2 1/  10.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                 69/31    65/35    55/45    46/54    35/65    27/73
Debt Service Coverage (times)       0.7       1.4       1.2      1.4       2.1       2.0
5.07      In order to meet the criteria set out in para. 2.08, the Government
and BGSL have agreed during negotiations to set BGSL-s tariffs (net of excise
duties) at such levels as to achieve a rate of return on revalued gross fixed
assets of 5% in 1985 and 10% thereafter. The financial projections indicate
that: (i) the rates of return in 1984 and 1985 are expected to be low. These
are, however, acceptable in view of the lag involved in the demand build up,
particularly as the proposed fertilizer plant, the major consumer in early
years of operation, is not expected to be fully operational until 1986. The
method of revaluation to be used in the computation of the rate of return on
revalued assets was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. Since
most of BGSL's fixed assets are expected to be imported, the UN index for the
prices of machinery and equipment exported to developing countries will be
used for purposes of revaluation; (ii) BGSL would start to pay income taxes in
1988 2/; (iii) the current position is expected to remain satisfactory through-
out the project period. During negotiations, BGSL undertook that accounts
receivable should at all times be lower than three months sale of gas. (iv)
debt/equity ratio is expected to reach 83/17 in 1982 and to improve afterwards
to 69/31 in 1984 and 55/45 in 1986. The latter would still leave a margin for
further borrowings. However, during negotiations, assurances were obtained
from BGSL that no long term debt will be incurred without prior agreement by
the Association, unless the maximum future debt service is covered 1.5 times
by net income before charging depreciation; debt service coverage is projected
to be 1.4 in 1985, 1.2 in 1986, and to remain above 1.4 afterwards, which is
satisfactory. The low coverage of 1984 is acceptable in view of the projected
demand for this year. Present forecasts indicate that the Company may have
1/   Result of loss carry forward tax laws.
2/   In accord'rice with the Companies Act of 1913, BGSL will incur income
taxes at the rate of 55% of net profit, while losses can be carried
forward up to five years for tax purposes.



- 34 -
surplus cash and may be able to distribute dividends after 1985. However,
in order to protect BGSL's financial viability, Petrobangla and BGSL agreed
during negotiations that surplus funds from operations would only be applied
to purposes other than gas operations after ensuring that sufficient in-
ternally generated funds are available for meeting debt service requirements,
operating expenses, and a reasonable proportion of investmeilt requirements
to ensure adequate gas supplies for the Chittagong market. The DCF rate of
return has been computed at 11% in real terms, which is satisfactory.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.01      In addition to producing significant direct economic benefits
through import savings, this project represents an important contribution
to the Government-s effort to enhance domestic resource mobilization and
stimulate industrial development. Most of the gas produced by the project
will be used in the industrial and power sectors to replace imported fuel oil.
In addition, some of the gas will be used as feedstock, enabling the expansion
of the country's domestic fertilizer industry, and thereby reducing the need
for fertilizer imports.
6.02      In estimating the project's benefit streams, it has been assumed
that the natural gas used by existing industry and power has a value of
$164/ton, based on the thermal equivalence of gas and fuel oil and the
September 1979 cif price of fuel oil imported from Singapore. This value is
assumed to increase by 3% in real terms each year. All the incremental gas
demand from industry and power subsequent to the completion of the project has
been conservatively assumed to be induced and the value of the induced demand
has been estimated at Tk. 25/MCF, representing 50% of the difference between
the economic cost of gas and the cost of imported fuel oil. The value of the
gas used as a feedstock to the fertilizer plant is calculated as the value
added by gas in fertilizer production which would leave the economy indifferent
between domestic production and import. This is the difference between the
cif Chittagong price of imported urea and the cost of production (excluding
gas) in the proposed Chittagong fertilizer plant. 1/ This difference is
estimated at Tk. 48 per MCF.
6.03      The project's cost streams used a foreign exchange shadow price of
Taka 20 per U.S. dollar, which is based on the free rate allowed for worker-s
remittances from abroad.  The local labour component was shadow-valued at
75 percent of current wages owing to the surplus labour situation in the
country. Because gas is a depletable resource, its supply cost must include
an allowance for the lost opportunity of future use.  Therefore, a depletion
premium for the gas has been computed on the assumption of gas availability
1/   Based on urea price Bank projection and on the Report on Chittagong Urea
Fertilizer Project in Bangladesh, November 1974, Unico, as updated by
the Bank for cost data in September 1979. A rate of return of 12% to
the fertilizer plant has been assumed in the computation.



- 35 -
in Bangladesh for 40 years and an increase in real terms of 3% a year from
an initial cif Bakhrabad-Chittagong price of $164 per ton for fuel oil. The
social discount rate is assumed to be 12% per year.
6.o4      The economic rate of return under these assumptions would be
57% (Annex 6.01). If, on account of financing problems, the Chittagong
fertilizer plant is delayed by two years, the economic rate of return would
be 51%. Similarly, if recoverable gas reserves in Bakhrabad, Titas and
Habiganj limit the availability of gas in the Chittagong market to 80 MMCFD,
the economic rate of return would be 50%. In the event Titas is to be linked
with Bakhrabad at an additional project cost of US$30 million, the economic
rate of return would be 47%. Under the worst scenario, where the fertilizer
plant is delayed by two years, gas availability restricted to 80 MMCFD and the
project cost increased by US$30 million, the economic rate of return would
still be 35%.
6.05      Because Bangladesh is blessed with such large supplies of gas
relative to its domestic demand and because the possibilities for gas export
appears remote, there is a large "economic rent" to be captured between
the cost of the gas to the economy (basically its production cost plus a
depletion premium) and its value to those consumers who would otherwise use
imported fuel oil. Setting the price of gas above its cost to the economy
(about Tk. 13/MCF) but below the fuel oil domestic equivalent price (Tk.
47/MCF), encourages gas-based industries and at the same time mobilizes
resources for other sectors of the economy. This will become increasingly
important in Bangladesh as the role of food aid as a source of budgetary
support declines with continued movement toward food self-sufficiency. The
tax base must be diversified to encompass production and domestic income, in
addition to import-related levies. Bangladesh has few areas of its economy
where a surplus can be mobilized since agriculture incomes are difficult to
tax for political and administrative reasons. Its natural gas resources
present a unique and immediate opportunity to generate resources for the
benefit of the economy, with minimal economic disincentives and relatively
light administrative requirements.
6.06      Bangladesh is also likely to benefit from the small amounts of
natural gas liquids (NGL) present in the gas. In addition, there will be
environmental benefits in terms of reduced atmospheric pollution in the
Chittagong area as natural gas replaces fuel oil.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following issues were raised with GOB and
satisfactory assurances were obtained that:
(a) GOB would undertake a gas utilization and pricing study
(paras. 2.09 and 2.19);



- 36 -
(b) GOB would increase national average gas prices by at least
20% by June 30, 1981 and periodically thereafter to fully
reflect inflation taking into account movements in inter-
national fuel oil prices and in addition to provide a margin
for domestic resource mobilization (para. 2.09);
(c) GOB would annually review with the Association its proposals to
meet the objectives of the above pricing policy (para. 2.09);
(d) GOB would give all necessary assistance to BGSL for maintaining
the project schedule (para. 3.10 (b));
(e) GOB would provide BGSL with all local funds for the project
in the form of equity and with the foreign currency funds
to complete the project (paras. 3.05 and 5.05);
(f) GOB would provide BGSL with the necessary funds for developing
the additional gas production needed for the future Chittagong
market (para. 4.07 (a));
(g) the next urea plant, apart from the one proposed at Chorasal
would be located in Chittagong (para. 4.09);
(h) an additional 1.0 TCF of proven gas-in-place reserves would
be dedicated to the Chittagong market from the Titas/Habiganj
fields until such additional reserves are established at
Bakhrabad or an alternarive field (para. 4.07 (b));
(i)  the reserves committed under (h) above would take precedence
over all other commitments (para. 4.07 (c)); and
(j) GOB would give all necessary approvals to increases in
gas prices by BGSL to ensure sufficient revenues for BGSL
to achieve a rate of return on its revalued gross fixed
assets of 5% in 1985 and 10% thereafter (para. 5.03).
7.02      Assurances were obtained that:
(a) BGSL would prepare a master plan for executing the project by
March 31, 1981 (para. 3.10 (a));
(b) BGSL would submit to the Association its recruiting and training
program within 6 months after approval of the IDA credit
(para. 3.10 (d));
(c) BGSL would provide the Association with a satisfactory plan for
an accounting information system and the staffing and organiza-
tion of its accounting and finance department by September 30,
1981 (para. 3.11);



- 37 -
(d)  BGSL and Petrobangla would forward independently audited
financial statements to the Association within 6 months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.12);
(e)  no civil works or materials contract for laying of the
pipeline would be awarded until an additional well has been
drilled and its results analyzed and found satisfactory to
the Association and until the pipeline right-of-way has been
acquired (paras. 4.17 and 4.29);
(f)  BGSL would maintain gas tariffs to meet its required rates
of return on gross revalued assets (para 5.07);
(g)  accounts receivable would at all times be lower than three
months of gas sales (para. 5.07);
(h)  no long-term debt would be incurred without prior agreement
of the Association unless debt service is covered 1.5 times
by net income before charging depreciation (para. 5.07); and
(i)  surplus funds from operations would not be distributed and/or
applied to purposes other than gas operations unless the
operating expenses, debt service requirements and investment
needs of BGSL are met from internally generated funds (para.
5.07).
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(a)  the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Borrower and BGSL and Petrobangla (para. 4.23);
(b)  the completion of all conditions of effectiveness of the
OPEC and OECF Loan Agreement by the Borrower (para. 4.23);
(c)  the appointment by the Borrower of key BGSL staff for
implementation of the project (para. 3.10(c)); and
(d)  the approval of the Project Proforma by the Borrower
(para. 4.22).
7.04      A condition of disbursement for the training component would be
the submission of a satisfactory training program for BGSL staff.
7.05      With satisfactory resolution of the items outlined above, the
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$85 million.



BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Consumption of Energy Supplied
by Traditional Fuels
Percent of
Total
Production                           Total BTU
Fuel                 Used  as                               Contet
Fuel                                x 10
Cow Dung                 35                                   50
Jute Stick               50                                    12                                 X
Rice Straw               10                                    36
Rice Hulls               80                                   48
Bagasse                  75                                   11
Firewood                 ..                                     7
Twigs, Leaves            ..                                    18
Other
Wastes                   ..                                    18
Total                    ..                                  200
Source: Bangladesh Energy Study, 1976
BTU - British Thermal Unit.



- 39 -
Annex 2.01
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPORTANT GAS FIELDS IN BANGLADESH
1.   Sylhet
This was the first gas field to be discovered in Bangladesh by the
Pakistan Petroleum Limited in 1955 and is located 11 miles East of Sylhet.
Sylhet structure is asymmetrical anticline trending from North East to South
West. Its Eastern flank is steeper in comparison to the Western flank which
is faulted at depth. There are two main gas producing zones at depth of
3,973-4,202 feet and 4,290-5,430 feet. So far, six wells have been drilled,
of which two were abandoned, two are producing and the remaining two could be
put into production if required. The field was commercially commissioned in
1961 and supplies gas to the Fenchuganj Fertilizer Factory. In addition it
meets the commercial and domestic requirements of the Syhlet town and various
tea gardens located in the district. Gas in place is estimated between 290 to
430 billion cubic feet (bcf) of which 78 bcf have so far been produced.
2.   Titas
This field, presently the most important in Bangladesh, is located
in the Comilla district. It was discovered by the Shell Oil in 1962. It has
a dome like subsurface structure with a peripheral closure of some nine by
twelve miles, at a depth of 3,150 feet. It is asymmetric with a steeper
Eastern flank. Four gas bearing zones have been identified, which are at a
hydrostatic prrssure ranging from 4,200 psi to 4,500 psi. Total pay zone has
a thickness of 426 feet and the gas saturation has been determined at 55% to
77%. Four producing wells have been drilled at a depth ranging from 9,350
feet to 12,325 feet. Gas from this field is being used by the power stations
at Ashuganj, Ghorasal and Shiddhirganj and by the fertilizer unit at Ghorasal.
In addition, it also provides for the industrial, commercial and domestic
requirements of Dacca. Total reserves are estimated at around 2,250 bcf, of
which 167 bcf have so far been produced.
3.   Chhatak
This gas field was discovered in 1959 by Pakistan Petroleum Ltd;
its structure is an east west trending faulted anticline and is located in
the Sylhet district. This gas is used in the Chhatak cement factory, in the
Sylhet paper mills and for domestic use in the town of Sylhet. So far 17 bcf
of gas has been used against estimated reserves of 40 bcf.
4.   Habiganj
This gas field was discovered by he Shell Oil Company in 1963. It
is located in the Sylhet district, about 20 miles north east from the Titas
gas field. The Habiganj structure is a continuation of the Baramura anticline
of Tipura State in India. Including Habiganj the length of the anticline is
about 80 miles. So far two wells have been drilled. Both the wells have two



- 40 -
Annex 2.01
Page 2 of 2
gas bearing zones at depths of 4,590 to 5,500 feet and 9,889 to 9,970 feet.
Gas is being utilized for power generation at Shajibazar and in the adjoining
tea gardens. It is also proposed to utilize gas from this field for the
Ashuganj Fertilizer Factory and a 12" pipeline for this purpose is currently
under construction. So far, 38 bcf of gas has been produced from this gas
field against gas reserve estimates 1280 bcf.
5.   Bakhrabad
This gas field is one of the most promising discoveries to date. It
is located west of the Tripura uplift, about 25 miles southwest of Titas and
northwest of the town of Comilla. It consists of a seismic elongated anti-
cline having four culminations. Presence of gas in this field was estab-
lished by Shell, when the first and only well (BK-1) was drilled and completed
in 1969. The well was tested for gas in two separate zones, though several
additional zones were encountered and found through electrical interpretation
to contain gas. According to the analysis made by Shell, the gas reserves
were estimated in the range of 2.8 to 3.7 tcf. No well has subsequently been
drilled though, on the basis of data collected by Shell, consultants have
estimated the proven reserves of B-1 culmination at 1.5 tcf, of which 1.1 tcf
are considered recoverable. Further additional drilling at the B-1 site might
indicate a potential of around 1.4 tcf. However, to fully delineate the
field, additional drilling in other culminations (A-1, A-2 and B-2) would need
to be undertaken.



BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production and Consumption of Natural Gas
(MMCF)
Crude Oil                                       Consumption
Year      Production       Million        Power    Fertilizer   Commercial   Domestic   Other-  Total          in Cafpt
Barrels
1968-69       9,434          1.73           2,843       5,554         009           000        698    9,104        .09
1969-70      14,932          2.73           6,017       7,644         026           004       813   14,504         .06
1970-71      11,467          2.10           7,160       8,148         041           022     1,042   16,413         .31
1971-72      16,727          3.06           5,480       3,979         034           036       611   10,140         .50
1972-73      23,577          4.31           7,910      14,075         065           087     1,284   23,421        1.17
1973-74      27,124          4.96          10,146      15,773         114           267     2,013   28,313        3.49
1974-75      17,976          3.29           8,446       7,109         181           277     3,741   19,754        3.55
1975-76      27,357          5.01           8,705      15,901         266           488     3,510   28,870        6.11
1976-77      32,360          5.92          11,408      15,285         360           771     4,215   32,039        9.43
1977-78      34,294          6.28          12,235      13,837         546         1,217     5,529   33,364       14.54
1978-79      39,511           7.23         14,627      14,802         957         1,809     6,143   38,338       21.13
1/  Other - Industries included are Iron and Steel Works, Telegraph Works, Ceramic, etc.
Source: Petrobangla
x4



BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Refinery Yield and Consumption of Petroleum Products
(Tons)
Production   Consumption   Production   Consumption   Production   Consumption        Production   Consumption
Products            75/76         75/76         76/77         76/77          77/78       77/78            78/79         78/79
LPG                                -              -             -            162            162             605           605
Naptha            61,993         5,620          91,974        15,210       82,341       50,650           64,545        27,410
Motor Spirit      54,925        51,160          51,380        50,450       53,141       57,340           55,750        55,190
High Octane
Blending Component 3,385         2,300           1,545         3,260        2,161        3,790            3,385         4,730
Jute Batching Oil 28,796        27,740          28,475        27,950       35,195       33,820           32,938        31,060
Jet Petrol        16,772        23,850          12,776        24,100        6,908       26,730           12,705        27,770
Superior Kerosene
Oil             203,393       341,310         247,302       359,750      263,963      353,490          306,358       369,550
High Speed                                                                                                                              I
Diesel          106,828       243,610         147,314       235,300      120,759      300,500           87,588       303,300
Light Diesel Oil  30,705        29,160          24,220        29,010       31,389       24,190           29,292        28,250
Furnace Oil,
(Heavy Stock &   310,994       345,740        427,207        315,990      385,580      380,050          386,736       379,450
Refinery Fuel)
Furnace Oil
(Low Sulphur)    29,572        30,100         33,542         31,150       39,102       27,270           37,274        32,310
Other (Special
Boiling Point
Solvent & Mineral
Turpentine)         970         1,950           1,235         3,150        2,398        3,080            1,863         2,350
TOTAL            848,333    1,102,540       1,066,970      1,095,320   1,023,099    1,261,072         1,019,039    1,261,975
0
Source:_Petroba ngla, ,                                                                                        >
Source: Petrobangla & BPC                                                                                                       o



- 43 -                    Annex 2.04
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PHYSICAL PROGRAM FOR SECOND FIVE YEAR PLAN
OIL AND GAS SECTOR
(A) Survey
(i)  Geological:  Length  - 1250 km
Area    - 2000 sq. km
(ii)  Gravity:     Length  - 6000 km
Area    - 17500 sq. km of Semi-detailed
or
7500 sq. km of detailed.
(iii) Seismic (Multifold):
Length of Profile    - 1250 km. Regional
(Reflection)     - 2750 km. Detailed
Area (Detailed)  - 6000 sq. km.
Length of Profile (Refraction) - 4375 km.
(iv) Vertical Seismic Profiles - 23 wells.
(B) Exploratory Wells - 20 wells.
(C) Production & Development of Gas Field:
(i) Development Wells:
Field                           No. of Wells
Titas                                      3
Habiganj                                   2
Chhatak                                    1
Kailashtilla                               1
Bakhrabad                                  5
(1st phase)
Titas/Bakhrabad                            3
(2nd phase)
Total                15
(ii) Natural Gas Liquids Processing Plant: 64000 MT. capacity
(D) Transmission Line:
(a) Bakhrabad - Chittagong (24") - 110 miles.
(b) Parallel line from Titas to Ghorasal or a new line from
Bakhrabad to Demra (14" & 16") - 30/40 miles.
(c) Ashuganj to East Bank of Jamuna via Kishorgonj, Mymensingh
and Jamalpur (12") - 40 miles.



- 44 -                    Annex 2.04
Page 2 of 2
(d) Sylhet Tea Estate: Habiganj-Shamshernagar (6") - 30 miles.
Shamshernagar-Juri (4") - 30 miles.
(E) Distribution Line:
(a)  Chittangong, Comilla, Baksham and Feni Area - 600 miles.
(b) Titas Franchise area (Phase II) - 300 miles.
tc) Mymensingh, Jamalpur and Kishorgonj - 100 miles.
(d) Chhatak & Sumamgonj - 20 miles.
(e) Sylhet Tea Estates:
Phase I   -   115 miles
Phese II  -    65 miles.
(F)  Petroleum Sector:   Additional/new capacity creation
(i)  L.P.G. Recovery           14000 tons
(ii)  Lubricating Oil           40,000 MT/year
(iii)  Refinery capacity*             20 lakh tons
(iv)  Tankers**:  Coastal       90,000 tons (9 tanker)
Shallows     1000 tons (2 tankers)
(v)  Waste Oil recycling       4,500 tons of base lubricating oil
(in the private sector)
(G) Traditional and Non-Conventional Energy
(i) Field trial of Solar pump for irrigation a Pilot Plant basis.
(ii) Field trial of phototype wind mill which suits the technological
base of Bangladesh.
(iii) R & D on alternative energy sources and promotion of their uses.
(iv) Integrated study, monitoring and coordination of traditional and
non-conventional sources of energy by the Planning Commission.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.05
Page l oi 5
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Natural Gas Powered Motor Vehicles
Historical Development
1.        The early development of the internal combustion engine was based
largely on gaseous fuels. Beginning around 1800 coal gas, originally produced
for lighting, began to be used in engines. During the first three-quarters of
the 19th century, a series of major advances in gas engine design were made,
culminating in Nicolaus Otto's invention of the four cycle Deutz "A" engine of
1877. Liquid fuels, developed at about the same time, however, proved to be
easier to distribute and store and to have a higher energy content. Wide-
spread acceptance of gasoline and diesel fueled engines for the infant auto-
mobile industry soon followed.
2.        From the turn of the century to 1950, gas fueled engine technology
found application primarily in the stationary engine market. The popularity
of gas for water pumping, power generation, and other industrial uses was due
to its low cost, clean burning characteristics, and increased engine life.
Only in recent years, spurred initially by air quality concerns and shortly
thereafter by energy supply concerns, have gas fueled vehicles appeared on a
commercial basis. An estimated 400,000 automobiles were operating on various
gas fuels worldwide in 1978, and the numbers have been growing ever since.
This fact has remained obscure to the general public, as the utilization to
date, except for Italy and France, has largely been limited to private coMaY.
cial fleets, and more recently a few municipal fleets.
Status of Technology
3.        CNG and Gasoline Engines.  Virtually all of the gaseous fuel used to
power transportation is in gasoline engines which have been retrofitted with
dual-fuel apparatus allowing them to burn either gasoline or gas. Compressed
Natural Gas (CNG) has been used extensively as an automotive fuel in Italy
since the late 1930s. Currently nearly 250,000 vehicles, mainly private, are
running on CNG in the central and nothern part of the country. A small number
of other countries are using CNG as an automotive fuel, although on a far more
limited scale. In Franice there are about 20,000 vehicles operating on CNG and
in U.S.A. more than 200 million miles have been logged by CNG powered vehicles
(owned largely by fleet operators) over the last ten years. Conversion to
natural gas occurred where (a) natural gas was abundant and relatively cheap
in relation to other fuels; (b) an extensive distribution network existed; and
(c) prices of gasoline on account of taxes etc. were high enough to justify
expenditures on conversion. However, in the U.S.A. conversion was motivated
either by a concern over the pollution levels or because captive gas was
available to some companies. In either case, conversion to CNG took place in



- 46 -
ANNEX 2.05
Page 2 of 5
a sporadic fashion and was a result of individual initiative. However, with
sharply rising prices of gasoline and consequent higher import burden, CNG
becomes an attractive alternative for countries which are well endowed in
natural gas. New Zealand which has a large natural gas resource, but has to
import liquid hydrocarbons, is sponsoring conversion of about 200,000 motor
vehicles over the next few years.
4.        Adapting a gasoline powered motor vehicle to a dual-fuel powered
vehicle using natural gas as the alternate fuel is relatively simple. No
internal changes to the engine, its cooling, lubrication or iginition system
are necessary. The conversion kit consists of a two-stage pressure reducing
assembly, an air-gas carburation unit, solenoid valves for the CNG and gasol-
ine supply lines, and high pressure tubing and fittings. The CNG is stored
in cylinders, normally two or three, located usually in the trunk of the
automobile or in the case of vans and trucks on the bed of the vehicle. A
safety requirement is that the passenger space of the vehicle must be her-
metically sealed off from the cylinders if they are located in an enclosed
portion of the vehicle such as the trunk. Furthermore, the cylinder space
must be vented to the atmosphere. The pressure regulating assembly is nor-
mally jacketed to allow the circulation of hot water from the radiator in
order to prevent freeze-up. A selector switch, generally mounted on the
dashboard, allows the driver to select the desired fuel by actuating the
solenoid valves in the supply lines to the appropriate off-on position. There
are five known manufacturers of CNG conversion systems in Italy supplying not
only the Italian but a substantial export market. In the U.S.A. there is one
manufacturer engaged in this work on a fairly active scale. Italy is also
the leading supplier of CNG cylinders. There are five manufacturers, each
using its own process, to fabricate seamless cylinders from mild alloy steel
(chrome-moly or nickel-chrome-moly) billets or tubing. The cylinders are
designed for an operating pressure of 200 atmospheres and are hydrostatically
tested at 300 atmospheres. Cost of conversion kit varies between $125 to $150
and a pair of cylinders costs about $300. Including labour, the cost of
conversion per vehicle would be of the order of $550.
5.        CNG and Diesel Engine.  A considerable amount of development work
has been carried out by several groups in Italy on the conversion of diesel
engines to CNG. The basic approach has been to retain the diesel cycle,
inject diesel fuel by the usual direct injection pump in limited quantities
and aspirate CNG in the induction manifold. No sparking device is added to
the engine, and diesel oil acts as a pilot fuel and sparks the CNG. In such
conversions, the proportion of CNG can vary from 0 to 75% without affecting the
performance of the vehicle.  The impetus for this work came from the desire
to reduce pollution, but the price differential between diesel fuel and CNG
was too small to make conversion attractive. Some research and development
has also been carried out in the U.S.A. A bus has been converted, and suc-
cessfully operated over a long period, to run on 100% CNG by altering the
engine to spark ignition. Work has also been done on converting diesel
engines to dual-fuel systems with up to 90% CNG and 10% diesel. From the
development works carried out so far, it would appear that conversion of



- 47 -
ANNEX 2.05
Page 3 of 5
diesel vehicles to dual-fuel (diesel and CNG) is technically feasible.
However, range would be an inhibiting factor limiting its use essentially to
urban transport.
6.        Fueling Stations.  Refueling is one area in which gas burning cars
differ markedly from gasoline fueled vehicles. For compressing gas to 200
atmosphere pressure special equipment is required to recharge the vehicle.
A typical compression station comprises electric or gas engine driven com-
pressors, storage cylinder to provide surge capacity, and flow and pressure
measuring and recording facilities. For vehicle refueling there are normally
at least five bays, each equipped with a hose which is coupled to the vehicles
filling connection. Two options are available on refueling stations; locating
the stations so that natural gas be compressed directly from a pipeline or
supplying a station with mobile tanks or cylinders which are refilled at a
mother compression station on a pipeline. Usually it is a combination of the
two; with a mother compression station operating off a high pressure transmis-
sion pipeline and feeding 5 to 20 satellite stations therefrom. One of the
most critical factors in selecting the site of a compression station is the
pressure in the natural gas supply pipeline. The capital cost of compression
can vary by a factor of six between operating at an inlet pressure of 20
atmospheres compared to one atmosphere. Operating costs, especially compres-
sion energy, are also significantly affected. The mother - satellite combin-
ation permits the use of high pressure, if available, in the transmission
pipeline. On account of these considerations, cost of compression can vary
widely. On the basis of preliminary computation, cost of compression in
Bangladesh would be of the order of US$0.05/litre.
7.        Economy and Performance.  Improvements in engine efficiency of 5 to
40 percent have been observed in vehicles operating on CNG, with a figure of
14 percent for an average. In a gasoline engine a portion of the total amount
of fuel consumed by the vehicle is required to operate a device known as an
accelerator pump; a gas powered vehicle does not use such a pump, resulting
in an immediate saving in fuel. In addition, gaseous fuels mix readily and
completely with air and do not later separate or condense out; methane in
particular can burn over a wide range of air-fuel ratios. The result is
more complete combustion with increased energy efficiency and reduced pollu-
tion. The degree of improvement in efficiency depends on the type of usage:
(a) improvements on the order of 10 percent have been obtained under highway
conditions, while (b) improvements of up to 40 percent have been obtained
under city stop-and-go driving conditions. Vehicle age and size do not appear
to affect relative engine efficiency.
8.        It is this very efficiency in energy usage which is, in part, res-
ponsible for the engine power loss suffered by CNG fueled vehicles relative
to gasoline fueled ones. The extent of the power loss varies with the vehicle
and driving situation, and is generally noticeable only when accelerating,
climbing a hill, or carrying a heavy load. Averaged power losses experienced
with CNG operation have been on the order of 10-20 percent, although the
drop-off can be substantial for vehicles in low throttle settings and higher
RPM ranges and for heavily laden vehicles. Advancing spark timing within



- 48 -
ANNEX 2.05
Page 4 of 5
rather strict limits may reduce the power loss. At the same time, by virtue
of the gaseous state, natural gas offers easy starting, reliable idling, and
stumble free acceleration.
9.        Natural gas has an octane rating of 130, and therefore, does not
need the addition of lead--a substance harmful to both people and engines.
Moreover, although day-to-day maintenance costs may be higher initially
until experience is gained, use of natural gas can result in considerable
savings on routine preventative maintenance. Actual use has shown for example,
that a CNG powered car can be driven up to 36,000 miles between oil changes
and 40,000 miles between spark plug replacements. Engine life is also enhanced
substantially. These advantages have to be measured against a loss in cargo
space (30%) to CNG cylinders and limitations of range imposed on the auto-
mobile. Two cylinders of gas, would on average carry CNG equivalent to
20 litres of gasoline, giving an average vehicle a range between 150 and 200
kilometers; after which it would either need to be refueled or switch over to
gasoline. Again, not only will refueling be required twice as often but it
will also be more time consuming. Refueling natural gas would take about ten
minutes against three to five minutes for gasoline. Despite these dis-
advantages there are reasons to believe that consumers would be willing to
convert provided adequate fiscal incentives are provided. However, the major
benefactor of the conversion would be the economy and in the case of
Bangladesh, a modest conversion program (6,000 vehicles), would secure a rate
of return in excess of 70%.
10.       Safety and Environment.  CNG is as safe, if not a safer motor fuel,
than gasoline. It is ligher than air, and unlike gasoline, quickly dissipates
when released to the atmosphere. Moreover, because of its high pressure it
must be contained in very strong cylinders which have an extremely 10o prob-
ability of bursting from excessive heat or mechanical damage. Durit)j 30 years
of operation in Italy, which has the most extensive experience with CNC and
where it is compulsory to report all accident damage involving gas cylinders,
there is no recorded accident resulting from a faulty CNG system. Although
CNG vehicles have been involved in their fair share of accidents, none were
attributable to CNG components. Component failure has rarely resulted from an
accident, and there have been no injuries or deaths attributable to CNG in an
accident. In U.S.A. in over 175 million miles logged by CNG vehicles, there
was no death and only one injury attributable to CNG in about 1360 collisions,
of which more than 800 were rear end collisions. This excellent safety record
of course does not mean that strict regulations and their enforcement, regard-
ing the manufacture, installation and inspection are unnecessary. To ensure a
high level of safety, iianufacturing quality and performance must be monitored
and installations checked and approved annually. Cylinders must be checked
and recertified at 5-year intervals. Particular attention must be paid in the
routing and secure fastening of all high pressure piping and in reducing the
number of connections and joints to a minimum. Cylinders involved in accidents
must be recertified and those found mechanically defective or thermally over-
stressed must be destroyed. A natural gas supply free of moisture and sulphur
impurities is an essential safety requirement.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.05
Page 5 of 5
11.       Natural gas is non-toxic and non-reactive in the atmosphere; that
is, it does not form smog. Moreover, it burns cleanly in a world in which
exhaust emissions from motor vehicles are a major source of air pollution,
particularly in urban areas. A vehicle powered by natural gas releases air
emissions totaling only 10-20 percent as much as discharged by a gasoline
powered vehicle. Composite emission comparisons in a series of tests in
Southern California showed an 83 percent reduction in carbon monoxide, a 72
percent reduction in hydrocarbons, and a 97 percent reduction in oxides of
nitrogen when operating on CNG compared to stock gasoline. On a total energy
cycle basis (i.e., from extraction to end-use), fueling a vehicle with natural
gas would result in total air emissions of only 10-40 percent of the total
which would result from using present-day gasoline.
12.       Potential for Use.  Given the present price differential between
gasoline/diesel and indigenously available natural gas, conversion of vehicles
to CNG offers substantial economic advantage. At the same time, natural gas
is more economical in terms of engine efficiency and maintenance, and more
environmentally sound in terms of both safety and pollution. Nevertheless,
the increased use of natural gas faces several constraints--capital costs of
conversion, development of refueling stations and gas distribution, reduced
vehicle range, and loss of engine power. Several of these constraints suggest
the urban environment with the existing infrastructure (pipelines, etc.) and,
initially, commercial and governmental fleets as the principal market for
natural gas powered vehicles. In addition to clear identification of the
potential savings to the consumers in using natural gas rather than gasoline,
conveniently located refuelling stations, adequate conversion facilities,
financial assistance for undertaking conversion, introduction of investment
tax credits, accelerated depreciation schedules, road tax credits, and other
financial incentives may be necessary to encourage greater conversion of
vehicles. Important policies pertaining to standards, jurisdiction and fiscal
incentives defined and established. Finally, caution must be exercised in
attempting to introduce CNG powered motor vehicles in other countries, as
technical feasibility, financial and economic viability, and social accept-
ability will differ from country to country. Conversion to CNG on an exten-
sive scale should therefore be considered only after its economic feasibility
has been studied in depth and its acceptability verified through a pilot
project.



BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE PETROLEUM INDUSTRY IN BANGLADESH
Minister of Petroleum & Mineral Resources
Secretary
Chairman                                                                                                                   Chairman
Petrobangla                                                                                                         Bangladesh Petroleum Corp.
Board of Directors
Director                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Me hna                                   Standard
DrcoDierect           or                   etr              spotl   &            Directcr                                   Bum                  auoPetrlu                                Latr                   atr                 Aiatc
Adinitrtion          F ac                 lenn                rdcin                   e                                     atr   ed            i  opn               Company              ReleyLurcn                                     ii0
E:<ploralion          8GFCL                 BPL
Divislot 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|Gas T&rD Ltd. ||Gas T&D Ltd. || Systems Ltd.|
World Bank - 21276
x
M



BAKHRABAD GAS DEVE'LOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANOGRAM
FOR
BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED (BGSL)
|0ARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
CHIEF ENGINEER                                                    ADMINISTRATION                              FINANCE MANAGER
MANAGER
MANAGER           MANAGER REGIONAL    MANAGER CHITTAGONG                                                                                                          L
MANAGER PLANNING       PRODUCTION AND         DISTRIBUTION          DISTRIBUTION        MANAGER MATERIALS    MANAGER PERSONNEL        MANAGER FINANCE      MANAGER ACCOUNTS
TR AN SM SSION
CURRENT PLANNING        OPERATIONS              COMILLA               ACCOUNTS              PURCHASES              SERVI               COST CONTRO             ACCOUNTS
FOR EWARD           CONSTRUCTION                                           ON             STORES               PERSONNEL             FINANCIAL              PAYMENTS
d  PIPELINE    l  i  ADMINISTRATION  |      ENGG. SERVICES  |
ACCOUNTS                  DISTRIBUTION
VVo,Id B-1,k - 22117



- 52 -
BANGLADESH                          ~~~~ANNEX 4.01
TRANSMISSION PIPELINE FROMB                                                        BA  GL     OPES N  PROJECT
BaARHRARAD                                                              BAEtlRABAD GAS DEVELOPMNT PROJECT                                  KARIAPHULI
CHITTAGONG C                                                          PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION  SYSTEM                                   PAPER KILL
~ATE TERMINAL                                                                                                                           0 0& r
RIIINIL        ~           ~          ~           II,-                                                         /I
.~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                                              .  . ,,,'A*0   <j<3~-...
,''l,;,\X__\~~~~~~o L.kj\,
s   o    j   2   :   J  2 tSl8 LIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POE RUS STATIO
O D rn
2                         DUAL PIPEL~~~~~~INEY
LIKE ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~ ~ P10LN   18h  HS
pX~~~~~
350 PS10 LIINE 018ThR PHASE I
in    ~Mmm   350 PS16 LINE DlSTR. PHASE 2
NOTE: PRESSIRES INDICATE 14AX114N  ALLOWABLE
OPERATING PRESSURE
PPOED                                  03    PRESSURE REDUCINIGIMETERING STATION
*~~~e/~~j.   'S ~URE                               IA    RESIcEirTIAL DEVELOINEJT AREAS
2  ~ PLANT                                             MA4STER PLAN INDUSTRIAL AREA



BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SCHEDULE
1980               1981              1982              1983
1   2    3                 3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
INVITE PROPOSALS       _
CONSULTANTS  .SE LECT CONSULTANTS
CONSULTANTS                        ~~~I    I
PIPELINE PROJECT                            MOBILIZE
GAS FIELD DEVELOPMENT
ENGINEERING
ROUTE SURVEYS                               _:
DATA ACQUISITION
DETAI LED ENGINEERING
ISSUE TENDER
PROCUREMENT                                    ,       PLACE ORDER                                                                     U,
LINE PIPE                                                      DELIVER'Y COMPLETED (See Note)
COAT AND WRAP                           _
VALVES, FITTINGS AND OTHERS                   ISSUE
TENDER   AWARD CONTRACT
CONSTRUCTION                                     I       $   MOBILIZE
PIPELINE AND 20"/16" DIST. LINE    COMPiLETE           *     *    1    I
10" DISTRIBUTION LINE                SITE  I   I      -
PREPAWRATION  AWARD DRILLING CONTRACT
GAS FIELD DEVELOPMENT                         '11 MOBI LIZE
DRILLING PROGRAM              I
PRODUCING FACILTIES           |l| |!
l   l   |    START DRI LLING l l      
START-UP AND COMMISSIONING                   ST-RT l    - l                                  L
NOTE: The 1982 completion date can be met if all construction materials are delivered to job site by the end of September 1981.
Otherwise, the 1982 Monsoon Season will delay completion until 1983.
World Bank - 21275                  C



- 54 -
BANGLADESH                           ANNEX 4.03
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cost of 24" Transmission Line
Local    F.E.    Total    Local    F.E.    Total
(In Taka Millions)          (In US$ Millions)
Materials and Equipment
Line Pipe                           -        237       237      -       15.3      15.3
Valves, Fittings and Others         -         34        34      -        2.2       2.2
Coat and Wrap                       -         31        31      -        2.0       2.0
Concrete Weights                    32        33        65     2.2       2.0       4.2
Cathodic Protection                  5        -          5      -        0.3       0.3
Operating and Maintenance            3         8        11     0.2       0.5       0.7
Equipment
Communications                       3         5         8     0.2       0.3       0.5
Sub-Total                 43       348       391      2.6     22.6      25.2
Construction Contracts
Pipeline                            71       346       417     4.6      22.3      26.9
Terminal and Maintenance             5        -          5     0.3        -        0.3
Sub-Total                 76       346       422     4.9      22.3      27.2
Other Costs
Spare Parts                         -          8         8      -        0.5       0.5
Company Overhead                    45        -         45     2.9        -        2.9
Taxes and Duties                    34        -         34     2.2        -        2.2
Land and Right-of-Way               17        -         17     1.1        -        1.1
Sub-Total                  96        8       104     6.2       0.5       6.7
Implementation Services
Consultants                          8        62        70     0.5       4.0       4.5
Training                             1        16        17     0.1       1.0       1.1
Sub-Total                   9       78        87     0.6       5.0       5.6
Basic Cost Estimate                  224       780      1004    14.3      50.4      64.7
Physical Contingency (12%)a/           28       99       127      1.8      6.4       8.2
Price Contingency                     72       239       311     4.7      15.4      20.1
Total Transmission Line Cost         324      1118      1442    20.8      72.2      93.0
a/ Based on 15% on construction and 10% on all others.
Source: Bank Staff and Consultant



- 55 -
- 55 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX 4.04
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Estimate of 20"/16" Distribution Line
Local    F.E.    Total      Local    F.E.    Total
(In Taka Millions)          (In US$ Millions)
Materials and Equipment
Line Pipe                         -        34       34         -        2.2     2.2
Valves, Fittings and Others       -         9        9         -        0.6     0.6
Coat and Wrap                     -         5        5         -        0.3     0.3
Service Connections               5        6        11        0.3      0.4      0.7
Concrete Weights                  3         3        6        0.2       0.2     0.4
Sub-Total                8        57       65        0.5       3.7     4.2
Construction
20" Distribution Line            10       40        50        0.6      2.6      3.2
16" Distribution Line            11       45        56        0.7      2.9      3.6
River Crossing                   11        43       54        0.7       2.8     3.5
Sub-Total               32       128      160        2.0       8.3    10.3
Other Costs
Taxes and Duties                  6       -          6        0.4       -       0.4
Land and Right-of-Way             6       -          6        0.4        -      0.4
Service and Operating Fac.        5       15        20        0.3      1.0      1.3
Sub-Total               17        15       32        1.1       1.0     2.1
Engineering and Project Impl.   1           8        9        O.1      0.5      0.6
Basic Cost Estimate                58       208      266        3.7      13.5    17.2
Physical Contingency (13%)/         6        28       34        0.4       1.8     2.2
Price Contingency                  17        62       79        1.1       4.0     5.1
Total Estimated Cost               81       298      379        5.2      19.3    24.5
Estimate of 10" Distribution Line
Materials
Line Pipe                         -        25       25         -        1.6     1.6
Valves, Fittings and Others       -         5        5         -        0.3     0.3
Coat and Wrap                     -         3        3         -        0.2     0.2
Service Connections               6       12        18        0.4      0.8      1.2
Sub-Total                6        45       51        0.4       2.9     3.3
Construction                       20        79       99        1.3      4.1      5.4
Taxes and Duties                    5        -         5        0.3        -      0.3
Land and Right-of-Way               5        -         5        0.3        -      0.3
Engineering and Project Impltn.   1           8        9        0.1       0.5     0.6
Basic Cost Estimate        a/               132      169        2.4       7.5     9.9
Physical Contingency (13%)-         5        17       22        0.3       1.1     1.4
Price Contingency                  13        37       50        0.8       2.4     3.2
Total Estimated Cost               55       186      241        3.5      11.0    14.5
a/  Based on 15% on construction and 10% on all others.
Source: Bank Staff and Consultant



- 56 -
ANNEX 4.05
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Breakdown of Foreign Exchange
Expenditures
(Including Contingencies)
US$ Millions
Wells and Gas Field Facilities                           26.0
Materials and Equipment
Line pipe                                             27.0
Valves, fittings, etc.                                 4.5
Coat and Wrap                                         3.5
Concrete Weights                                       3.0
Cathodic Protection                                   0.4
Operating and Maintenance Equipment                   0.7
Communications                                        0.4
Service Connections                                   1.8
Spare Parts                                           0.7
Service and Operating Facilities                      1.4
Subtotal               43.4
Construction
24" Transmission Line                                31.9
20"/16" Distribution Line                            11.9
10" Spur  Line                                         6.0
Subtotal               49.8
Consultants                                               7.0
Training                                                  1.3
Technical Assistance                                      2.5
Studies and Compressed Natural Gas Pilot Project          2.0
Total foreign exchange cost              132.0



BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Consumption (in MMCF)
1984                                     1985                                     1986
Peak     Load       Days                Peak      Load       Days                Peak      Load       Days
Demand  Factor  Operating  Annual       Demand  Factor  Overating  Annual        Demand  Factor  Operating   Annual
Steel Existing       10        .75       360      2,700       10        .75      360      2,700        10       .75         360      2,700
Steel Future          -         -         -         -          -        -         -          -          -        -           -         -
Power Existing       14.7      .50       365      2,683       14.7    .50         365      2,683       14.7     .50         365      2,683
Power Future          -         -         -         -           -        -         -         -          -        -           -         -
KPM                   8        .90       360      2,592         8.8    .90        360      2,851        9.2      .90        360      2,981
ERL                   3        .95       365      1,040         4       .95       365      1,387        5       .95         365      1,734
Fertilizer            -         -         -         -         45        .90       2yO      8,100       55       .90         350    17,325
Carbon Black          -         -         -                     -       -                    -          -        -           -         -
Sponge Iron           -         -         -         -          -        -          -         -          -        -           -         -
Comm. & Domestic       .1      .06       365          2          .5    .06        365         11          .8    .06         365         18
Other Industries   15.6        .75       250      2,925       17.2    .75         250      3,225       27.7    .75          250      5,193
TOTAL CONSUMPTION  51.4                          11,942      100.2                       20,957       122.4                         32,634
1987                                    1988                                      1989
Steel Existing       10        .75       360      2,-700      10        .75       360      2,700       10       .75         360      2,700
Steel Future          -         -         -        -            -      -           -         -          -        -           -         -
Power Existing       14.7      .50       365      2,683        14.7    .50        365      2,683       14.7    .50          365      2,683
Power Future          -         -         -        -            -      -           -         -          -        -              *
KPM                  10.6      .90       360      3,435        11.7     .90       360      3,791       12.9      .90        360      3,791
ERL                   5        .95       365      1,734         5       .95       365      1,734        5        .95        365      1,734
Fertilizer           55        .90       350    17,325         55       .90       350    17,325        55        .90        350    17,325
Carbon Black          -         -         -         -           -        -         -         -                   -                    -
Sponge Iron           -
Comm. & Domestic    1.8        .06       365          39        2       .06       365         44        2.8    .06          365          61
Other Industries   31.3        .75       250      5,868        32.9     .75       250      6,168       35.7      .75        250      6,694
TOTAL CONSUMPTION 127.9                          33,784       131.3                       34,445      136.1                         34,988
Q 2
0.
fh O
0 '



1990                                     1991                                    1992
Peak     Load       Days                Feak      Lo=2       Days                Peak      Load      Bays
De:nand  Facror  OperatinT  A-nnual       e- and  Factor  OoeratinE  Annual      Demand  Faccor  ODeratine   Anr.ual
Steel Existing        10       .75       360      2,700      10        .75       360      2,700       10./      .75        360      2,700
Steel Future           -        - ..               -                              -          -                   -          -         -
Power Existing        14.7     .50       365      2,683      14.7       .50    - 365      2,683        14.7,   .50         365      2,683
Power Future           -        -         -                                       -         -                               -
KT'ill                14.2     .90       360      4,601      15.6      .90       360      5,054        17.1    .90         360      5,540
ERL                    5       .95       365      1,734       5        .95       365      1,73's        5       .95        365      1,734
Fertilizer            55       .90       350    17,325       55        .90       350    17,325         55,      .90        350    17,325
Carbon Black           1.8     .80       350        504       4.3      .80       350      1,204         7.9    .80         350      2,21-2
Sponge Iron            3.8    .80        350      1,064       8.0      .80       350      2,240       .17.8    .80         350      4,984
Co=m. & Domestic       3.5    .06        365         77       4.5      .06       365          99        5.3    .06         365        116
Other Industries    39.9       .75       250      7,481      43.3      .75       250      8,119       49.6    .75          250      9,300.
TOTAL CONSUMPTION   127.9                        38,169    160.4                         41,158       182.4                        46,954
1993                                    1994                                     1995
Steel Existing        10       .75       360      2,700      10        .75       360      2,700       10        .75        360      2,700
Steel Future           8.8    .75        360      2,376      10   .   .75        360      2,700       10        .75        360      2,700
Tower Existing        14.7     .50       365      2,683    .14-.        .50       365     2,683        14.7     .50        365      2,683
Power Future           -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -          25       .50        365      4,563
KPM                   18.9    .90        360      6,124      19.8      .90       360      6,415       19.8    .90          360      6, 15
ERL                    5       .95       365      1,734       5        .95       365.    1,734         5        .95        365      1,734
Fertilizer            55       .90       350    17,325       55        .90.      350    17,325        55        .90        350    17,325
Carbon Black          13.4    -80        350      3,752      15.9      .80       350      4, 52       18        .80        350      5,0'0
Sponge Iron           22.8    .80        350      6,384      25        .80       350      7,000       25        .80        350      7,00
Comm. & Domestic       6.2    .06        365        136       6.8      .06       365        149         7.2    .06         365        158
Other Industries    56         .75       250  - 10,500       60        .75       250    11,250        69.1    .75          250    12,956
TOTAL CONSUMPTION   210.8                        53,714    222.2                          56,408      258.8                        63,274
_)
I-



1996                                  1997                                    1998
Peak     Load      Days               Peak      Loac      Days                Peak     Load      Days
Deivand  Tactor  Operating  Annual    Demend  Factor  Operating  Annual       Demand  Factor  OperatinR  Annual
Steel Existing       10       .75      360      2,700     10        .75       360     2,700       10       .75        360      2,700
Steel Future         10       .75      360      2,700     10        .75       360     2,700       10       .75        360      2,700
Power Existing       14.7    .50       365      2,683      14.7     .50       365      2,683      14.7    .50         365      2,683
Power Future         29       .50      365      5,293      34       .50       365      6,205       39      .50        365      7,118
KPM                  19.8    .90       360      6,415      19.8     .90       360     6,415       19.8    .90         360      6,415
ERL8 5                        .95      365      1,734       5       .95       365      1,734        5      .95        365      1,734
Fertilizer           55       .90      350    17,325       55        .90                                     0        350    17,325
Carbon Black         18       .80      350      5,040      18       .80       350      5,040      18       .80        350      5,040
Sponge Iron          25       .80      350      7,000     25        .80       350     7,000       25       .80        350      7,000
Comm. & Domestic      7.3    .06       365        160       7.4      .06      365        162        7.5    .06        365        164
Other Industries    73.6    .75        250    13,800       79.4      .75      250    14,887       85.2    .75         250    15,975
TOTAL CONSUMPTION  267.4                       64,850    278.3                       66,851      289.2                       68,854
1999                                  2000
Steel Existing       10       .75      360      2,700     10        .75       360     2,700
Steel Future         10       .75      360      2,700     10        .75       360     2,700
Power Existing       14.7    .50       365      2,683      14.7     .50       365      2,683
Power Future         45       .50      365      8,213      53       .50       365      9,673
KPM                  19.8    .90       360      6,415      19.8     .90       360      6,415
ERL                   5       .95      365      1,734       5       .95       365      1,734
Fertilizer           55       .90      350    17,325       55       .90       350    17,325
Carbon Black         18       &80      350      5,040      18       .80       350      5,040
Sponge Iron          25       .80      350      7,000     25        .80       350      7,000
Comm. & Domestic      7.9    .06       365        173       7.9     .06       365        173
Other Industries    92.5    .75        250    17,344    100         .75       250    18,769
TOTAL CONSUUPTION  302.9                       71,327    318.5                        74,212
0.
-h O
as,



- 60 -                     ANNEX 4.07
BANGLADESH
BAKHRABAD GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                          Cummulative Disbursement
and Quarter                               at end of Quarter
(US$'000)
1980/1981
March 31, 1981                                    1,500
June 30, 1981                                     3,000
1981/1982
September 30, 1981                                5,000
December 31, 1981                                15,000
March 31, 1982                                   25,000
June 30, 1982                                    35,000
1982/1983
September 30, 1982                               45,000
December 31, 1982                                55,000
March 31, 1983                                   65,000
June 30, 1983                                    77,000
1983/1984
September 30, 1983                               80,000
December 31, 1983                                83,000
March 31, 1984                                   84,000
June 30, 1984                                    85,000



BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
INCOME STATEllENT
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1981  1982  1983         1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990
AVERAGE PRICE OF GAS, TK/MCF          -     -      -       15.00       16.57       16.94       17.94       26.30       30.57       32.65
TOTAL YEARLY CONSUMPTION, MMCF        -     -      -  11,942.00  20,957.00  32,634.00  33,784.00  34,445.00  34,988.00  38,169.00
REVENUES
TOTAL SALE OF CAS, TK MILLION         -     -      -      179.13      347.26      552.82      606.08      905.90   1,069.58   1,246.22
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPERATING COSTS                       -     -      -       23.94       26.33       28.96       31.86       35.05       38.56       42.42
DEPRECIATION                          -     -      -      149.64      164.07      179.87      197.18      216.14      236.91      259.66
TAXES                                 -     -      -           -           -           -           -       68.66      341.03      447.54
TOTAL COST OF GAS DISTRIBUTED         -     -      -      173.58      190.40      208.83      229.04      319.85      616.50      749.62
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST            -     -      -        5.55      156.86      343.99      377.04      586.05      453.08      496.60
INTEREST                              -     -      -     229.84      237.30       225.43      201.71      177.97      154.24      130.51
NET INCOME AFTER INTEREST             -     -      -    (224.29)    (80.44)    118.56         175.33      408.08      298.84      366.09
.... ..         . ..  .. fflm      nnn        anfifil. ....  ...... Mo..........   .. ......  .... . ...... s
OPERATING RATIO                       -     -      -        0.97        0.55        0.38        0.3R        0.35        0.58        0.60
1/
REVENUE TO BGSL, NET OF EXCISE DUTY
I. 
o .



BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENT
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1991       1992       1993        1994       1995        1996       1997        1998       1999
AVERAGE PRICE OF GAS, TK/MCF         34.91      35.59       38.03      47.80       47.38      51.06       54.42      58.04       61.52
TOTAL YEARLY CONSUMPTION, MMCF  41,158.00  46,594.00  53,714.00  56,408.00  63,274.00  64,850.00  66,851.00  68,854.00  71,327.00
REVENUES
TOTAL SALE OF GAS, TK MILLION    1,436.83   1,658.28   2,042.74   2,696.30   2,997.92   3,311.24   3,638.03   3,996.29   4,388.04
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPERATING COSTS                      46.66      51.33       56.46      62.11       68.32      75.15       82.67      90.94      100.03
DEPRECIATION                        284.57     319.50      400.96     439.01      480.65     526.21      576.06     630.61      690.31
TAXES                               561.40     683.41      864.77   1,355.08   1,529.32   1,703.03   1,877.12   2,067.97   2,276.65
TOTAL COST OF GAS DISTRIBUTED)      892.63   1,054.24   1,322.19   1,856.20   2,078.29   2,304.39   2,535.85   2,789.52   3,066.99
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          544.20     604.04      720.55     840.10      919.63   1,006.85   1,102.18   1,206.77   1,321.05
INTEREST                            106.78      83.06       59.32      35.59       11.87          -           -          -           -
NET INCOMF AFTER INTEREST           437.42     520.98      661.23     804.51      907.76   1,006.85   1,102.18   1,206.77   1,321.05
S==_5_w=_.....              ----_=  ----"X  ----@1_ =     =a=== .. -....====. ... = _=---_     ---------     =--8---
OPERATING RATIO                       0.62       0.64        0.65       0.69        0.69       0.70        0.70       0.70        0.70
0.a 
i-h 0



- 63 -                     ANNEX 5.01
Page 3 of 3
BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENT
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
2000
AVERAGE PRICE OF GAS, TK/MCF         64.90
TOTAL YEARLY CONSUMPTION, MMCF 74,212.00
REVENUES
TOTAL SALE OF GAS, TK MILLION    4,816.36
OPERATING EXPENSES
OPERATING COSTS                     110.03
DEPRECIATION                        755.62
TAXES                             2,504.79
TOTAL COST OF GAS DISTRIBUTED    3,370.44
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST        1,445.92
INTEREST
NET INCOME AFTER INTEREST         1,445.92
OPERATING RATIO                       0.70



- 64 -
ANNEX 5.02
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Revenue Account
1.        Sales revenues are based on an average net revenue to BGSL of Taka 17
per MCF in 1985, increasing each year in order to meet a minimim of 10% rate of
return on revalued gross fixed assets for the entity starting in 1986.
2.        Depreciation has been computed on the basis of a composite straight
line rate of 5% on revalued capital assets.
3.        Operatinrg costs were estimated by Williams Brothers and are inflated
by 10% per-year, in line with projected local inflation.
4.        BGSL incurs taxes on its net income at the rate of 55%.  For income
tax purposes, losses can be carried forward up to 5 years, and depreciation
expense is based on historical costs.
5.        Interest expense has been taken at 12% on the average balance of
long term debt outstanding for the year, and repayment period is 10 years,
after 5 years of grace period.
Balance Sheet and Statement of Source of Application of Funds
1.        Gross capital assets and accumulated depreciation are revalued at
the rate of 9% per year.
2.        Accounts receivable represent one month of sales.
3.        Cash is assumed to be one week of debt service, operating expenses
and local fixed assets acquisition.
4.        Accounts payable represent one month of assets acquisitions, and
and of operating expenses.



BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1981    1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987       1988        1989
ASSETS
REVALUED GROSS FIXED ASSETS                  34.94  986.29  2,556.09  2,992.76  3,281.30  3,597.38  3,943.60   4,322.83   4,738.19
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION                    -       -          -   (149.64)  (327.18)  (536.50)  (781.97) (1,068.49) (1,401.56)
NET REVALUED FIXED ASSETS                    34.94  q86.29  2,556.09  2,843.12  2,954.12  3,060.P8  3,161.63   3,254.34   3,336.63
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                              -       -          -     29.45      57.08     90.87      99.63      148.92     175.82
CASH                                          0.56    3.93       7.27      6.35      27.95     74.43    218.34       560.66     830.40
TOTAL ASSETS                                 35.50  990.22  2,563.36  2,878.92  3,039.15  3,226.18  3,479.60   3,963.92   4,342.85
aS=~ n:===  s=fS=ss ss...= ...==.s.   =f==== =.=..n=  ==a=as=* =M
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CAPITAL                                      30.14  151.86    509.43    784.82    784.82    784.82    784.82         784.82     784.82
RESERVE OF REVALUATION                           -    3.14      91.91    321.96    577.84    843.71  1,119.18   1,403.72   1,696.61
RETAINED EARNINGS (ACCUMULATED LOSSES)           -       -          -   (224.29)  (304.73)  (186.17)   (10.84)    386.27        669.61
…_…_ …-…- ------   --------   --------   --------   --------         ___-  D--   -_ -_ - ---
TOTAL EQUITY                                 30.14  155.00    601.34    882.49  1,057.93  1,442.36  1,893.16   2,574.81   3,151.04
IDA CREDIT ON LENT                            2.50  472.90  1,123.50  1,247.80  1,123.02    998.24    873.46         748.68     623.90
OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES                      -  288.15    729.68    729.68    656.71    583.74    510.77         437.80     364.83
_--__--_____-________  ________  ________- __--_----__  ---- ---             _________
TOTAL LONG TERM LIABILITIES                   2.50  761.05  1,853.18  1,977.48  1,779.73  1,581.98  1,384.23   1,186.48         988.73
CURRENT PORTION, LONG TERM DEBT                  -       -          -         -    197.75    197.75    197.75        197.75      197.75
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                              2.86   74.17    108.84      18.95       3.74       4.09      4.46        4.88        5.33
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                     2.86   74.17    108.84      18.95    201.49    201.84    202.21        202.63      203.08
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                 35.50  990.22  2,563.36  2,878.92  3,039.15  3,226.18  3,479.60   3,963.n2   4,142.S5
--^    tl¢- =--= ~f= =s1   3=s=-=afla======== ~====_=== ====== ===:=s===
DEBT EQUITY RATIO                             0.08    0.83       0.76      0.69       0.65       0.55      0.46        0.35        0.27
RETURN ON REVALUED GROSS FIXED ASSETS (X)        -       -          -      0.20       5.00      10.00     10.00       14.18       10.00
0n.
0



BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTElMS LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1990        1991        1992        1993        1994        1995        1996        1997
ASSETS
REVALUED GROSS FIXED ASSETS                     5,193.11   5,691.34   6,390.08   8,019.29   8,780.24   9,612.94  10,524.15  11,521.25
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION                  (1,787.36) (2,232.79) (2,753.24) (3,401.99) (4,147.18) (5,001.08) (5,977.39) (7,091.42)
NET REVALUED FIXED ASSETS                       3,405.75   3,458.55   3,636.84   4,617.30   4,633.06   4,611.86   4,546.76   4,429.83
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                               204.86      236.19      272.59      335.79      443.23      492.81      544.31       598.03
CASH                                            1,181.04   1,618.12   2,020.05   1,799.61   2,554.19   3,584.08   4,943.03   6,433.24
TOTAL ASSETS                                    4,791.65   5,312.86   5,929.48   6,752.70   7,630.48   8,688.75  10,034.10  11,461.10
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CAPITAL                                           784.82      784.82      784.82      784.82      784.82      784.82      784.82       784.82
RESERVE OF REVALUATION                          1,996.91   2,303.43   2,614.70   2,942.02   3,357.58   3,774.55   4,189.61   4,598.81
RETAINED EARNINGS (ACCUMULATED LOSSES)          1,015.36   1,427.26   1,917.18   2,539.10   3,282.02   4,120.27   5,049.71   6,066.57
TOTAL EQIUITY                                   3,797.09   4,515.51   5,316.70   6,265.94   7,424.42   8,679.64  10,024.14  11,450.20
IDA CREDIT ON LENT                                499.12      374.34      249.56      124.78           -            -           -           -
OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES                       291.86      218.89      145.92       72.95           -            -           -           -
TOTAL LONG TERIM LIABILITIES                      790.98      593.23      395.48      197.73            -           -           -           -
CURRENT PORTION, LONG TERM DEBT                   197.75      197.75      197.75      197.75      197.73            -           -           -
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                                    5.83        6.37       19.55       91.28        8.33        9.11         9.96       10.90
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                         203.58      204.12      217.30      289.03      206.06        9.11         9.96       10.90
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                    4,791.65   5,312.86   5,929.48   6,752.70   7,630.48   8,688.75  10,034.10  11,461.10
DEBT EQUITY RATIO                                   0.21        0.15        0.10        0.06        0.03            -           -           -
RETURN ON REVALUED GROSS FIXED ASSETS (%)          10.00       10.00       10.00       10.00       10.00        10.00       10.00       10.0o
(Dt.1
0~
Hr 0
Lo.
ui



67 -                          ANNEX 5.03
Page 3 of 3
BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1998       1999        2000
ASSETS
REVALUIED GROSS FIXED ASSETS                12,612.29  13 806.11   15,112.33
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION               (8,360.26) (9,802.99) (11,440.88)
NET REVALUED FIXED ASSETS                   4,252.03   4,003.12    3,671.45
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                            656.92     721.32      791.73
CASH                                        8,064.62   9,850.52   11,805.36
TOTAL ASSETS                               12,973.57  14,574.96   16,268.54
=====      ==-==S  =======
LIABILITIES AND EQUtITY
._____________________
CAPITAL                                       784.82      784.82      784.82
RESERVE OF REVALUATION                      4,997.49   5,380.18    5,740.46
RFTAINED EARNINGS (ACCIMUJLATED LOSSES)     7,179.34   8,396.91    9,728.98
TOTAL EQUITY                               12,961.65  14,561.91   16,254.26
IDA CREDIT ON LENT                                 -           -           -
OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES
TOTAL LONG TERM LIABILITIES
CURRENT PORTION, LONG TERN DEBT                    -           -           -
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                                11.92      13.05       14.28
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                       11.92      13.05       14.2R
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES               12,973.57  14,574.96   16,268.54
DEBT EQUITY RATIO                                  -           -           -
RETURN ON REVALUJED GROSS FIXED ASSETS (%)     10.00       10.00       10.00



BAK1IRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1981     1982        1983     1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
SOU1RCES
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                -        -           -     5.55  156.86  343.99  377.04  586.05  453.08  496.6()  544.20
DEPRECIATION                              -        -           -   149.64  164.07  179.87  197.18  216.14  236.91  259.66  284.57
…--… ------  -------  …------ … ----- …----- …-…---  ------ …---- …----  ------
INTERNAL CAS}l GENERATION                -         -          -   155.19  320.93  523.86  574.22  802.19  689.99  756.26  828.77
INCREASE IN ACCOUNTS PAYABLE          2.86    71.31       34.67   (89.89) (15.21)   0.35    0.37    0.42    0.45    0.50    0.54
ONLENT IDA CREDIT DRAWDOWN             2.50   470.40     650.60   124.30        -        -       -        -       -        -       -
OTHER LONC TERI DRAWDOWN                  -   288.15     441.53         -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
INCREASE IN CAPITAL                  30.14   121.72      357.57   275.39        -        -       -        -       -        -       -
TOTAL SOURCES                        35.50   951.58   1,484.37   464.99  305.72  524.21  574.59  802.61  690.44  756.76  829.31
====== ~  ~     ~     - ====   ====   =_=   -== =======  ======    ====== ====     ===
USES OF FUNDS
FIXED ASSETS                         34.79   902.40   1,324.18   206.62   19.19   20.76   22.46   24.31   26.31   28.48   30.85
WORKERS PARTICIPATION FUNDS               -        -           -        -        -       -       -   10.97   15.50   20.34   25.52
INCREASE IN ACCOUtNTS RECEIVABLE          -        -          -    29.45   27.63   33.79    8.76   49.29   26.90   29.04   31.33
INCREASE IN CASII                     0.56      3.37       3.34    (0.92)  21.60   46.48  143.91  342.32  269.74  350.64  437.08
INTEREST ON LONGTERM BORROWINGS       0.15    45.81      156.85   229.84  237.30  225.43  201.71  177.97  154.24  130.51  106.78
REIMBURSEMENT, IDA CREDIT  ONLENT         -        -           -        -       -  124.78  124.78  124.78  124.78  124.78  124.78
REIMBURSEMENT, OTIHER LONCTERM            -        -           -        -       -   72.97   72.97   72.97   72.97   72.97   72.97
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                     0.15    45.81      156.85   229.84  237.30  423.18  399.46  375.72  351.99  328.26  304.53
TOTAL, APPLICATIONS                   35.50   951.58   1,484.37   464.99  305.72  524.21  574.59  802.61  690.44  756.76  829.31
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                     -        -           -     0.68    1.35    1.24    1.44    2.14    1.96    2.30    2.72
NET CASllFLOW                        (32.49) (834.46) (1,292.85) (169.85) 260.05  466.03  543.75  729.39  637.60  699.60  767.48
RETUJRN ON INVESTMENT = 20.157%                                                                                                                 m >
0.
1h 0



BARIIRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
AFTER REVALUATION OF ASSETS
1992      1993       1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1099       2000
SOUlRCES
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          604.04    720.55    840.10    919.63  1,006.85  1,102.18  1,206.77  1,321.05  1,445.92
DEPRECIATION                        319.50    400.96    439.01    480.65    526.21    576.06    630.61    690.31    755.62
_  -- - ------ _- - --_--_------ - --_-- -- - --  _- _-- ---- -_-- -- - --  _- - ---- - -_-- -- - --_  - -- -- ---
INTERNAL CASII GENERATION           923.54  1,121.51  1,279.11  1,400.28  1,533.06  1,678.24  1,837.38  2,011.36  2,201.54
INCREASE IN ACCOUNTS PAYABLE          13.18     71.73    (82.95)      0.78      0.85       0.94       1.02      1.13       1.23
ONLENT IDA CREDIT DRAWDOWN                -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
OTHER LONG TERM DRAINDOWN                 -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
INCREASE IN CAPITAL                      -          -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -
TOTAL SOURCES                       936.72  1,193.24  1,196.16  1,401.06  1,533.91  1,679.18  1,P38.40  2,012.49  2,202.77
USES OF FUNDS
FIXED ASSETS                         186.52  1,054.10      39.21     42.48      46.05     4).93      54.13      58.71     03.67
IWORKERS PARTICIPATION FUNDS          31.06     39.31      61.59     6q.51      77.41     85.32      94.00    103.48    113.85
INCREASE IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE      36.40      63.20    107.44      49.58      51.50     53.72      58.89     64.40      70.41
INCREASE IN CAS11                   401.93   (220.44)   754.58  1,029.89  1,358.95  1,400.21  1,631.38  1,785.90  1,954.84
INTEREST ON LONCTERM BORROWINGS      83.06      59.32     35.59      11.87                    -          -                    -
REIMBURSEMENT, IDA CREDIT  ONLENT  124.78    124.78    124.78    124.78             -         -          -          -         _
REIMBURSEMENT, OTHER LONGTERM         72.97     72.97      72.97     72.95          -         -          -          -         -
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   280.81    257.07    233.34    209.60                     -          -               -
TOTAL, APPLICATIONS                 936.72  1,193.24  1,196.16  1,401.06  1,533.91  1,679.18  1,838.40  2,012.49  2,202.77
=====   ============  ========  ====--===  =====~==  ====== …======-===
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGF                  3.29      4.36       5.48      6.68          -         -          -          -          -
NET CASHFLOW                         713.13     70.50  1,056.60  1,309,30  1,440.21  1,575.35  1,725.17  1,889.16  2,068.44



BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
1081      1982        1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
COST OF PROJECT
_______________
TOTAIL ACQUISITIONS                                         32.78   026.73   1,250.23        172.70      14.76      14.76      14.76      14.76
LESS ITMPORT DUTIES                                              -   (31.00)    (20.20)           -          -          -           -          -
TOTAL, FIXEI) ASSETS ACQUJISITTON, NET OF IMPORT DUTIES   32.78   895.73   1,239.03    172.70            14.76      14.76      14.76       14.76
OPERATING EXPENSES                                               -         -           -      IR.24      18.24      18.24      18.24       18.24
DEPLETION PREMIUMl                                                                     -      34.04      59.73      93.01      96.?9      98.17
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                                        32.78   895.73   1,239.03    224.98          92.73    126.01      129.29    131.17
PROJECT BENEFITS
________________
GAS IUSED IN UREA PLANT                                                     -                     -    388.80    831.60    831.60    831.60
GAS USED IN CARBON BLACK,SPONGE IRON,                            -         -           -          -      12.97      98.28     131.48    148.65
STEEL & POllER FU1TURE, & OTlIER INDUSTRIES
FUEL OITL REPLACED                                               -         -           -  1,060.92  1,148.19  1,227.60  1,308.5()  1,383.35
VALUE OF ENERGY REPLACED                                         -         -           -  1,060.92  1,549.96  2,157.48  2,271.98  2,363.60
PROJECT SAVINGS                                            (32.78) (895.73) (1,239.03)   835.94  1,457.23  2,03l.47  2,142.29  2,232.43
PRES VALUJE UNIT COST OF GAS                                     -         -           -    232.99       93.47      52.33      37.88       30. 61
RETURN ON INVESTMENT = 57.148%
H 
0 .
Ftl O



BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITEn
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
IN HILLIONS OF TAKAS
1989      1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
COST OF PROJECT
TOTAL ACQUISITIONS                                           14.76      14.76      14.76     85.79    452.13       14.76      14.76
LESS IttPORT DUTIES                                              -          -          -          -    (31.10)          -          -
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS ACOUISITION, NET OF IMPORT DUTIES         14.76      14.76      14.76      85.79    421.03      14.76      14.76
OPERATING EXPENSES                                           18.24      18.24      18.24      18.24     18.24      18.24      18.24
DEPLETION PREMIUM                                            99.72    108.79    117.30    132.80    153.09    160.77    180.34
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                                        132.72    141.79    150.30    236.83    592.36    193.77    213.34
PROJECT BENEFITS
GAS USED IN UREA PLANT                                      831.60    831.60    831.60    831.60    831.60    831.60    831.60
GAS USED IN CARBON BLACK,SPONCE IRON,                       177.70    295.13    426.70    685.89  1,039.97  1,194.09  1,597.47
STEEL & POWER FIUTURE, & OTHER INDITSTRIES
FUEL OIL RFPLACED                                         1,424.85  1,553.52  1,649.62  1,753.80  1,874.11  1,965.07  2,024.02
VALUE OF ENERGY REPLACED                                  2,434.15  2,680.25  2,907.92  3,271.29  3,745.68  3,990.76  4,453.09
PROJECT SAVINGS                                           2,301.43  2,538.46  2,757.62  3,034.46  3,153.32  3,796.99  4,239.75
========  ========  ====U===  ========  ========  ========          16===
PRES VAL.UE UNIT COST OF CAS                                 26.26      23.19      20.92      19.26      18.46      17.20      16.13
Ia'
0t.
W jO



BAKHRABAD GAS SYSTEMS LIMITED
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
IN MILLIONS OF TAKAS
1996      1997       1998       1999      2000
COST OF PROJECT
TOTAL ACQUISITIONS                                          14.76      14.76      14.76      14.76     14.76
LESS IMPORT DUTIES                                               -         -          -          -         -
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS ACQUISITION, NET OF IMIPORT DUTIES       14.76      14.76      14.76      14.76     14.76
OPERATING EXPENSES                                          18.24      18.24      18.24      18.24     18.24
DEPLETION PREMIUM                                          184.83    190.53    196.24    203.29    211.51
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                                       217.83    223.53    229.24    236.29    244.51
PROJECT BENFFITS
GAS USED IN UREA PLANT                                     831.60    831.60    831.60    831.60    831.60
GAS USED IN CARBON BLACK,SPONGE IRON,                    1,727.27  1,887.13  2,054.75  2,258.21  2,496.83
STEEL & POWER FUTURE, & OTHER INDUSTRIES
FUEL OIL REPLACED                                        2,084.74  2,147.29  2,211.70  2,278.05  2,346.40
VALUE OF ENERGY REPLACED                                 4,643.61  4,866.02  5,098.05  5,367.86  5,674.83
PROJECT SAVINGS                                          4,425.78  4,642.49  4,868.81  5,131.57  5,430.32
*-------3  ........  ........  =-------  -------
PRES VALUE tUNIT COST OF CAS                                15.28      14.60      14.03      13.56     13.15
0 .
Fb O



d   n@;4   V\uS'\  >                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
g  iA 1) t\X<S:S)  9  t  ~I N D i A                                       Sa - r dCChittog:ng Gas Pipeline Project
°   (>)  p|   |   9   <                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pmpol.d gaktrct]c i ChwitgoP C-c Plpi.nii
/  [   )  ) S  I 0 _, XjX  Zs   >                                        bgrilng ~~~~~~~~~~~~Nwror.t G-s Pap.1w.e
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'a    G , D   |NPhO,.  ' 
,_  D I rAA J P        /                  S                                                           DS,l  dr6
'I ) f at '> v b 0 G  At
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KJ i11 lc xu-% 
< ~        ~~~~~ S H A                                                _N.            
F\)  RtlA  J  S  H  A  I I I WM  \   '  1'5~~ \.(;   MY          M\N   N  $ N  G  H  A                    FX     V    X
-is ,,,   -  ;XS   9 P A $Va 50T~~~A N,G A I L              v                                              gJ
L 2,                    S                 I$ S  PN,A                               D A'C <C<                        )A 
t ~~~~~~~~s                                                                                                      Y  i = ,  1h I N D IA
t - -                  0               --s                 ~            ~            ~~~~~~~~~~c   I LL
gx      JtE ~~S S O RE \        FAR\I D) P U R          )\         loqn       h        
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M, D                                                             A  vAs 
I N  D  I A                                           ',  O )pTUA K                                 4A L t' 1  ,X)FS3t]L   
a6ijr,!  r    '  .   .   1.   )   .   ,'   >   ,.'\                  .'  '  V  's           rj.   p-\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1_12' rh >baj tDNer-orixehE Ew 11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~I M A\ii  . ''CHITGN   
]   Wv d d Wh s s1a 11 uLxchnvw@ rn   %,  i   n   ] *  \       \  J                                            r %yIAWAM'I
IT@rgsd 0 w#C "#d^rd Xd   94 >  Ar.A\R                                                                         (_AND 
~~~~~~~~~~~ 4B Urb¢Tfw \   htbL,   N A
t   V£C:1S/s9Get{! 2hrv2Sdn   q                                                                            |      / '\       \~~~~~~~~~~PAI AHAI
vA2 'iTAt (  { ~ >        h | N A                C2 y            o fB e s7 g                          C/ gT'AGO
Y ~~~~~~~~          H   N  A                            5 . >                                                                     >\io
X   /t  \tURMA                                                                                     \\    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j   N
9  ¢/                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 13  210  30  *0  ,so\,,
\   /   oOy   os   oengol                     0     20   *~~~~~~~c lp  0  hP  hO
I;h LAN.-8                                          0i                                                                2



