OFICIA          CREDIT NUMBER 1091 BD
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Bakhrabad Gas Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            /41, 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1091 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    <*6Ad?/  4mf     /3      , 1981, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A through E of the Project will be carried out by
Bakhrabad Gas System Limited (hereinafter called BGSL), a company
established under the laws of the Borrower, with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
relend to BGSL part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(C) WHEREAS Parts F (i) and (iv) of the Project will be
carried out by Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation (hereinafter
called Petrobangla) a corporation established under the Borrower's
Bangladesh Industrial Enterprises (Nationalization) Order 27 of
1972 (Presidential Order 27 of 1972), with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
relend to Petrobangla part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Fund
for International Development (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund)
"a loan" (hereinafter called the OPEC Loan) in an amount of
$21,000,000 equivalent to assist in the financing of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
referred to as the OPEC Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the OPEC Fund;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (hereinafter called OECF), an agency of
the Government of Japan, a loan (hereinafter called the OECF Loan)
in an amount of $26,000,000 equivalent to assist in the financing
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and OECF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the


﻿-2-
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the BGSL and
Petrobangla Project Agreements of even date herewith between the
Association and BGSL, and between the Association and Petrobangla
respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BGSL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BGSL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the BGSL Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
BGSL Project Agreement;
(b) "Petrobangla Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and Petrobangla of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Petrobangla Project Agreement and all agree-
ments supplemental to the Petrobangla Project Agreement;
(c) "BGSL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BGSL pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the BGSL Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement;
(d) "Petrobangla Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Petrobangla


﻿-3-
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Petrobangla Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "TCF" means a trillion (1,000,000,000,000) cubic feet;
and
(f) "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower;
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 64,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the pro-visions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the BGSL and
Petrobangla Project Agreements, respectively.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1991, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BGSL and Petrobangla to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the BGSL Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the Petrobangla
Project Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BGSL and Petrobangla to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit for
financing consultant and technical services under Parts A and B
of the Project and for carrying out Parts C through E of the
Project, to BGSL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BGSL under terms and conditions
which shall be satisfactory to the Association, as set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit for
carrying out Parts F (i) and (iv) of the Project, to Petrobangla
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Petrobangla under terms and conditions which shall
be satisfactory to the Association, as set forth in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(d) Without limitation on the provision of sub-section
(a) above, the Borrower shall make available, as and when needed:


﻿-5-
(i) all local funds, in the form of equity in
BGSL, needed for carrying out Parts A through E of
the Project and for initial working capital
requirements to start up operations following
Project completion;
(ii) all foreign currency funds to complete the
Project; and
(iii) all local and foreign currency funds to develop
additional gas production from the Project area
and, to the extent required by Section 3.05 of
this Agreement, from the Titas and Habiganj gas
fields together with an interconnecting trans-
mission pipeline, sufficient to meet domestic
market gas demand in Chittagong until the year
2000.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out the studies under
Parts F (ii) and (iii) of the Project with the assistance of
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
The said study under Part F (ii) of the Project will ascertain the
appropriate levels of gas prices and net revenues to gas distri-
butors so as to achieve inter alia the following objectives:
(i) financial viability of gas distributors;
(ii) efficient mobilization of resources for the Bor-
rower's economy.
Section 3.03. Except as otherwise mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall:
(a) give all necessary approvals to increases in gas prices
by BGSL to meet the requirements specified in Section 4.03 (b) (i)
of the BGSL Project Agreement;


﻿-6-
(b) increase by no later than June 30, 1981, the national
average price of gas to consumers, by at least 20% over the
existing price, and thereafter periodically increase national gas
prices to fully reflect domestic inflation.    Such periodic price
increases should take into account movements in the international
price of fuel oil and, in addition, should provide a margin for
domestic resource mobilization; and
(c) review annually with the Association its proposals to
meet the objectives specified in sub-sections (a) and (b) above.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the generality of the provision of
sub-section (a) above, the Borrower shall acquire a right of way
of not less than 50 feet in total width for the pipeline route
from the Bakhrabad gas field to the city gate station at Chitta-
gong.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall develop and make available
or cause to be developed and made available to BGSL sufficient gas
to meet domestic gas demand at Chittagong through the year 2000.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that 1.6 TCF of
proven in-place reserves at Bakhrabad gas field are committed to
the Chittagong market.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that not less than 1.0 TCF
of proven in-place gas reserves from the Titas and Habiganj gas
fields are committed to the Chittagong market until such time as,
besides the present proven in-place gas reserves of 1.6 TCF re-
quired under sub-section (a) above, an additional 1.0 TCF of
proven in-place gas reserves and deliverability are established
from the Bakhrabad gas field or other alternative gas fields and
committed for the Chittagong market.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary,
except as may be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the


﻿-7-
Association, the Borrower's commitment of a total of 2.6 TCF
proven in-place gas reserves in the manner required under sub-
sections (a) and (b) above, shall take precedence over all of
the Borrower's other commitments of proven in-place gas reserves.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained apDropriate accounting practices the
expenditures in respect of Parts F (ii) and (iii) of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Parts F (ii) and (iii) of the Project.
Section 4.02. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
and apart from the Borrowers existing urea plants and the urea
plant already proposed to be constructed at Ghorasal, the Borrower
shall locate its next new urea plant at Chittagong.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following addiLional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) BGSL shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BGSL under the BGSL Project Agreement or the
BGSL Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) Petrobangla shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of Petrobaugla under the Petrobangla
Project Agreement or the Petrobangla Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BGSL or Petrobangla will be able to
perform their respective obligations under the BGSL Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Petrobangla Project
Agreement;
(d) BGSL's Memorandum or Articles of Association shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in


﻿-8-
such a way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
BGSL to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in the BGSL Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e) The Bangladesh Industrial Enterprises (Nationalization)
Order 27 of 1972 (Presidential Order 27 of 1972), shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed in such a way as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Petrobangla to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Petrobangla Project Agreement;
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action, without the Association's prior
consent, for the dissolution or disestablishment of BGSL or
Petrobangla or for the suspension of either of their operations;
(g) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BGSL, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of BGSL's
business or BGSL's financial situation or the efficiency of BGSL's
management and personnel or the carrying out its part of the
Project;
(h) BGSL shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken whereby any of
the property of BGSL shall or may be distributed among its credi-
tors;
(i) the Borrower shall, withou,. the prior consent of the
Association, transfer, or permit to be transferred, beneficial
ownership of any shares of BGSL, or the rights appertaining
thereto, to any person, association or entity other than the
Borrower; and
(j) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or


﻿-9-
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (j) (i)
(A) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and BGSL; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) through (i) and
paragraph (j) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the BGSL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BGSL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement;
(b) the Petrobangla Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Petrobangla pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
OPEC Loan Agreement referred to in Recital (C) to this Agreement,


﻿- 10 -
other than (if applicable) the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been satisfied;
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
OECF Loan Agreement referred to in Recital (D) to this Agreement,
other than (if applicable) the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been satisfied;
(e) the key staff as required by Section 2.08 of the BGSL
Project Agreement shall have been appointed by BGSL; and
(f) the Project Proforma shall have been approved by the
Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the BGSL Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BGSL, and is legally binding upon BGSL in accord-
ance with its terms;
(b) that the BGSL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BGSL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BGSL in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Petrobangla Subsisidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Petrobangla
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Petrobangla in
accordance with its terms; and
(d) that the Petrobangla Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Petrobangla, and is legally binding upon
Petrobangla in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ./s4VVAU4- 141  (98/)  is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                        Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                       Bahisampad
Dacca, Bangladesh                 Dacca, Bangladesh
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of


﻿- 12 -
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  ipl   o.
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 23,510,000        100% of foreign
(pipe laying)                                expenditures
(2) Materials, equip-
ment and spares:
(a) Part F of                 770,000      ( 100% of foreign
the Project                           ( expenditures,
( 100% of local
(b) All other              29,900,000      ( expenditures
Parts of                              ( ex-factory, and
the Project                           ( 70% of other
( local expendi-
( tures
(3) Consultants'
services:
(a) engineering,            3,810,000      (
management                            (
and super-                            (
vision                                ( 100% of foreign
( expenditures
(b) technical               2,670,000      (
assistance                            (
and studies                           (
(4) Training                       990,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                  3,050,000
TOTAL             64,700,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for gbods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Category (4) of paragraph 1 above
until and unless a training program for BGSL staff, satisfactory
to the Association, shall have been furnished by BGSL to the
Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the esti-
mated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association
are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such re-
allocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in


﻿- 15 -
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reascu..ble
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Development of the Bakhrabad gas field consisting of (i)
drilling of 4 deviated wells in the culmination known as B-1 to
depths in the range of 9,000 to 15,000 feet from an earthen pad of
about 300 feet by 400 feet in area and about 12 feet in height,
and (ii) re-working and completion for production purposes of the
existing well known as BK-l.
Part B:
Engineering and construction of flow lines, each of 6-inch
diameter, from the well heads under Part A above to a central area
in Bakhrabad, together with metering, pressure regulating, separa-
tion and dehydration, odorizing, storage and transfer facilities.
Part C:
Engineering and construction of 24-inch buried gas transmis-
sion pipeline about 110 miles long, from the central area facili-
ties provided under Part B above, to a city gate station outside
Chittagong.
Part D:
Engineering and construction of a gas distribution system
in Chittagong (including pressure regulating, metering, operating
and maintenance facilities and service pipelines to consumers),
consisting of (i) about 12 miles of 20-inch transmission pipeline
from the city gate station to Eastern Refinery Limited and the
steel mills area, (ii) about 14 miles of 16-inch transmission
pipeline from Eastern Refinery Limited the steel mills area to
the proposed Chittagong urea plant and to the Chittagong power
station, including about 0.6 miles of twin 12-inch river crossings
at Karnafuli river, and (iii) about 29 miles of 10-inch trans-
mission pipeline from a point about 4.5 miles south of the city
gate station on the 20-inch pipeline provided under Part D (i)
above to the Karnafuli paper mills and serving the Nasirabad and
Kalurghat industrial estates.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:   Training
The carrying out of a training program or programs for
operation, maintenance and administrative functions of BGSL
consisting of local and overseas technical courses and on-the-job
training.
Part F:   Studies
(i) Seismic surveys and processing and interpretation of
seismic data with a view to identifying prospective
areas for possible exploratory drilling;
(ii) A study of appropriate levels of gas tariffs;
(iii) A study of options for utilization of the Borrower's
gas resources;
(iv) A study of the technical, financial and economic
feasibility of converting gasoline and diesel auto-
motive engines to use compressed natural gas, together
with carrying out a small pilot conversion program.
The Project will be carried out with the assistance of
consultants and technical services.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Onlending Terms to BGSL and Petrobangla
A.   To BGSL
1.   Amount                  -    $80,500,000
2.   Repayment period        -    15 years inclusive of
5 years grace period
3.   Interest rate           -    12% per annum
4.   Foreign exchange risk   -    to be borne by Borrower
B.   To Petrobangla
1.   Amount                  -    $4,000,000
2.   Repayment period        -    50 years inclusive of
10 years grace period
3.   Service charge          -    3/4 of 1% per annum
4.   Foreign exchange risk   -    to be borne by Borrower


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198L.
FORSECRETARY


