Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A/V/j 3 g3S--FA
Report No. 7470-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
MAY 13, 1991
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibotion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not etherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 - Rs 22.5
Rs 1 - US$.04
(Average Estimated Exchange Rate for 1990/91)
FISC&L YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System               US System
1 meter (m)             -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        -   0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)   -   0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 metric ton (ton)      -   2,205 pounds (lb)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONiS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                     -   Asian Development Bank
BOT                     -   Build, Operate and Transfer
ECC                     -   Economic Coor(1ination Committee of
the Cabinet
ECNEC                   -   Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council
GOP                     -   Government of Pakistan
ICB                     -   International Competitive bidding
KPT                     -   Karachi Port Trust
MOC                     -   Ministry of Communications
NHA                     -   National Highway Authority
NLC                     -   National Logistics Cell
OP-V                    -   Oil Pier-V
PAKPRO                  -   Pakistan    Simplifications    of
International   Trade   Procedures
Committee
PCI                     -   Project Certification (Investments)
PCII                    -   Project Certification (Consultants)
PIA                     -   Pakistan International Airlines
PNSC                    -   Pakistan National Shipping Corporation
PPF                     -   Project Preparation Facility
PQA                     -   Port Qasim Authority
PR                      -   Pakistan Railways
SBP                     -   State Bank of Pakistan
TEU                     -   Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit  (for
containers)
TOR                     -   Terms of Reference



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
pag-e No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-ii
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .1
A.  Trends and Issues .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
B.  Institutional Setting . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
C.  Sector Strategy .... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
D.  Bank Involvement in the Sector  . . . . . . . . .       4
II. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR.                                          6
A.  Port Traffic and Facilities . . . . . . . . . .          6
B.  Berth Occupancy, Cargo Handling and Clearance . .        7
C.  Port Development Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
D.  Port Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       12
E.  Conclusion  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
III.  THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
A.  Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
B.  Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
C.  Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
D.  Financing Plan  .... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
E.  Project Implementation and Reporting  . . . . . .      23
F.  Procurement ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
C.  Disbursement  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
H.  Project Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       26
I.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      26
This report is based on the findings of the Appra..sal Mission that visited
Pakistan in June 1988. The mission comprised World Bank Staff members: E.
Vernigora (Task Manager, Sr. Port Engineer), W. Thornhill (Transport
Engineer); J. Tillman (Economist), and Consultants: P.O. Cheryan (Financial
Analyst), I. de Halleux (Equipment Repair Specialist). Also a post-appraisal
mission consisting of E. Vernigora (Task Manager/Sr. Port Engineer), M.
Alikhan (Senior Financial Analyst) and J. Tillman (Economist) updated the
analysis in December 1990. Messrs. S. Carlberg (Environmentalist), J. Plateau
(Cargo Handling Specialist), T. Stenberg (Computer Specialist), and J. Raven
(Trade Facilitation Expert), all consultants, also assisted during earlier
preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table ot Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  .   . . . . ..  . . . . . .       28
A.    General   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
B. Costs and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28
C. Overall Evaluation ard Risks   . . . . . . . . .      29
V.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     30
A.    Introduction    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
B.  Improvements in Accounting System . . . . . . . .    30
C. Budgets and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     30
D. Tariffs .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
E. Past Performance .                                    32
F. Revaluation of Fixed Assets;. . . . . . .             34
G.  Financial Forecasts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
H.  Financial Resources . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .     36
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . .     37
ANNEXES
1.  Action  Plan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
2.  Project Components  ....  .  .    . ..... .  .  .  .   .  46
3.  Economic Evaluation   ....  .  .  .   ... .  .  .  .  .   .  51
4.  Assumptions Made in Preparing Financial Forecasts         59
5.  Lessons Learned from Ports III and Ports IV Projects      61
6.  List of Project File Documents  . . . . . . . . . . .     62
TABLES
1.1 Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1971/72-
1987/88   .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .  64
2.1 Trends in Cargo Handled through Pakistan Ports,
1947/48 - 1989/90 and Forecast for the year 2000     65
2.2  Seaborne Cargo, 1975/76 - 1999-2000   . . . . . . . .    66
2.3 Dry Cargo Split bet"een Karachi and Qasim, 1978/79 -
1989/90 ....  .  .  .   i .  .  .   i .  .   .       67
2.4 KPT Berth Performance Statistics, 1974/75 - 1989/90       68
2.5 Occupancy Rate for Dry Cargo Berths in Karachi,
1978/79 - 1989/90 ....  .  .  .      .               69
2.6 Dry Cargo Berth Occupancy 1989/90 - 1999/2000   . .       70
2.7 Oil Berth Occupancy 1985/86 - 1999/2000   . . . . . .     71
2.8  Sixth and Seventh Plan Port Investment Program  . . .    72
3.1 Project Co-t Estimates  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  73
3.2  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements   . . . . . . . .    74
5.1 Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1984/85 - 1989/90  .     75



Table of Contents (Continued)
Pa&g No.
5.2  Balance Sheets 1984/85 - 1989/90  . . . . . . . . . .    76
5.3 KPT Cost Allocation to Revenue Producing Activities
1984/85 - 1989/90 . . . . . . . . . . .              77
5.4 Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1990/91 - 1995/96  .     78
5.5  Balance Sheets 1990/91 - 1995/96  . . . . . . . . . .    79
5.6 Source and Application of Funds Statements 1990/91 -
1995/96   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  80
5.7 KPT Investment Program 1990/91 - 1995/96  . . . . . .     81
CHARTS
1.  Organization Chart  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .  82
2.  Project Execution Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     83
MAPS AND DIAGRAMS
IBRD 21184R - Karac4.l Port
IBRD 21217 - Karachi/Qasim Transportation Network
IBRD 21185 - Jinnah Bridge - Phase II
IBRD 43152 - Liquid Products Marine Terminal (OP-V) General Layout



PAKISTA
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATIOKRROJECT,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiaries:          Karachi Port Trust (KPT) and Government of Pakistan
(GOP).
Amount:                 US$91.4 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Twenty years, including a five year grace period, at
the Bank standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:        GOP will onlend US$60.5 million to KPT on the same
terms with KPT paying a risk coverage premium on
foreign exchange to the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP).
Proiect Obiectives:     The principal objectives are to: (a) assist with the
development of an appropriate strategy for the
medium/long-term development of the port subsector;
(b) reduce port costs at Karachi through improved
cargo handling productivity, accelerated cargo and
document clearance, and improved landside access to
the port; (c) strengthen the Karachi Port organization
through changes in institutional, managerd'. -..d
financial structures; and (d) expand liquid cargo
handling facilities.
Project DescriRtion:    The project consists of:  (a) construction of an oil-
terminal to meet medium-term oil import needs; (b)
construction of an elevated roundabout with a flyover
to improve the port's landside access; (c) reconstruc-
tion of quayside pavements to enable cargo to be
handled with modern equipment; (d) modifirition to
Keamari Groyne Access Road to permit the effective use
of the Groyne area; (e) procurement of a bucket
dredger with two self-propelled dump barges to
maintain water depths in the port; (f) procurement of
equipment to provide marine environmental protection;
(g) expanded computerization of KPT to improve port
management information systems, communications within
and outside the port, and clearance of cargo; (h)
procurement of radar and related equipment to control
ship movements and increase the number of ships



- ii -
entering/exiting the port per tide; (i) procurement of
spare parts for KPT's equipment; and (j) provision of
consultancy services for the preparation of
feasibility studies, tender documents and supervision,
and for conducting studies of: KPT's computerization
and institutional strengthening, enivironmental
protection, dredging, radar and related equipment,
handling by the private sector of general cargo
(through multi-unitization), bulk and containers, and
a master plan of Karachi Port.
Benefits and Risks:      The weighted internal economic rate of return of the
three major components is 36X, well above the
opportunity cost of capital, and the project is well
justified on economic grounds. Without replacement of
dredging equipment, port capacity would decline
significantly with substantial costs to Pakistan's
international trade. The construction of the
roundabout and fly-over would reducs traffic
congestion resulting in savings in vehicle operating
costs and transit times. The additional oil import
capacity would relieve the existing overextended
facilities and would prevent intolerable congestion
from occurring within a few years which would result
in increasingly costly demurrage charges. Improved
cargo handling at Karachi by the private sector would
reduce handling costs and ship turn-around time,
permit the use of more cost effective ships and
postpone port expansion.
The project entails minimal risks. Project
implementation could be delayed, but to minimize this
risk, the procurement process is well advanced. If
construction of an oil terminal at Port Qasim were to
go ahead in the second half of the 1990's, this would
not endanger the returns to the proposed oil pier
since rising oil imports would require further
facilities during 2000-2005.



m iii -
Estimated Cost                        Local        Foreign        Total
--US$ Million----------
Civil Works                            38.1         44.2 1/       82.3
Equipment 2/                            0.0         25.9          25.9
Studies                                 0.6          2.0           2.6
Construction Supervision                1.0          2.8           3.8
Technical Assistance/Training           0.4          1.4           1.8
Project Preparation                    0.4           2.1 2/        2.5
Sub-total                       40.5          7LA         118.9
Physical Contingencies                  3.8          5.9           9.7
Price Contingencies                    LA            7.1           1
Total                           51.7          91.4        143.1
Financing Plan
KPT                                    51.7 i/       -            51.7
IBRD Loan                                -          91.4 5/       91.4
Total                           51.7          91.4        143.1
Estimated Disbursements:
World Bank Fiscal Year (July 1 - June 30)
1992     1993     1994      1995     1996
---------------US$ million--------------
Annual                       14.9      35.5      26.6       12.0    2.4
Cumulative                   14.9     50.4       77.0      89.0   91.4
Economic Rate of Return:           361
/ US$3.5 million will be financed retroactively.
2/ Excluding duties and taxes.
2/ US$1.5 million will be financed under PPF and US$0.6 million will be
financed retroactively.
k/ The US$51.7 million includes US$22.5 million to be contributed by KPT for
the construction of Jinnah Bridge.
2/ This includes US$30.9 million lent directly to GOP to finance its share of
the cost of Jinnah Bridge construction.



,PAKISTAN
KARACHI _PORT MODERNIMAIGN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPQI
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Trends and Issues
1.01     System Characteristics.   Pakistan's transport system and traffic
densities reflect the concentration of economic activity in the Karachi area and
in the Punjab Province, whose capital Lahore is 1,200 kms to the north.
Virtually all international trade flows through the two Karachi area ports, of
which 60% moves to or from the Punjab.   Traffic movements are therefore
concentrated on a few long distance routes. The deregulation of trucking in 1960
and buses in 1970 led to a rapid growth in road transport. Road transport has
now replaced rail as the dominant transport mode and accounts for 85% of
passenger traffic and 80% of freight traffic (Table 1.1). Although road and rail
are the principal transport modes, the long distances have been favorable to the
growth of air transport. Inland water transport has not developed, since most
rivers are seasonal or are blocked by irrigation barrages and regulating works.
1.02     The transport system is comprised of about 1 million motor vehicles;
54,000 kms of paved road; 69,000 kms of unpaved road; a railway with 8,800 route-
kilometers; a national airline operating international and domestic services;
about 30 airports with scheduled service; two major seaports and a 900 km
pipeline for moving petroleum products upcountry. The transport sector accounts
for about 7% of GDP and absorbs about 10% of gross capital formation..
1.03     Road Transport.   Private buses account for about 90% of total bus
passenger-km and Provincial Government bus companies for the rest. The latter
have been plagued with problems and have incurred substantial financial losses.
The private trucking industry, which carries about 95% of road freight traffic,
consists largely of small and individual owners supported by numerous freight
agents.   While the truck fleet has begun to evolve towards larger capacity
trucks, industrial policies, which give preference to increasing the local
content of vehicles assembled in Pakistan, have precluded the rapid modernization
of the truck fleet.   There is little enforcement of regulations concerning
vehicle overloading and safe operations of trucks. Hazardous cargoes are treated
differently from other cargoes, and efforts have yet to be made to reduce vehicle
pollution.
1.04     Highways.  The capacity of Pakistan's key trunk roads is inadequate,
and their carriageways need improved maintenance and rehabilitation. The factors
accounting for these inadequacies are: (a) the rapid growth in traffic during
the past 20 years and the high proportion of heavily-laden trucks in the traffic
flow; and (b) the inadequate expenditures, planning and management of highway
programs. The Government of Pakistan (GOP), through the National Highway Board
has begun an extensive program of rebuilding Pakistan's major transport link,
the Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar road. The Board, which was transformed into an
autonomous Authority in January 1991, with the power to collect tolls, is also



- 2 -
using modern maintenance planning and execution techniques and private
contractors for maintenance work.
1.05     Railways.  Pakistan Railways (PR) has besn slow to adjust to growing
competition from deregulated road transport. PR has remained a traditionally
oriented railway under Government control, and has not been compensated for loss
making services undertaken at GOP request. Growing financial deficits have led
to inadequate renewal of assets, resulting in declining capacil.y and
deteriorating quality of services.   In 1990 GOP adopted a comprehensive
institutional, financial and management restructuring program. This program was
designed to make PR an efficient and viable organization capable of developing
the commercial orientation needed to develop PR's long distance freight and
passenger services in Pakistan's deregulated and competitive transport system.
1.06     Ports and Shipping.   Since 1950 Pakistan has expanded its port
facilities. Karachi Port was originally Pakistan's only port. A second port
was built at Port Qasim and became operative in the early 1980's. Although port
facilities have been expanded, little has been done in recent years to improve
cargo handling facilities and consequently berth productivity is low.   In
addition, manual processing of documents also slows cargo clearance. About 20X
of Pakistan's dry cargo is carried by the government-owned Pakistan National
Shipping Corporation (PNSC); foreign registered ships handle the remainder.
PNSC's financial situation has been precarious and a recent study recommended
an extensive program to restructure PNSC into a viable operation.
1.07     Trade Logistics.!.  Not only are Pakistan's trade logistLc costs
inflated by road, rail and port inefficiencies, but logistics constraints also
handicap the competitiveness of Pakistan's exports and are a barrier to
industrial expansion. Pakistan's transport system remains traditionally oriented
and trade facilitation has not been introduced.
1.08     Pakistan lacks specialized facilities for bulk commodities.   The lack
of bulk storage facilities for bulk cargoes at the ports strains Pakistan's
domestic transport system which has to move a large volume of wheat and
fertilizer from the port in a short time. In 1978, under emergsncy conditions,
GOP established its own army-based trucking operation, the National Logistics
Cell (NLC), to supplement the railway and the private trucking fleet in the
movement of public sector imports of wheat and fertilizer from the port. NLC,
which accounts for about 5X of freight ton-kms moved by road, has purchased
modern high-powered vehicles but does not use them intensively. The priority
given to NLC in the movement of politically sensitive commodities, has deprived
other transport operators of profitable business.
I/ Trade logistics includes freight transportation, packaging, handling storage,
inventory control, and trade facilitation procedures such as related
documentation, information processes and financial services. Logistics costs
as a proportion of delivered prices typically range between 30-50X.



1.09     Aviation.   Domestic services are provided by the government-owned
Pakistan International Airlines (PIA).  Revenues from PIA's primary domestic
services between Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad have covered costs, but its
services to secondary and feeder airports have been loss making and have been
subsidized by profits on PIA's international services. Resource mobilization
efforts were greatly strengthened in 1989 when domestic air fares were raised
by 30X and a 10% tax imposed on air fares.
B. Institutional Setting
1.10     Various   Federal  ministries  and  Provincial   governments  share
responsibility  for  the  transport  sector.    At  the  Federal  level,  this
responsibility is shared by the Ministry of Communications (Roads, Ports and
Shipping, Posts and Telecommunications), the Ministry of Railways and the
Ministry of Defense (Civil Aviation and the army associated NLC). The Ministry
of Communications includes in its portfolio the National Highways Authority
(NHA), Karachi Port Trust (KPT), Port Qasim Authority (PQA) and PNSC. There is
no Ministry of Transport to review overall transport needs and policies. Day
to day coordination is through Cabinet committees.  The Provincial Governments
are responsible for provincial roads and provincial bus companies. District and
Municipal governments have responsibility for rural and urban roads respectively.
1.11     With a few exceptions, individual ministries and agencies undertake
little analysis of subsector issues and policies.  This task is undertaken by
the Planning and Development Division of the Planning Commission which prepares
the national five year development plans and the annual Public Sector Development
Program, as well as reviewing individual investment proposals. Generally, the
Planning Division relies on outside assistance for policy analysis; its own
staff are mainly involved in invectment reviews.
C. Sector Strategy
1.12     Although Pakistan's basic transport network is in place and the road
transport industry is basically competitive, transport costs are high, and
transport demand is likely to more than double by 2005.  The challenge for
transport policy makers is to ensure that within Pakistan's limited resource
availability, transport quality and efficiency are improved and capacity
expanded.
1.13     GOP's transport policies and programs have been designed to meet the
above challenge; this is evidenced by the Seventh Plan (1988/89-1992/93) and was
reaffirmed in GOP's agreement with the Bank for the FY90 Transport Sector
Project.   Priority is given to expenditure programs for rehabilitating and
maintaining Pakistan's roads and railway, and for improving port cargo handling
and port operations. Institutional measures have stressed the need for greater
autonomy and accountability of operating agencies and actions have been taken
in this regard with respect to NHA and PR. In addition, greater private sector



- 4
involvement has been proposed b,oth to decentralize operations and to reduce the
need for public funds. Active steps are being taken to obtain private sector
proposals for building and operating selected highway links, a dedicated
container terminal at Karachi Port and for other port releted cargo handling
equipment and operations.   Expressions of interest have also been recently
invited from private parties to establish a second airline and additional
shipping lines. A decision has been made to have private parties join with PR
in developing railway container services.
1.14     To ensure continued increase in the transport system's capacity, the
Seventh Plan investment program allocated the transport sector Rs. 52 billion
(1987/88 prices), keeping the sector's share in total public sector development
programs at about 13X. Allocations for highway upgrading and rehabilitation were
increased sharply.  The railway allocation focused on the key objectives of
easing capacity constraints, upgrading services to remain competitive, and
replacing worn out assets. The port investment program included two critical
items: modernization of Karachi Port and the expansion of oil-import facilities.
Due to delays in finalizing several projects including the Karachi Port
Modernization Project, expenditures for the transport sector during the first
three years of the Plan are expected to be only Rs. 23 billion, amounting to
about 1 of total development programs.
D. Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.15     Since 1952, the Bank has assisted the transport sector with a series
of eleven railway projects (three in the former East Pakistan), four highway,
four port and one transport sector, totalling US$745 million equivalent. Project
Completion and Performance Audit Reports found that the more recent of these
projects made important contributions to expanding capacity in the ports
subsector, to rehabilitating infrastructure and to introducing new operational
and maintenance methods in the road and rail subsectors.V There was, however,
less success with organizational measures to improve productivity and efficie.lcy,
particularly in railway projects.
1.16     Implementation of recent railway projects was slow and the Eleventh
Project closed in 1986 with only 51% of the credit disbursed. Implementation
was delayed because PR gave little urgency to obtaining GOP's approval for
project components. Also the operational and financial targets were not met.
In retrospect, the Bank had been overly optimistic about the speed with which
the railway management could begin to respond to the challenge of road
competition.
2/ Ninth Railway Project Completion Report (1981) and Audit Report (No. 3964),
Tenth Railway Project Completion Report (1985, No. 5767), Eleventh Railway
Completion Report (1989, No. 7781), Third Highway Project Completion Report
(1988) and Audit Report (No. 7741) and Third and Fourth Karachi Port Project
Completior Report (1988) and Audit Report (No. 6532).



- 5 -
1.17     The Third and Fourth Highway Projects began the difficult task of
developing local contractors within the road sector. The ongoing Fourth Highway
Project (1987, US$152 million) is assisting with the rehabilitation of about 650
kms of National Highway N-5, and with improving the management of maintenance
planning and execution. Substantial progress has been made in introducing modern
design and quality control methods in the construction of heavily trafficked
major highways.   The projects have also assisted with the introduction of
measured maintenance procedures based on a pavement management system.
1.18     The  ongoing  Transport  Sector  Project  (1990,  US$184  million)  is
supporting GOP's implementation of a sector reform program. The project supports
institutional strengthening of the NHA, railway restructuring, and preparation
of an agenda for road transport and trade logistics development. The highway
component is assisting with the rehabilitation and resurfacing of about 800 kms
of the National Highway. The railway component includes technical assistance
for developing the skills needed for a commercially oriented railway together
with support for PR's operational improvement program and for spare parts to
improve locomotives utilization.
1.19     The Bank's assistance to Karachi Port through projects in 1955, 1964,
1973 and 1974, supported capacity expansion, as well as financial and
organizational improvements. Delays in procurement and cost escalation could
have been minimized, if the prequalification criteria had been strictly applied
and if the tendering process had been completed expeditiously (Annex 5).
Experience with financial covenants was mixed. The lower than covenanted rate
of return on net fixed assets after 1982, was due to GOP's reluctance to permit
a tariff revision between 1979 and 1988. The proposed project is designed to
minimize the risk of these problems re-occurring. GOP's action at ensuring that
adequate tariff changes continue during the whole implementation period of the
project will influence possible future Bank operations in the transport sector.
1.20     In the mid-1970s, the Bank declined to assist with the construction of
a second port (Port Qasim) in the Karachi area.  This decision was based on
Karachi Port's development potential and Qasim's physical and locational
disadvantages. Other donors, however, did assist with the construction of this
port. There had been a hiatus in port development following construction of
Port Qasim. In 1987, the Bank's Green Cover Transport Sector Report found that
port modernization at Karachi was urgent, and GOP subsequently asked for Bank
assistance for Karachi Port. Project preparation work provided the analytical
basis for a 50% tariff increase for KPT in 1988, and has also provided an
opportunity to continue our dialogue with the Government on its port development
strategy.



- 6 -
II. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
A. Port Traffic and Fpac!ities
2.01     Pakistan'   seaborne dry cargo traffic grew from 2 million tons in
1947/48 to 13 million tons by 1989/90, while liquid cargo traffic grew from less
than one million tons to about 11 million tons (Table 2.1). Inbound cargoes
predominate; cargoes are also highly concentrated with a few commodities making
up about 60% of the dry cargo tonnage (Table 2.2). Although some individual
commodities exhibit a seasonal pattern, total traffic does not.
2.02     Karachi Port, which is located on the south side of Karachi city,
handled 8 million tons of dry cargo in 1989/90 and 11 million tons of liquid
cargo (Table 2.3). The port has a 4-km long entrance channel (183 meters wide
and 12.2 meters deep), and provides access for tankers up to 75,000 DWT and for
general cargo/container ships of up to 30,000 DWT.   Pilotage is compulsory
between the outer anchorage and berths. Berthing facilities are located on both
sides of a 7 km inner channel (see IBRD 21184R, Karachi Port Drawing).11 The
total length of the 28 dry cargo berths is 4.6 km; however, two berths requiring
repairs are out of service. In 1989/90, 1,574 dry cargo ships called at Karachi,
of this number, 130 were bulk ships and 1,444 general cargo ships (741 of which
were container ships) (Table 2.4). Pakistan's facilities for liquid products
consist principally of two berths at Karachi Port: OP-IV which was built in 1978
for 75,000 DWT tankers and OP-I which was built in 1966 for 35,000 DWT tankers.
Associated storage and pipeline facilities are located behind the berths. Three
hundred and sixty-six tankers called at Karachi in 1989/90.
2.03        A second port, Port Qasim, which is 50 kms southeast of Karachi Port,
began operations in 1980/81. Multilateral and bilateral sources assisted with
the financing of the port construction costs, which were about US$500 million.
The port is reached through a 44 km-long entrance channel of complicated
alignment.' Pilotage is compulsory between the outer anchorage and berths. The
iron-ore and coal berth serving the steel mill can accept vessels up to 50,000
DWT and the 1.4 km multi-purpose wharf, divided into 7 equal berths, can accept
vessels up to 35,000 DWT.V   Port Qasim handled 3 million tons of iron ore and
i. The depths of water at the dry cargo berths at low mean tide ranges from -
10.4 m to -9.2 m. Water depths at the principal liquid product berths is
about -11.3 m. The difference between mean higher high water and mean lower
low water is 2.25 meters.
./ The width of the outer portion of the channel varies from 280 m to 185 m and
depth of water is 12.4 m, while the inner portion of the channel is 180 m wide
and the depth of water varies from -11.3 m to -10.0 n.
2/ The difference between mean higher high water and mean lower low water is
2.4 meters. Depths of water at multi-purpose berths at low-mean tide varies
from -10.0 to -11.0 meter, and at the bulk handling berth -12.8 m.



coal and 2 million tons of other commodities, principally rice and wheat in
1989/90. Also in 1990, Qasim began handling at one of its multi-purpose berths
imported fuel oil for the nearby Bin Qasim Power Station; 0.3 million tons were
handled in 1989/90 and this should increase to 1 million tons within 2-3 years.
In 1988/89, 191 ships called at Port Qasim, 58 carried iron ore and coal for the
steel mill ar.d 133 carried other bulk commodities.
2.04        A critical item in maintaining port facilities is dredging to deal
with the siltation of channels and berths. Inadequate dredging would lead to
reduced access for ships. The approaches and lower harbor channel at Karachi
have a natural flushing action. For the remaining siltation, dredging carried
out by KPT's trailing suction dredger built in 1980 is adequate. The upper
harbor channel and berths are subject to greater siltation and KPT has two bucket
dredgers, both built in 1964, to handle the dredging needs of these areas.
However, because the bucket dredging equipment's life has expired, such dredging
has met only 60% of requirements during the past 5 years (Table 6 in Annex 3).
This has resulted in siltation reducing the available upper harbor depths by an
average of 2.0 m, and loaded ships are increasingly having to wait for the high
tide to enter or leave the berths. Thus, the proposed project will assist with
the procurement of dredging equipment for the upper harbor channel and berths
(para. 3.09). The approach channel to Port Qasim is subject to severe siltation
during the monsoon season and contract dredging has been used. In contrast to
Karachi, there is relatively little siltation at Qasim's berths.
B. Berth Occuoancy. Cargo Handling and Clearance
2.05        Karachi Port is a medium size port which in comparison with other
regional ports requires significant improvements, especially in handling of
general cargo and bulk commodities. Occupancy at Karachi Port's dry cargo berths
has declined since the 1975/79 period of congestion. With the commissioning of
Port Qasim and the addition of new berths at Karachi, berth occupancy declined
to 58% in 1984/85 (Table 2.5). The drop was accelerated by the trend towards
growing containerization and its much higher cargo handling productivity than
breakbulk cargo.Y Berth occupancy has since risen to 65% in 1989/90 but with
26 berths this remains below congestion levels. The increasing volume of liquid
cargoes being handled has raised the occupancy of the two principal liquid cargo
berths at Karachi from 59% in 1985/86 to 80% in 1989/90, resulting in increased
ship waiting times (Table 2.4). Occupancy of Port Qasim's multi-purpose berths
was about 65% in 1989/90, while that of the iron ore and coal berth was about
50%.
2.06        General cargo is handled with old equipment and outdated methods in
Karachi Port. Most of Karachi's quay-side aprons are in poor condition due to
maintenance neglect, and are unsuitable for modern equipment to operate.
W Hook hour rates for breakbulk cargo are about 15-20 tons compared with about
50 tons per hour for containers being handled with ships gear.



Existing rail-mounted, general-cargo cranes provide the essential means of
transferring cargo between the ships and shore, but are in poor condition and
have inadequate lifting capacity. This results in slow working of ships and poor
berth productivity (paras. 3.22-3.24).
2.07        In spite of the large volume of containers, 342,000 Twenty-Foot
Equivalent Units (TEUs) in 1989/90, Karachi fort has continued to handle
containers at general cargo berths, primarily from geared vessels. In 1984 one
shipping line provided a crane to handle containers from gearless vessels, and
a second crane was introduced in 1989. These cranes are neither designed for
handling containers nor do they have sufficient lifting capacity, reach or speed.
In 1989, a stevedoring company brought in two 10-year old first generation rubber
tyred mobile quay cranes to handle containers.   As a result, the number of
gearless ships increased rapidly and about one-quarter of all container ships
were gearless in 1989/90.
2.08        Neither Karachi nor Qasim have any special facilities for handling
or storing dry bulk cargoes (other than iron ore and coal for the steel mill).
In Karachi bulk ships remained in port an average of 13 days in 1989/90.Y
2.09        The physical movement of cargo through the port is accompanied by
a complex flow of information that delays each stage of cargo clearance.
Although international trade procedures and documents have been simplified and
standardized during the past 20 years, Pakistan's trade documents and procedures
have remained complex. Furthermore, no use is made of computers in exchanging
information or clearing documents. This not only handicaps traders using the
port, but also inhibits them from exploiting the advantages of the rapid,
reliable door-to-door delivery characteristic of modern multi-moda' transport
systems.    Consequently,  the project  includes  the establishment of Trade
Facilitation measures (para. 3.14).
2.10        Landside movement of cargo beyond Karachi Port has become constrained
by traffic congestion.V  In contrast Port Qasim is located well away from urban
areas and little of its traffic is destined for or originates in the commercial
or industrial areas of Karachi. The traffic problem in Karachi is caused by two
factors.  First, urban development has generated considerable growth in city
traffic, rtaching as high as 6-7Z per annum in many areas. Second, not only is
the port a major generator of traffic, but it is located at a central point in
the city road system. Moreover, the landside access to the East Wharf area,
which is located on Keamari Island, is primarily via one bridge, and landside
traffic is thus focused on a single point on the mainland. Severe congestion
is affecting urban and port traffic.
e
2/ The largest bulk ships in Karachi discharge 30,000 tons of cargo in about 30
days.
AJ About 85Z of port dry cargo is moved by road and 15% by rail.



- 9 -
2.11        The physical deterioration of the original 1862 bridge and the
congestion affecting port and city traffic, led KPT and the Karachi Development
Authority to propose the Southern Bypass scheme in the early 1970s. The scheme
would improve the access to local and upcountry destinations for port-generated
traffic and also improve cross-city movement of intraurban traffic. The central
section of the Bypass, known as the Jinnah Bridge project, forms the intersection
of the link between Keamari and the center of Karachi city with the Southern
Bypass. Phase I of the project was completed in 1982 with Bank assistance and
comprised the replacement of the original bridge. Phase II under the proposed
project would provide a modern intersection, without which the already congested
area would become a major bottleneck to port and city traffic within a few years
(para. 3.06).
C. Port Development Strategv
Dry Cargoes
2.12        Dry cargo traffic grew at an average rate of 6% per annum during
1979/80 and 1989/90, and future trends depend upon developments in Pakistan's
major import and export commodities as well as the growth in general cargo
imports and exports which are tied more closely to overall GDP development.
Only a small growth in bulk cargoes is expected (see Annex 3), but general
cargoes are projected to grow at about 5% per year, resulting in total dry
cargoes growing at 3.2% per year and increasing from 12.7 million tons in 1979/80
to 17.4 million tons in 1999/2000 (Table 2.2). Prudent port planning would allow
for sufficient port capacity to handle an extra 2-3 million tons of dry bulk
imports in any year. This would accommodate higher wheat imports in case of poor
weather conditions, or imports of cement or fertilizer in the event domestic
production was not keeping up with demand.
2.13        Since Karachi  and Qasim ports  serve  the same hinterland and
transportation system, both facilities are available to handle the projected
traffic, i.e., 26 multipurpose berths at Karachi and 7 berths at QasiM91. At
current cargo handling rates, berth occupancy would rise to 81% by 1999/2000
(Table 2.6). This leaves a very small safety margin. In a year when an extra
2 million tons of bulk dry cargo are handled, berth occupancy would rise to 93%
and severe congestion would result. Demurrage charges for ship waiting time in
this case would be about US$20 million per year.
2.14        The solution to this problem is: (i) constructing and equipping
specialized container facilities, (ii) introducing modern second generation
mobile quay cranes to handle containers, multi-unitized general cargo and bulk
(whenever unloaded in Karachi); and (iii) constructing specialized bulk handling
and storage facilities. The use of such facilities and equipment would result
2/ This excludes imports of iron ore and coal which are handled at a specialized
berth at Port Qasim.



- 10 -
in berth occupancy of an acceptable rate of 63X in 1999/2000, even when an extra
2 million tons above the trend projection must be handled.
2.15        During the past 5 years, different proposals have been initiated
concerning the development of Karachi and Qasim ports.   Karachi's short and
easily navigated channel and its well-established commercial infrastructure,
compared with Qasim's iong and difficult channel and lack of commercial
infrastructure, gives Karachi a comparative advantage for general dry cargo and
containers when turnaround times are critical.   With the installation of
specialized bulk handling and storage facilities at Qasim, the faster
loading/unloading rate of dry bulk cargoes should attract bulk vessels to this
port. The optimal development for handling of dry cargoes is thus for the two
ports to complement one another with Karachi specializing in dry cargoes and
containers and Qasim specializing in dry bulk cargoes.
2.16          As part of its overall privatization policy, GOP has decided that
in future cargo handling equipment is to be purchased and operated by the private
sector whenever feasible. The proposed project will assist in promoting this
objective (para. 3.23).
Liauid Cargoes
2.17        The future growth rate of oil imports will depend largely on the
growth in the domestic consumption of petroleum products, since Pakistan's
production of crude oil is expected to remain largely unchanged during the next
10 years. Consumption growth is projected to be about 7X per annum, reflecting
economic development and the acceleration in the construction of fuel oil fired
power stations.   A modest growth in other liquid products (edible oil and
molasses) is also anticipated, resulting in overall liquid product cargoes
increasing from 11.6 million tons in 1989 to 20.1 million tons in the year 2000
at a 5.7% annual growth rate.
2.18        The projected growth in liquid cargoes would place an additional
burden on Pakistan's already overtaxed liquid product berths. If the projected
trend continues, berth occupancy would reach 100l in 1993/94 and would lead to
intolerable congestion (Table 2.7). Some temporary alleviation will be provided
by Qasim handling up to 1 million tons of fuel oil within the next 2-3 years,
but the existing facilities at Karachi would still reach 100% occupancy by 1994.
2.19        To deal with this situation,  KPT has decided to construct an
additional oil liquid products berth, OP-V; (see para. 3.04 and IBRD 43152
drawing) which the proposed project would assist. OP-V, together with existing
facilities (OP-I and OP-IV), would provide liquid product handling capacitv of
about 19 million tons per year at a berth occupancy rate of 60%. KPT also plans
to further increase its capacity by about 2 million tons per year by:  (i)
rationalizing the storage tanks and the pipelines linking them to the berths and
hence permitting faster pumping rates and reducing ship service time; and (ii)
at a later stage, rebuilding OP-I to permit it to handle 75,000 DWT tankers.
Karachi would then have a modern three-berth terminal with an annual capacity



- 11 -
of about 21 million tons. The Karachi Port facilities, along with the limited
use of one berth at Port Qasim to import fuel oil, would provide sufficient
capacity to meet Pakistan's needs until the period 2000-2005.
2.20        By the mid-1990s, it would be appropriate to reexamine the liquid
product traffic outturn and begin planning for the additional facilities that
would be needed during 2000-2005. Further increases in capacity at Karachi would
appear unlikely due to limited sites for additional berths or storage facilities.
Possible options of developing facilities are:
(i)      Port Oasim: Construction is planned of a fuel oil pipeline to future
upcountry power stations, and a storage complex to be built at the
southern terminal which is likely to be at Pipri, close to Port
Qasim. Accordingly, PQA, has been considering establishing an oil
terminal at Port Qasim, either through a privately financed scheme
or with ADB assistance; and
(ii)      Khalifa Point: The addition of an oil terminal to the coal import
facilities, planned to be built at Khalifa Point (northwest of
Karachi) to serve the coal fired power station proposed for this
site. These facilities would permit tankers of up to 125,000 DWT
to serve Pakistan. Moreover, the largely underdeveloped area around
Khalifa Point could provide a suitable site for Pakistan's next
generation of refineries; existing refineries are located in an
increasingly urbanized area close to Karachi.
2.21        In planning a new oil facility, marine environmental protection
measures would have to be considered. Port Qasim is located about 30 kms inside
the northern end of the Indus Delta. The Delta is comprised largely of mangrove
forests and tidal mudflats which are important breeding grounds for Pakistan's
shrimp and fish industry, worth Rs 4 billion annually.
2.22        GOP's original strategy as evidenced by the Seventh Plan which
allocated Rs 2.6 billion for a port subsector program (Table 2.8), included an
oil terminal, improved cargo handling equipment, upper harbor dredging plant and
a specialized container terminal at Karachi, together with a channel dredger and
an oil terminal at Qasim. Bulk handling facilities for foodgrains and fertilizer
were also proposed for Qasim, with construction to begin during the Eighth Plan
period (1993/94-1997/98). To increase Qasim's utilization, it was also proposed
to have private parties construct container facilities.
2.23        The plan program was not a definitive core program, and delays
occurred while GOP further reviewed the details. The Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC) has now approved KPT's oil terminal, dredging
equipment, and the improved road access to Karachi port, which the proposed loan
would assist in financing. The specialized contalner handling and general cargo
handling equipment, both for ship-to-shore and land based operations, will now
be introduced through the private sector. The plans for Port Qasim are under
review.   The private container facilities have not materialized because of



- 12 -
Karachi's comparative advantage in .his area.  Pakistan's foodgrain agencies,
however, have recently shown increasing interest in having bulk facilities for
foodgrains and fertilizers constructed at Port Qasim. The medium-term strategy
for both ports will be addressed under the port subsector study (para. 3.02).
D. Port Administration
2.24        Karachi port is administered by KPT; the trustees represent shippers,
commerce and the Government.   Management is by the Chairman of the trustees
(Chart 1). Port Qasim is administered by PQA, which consists of the Chairman
(the chief executive officer) and four executive members (finance, operations,
administration  and  technical  services).    Although  KPT  and  PQA  function
"autonomously" (i.e., in initiating proposals and day to day operations) the
Ministry of Communications (MOC), approves major new investments, tariff and
annual budget proposals, as well as appointments of middle and higher level
staff.
2.25        The Karachi Port organization is governed by the 1887 Karachi Port
Trust Act. The Act provides for an autonomous port administration structure,
but it needs to be revised to streamline KPT's internal outdated procedures,
decentralize decision making and provide greater financial autonomy to further
improve the efficiency of port management. The required revisions to the Act
will be drafted based on the proposed institutional strengthening study. The
Port Chairman is assisted by five general managers who head the functional
divisions of Planning and Development, Operations, Engineering, Finance and
Administration. Internal reorganization and strengthening occurred in the late
1970s but further measures are now needed to cope with the new technologies which
will be introduced under the project (para. 3.15). KPT's workforce totals about
12,000.    Cargo handling operations  are performed by private  stevedoring
companies, which hire labor on a shift basis from a pool of 7,000 dock workers
registered with the Karachi Dock Labor Board.   By regional standards labor
employment at Karachi Port is not excessive, but reduction in KPT's workforce
and lower wage settlements are desirable to achieve increased port efficiency.
2.26        Under the proposed project, KPT management and operations would be
improved through computerization and mechanization and some of KPT's cargo
handling operations will be given to private operators. While this would reduce
the demand for KPT staff, growing port traffic and the consequent need for more
staff would partially tend to offset this reduction. The proposed institutional
strengthening study (para. 3.15) would also examine ways to reduce staff strength
through attrition, redeployment or other means.  Pending the results of this
review, a hiring freeze which is already in effect will be continued.
E. Conclusion
2.27        In summary, Pakistan's overall port subsector traffic is expected
to grow at about 4X p.a.; however, Karachi Port's traffic is projected to grow



- 13 -
at about 5% p.a. because of its specialization in handling of general cargo and
liquid bulk cargoes which are expected to grow at a faster rate than dry bulk
cargo. With the urgent priority investments and policy changes included under
the project, Pakistan's port subsector should be able to meet the demands. The
investments and policy measures are described in Chapters III and V below.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01        The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) assist
with the development of an appropriate strategy for the medium/long-term
development of the port subsector;  (b) reduce port costs at Karachi through
improved cargo handling productivity, accelerated cargo and document clearance
and improve landside access to the port; (c) strengthen the Karachi Port
organization through changes in institutional, managerial and financial
structures; and (d) expand liquid cargo handling facilities. During negotiations
agreement was reached with GOPIKPT on the Action Plan (Annex 1).
3.02        The project supports the strategy of KPT specializing in the handling
of containers and general cargoes, and Port Qasim in handling solid bulk cargo.
An examination is also needed of the options for the medium-long-term development
of oil import facilities (possibilities for further developmenu of KPT's
potential, new facilities at Port Qasim, and new facilities at Khalifa Point).
A port subsector strategy study will be financed by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and the Bank would have the opportunity to review and comment on the Terms
of Reference of the study and discuss findings and recommendations of the study
with GOP and the concerned agencies.
B. Project Description
(a) Project Components
3.03        The proposed project would consist of modernization, replacement,
and rehabilitation of the existing physical infrastructure and equipment;
improvements in port operations, maintenance of equipment and finances;
strengthening of KPT's organization, trade facilitation measures; and a master
plan of Karachi Port. The components, which are described in greater detail in
Annex 2, are outlined below:
()Civil-Morks:-
- Construction of a liquid products marine terminal and of an
outfitting pier and crone pier (20X of project cost).



- 14 -
- Construction of Jinnah Bridge Phase II, (37X of project
cost).
- Quay-side pavements (12X of project cost).
- Keamari Groyne Access Road (1% of project cost).
(ii) Eguipment:
- Procurement of dredging plant (16X of project cost).
- Procurement of equipment for environmental protection (1Z
of project cost).
- Procurement of computers and software for the improvement
of port operations and for interlinking electronically with
port users (2X of project cost).
- Installation of a radar and related equipment (1X of project
cost).
- Spare parts (1X of project cost).
(iii)  Trade Facilitation Improvement (cost included under Technical
Assistance).
(iv)  Institutional Stren&theninS (cost included under Studies and
Technical Assistance).
(v) Prolect Preparation. Project Supervision. Studies. Technical
Assistance and Training (91 of project Cost).
The liquid products terminal is a self-contained component designed to address
urgent capacity constraints. The other project components are an integrated
package of measures to improve cargo handling, clearance and port operations.
(b) Liquid Products Terminal
3.04        The new terminal (OP-V) will be built to replace OP-II and OP-III
which were built in 1910 and 1955 respectively, and have reached the end of their
useful lives (IBRD 43152 Drawing). Demolition of the existing facilities is
included in the contract for construction of the new terminal. The oil pier has
been designed to receive ships up to 75,000 DWT. To accommodate these ships,
access to the pier has to be dredged to 11.3 meters.   In this connection a
dredging study will be carried out (para. 3.18) The pier will be equipped with



- 15 -
suitable containment booms!' and skimmers to contain and to clean possible oil
spills during loading/unloading operations (para. 3.47).
3.05        Liquid cargoes which will be handled at tha new terminal will
consist of various refined products such as furnace oil, high speed diesel oil,
kerosene, motor spirits, naphtha, lubrication oils, crude oil and also non-
dangerous liquids comprising edible oils, tallow, molasses, and alcohol. To
ensure that ships up to 75,000 DWT are received at the pier, and that pumping
rates for loading/unloading tankers can be at international levels, the Action
Plan (Annex 1) includes a study financed by KPT to rationalize/improve pipelines
and storage facilities associated with the Karachi Port liquid products terminal.
During negotiations agreement was reached with KPT that the Bank will have the
opportunity to comment on the study's recommendations and that KPT will implement
these recommendations by December 1992.
(c) Jinnah Bridge Phase II
3.06        In the early 1970s KPT and the Karachi Development Authority
proposed the Karachi Southern Bypass to improve port traffic's access to local
and up-country destinations and to facilitate cross-city movement of urban
traffic. The center section of the Southern Bypass, known as the Jinnah Bridge
project, was designed to replace the original bridge linking the East Wharf to
the mainland and to provide a modern intersection between Keamari Island, the
city and the Southern Bypass. The bridge replacement was completed in 1982, and
under the proposed project, construction of the intersection with a fly-over
referred to as Jinnah Bridge Phase II will be undertaken (IBRD 21185 drawing).
(d) Reconstruction of Ouay-side Pavements
3.07        The existing quay-side aprons in most of Karachi Port are in a poor
state of repair and rails embedded in the aprons make it unsuitable for working
effectively with modern cargo handling equipment. For this reason quay-side
pavements will be rebuilt at the rate of two per year and by the end of the
project a total of eight berth lengths of aprons are planned to be completed.
KPT plans to continue reconstruction after completion of the project until all
of the deteriorated quay-side pavements are replaced.
(e) Keamari Grovne Access Road
3.08        Xeamari Groyne storage area, since its construction in 1983, had
been used only to a limited extent mainly because it is outside the customs
bonded area. In order to utilize Keamari Groyne to the fullest extent possible,
unlier the project the existing road joining it to the port will be modified and
partially converted to a dedicated road. Thus Keamari Groyne will be included
]Q/ Under the project containment booms will also be procured for OP-IV,
previously built under Karachi Port IV Project financed by the Bank.



- 16 -
in the custom bonded area of the port and will be fully utilized, mainly for
storage of containers.
(f) Dredging Plant
3.09        KPT dredges the upper harbor area using two bucket dredgers built
in 1964, however, due to their age, wear and cear, and deterioration, upper
harbor dredging is averaging only 60X of requirements (para. 2.04). Continued
dredging arrears would seriously affect future port operations and reduce the
size of ships using the harbor. A detailed study has been undertaken to identify
the type and capacity of the dredging plant required for the upper harbor. The
dredging plant will be procured under the proposed project.
(g)  Eguinment for Environmental Protection
3.10        To protect the marine environment from violations caused by visiting
ships to Karachi Port, the following equipment should be procured: (a) floating
and land-based reception facilities for accepting sludge, slops, bilge, oils,
garbage and sewage from ships; (b) rapid deployment booms and portable skimmers
for combating oil spills; (c) a patrol boat and a harbor launch for regular
monitoring and surveillance; and (d) oil analysis equipment for producing
evidence to prosecute violators of environmental rules in Karachi Port
(h) Computerization
3.11        KPT has computerized some data processing operations using a batch
mode system. Present day business transactions require real time information
flows, both within the port and between the port and its users. The project will
assist KPT to establish a central, on line computerized data bank with interlinks
to port users and associated organizations. The software and hardware will be
selected on the basis of a study included in the Action Plan (Annex 1), and bids
received from qualified software groups with previour ixperience in sea ports.
In the interim, some KPT staff will be equipped with personal computers and
trained in their use to improve productivity in areas to be identified by the
consultants.   Agreement was reached with KPT during negotiations that the
findings and recommendations of the study will be furnished by KPT to the Bank
by June 30. 1293 and a program satisfactory to the Bank will be prepared for
implementation of such recommendations.
(i)  Radar and Related Eauipment
3.12        Radar and related equipment would be needed to increase the number
of ships handled per tide in Karachi Port. It would also be needed to assist
KPT in enforcing control within the anchorage limits, which are proposed to be
extended from 3 to 12 miles. Consultants will be engaged by KPT to determine
the most appropriate type of radar equipment to be procured.  Agreement was
reached at negotiations that KPT would pregare. in agreement with the Bank. by
June 30. 1992, a planned program for carrying out the measures recommended by
the consultant's study.



- 17 -
(j) Spare Parts
3.13        On the basis of an in-depth review carried out during the appraisal
of the project, KPT's requirements to replenish its backlog of spare parts for
floating and land-based equipment were identified. These will be procured under
the project.
(k) Trade Facilitation
3.14        Significant losses are accrued to trade due to delays caused by
complex documentation, lengthy procedures and difficulties of different trading
parties to communicate with one another.   To improve on this situation, a
workshop sponsored by KPT and the Bank was held in Karachi in October 1989.
Results of the workshop were a series of specific recommendations, which were
made to GOP. These recommendations consisted of: (a) establishing the Pakistan
Simplifications of International Trade Procedures Committee (PAKPRO) to simplify
trade procedures and associated data flows; and (b) establishing three task
forces to deal with the simplification of documentation, procedures, and
computerization and electronic communications, as well as to follow up on the
Workshop recommendations with different GOP organizations.   GOP has already
established the PAKPRO Committee and agremen  was - reAched that KPT will
designate a aualified Deputy Manager for the Committee and the Task Forces. Such
designation is a condition of effectiveness. It was also-agreed that an action
plan. 1reRared by the PAKPRO Committee. will be furnished to the Bank by
SeRtember 30. 1991. and the Action.Rlan. taking into account the Bank's comments-
will be imRlemented starting from December 1. 1991.
(1) Institutional Strengthening
3,15        KPT proposes to restructure its administration to improve port
operations.  Among the measures being considered are:  (a) restructuring and
reinforcing of the Computer Center and Finance Division of KPT; (b) engagement
of a transport economist in the Planning and Development Division to enhance
KPT's medium and long-term planning capability; (c) creation of a Marketing
Cell; and (d) setting up a Port Security Force and Marine Environmental Cell.
The Action Plan (Annex 1) provides that KPT will undertake an institutional
strengthening study, and that the findings and recommendations of the study will
be furnished by KPT to the Bank by June 30. 1993 and a program satisfactory to
the Bank will be pregared for implementation of the recommendations.
(m) Project PreRaration
3.16        KPT  engaged  three  consulting  firms  for  the  preparation  of
feasibility studies and prequalification and tender documents for OP-V, Jinnah



- 18 -
Bridge Phase II, Dredging Plant and Mobile Granes.l The same consultants were
also responsible for evaluation of prequalification and tenders on the first
three above-mentioned project components. These consultants were partially paid
from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF), the remaining outstanding
balance is proposed to be settled using PPF and retroactive financing under the
project.
(n) Project Supervision by KPT
3.17        KPT is expecting to engags the same consultants for the supervision
of construction of OP-V, Jinnah Bridge Phase II, and procurement of the Dredging
Plant, who were used for preparation of these project components.   This is
acceptable to the Bank.
(o) Studies
3.18        The following studies will be undertaken in connection with the
Project (Chart 2):
Duracion
Months_
(i) Second Stage Computerization
and Institutional Strengthening                      10
(ii)  Environmental Protection                              4
*(iii)  Rationalization of Pipelines                          6
(iv)  Master Planning and Dredging                          6
(v)  Radar and Related Equipment                           4
(vi)  Improvement of General and Bulk
Cargo Handling Operations
Including Private Participation
in such Operations                                    6
To carry out the above studies a
total of 135 man-months in foreign
and 100 man-months in local
consultancy will be required.
*Financed by KPT.
I I/   Mobile cranes were dropped from the project since these are expected to
be provided by the private sector or by KPT through suppliers credit or
leasing firms.



- 19 -
(p) Technical Assistance for Cargo Handling and Eauioment Maintenance
3.19        To improve cargo handling and the maintenance of equipment, under
the project, KPT would engage two experts (Chart 2). The cargo handling expert
will train those concerned in the handling of general cargo, mainly in the
technology  of  multi-unitization.    This  should  increase  cargo  handling
productivity.   The equipment maintenance expert will train KPT mechanics in
modern maintenance techniques. At negotiations agreement was reached with KPT
that implementation of training will start by June 30. 1992.   [PT is still
maintaining obsolete equipment which incurs high maintenance costs. The two
experts will also examine KPT's existing equipment and prepare a schedule of
retirement and the replacement of equipment. Wherever justified, replacement
of equipment will be left to the private sector. The Action Plan (Annex 1)
includes that a detailed program will be developed by KPT and reviewed with the
Bank. At negotiations agreement was reached with KPT that a program setisfactory
to the Bank will be prepared by KPT by June 30,1992.2
(q) Training
3.20        KPT trains its staff and dock labor through various organizations.
The KPT Staff College, set up with the help of UNCTAD, conducts courses in
various aspects of port operations.   At the National Institute of Public
Administration, the Pakistan Institute of Management and the O&M Computer
Centers, KPT staff are trained in management techniques. Under bilateral aid
programs and technical assistance grants, KPT staff are also trained in various
port related activities. At the Dock Labor Training Center, which was recently
established with the help of the International Labor Organization, dock labor
will also be trained in cargo handling techniques.
3.21        The proposed project will assist KPT to train its staff both in
Pakistan and abroad. Training will be in the following areas: the use of PCs
and computer programming, operation and maintenance of the new dIredger, marketing
of port services, and facilitation of trade. Detailed plans for training will
be prepared during project implementation. The training plans will be based
on specific requirements identified b) the project studies.  A& neg2tiations
agreement was reached with KPT that imnlementation of the training of KPT staff
will start by June 30. 1992.
(r) Cargo Handing and Port Operations
3.22        General cargo in Karachi continues to be handled by conventional
means using old equipment of insufficient capacity and outdated technology. In
line with GOP's privatization policy, KPT would cede cargo handling operations
to the private sector which is expected to perform with greater productivity and
efficiency. For handling of containers until a dedicated container terminal is
built, mobile quay-side pneumatic-tyred cranes in sufficient numbers, and
capacity/reach and productivity are expected to be provided and operated by the
private sector. The same mobile cranes can also be used to improve the handling
of general cargo as preslung or unitized cargo in a multi-unitized fashion. KPT



- 20 -
will advertise in local newspapers notices covering these activities for the
purpose of assessing private sector interest.  Subsequently, KPT will invite
proposals from prequalified private firms.   In the event the responses are
unsatisfactory, KPT will procure or lease with an option to purchase these
cranes, and lease them to the private sector to operate.   At negotiations
agreement was reached with KPT that: KPT will employ. within one month of the
Effective Date. consultants to assist in carrying-out of a study for further
imnrovement  of  general  and  bulk  cargo  handling  operations.  including
encouragement of private RarticiDation in such oRerations: By June 30. 1992. KPT
will carry out suitable measures to assess the scope for the private sector in
such operations.  and by September 30. 1992. prepare on the basis of such
assessment and the consultants report, specific programs for transferring cargo
handling operations to grivate sector operation concerns.
3.23        For the establishment and operation of a dedicated container
terminal in Karachi Port, KPT will invite tenders from prequalified firms on a
BOT basis. A port master plan study for Karachi Port is included in the project,
the main purpose of which will be to identify existing constraints and priority
options in investments (para. 3.18).
3.24        Implementation  of  the  above measures  combined with  technical
assistance in cargo handling, and in the maintenance of equipment should increase
port productivity as follows:
Comparable
Port
Productivity
in Developed
1991  12_9   1995    Countries
1. Unitized preslung cargo in
tons/gang/shift                         Lr/   500    700       1,500
2. Containerized cargo in units/
hr/crane                                15      18      20        25
3.  Bulk cargo in tons/gang/shift          300    600    900       1,500
4. Average turn around time of
general cargo vessels in hrs.           93      70      60        48
5.  Ship Waiting Time in hrs/per ship       40      15      10         0
6. Availability of Cargo Handling
Equipment in percentage                 75      80      90        95
/ At present none of the cargo is unitized in Karachi Port.



- 21 -
During neeotiations agreement was reached with KPT on establishment of the above
Droductivity targets for KPT and the monitoring of the achievement thereof.
C. Cost Estimates
3.25        The project cost is estimated at US$143.1 million of which US$91.4
million (64%) is in foreign exchange (Table 3.1). The project cost estimates
include: physical contingencies of 10% for civil works and 5% for equipment,
and price escalation for foreign costs of 6.4% for 1991-1992, 2.3% for 1992-
1993, 1.5% for 1993-1994, 2.3% for 1994-1995, 3.0% for 1995-1996 and thereafter,
and for local costs of 9% for 1991-1992, 6% for 1992-1993 and thereafter.
Details are summarized below:
Proiect Cost Summary
(US$ million)
% Total
Local    Foreign     Total      Base Costs
A.  Civil Works                  38.1      44.2 1/    82.3         69
B.  Equipment 2/                  0.0      25.9       25.9         22
C.  Studies                       0.6       2.0        2.6          2
D.  Construction Supervision      1.0       2.8         3.8         3
E.  Technical Assistance/
Training                      0.4      1.4         1.8          2
F.  Project Preparation           0.4 .2.1i/           2.5          2
Total Baseline Costs         40.5       78.4     118.9        100
Physical Contingencies        3.8      5.9         9.7          8
Price Contingencies           7.4     7ZA         14.5         12
Total Project Costs          51.7     91.4       143.1        120
/ US$3.5 million will be financed retroactively.
2/ Excluding duties and taxes.
.2/ US$1.5 million will be financed under PPF and US$0.6 million will be
financed retroactively.
3.26        Cost estimates were updated in December 1990.  Civil works costs are
based on actual tenders received. Equipment costs are based on market prices.
Computer costs are indicative as the software/hardware would only be selected
after international competitive bidding among qualified software consultants.
Except for the dredging plant, for which KPT will be given exemption from duties
and taxes, project cost estimates include duties and taxes which are less than



- 22 -
lOX of total project cost; this was confirmed at negotiations. Costs are not
expected to vary significantly and the contingencies should be sufficient to
cover cost increases.
D.  Financing Plan
3.27        The project would be financed as follows:
Project Einancing Plan
Local    Foreign   Total 
----------US$ million------------
KPT         51.7 1/    -        51.7    36
IBRD         -        1.4 2.1   9L4    64
Total   51.7       91.4     143.1   100
1/ The US$51.7 million includes US$22.5 million to be contributed by KPT for
the construction of Jinnah Bridge.
2J  This includes US$30.9 million lent directly to GOP to finance its share of
the cost of Jinnah Bridge construction.
The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of the project
estimated at US$91.4 million (64% of total project cost). The remaining US$51.7
million (36% of cost) will be financed by KPT. The total cost of the project
is estimated at US$143.1 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component
of US$91.4 million (64%). Retroactive financing is proposed in the amount of
US$3.5 million for mobilization costs and interim payments for construction of
OP-V until Loan signing and in the amount of US$0.6 million for payments to
consultants covering the period beginning September 1989.   In addition $1.5
million of the loan would repay PPF advances.   The duration of retroactive
financing is an exception to the Bank policy which is justified on the basis of
the unexpected delays experienced in processing the project due to a series of
changes in management at KPT and at the national level between project appraisal
(June 1988) and project negotiations (April 1991). As a result of these changes,
project processing was stalled for about 18 months and further PPF financing
during this time could not be approved. A breakdown of costs and the financing
plan are shown in Schedule A.   Amounts and methods of procurement and of
disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B.   A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Pakistan are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 7470-PAK dated, May 13, 1991, is also attached.
3.28        Of the Bank loan of US$91.4 million, US$60.5 million will be onlent
to KPT on the same conditions charged by the Bank to GOP. In addition, KPT will
pay a premium for foreign exchange risk coverage charged by the State Bank of



- 23 -
Pakistan, which is currently 5.5X p.a.  and is adjusted periodically.   At
negotiations agreement was reached on the onlending terms of GOP to KPT and
signing of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP and KPT is a condition of
effectiveness. The remainder of the Bank Loan (USS30.9 million) would be used
by GOP to finance the foreign costs of the Jinnah Bridge component and two
subsector studies.
E.  Project ImRlementation and Reporting (see Chart 2)
3.29        KPT will be responsible for project implementation, assisted where
necessary by consultants. Final engineering for civil works and equipment have
already been completed for the three major project components. A contract for
OP-V was signed on February 16, 1991.  The contract was signed, based on the
original processing schedule of the project, because the validity date of bids
would have expired had any further delays occurred and this investment is
urgently required.  Prequalification is in progress for both Jinnah Bridge Phase
II and the Dredging Plant, an. both are expected to close on May 31, 1991 and
bidding to start by July 1991. Since PCIs have been approved by ECNEC for all
three major project components, KPT will be able to sign the remaining two
contracts shortly after effectiveness of the Loan.
3.30        Experts in Port Operations and in the Repair of Cargo Handling
Equipment, whose qualifications are acceptable to the Bank, will be engaged by
KPT after arrangements for operating mobile cranes and other cargo handling
equipment have been finalized by KPT and reconstruction of a minimum of two berth
lengths of quay side aprons is completed. For the supervision of construction,
KPT may engage the same consultants that prepared the tender documents.  This
is acceptable to the Bank.
3.31        KPT would supply the Bank with quarterly reports for all project
components including cargo handling productivity. At negotiations KPT agreed
to oreRare and furnish to the Bank. on a format satisfactory to the Bank.
guarterly reRorts on progress in carrying out of the Project. Within six months
of the Closing Date of the Loan. KPT will provide the Bank with a Project
ComRletion Report.
F. Procurement
3.32        Procurement under the project would be as follows:
Procurement Method (USS million) I/
Proiect Component                       ICB       Other     Total
Civil Works                            81.7      19.9 2/   101.6
(52.8)      (-)       (52.8)
Equipment                              27.2       1.4        28.6



- 24 -
(27.2)     (1.4)     (28.6)
Spare Parts                                      1.1        1.1
(1 .1)     (1. 1)
Project Preparation,
Supervision, Studies,
Technical Assistance,
Training                                        11.8       11.8
8 A)      (8-29
TOTALS                          108.9      34.2      143.1
(80.0)    (11.4)     (91.4)
1./ Amounts in parenthesis are allocations from proceeds of the Loan.
2./ KPT financed civil works using local competitive procedures.
3.33        Contract  for  the Marine  Oil  Products Terminal  including the
Outfitting Pier and the Crane Pier was signed on February 16, 1991 on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding (ICB). For Jinnah Bridge Phase II bids were
received in September 1990 but were too high in comparison with the engineers
estimate and not comple.ely responsive.   Therefore, KPT has called for new
prequalification. The prequalification criteria and the scope of works have been
modified in order to elicit a broader participation and obtain realistic prices
on the reduced scope of works.   Bids will be invited again on ICB basis.
Prequalified domestic contractors are eligible to receive a 7.5% preference in
bid evaluation.   KPT will fund the Keamari Groyne and quayside pavement
reconstruction components, and will invite bids on the basis of local competitive
procedures. These local procedures are conducive to competitive prices and will
not have an adverse effect on the cost or implementation schedule of the project.
3.34        Procurement of a Dredging Plant will be oti the basis of ICB.  Tender
documents are based on the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Domestic manufacturers
will be eligible to receive a 15% preference in bid evaluation.
3.35        Procurement of equipment for environmental protection will be based
on ICB.  Contracts up to US$100,000 each, amounting to an aggregate value of
US$1.5 million, will be processed on the basis of international shopping.
3.36        Spare parts will be procured on the basis of international shopping
or sole source procurement, depending upon the particular circumstances of each
case.
3.37        Prior to Bank involvement in the proposed project, KPT had engaged
consultants for reviewing the feasibility Fnd preparation of tender documents
for  the  major  project  components.    The  Bank  has  reviewed  the  firms'
qualifications and their contracts are consistent with Bank Guidelines. The



- 25 -
Bank therefore agreed to KPT's selection of consultants on a sole-source basis,
and the same consultants are expected to be engaged for the supervision of
construction.
3.38        Consultants for the studies (para. 3.18) will be selected on the
basis of Bank guidelines.
G. Disbursement
3.39        Disbursement would be made on the following basis:
Amount
Category                  (US$ million)             X
(a) Civil Works:
(i)Marine Oil Products         18.8               77%
Terminal including
Outfitting Pier &
Crane Pier
(ii) Jinnah Bridge              25.4               58%
Phase II
(b)  Equipment:                     25.9               1 0 0 X    o f
foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost).
(c)  Consultants,                    6.8               100l   of
Technical                                         foreign
Assistance                                        expenditures.
and Training
(d) Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance             1.5
(e) Unallocated                     13.0
NOTE: Up to US$3.5 million to pay foreign expenditures of mobilization costs
and interim payment for OP-V and up to US$0.6 million to consultants
engaged for the preparation of the project will be disbursed on a
retroactive basis.



* 26 -
3.40        Disbursements would be made against the Statement of Expenditure for
eligible expenditures for contracts valued at US$250,000 or less, and agreement
was  reached  during  negotiations.  on  satisfactory  procedures  for  such
disbursements including documexitation and audit. All other disbursements would
be made against normal documentation submitted to the Bank.
3.41        To expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened by
KPT at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation
of US$9 million (approximately 10X of the total Loan amount). The documentation
for the replenishment requests for this account would follow the same procedures
as in para. 3.40. In addition, bank statements of the Special Account would
accompany replenishment requests. Agreement was reached during negotiations on
the establishment and operation of the SRecial Account which would be audited
annually as Rart of the annual external audit (para. 5.06).
3.42        The Bank loan would close on June 30, 1997.   The disbursement
schedule shown in Table 3.2 assumes that the project would be effective by
September 30, 1991. Disbursement profiles prepared by the Bank indicate that
a seven-year period is required to obtain full disbursement for this type of
project. However, prequalification and tender documents have been completed,
PCI approvals have also been given by GOP on all major project components, and
the contract for construction of OP-V has been signed.   Since all of these
activities normally require a long lead time, the projected execution period for
this project has been reduced to four years in line with contract implementation
periods, with an additional year to completion of the Project to account for
slippages.
H. Project Supervision
3.43        One Bank supervision mission in 1991 and two per year in 1992-1996
would be required. The missions are expected to be longer in 1991, 1992 and 1993
when most of the project components and studies will be under implementation.
The missions will consist of a port engineer, a financial analyst and/or an
economist as circumstances warrant.   Sufficient time should be allocated to
follow up on the studies and training under the project and to reach agreements
with GOP/KPT on the implementation of recommendations made in the studies. In
sum, project supervision would require about 100 staff weeks over six years to
implement the complete project.
I. Environmental Impact
3.44        Karachi Harbor, of which only about 20Z is occupied by the port, is
within the mudflat and mangrove areas of Pakistan's coastline.   These are
breeding grounds for fish and shrimp which are important for the supply of
protein for Pakistan's population, and for export earnings. Thus it is important
to protect these natural resources and the ecosystem against degradation.



- 27 -
3.45        The primary cause of pollution in Karachi Harbor is the garbage, raw
sewage and industrial affluents from the city as well as organic pollution from
the Karachi fish harbor.   The issue of urban generated pollution is being
addressed to some extent in the Bank's Urban Development Projects. Pollution
from port activities includes oil spills, sewage and garbage from the visiting
vessels, together with the Navy Dock Yard and the other ship yards and wharves.
While KPT tries to find the offenders and fine them, this has not been an
effective deterrent.  In addition, the pipeline trench between the oil piers
and the tank farms contains oil spills and presents a potential fire hazard.
Dredged spoil does not present ecological problems because dumping grounds were
selected after taking environmental factors into account.
3.46        The pollution in Karachi Harbor results in detrimental effects:
aesthetic (garbage, debris and faeces), hygienic (sewage and toxic matter), and
those which disturb the ecosystem. The latter includes (i) toxic effects either
direct or indirect by bio-accumulation of oil, DDT, PCB and various heavy metals;
(ii) avoidance reaction by fish and shrimp because of poor water quality; (iii)
distortion of organisms and reduction in their reproduction because of poor water
quality and the fact that parts of the mudflat areas are being covered with oil;
and (iv) increased erosion because dying mangroves can no longer reinforce the
banks with their roots.
3.47        The proposed project includes an oil terminal and a dredger which
could cause additional deterioration of the environment. For this reason, oil
spill containment booms and skimmers are included in the OP-V project component.
Dredged material will be analyzed at regular intervals before dumping it at the
dumping grounds to ensure that they do not exceed the norms set under the London
Dumping Convention.
3.48        Projects of this kind are normally classified as "A" for the
purposes of OD 4.00, Annex A on Environmental Assessment, and would require a
formal environmental assessment. Since this project was prepared and appraised
before October 15, 1989, a modified procedure, described below, was followed.
During project preappraisal, an environmental expert was included in the Bank
team. To protect the marine environment, a series of measures were tentatively
agreed upon with KPT which include mainly rehabilitation of the pipeline trench,
provision of reception and surveillance facilities. Subsequently, under a Dutch
Grant, additional environmental studies were undertaken which recommended
specific equipment for marine environmental protection to be included under the
project. A further follow-up study under the project will define the structure
of a Marine Environment Unit in KPT and will provide specific methods on how to
dispose of liquid and solid wastes in an environmentally acceptable manner.
During  negotiations.  agreement  was  reached  with  KPT  to  implement  the
environmental grotection measures listed in the Action Plan (Annex 1) and
emDloyment. within one month after the Effective Date. of consultants to study -
disposal of liquid and solid waste in the Karachi Harbor and to prepare within
five months the bidding documents for Drocurement of the environmental Drotection
eauiDment.



- 28 -
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Ggneral
4.01        The proposed project will both improve the efficiency and expand the
capacity of Pakistan's port subsector. This will be achieved through improving
the handling, clearance and landside movement of dry cargo at Karachi Port as
well as constructing a new liquid product berth at Karachi.  It will also enable
the port subsector to keep up with the increased demands of Pakistan's developing
economy. A detailed economic evaluation is given in Annex 3.
4.02          Despite the expected increase in port traffic (Chapter 2 and Annex
3), introducing the modern dry cargo handling facilities needed to improve port
efficiency would alleviate the need for additional dry cargo berths for many
years. These facilities would be procured and operated by the private sector.
Liquid product facilities are already overextended by growing oil imports, and
intolerable congestion would occur within a few years unless additional
facilities are constructed.   Therefore,  the project is assisting with the
construction of a new berth, OP-V, at Karachi.
4.03        The efficient operation of Karachi port is being adversely affected
by inadequate upper harbor dredging, which has led to reduced berth depths and
has restricted ship movements (para. 2.04).  In addition, the landside movement
of cargo to and from the port is being constrained by growing traffic congestion
(para. 2.10). Accordingly, the proposed project is assisting KPT to procure a
new dredger and construct improved road access facilities.
B. Costs and Benefits
4.04        An economic analysis was undertaken of the construction of an oil
pier, provision of a replacement dredger, and construction of a roundabout and
flyover. These amount to 73% of project costs. For the economic analysis all
inputs and outputs were evaluated in constant 1990 prices.   Financial cost
estimates were converted to economic costs by excluding price contingencies,
taxes and duties.
4.05        The benefits from the construction of the oil pier, OP-V, are
twofold. First, the elimination of congestion at Pakistan's two principal oil
berths (OP-I and OP-IV), will result in savings in the cost of tanker waiting
time. Without a new facility the value of such waiting time for tankers could
amount to US$25 million in 1993/94. Second, the savings in reduced freight rates
per ton of cargo will result from cargoes being transported in larger vessels.
4.06        The benefits from the replacement dredger consist largely of those
resulting from avoiding siltation of the berths and upper harbor channel. As
harbor depths decline, ships have to wait for high tide to enter and leave the



- 29 -
port. The benefit of fully meeting dredging requirements would be to eliminate
these increased waiting times and their associated costs in ship time and berth
occupancy.   Additional savings would also result from higher efficiency in
dredging, reduction in personnel on the dredger and normal maintenance costs
incurred in using a new dredger rather than the existing 25 year old equipment.
4.07        The economic benefits of improving the land access to the port are
primarily the savings in vehicle operating costs and the value of passenger time
resulting from the reduction in time required to negotiate the intersection
together with reduced traffic accidents.
4.08        The reduced port and shipping costs for dry cargoes resulting from
the dredging and bridge components would lower the costs of Pakistan's exports
and imports and assist in export promotion.   These benefits have not been
quantified and are not included in the analysis.
C. Overall Evaluaion and Risks
4.09        Based on the project costs and benefits described above,  the
economic rates of return for the three main project components, together with
their sensitivity to variations in costs and benefits are:
Economic Rates of Return
Economic Rate of Return (X)
- of                       15X incr. in costs &
Project Items               Project Cost_ Base Case  reduction in benefits
Oil Terminal                   20                70               57
Dredger                        16                29               22
Jinnah Bridge Phase II         37                20               16
Weighted Average (ERR)                      36               29
All components show high economic rates of return and the project is well
justified on economic grounds.  The project's overall rate of return is 36X,
well above the opportunity cost of capital. Moreover, all components continue
to show rates in excess of 15X under the assumptions of a 15X increase in costs
and a 152 reduction in benefits.



- 30 -
4.10         The risk of project implementation delays have been reduced by
having ECNEC already approve all of the major components, and by having the
procurement process well advanced. Indeed the contract for the oil terminal has
already been signed. This component's success would be little affected even if
construction of an oil terminal at Port Qasim went ahead in the second half of
the 1990s, because rapidly rising oil imports would require further facilities
during 2000-2005. No obvious risk exists for the dredging component.
4.11         Assuming Karachi City's continued economic development, the main
risk for the Jinnah Bridge Phase II component is that traffic growth would be
mucn greater than anticipated a a exceed the capacity of the elevated roundabout
resulting in a reemergence of congestion. However, the component includes in
its design provision for constructing an overpass linking the eastern and western
sections of the Southern Bypass which would divert through traffic off the
roundabout.   Thus as traffic builds up, an overpass will be constructed and
prevent the intersection from again becoming congested.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01        The principal activities of KPT's Accounting and Finance Divisions
under the Finance Department are preparation of: (i) accounting records; (it)
annual budgets in respect of operational, capital expenditure and foreign
exchange; (iii) interim financial reports and annual financial statements; and
(iv) tariff proposals.   In addition, the department monitors and analyzes
variation of planned activities.
B. Improvements in the Accounting System
5.02      Until 1975 KPT's accounts were based on a compromise between the
traditional form of income and expenditure account or "cash accounting" and the
more usual form of balance sheet and profit and loss account used in commerce.
Although a management accounting study was financed under Cr. S-9-PAK in 1970,
the implementation of this study was only initiated in 1975.   While the
implementation of the new system experienced considerable delays for a number
of reasons, the accrual based accounting system, including the costing system,
is now fully operational.  Further improvements (paras. 5.05,  5.09 and 5.19)
will be initiated, including the computerization of the accounting system (paras.
3.11 and 3.15).
C. Budgets and Audits
5.03      The recurrent and capital budgetary process in KPT begins in January
of each year, is reviewed by the Board of Trustees and submitted to GOP by mid-



- 31 -
May of each year for approval. For capital expenditure financed with loans the
approval of the Planning Commission is required (Annual Development Plan (ADP).
Though KPT's annual budget preparation is satisfactory, it is limited to one year
and needs to be improved to cover a time frame of 3 to 5 years (para. 3.15).
5.04      KPT accounts are subject to internal and external audit.  It maintains
a competent internal audit division. KPT accounts are required to be audited
by the Auditor General's Department. However, these audits were considerably
behind schedule.   Following upon the Bank's recommendation under a previous
project, a firm of Chartered Accountants' as external auditors' was appointed
in 1977. Efforts by KPT and the external auditors' have resulted in catching
up on the considerable back-log. The audit for 1989/90 is currently underway,
and should be completed by June 30, 1991.
5.05      The quality of audit conducted by the external auditors is adequate
and the audit reports are generally thorough and satisfactory. A number of old
outstanding balances relating to debtors, creditors and advances reported by
the external auditors need to be reviewed and cleared cut from KPT accounts.
The Action Plan (Annex 1) includes that (i) KPT assign three teams each
comprising two KPT staff of appropriate level to review the old outstanding
balances and that this work be assisted by two staff from the external auditors'
firm, who would be responsible for certifying clearances of the amounts to be
written-off; (ii) that the work be initiated by July 1, 1991, the recommendations
approved by the KPT's management, March 31, 1992; and (iii) these recommendations
implemented by June 30, 1992.
5.06      During negotiations agreement was reached that KPT would furnish audit
statements and audit reports, including that of the Special Account (para. 3.41)
to the Bank within six-months after the end of each fiscal year. However, for
the year ending 1989/90, the audit report would be submitted by December 31,
1991. Also assurances were _iven that KPT would take necessary corrective action
on deficiencies pointed out in the annual audit reports.
D. Tariffs
5.07      Tariffs at KPT have been adjusted infrequently, only five increases
have been granted by GOP since independence (1947).   The adjustments have
generally taken the form of across the board percentage increases, which ignore
disparities in revenues and costs for specific services offered. The aim of
KPT in setting tariff charges is to generate revenues to cover total costs.  KPT
has never requested nor received budgetary support. Although this practice has
enabled KPT to generate surpluses, the tariff increases over the years have not
bee-. based on costing individual services. The services do not cover their full
cost (Table 5.3) except for storage and property management, both of which cross
subsidize other services. Tariff levels at KPT are generally considered low and
are also low in comparison to those of other ports in the region, especially in
respect of vessel charges.
5.08      While tariff levels have been adjusted the tariff structure has
remained the same since 1964 when partial review was made. It is complex and
time consuming to administer, and covers a wide range of services that does not



- 32 -
include a separate tariff section for handling containers. At present,
responsibility in KPT to address tariff issues is dispersed. A focal point is
necessary and for this purpose the creation of a small tariff cell is essential.
5.09      GOP wishes to conduct a comprehensive port subsector tariff study,
which includes both major ports in Pakistan i.e., Karachi Port and Port Qasim.
The Bank has prepared a draft terms of reference for the study and forwarded it
for  GOP  review.    The  study  will  address  the  above  short-comings  and
recommendations will be made to improve the level and structure of tariffs,
including the necessary modifications to the accounting, cost accounting and
computer systems at both ports, i.e., more emphasis on cost-related basis for
charges; establishing profit centers; minimize cross subsidization; simplifying
tariff structures; and developing a separate rate structure for handling
containers and multi-unitized general cargo.
5.10        During negotiations, GOP explained that the port subsector tariff
study will be financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and will be completed
by December 31, 1991, and that the Bank would have the opportunity to review and
comment  on  the  final  Terms  of  Reference  and  discuss  the  findings  and
recommendations of the study. KPT has established a tariff cell which will act
as a counterpart during the study and will handle tariff issues subsequent to
the study. Provision has been made in the proposed loan to effect modifications
to the accounting, cost accounting and mechanization of the system, which will
be coordinated with KPT's Second Stage Computerization and Institutional
Strengthening Study (paras. 3.11 and 3.15).
E. Past Perfomance
5.11      KPT's revenue and expenditure accounts for 1984/85 - 1989/90 are
summarized below and detailed in Table 5.1:
Summrv of Revepue and Ex2oendture 1984/85 - 1989/90
i ear Ending June 30)
----------------------------Actual------------------------
Account Head       1984/85  1985/86 198/L  1987/88 1L88/89  ImiaWJ
(In Current Rs. Million)
Operating Revenues       742.7   713.5  750.3  919.3   1,231.7  1,397.7
Working Expenses         571.0  633.3  734.6  738.0    983.8  1,172.2
Depreciation              97.0   99.8  103.1   105.4    114.6   130.0
Operating Expenses       668.0  733.1  837.7  843.4   1,098.4  1,302.2
Net Operatina Income/JLoss)    74.7   (19.6)  (87.4)   75.9    133.3   95.5
Non-Operating Items:
Interest on Loans        45.9   68.6   68.7   84.1       51.6   64.0
Other Debits NL          118.2   129.2  128.8   45.8    148.2    5.2
Other (Credits) 6        (68.6)  (55.3)  (39.1)  (40.6;   (52 1)  (44.8)
Iit Income/(Loss)        (20.8) (162.1)  (245.8)  (13.4)   (14.4)   71.1
Operating Rati0 (X)      89.9   102.7  111.6   91.7      89.2   93.2
Traffic - Million - Tons  14.9   15.8   16.3   17.7      17.9   19.0
Notes: a Provisional (unaudited)
k Loss on foreign - exchange
c7 Investment income on reserves



- 33 -
5.12      During the period 1984/85 - 1989/90 KPT's revenues nearly doubled at
an average annual growth rate of 13.5%. This was due mainly to an increase in
traffic throughput (5% p.a.) and a tariff increase of about 50% granted in 1988.
For the year 1989/90 net revenue from storage (Rs. 228.9 million) made a
significant contribution to KPT's net results i.e. just about covered losses on
cargo handling (Rs. 217.5 million) and ship services (Rs. 13.2 million) (Table
5.3). As a result of implementing the trade facilitation measures (para. 3.14)
storage revenues are expected to decline, because of the stuffing/unstuffing
operations of containers taking place outside the port premises. This would be
taken into account in the port subsuctor tariff study. Net operating income fell
sharply between 1984/85-1986/87, :ecovered through 1988/89 and declined again
in 1989/90.
5.13      Throughout the period 1984/85 - 1989/90, KPT incurred losses except
for the year 1989/90, during which there was a change in accounting practice
(para 5.24). The operating ratio deteriorated to well over 100 in 1985/86 and
1986/87 and then improved to around 90 during 1987/88 to 1989/90.  The main
reason for this was the tariff increase in 1988. The increase in tariff after
a nine-year period, however, was clearly insufficient to cover even the domestic
inflation in Pakistan, which over this period amounted to 65%.
5.14      Working expenses in total have grown at an average rate of 16% p.a.
This i3 due mainly to increases in KPT labor costs (17.5% p.a.), which in 1989/90
constitute ovzr 68% of the total working expenses having risen from 62% in
1984/85.   The steep increase in labor cost resulted from a two-year labor
contract signed in 1989. The new contract increased KPT's labor costs by about
Rs. 250 million p.a. (40% p.a.). Staffing levels will be addressed (para. 2.26)
by the proposed institutional strengthening study. On the other hand, material
and supplies, repairs and maintenance, and administrative overhead costs
experienced an average annual growth rate of 10.5%, 12.9% and 15.7% respectively.
5.15      Depreciation expense based on a historical cost basis increased at
an average growth rate of 5.9% p.a., which appears reasonable.   However,
depreciation charges based on revalued assets need to be accounted for in KPT's
revenue and expenditure accounts to provide more realistic results of its
financial performance (para 5.18 and 5.19).
5.16      In the non-operating category,  'Other Debits'  represent exchange
losses on foreign loans, which occurred, because of the devaluation of Pakistan's
currency from Rs. 15 in 1984/85 to Rs. 19 in 1989/90 to US $1.00 equivalent, a
decline of 4.6% p.a. The sudden drop in the emount for this account in 1989/90
is attributable to a change in accounting practice (para 5.24).  Interest on
loans on the other hand experienced a growth rate of 6.9% p.a.
5.17      KPT balance sheets for 1984/85 - 1989/90 are shown in Table 5.2.  For
1989/90 an accumulated reserve balance of Rs. 426.9 million is indicated, which
is invested in GOP certificates earning interest rates of between 8% and 10%
p.a. During the period KPT's capital investment averaged only Rs. 100 million
(US$ 4.4 million) annually due to the paucity of funds. KPT's debt/equity ratio
increased from 35/65 to 59/41 by 1988/89 before declining to 50/50 by 1989/90.
The current ratios have fluctuated between 2.7 to 1.9.



- 34 -
F. Revaluation of Fixed Assets
5.18      Depreciation charges accounted for in KPT are based on historical
costs and are low. The last informal revaluation of fixed assets was conducted
in 1980.  Thus it is necessary to undertake a physical inventory of the fixed
assets, establish a computer based fixed asset register, write-off obsolete
assets and conduct a revaluation exercise.
5.19      To achieve these aims KPT will create a task-force from within the
organization, which will be assisted by outside technical ^onsultants (para.
3.19). At least one officer from the offices of Chief Engineer, Chief Mechanical
Engineer, Estate Department, Computer Section, Internal Audit and the Accounts
Department should be nominated on a full time basis to work on the task-force.
The nominee from the Accounts Department should also be the co-ordinator of the
task force. This arrangement was reconfirmed during negotiations. Agreement was
reached that KPT would comRlete the revaluation exercise so as to reflect
revalued assets on the KPT balance sheet as of July 1. 1993.
G. Financial Forecasts
5.20      Table 5.4 shows actual 1989/90 and the forecast revenue and expenditure
accounts of KPT for the years 1990/91 - 1995/1996. The assumptions used for the
financial projections are detailed in Annex 4. Actual 1989/90 and the forecast
is summarized below:
Swuisry of Re-venu an Exbenditure 129019 - 1995196
(Year Endina June 30
-Actual- ---------.......Forecast--............................
Account Head           am121  21192    g2 2               gm 292im 29f  
(In Current Rs. ifltton)
Operating Revenues            1,397.7   1,414.0 2,104.5   2,484.6   2,989.9 3,486.2 3,966.6
Working Expenses             1,172.2   1,411.9 1,606.7   1,829.0   2,082.8 2,372.7 2,703.7
Deprociation L                 130.0    280.0  290.0    298.9     325.0  400.0  500.0
Operating Expenses            1,302.2   1,691.9 1,896.7   2,127.9   2,407.8 2,7m7.7 3,203.7
Non-Omeratina IncomefL2oss)     95.5   (277.9)  207.8    356.7    582.1  713.6  762.9
Non-Oceratinr Items:
Interest on Loans               64.0    66.3  140.6    241.5      298.6  313.3  322.6
Other Credits 5L               (!9.6)   (39.8)  '39.3)   (38.8)    (38.5)  (38.0) (37.6)
Net Income/(Loss)               71.1   (304.4)  106.6    154.0    321.9  438.3  477.9
Operating Ratfo                 93.2    119.6   90.1     85.7      80.1   79.5  80.7
Traffic - Million - Ton         19.0    19.2   20.2      21.0      22.3   23.9  24.9
ML Depreciation fi based on estimate of revatued fixed assets.
kL Investment income oi, reserves less other debts.
5.21      Operating revenues are based on KPT's actual results for 1989/90.
Future traffic revenues take into account average traffic increase of 5X p.a.,
this is in line with traffic forecasts as well as traffic increases in the past
few years. An initial tariff increase of 45X effective July 1, 1991, and a 15l
p.a. increase for the years 1992/93 and 1993/94 and a 10 p.a. increase for the



- 35 -
years 1994/95 and 1995/96, have been reflected in the forecasts to help finance
KPT's investment program, which would be needed to meet the growing traffic
demand. Under the conditions outlined above, operating revenues between 1990/91
and 1995/96 show an average growth rate of about 22% p.a.
5.22        At negotiations  it was confirmed that a 551  tariff increase
effectire May 1, 1991 and a 15% per annum tariff increase effective July 1 of
each year for the three fiscal years 1992/93, 1993/94 and 1994/95 have been
approved by GOP. The forecasts shown in para. 5.20 above were based on more
conservative assumptions regarding expected tariff increases.   The recently
granted tariff increases will further strengthen KPT's financial position. la
addition. during negotiations agreement was reached with GOP that: starting from
1992/93 tariffs would be revised annually as necessary for KPT to generate
sufficient funds to cover all of its cash operating and maintenance expenses,
debt service charges, and contribute not less than 40% of the average annual
capital expenditures related to KPT port operations during the following two
years. Also it was agreed that GOP/KPT and the Bank shall review during the
month of March in each year the level of annual tariff adjustment necessary to
ensure that these targets are met.
5.23      The expenditure forecast for the period 1990/91 - 1995/96 has been
projected using current prices.  Labor costs are expected to increase by 15%
p.a.; maintenance and repair 15% p.a.; materials and supplies and administrative
expenses by 101 p.a.  KPT's labor costs which constitute over 701 of total
working expenses in 1990/91 are expected to increase to 74.5% by 1995/96,
however, KPT expects to reduce the growth rate to 15% p.a. compared with the past
few years, which experienced a growth rate of 17.5%. Maintenance and repair cost
are expected to grow at a higher rate when compared with the past, since KPT
expects  to catch-up  on neglected maintenance.    However,  the repair  and
maintenance costs in KPT are high and retirement of obsolete equipment envisaged
under the proposed project should bring these costs down in later years (para.
3.19). Total working expenses are expected to increase at the rate of 13.9% p.a.
compared with 161 p.a. in the past a few years. Depreciation charges based on
an estimate of revalued assets are expected to increase from Rs. 280 million in
1990/91 to Rs. 500 million in 1995/96, because of revaluation and asset base
expansion. The operating ratio will steadily improve from 119.6 in 1990/91 to
80.7 by 1995/96 (para 5.20).
5.24      Interest  charges  will  triple  by  1995/96,  because  of necessary
borrowing for the proposed project as well as other capital expenditure. Also
the interest rate on foreign loans will increase, because the State Bank of
Pakistan has issued a directive requiring autonomous government bodies such as
KPT to pay a 5.5X premium for exchange risk on the existing foreign loans.
The financial forecast assumes an interest rate of 141 p.a., equivalent to the
terms as outlined in para. 3.28 with KPT paying a premium for foreign exchange
risk.
5.25      Forecast balance sheets for the 1990/91 - 1995/96 are shown in Table
5.5. As the proposed project is implemented the debt/equity ratio will increase
from 31/69 in 1990/91 to 64/36, by 1993/94. By 1995/96 it decrease to 53/47.
The current ratios range from 1.9 to 2.8. The fixed assets on historical cost
basis were revalued (estimate) and are so indicated on the balance sheets. Due



- 36 -
to this and the proposed project investment, including KPT's share of Jinnah
Bridge and other capital expenditure, the net fixed assets base, including work-
in-progress is expected to expand from Rs. 3,097.8 million in 1990/91 to Rs.
8,234.1 million in 1995/96.
5.26      Financial forecasts are most likely to be affected by a variation in
working expenses. A sensitivity analysis was performed by increasing these costs
by 10%, which indicates that additional tariff increases required would average
about 8% p.a. A reduction of 10% in working expenses would reduce the required
tariff adjustment on an average by about 6.5% p.a.
H. Financial Resources
5.27      A summary of the investment program for the six-year period 1990/91
- 1995/96 is shown in Table 5.7. Estimated expenditure for the five-year period
during which the proposed project is to be executed amounts to about Rs. 6,218
million (in current rupees) including the Jinnah Bridge component. The proposed
Bank Loan (Rs. 2,056.5 million) accounts for 33% of the total investment program,
covering the entire foreign exchange.   The proposed investment program is
adequate and reasonable given the financial resources of the port.  &grersnt
was reached at negotiations (i) confirming the investment program: and (ii) iu.aat
Mntil the completion of the Project. KPT shall consult with the Bank prior to
aRDRoving any major modifications to the investment program. Also assurances
were provided that ma0or modifications refer to an aggregate amount of USS5
million per year or more.
5.28      The forecast sources and applications of funds statement for the six
year period 1990/91 - 1995/96 for project implementation is shown in Table 5.6
and is summarized as follows:
-.P Million     USS Million    Pereent (t)
Sources of F,unds
For lnvestment Protram
KPT internal cash generation   4,675.1          207.8          48
World Bank Loan                2,056.5           91.4          21
Bilateral                       445.9           19.8           5
Private Sector Schemes         1,070.0          47.5           11
Contribution from GOP           719.8           32.0           8
Increase in Welfare Fund        713.2           31.7           7
Sources of Funds - Total       a 680.5          430-2
ReBaMed Funds
KXT Investment Program         5,498.3          244.4          57
Jinnah Bridge                   719.8           32.0           8
Debt Service Payments          1,616.2           71.8          16
Change in Working Capital      1,846.2           8.2           is1
Application of Funds - Total   ,960 S40                      100
5.29      Based on the forecasts KPT would be able to provide 40% of its total
investment requirements out of internally generated funds. The balance would
be met by the World Bank, bilateral sources, private sector schemes and GOP.
Debt Service charges increase from Rs. 105.2 million in 1990/91 to Rs. 361.5
million in 1995/96 mainly due to borrowing on the proposed project and debt
service coverage ratio is 2.9.



37 -
5.30      Taking into account the satisfactory level of all financial indicators
(working, operating, and debt/equity ratios) as reflected in the financial
projections, and the tariff increases necessary for the fulfillment of the
revenue covenants, better control over expenditures and improved. efficiency as
a result of the proposed project, the risk of failure to achieve forecast
financial results are minimum as GOP has already approved up-front tariff
increases (para. 5.22).
VI AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOP and/or KPT on the
following:
(a) the Action Plan given in Annex 1 (para. 3.01);
(b) GOP/KPT will implement the recommendations of studies and programs
mutually agreed with the Bank for the following:
- Second stage Computerization and Institutional Strengthening
(paras 3.11 and 3.15);
- Radar and related equipment (para. 3.12);
- Trade Facilitation (para. 3.14);
- equipment replacement and KPT's staff training in cargo handling
and maintenance of equipment (para. 3.19);
- training of KPT staff (para. 3.21); and
- revaluation of assets (5.19).
(c) preparation of an implementation program for ceding cargo handling
to private operators (para. 3.22);
(d) on the establishment and monitoring of cargo handling productivity
targets (para 3.24);
(e) the onlending terms of GOP to KPT (para. 3.28);
(f) the format of the quarterly reports that KPT would supply the
Bank for all project components. Within six months of the Closing
Date of the Loan, KPT will provide the Bank with a Project
Completion Report (para. 3.31);



- 38 -
(g) on satisfactory procedures for disbursements made against the
Statement of Expenditure including documentation and audit (para.
3.40);
(h) on the establishment and operation of the Special Account which
would be audited annually as part of the external audit (para.
3.41);
(i) for KPT to implement the Environment Protection Measures listed
under the Action Plan (Annex 1 and para. 3.48);
(j) that KPT will furnish audit statements and audit reports including
that of the special account to the Bank within six-months after
the end of each fiscal year.   However,  for the year ending
1989/90, the audit report would be submitted by December 31, 1991.
Also assurances were given that KPT would take necessary
corrective action on deficiencies pointed out in the annual audit
reports (para. 5.06);
(k) that starting from 1992/93 KPT's tariffs will be revised annually
as necessary to generate sufficient funds to cover all of KPT's
cash operating and maintenance expenses and debt service charges,
and contribute not less than 40X of the average annual capital
expenditures related to KPT port operations during that year and
the following year. Also GOP/KPT and the Bank shall review during
the month of March in each year the level of annual tariff
adjustment necessary to ensure that these targets are met (para.
5.22); and
(1) confirming the investment program of KPT; and that until
completion of the Project, KPT shall consult with the Bank prior
to approving any major modifications to the investment program.
Also assurances were provided that major modifications refer to
an aggre',ate amount of US$5 million per year or more (para. 5.27).
6 02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOP and/or KPT on the
following conditions for effectiveness:
(a) designation of a qualified Deputy Manager for PAKPRO and for the
Three Task Forces (para. 3.14); and
(b) Signing of subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP and KPT (para.
3.28).
6.03      The loan will be made to the Government of Pakistan.  Of the proposed
loan, US$60.5 million will be onlent by GOP to KPT on the same variable interest
rate the Bank charges GOP for a term of 20 years including a five-year grace
period. In addition, KPT will pay a premium of foreign exchange risk charged
by the State Bank of Pakistan (para. 3.28.)



- 39 -
6.04      Based on the agreements to be reached on the matters indicated above,
the proposed project will be suitable for a Bank loan of US$91.4 million.



PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROPOSED KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT (PORTS V)
ACTION PLAN
Responsibility and
Activity                          Present Situation                          Action to be Taken                     Timing of Imtlementation
A.   Proiect Description/
Preparation
1.  Project Scone         XPT obtained PCI clearances from GOP        As agreed in the Loan and Project            GOP/KPT and Chart 2.
On three major project components:          Agreements.
OP-V. Jinnah Bridge Phase II and
Dredging Plant. Mobile Cranes. and
cargo handling equipment which were
earlier included for KPT's procure-
ment, have now been left for the
private sector or for KPT to supply.
Some of the cargo bandling will be
performed by private operators.
Studies and tecbnical assistance to
be undertaken under the project
have been agreed upon during the post-
appraisal mission.
2.  Proiect ComDonents                                                                                                                                          O
a.  Civil Works       OP-V (including Outfitting Pier and Crane KPT will finalize bridge financing,            KPT, May 1991.
Pier). Jinnah BridRe Phase II. OP-V         and request from the Bank retroactive       KPT, after Loan Effectiveness.
contract was signed on February 16, 1991.  financing to repay bridge financing
KPT has applied for bridge financing        on OP-V.
through a private Bank.  Prequalification  KPT will send to the Bank                    KPT. June 1991.
of contractors for Jinnah Bridge Phase II  evaluation of prequaLificatlon.
initiated on March 31, 1991.                -fter which bidding will follow.            KPT, July/August 1991.
Construction of Ouasy-Side Pavements and    Prequalification of contractors             KPT, since January 1991.
Yeamari Grovne Access Road. design in       in progress.
progress.
b.  Equipment         Dredains Plant - Bidding initiated in       New prequalification to be                   XPT, March 31, 1991.
November 1989 but cancelled by KPT/GOP      undertaken.
in February 1990.
KPT will send to the Bank                   KPT. June 1991.
evaluation of prequalification
after which bidding wilL follow.            KPT, July 1991.
Mobile Cranes and Cargo-Handling            invitation to the private sector            KPT, March 1991.
Equipment - Invitation to the private       to submit expressions of interest
sector to express an interest for the       for the supply and operation of
supply and operation of mobile cranes       land based cargo-handling equip-
was published in local newspapers in        ment including Bank comments, to                  ,                                   in
January 1991.                              be published in local newspapers.                                                     0ai
Preparation of prequalifications            KPT, December 19Q1.                       M
and tender documents will follow.
0



ACTION PLAN
Responsibility and
Activity                     Present Situation                          Action to be Taken                     Timing of lIzl_'=ntaticn
Ecuiunent for Environmental Protection       KPT will engage consultants to                KPT, within one month
study disposal of liquid and                 of Loan Effectiveness.
solid wastes and to prepare bid              KFT, within six months
documents for the procurement of              after Loan Effectiveness.
equipment after which bidding
will follow.
Radar and Related Equiament                  Equipment to be defined in the                KPT, April 1992.
study.
Spare Parts:  List prepared                  Preparation of procurement                    XPT. December 1991.
by KPT and reviewed by the                   documentation.
Bank.
Procurement of spare parts.                  KPT, Hay 1992.
Container Terminal - KPT invited the         KPT will proceed with BOT                     KPT. June 30. 1991.
private sector to express their interest   tendering.
regarding BOT proposals in connection
with the neu container terminal.
KPT Ecuiprent (to be scrapped and            KPT will engage experts for the               KTP. March 1992.
replaced).                                   repair and operation of cargo-
handling equipment and floating
craft, and prepare a progran which            EPT, June 1992.
will be reviewed and agreed upon
with the Bank. Equipment that has
outlived its useful life will be
scrapped and new equipment will be
procured with the help of the                KPT. January 1993/
private sector whenever feasible.             1994.
c. *Consultants        KPT engaged consultants for the              XPT will request the Bank for                 GOPAXPT. April 1991.
preparation of design and tender             additional PPF funding up to
documents for the OP-V, Jinnah Bridge        US$0.90 million to cover some of
Phase II, Dredging Plant and Mobile          the arrears in pwyment to consultants
Cranes. Consultants fees up to               and for the remaining USS0.80 million
US$0.60 million were paid from the PPF.    to be paid tbrougb retroactive
financing.
TOR have been drafted for consultants        TOR to be prepared for:                      KPT, June 1991
to prepare:  Port subsector tariffs;         Institutional strengthening;
rationalization of pipelines; and           environmental protection, master plan
ser-aa stage computerization.                and dredging, radar and related
equipment; and privatization of cargo
handling.  KPT will prepare documents        KPT, July/Sept. 1991.
for invitation of consultants and
invitation of proposals and will             KPT, within one month
subsequently sign contracts with             after Loan effectiveness.
consultants.
d.  Technical         Cargo Handling and Repair of Cargo           TOR to be finalized, end experts to           XPT, September 1991.                    0  m
Assistance        Handling Eauiument - TOR have been           be engaged.                                   KPT, June 1992.
drafted.                                                                                                                          O F
0
*Port subsector study will be financed by ADB.



ACTION PLAN
Responsibility and
Activitv                    Present Situation                       Action to be Taken                   Timing of Implomentation
e.  Training         Operations and Maintenance of Euuiument   Experts to be engaged.                       IT. June 1991.
(to be vrocured;. and Port Related
Training - TOR have been drafted.
Training in operation and maintenance     Training will take place after             KPT. October 1992.
of new equipment. have been included      acquisition of equipment.
in bid documents.
General training of  TPf staff.           To be defined during project                KPT, 1992-1996.
execution.
S.  Organizational and
Institutional
Measures to be taken
1. Revision of KIT Act  Cabinet agreed in principle to              RPn Act to be further reviewed             Within three years after
the revision of RPT Act in July           under KPT's Institutional                  effectiveness of the
1988.                                     Strengthening Study.                       Loan.
2. Extension of RPT's   RPT prepared the detailed plans.            KPT to submit details to GOP               KTIGOP. by Deceshbr 31, 1991.
Outer Anchorage                                                 and GOP to sanction.
Limits
3. Creation of Port      Approved on March 27, 1991.
Security Force
C. Rationalize storage   TOR for study prepared. and gPT is         Study to be undertaken.                    KPT, December 1991.
and pipelines of     negotiating a contract with a              Implementation of recommend-                I . l aoveber 1992.
existing oil          local firm to be engaged.                 atlons to be agreed upon by                                                          IO
terminals                                                       KPT and the oil and liquid
product companies.
S. Trade Facilitation    Trade Facilitation Workshop took place     Rn to designate Deputy Manager             GOP. Condition of Eftectiveeas.
in October 1989 and specific recommend-   of PAXRO and establisb Three
ations were made to GOP on required       Task Forces. Prepartion of                 Sept_ber 30, 1991.
lmprovements. GOP established PFAPRO      Action Plan, and its implementation.       Dec_er 1. 1991.
on March 21. 1991.
6. Use of KPT's          Keomari Groyne Complex is used only        KPR to mdify the existing road              M.T August 1992.
assets               to a limited extent,                       between the Port and Keamari
Groyne and wilL partially convert
it to a dedicated use whereby
Keamari Groyne area will be
included in the Port Custom bonded
area.
C.  Productivity Targets
Cargo Handling Productivity                                       MIT will adhere to the following targets:
1. Unitized/pr:slung Cargo In                                                   19           700
,tons/gang/shift                                                             --    500 700                                                        IDb 
2. Contatnerized Cargo ip -* .4                                                                                                                       to
hr/crane                                                                    1S      18  20                                                       W
3. Bulk cargo in tonlSgan/                                                                                                                               1
shift.                                                                      300    600  900



#:TICl PLA
Responsibility of
Activity                                      Present Situation                        Action to be Taken           Timing of ImolementatiOM
*. Average turn around time of
general cargo vessels in hr.                                                    93      70   60
S. Ship Waiting Time In hr/per ship                                                 40      1S   10
6. Availability of Cargo Handling
Equipment in percentage                                                        75      s0   90
D.  Environmental
Protection
1. ReducLion of fire                     Pipeline Trench - polluted with          KPT to rebabllitate end fence        KIPT  December 1992.
hazards                              oil,                                      pipeline trncb.
Parkina of Vehicles on Roads in          KPT to prohibit vehicles            KIPT. December 1991.
front of Tank Farms - Open fires         from parking on the roads in
for cooking meals.                       front of tank farms.
2. Prevention of sea                    D!Mmigfof dreded  maerial - NOo            IPT to initiate a progrm of         KIPT  initiate by June 1992.
pollution                            system for verification of trace         monitoring trace metal in
metaLs in dredged spoil.                 dredged spoll by June 1992, and
take appropriate measures to
remain within the limits of the
London Dmping Convention.
Reception Facilities for Oil and         KIT to provide reception             KIT, June 1992.
Oily  Waters  in Karachi  Port and       facilities in Karaehi Port                                                   I
Fishing Port  No facilities              and the Fishing Darbour.
availabLe as yet.
Surveillance of Shios in Karachi         KIPT to provide facilities to        KPT, July 1992.
Port to Prevent Doine  of                B,ova pollutants and to
Pollutants - Existing KIT control        monitor the trash problm more
measures are not effective,               effectlvely.
No means to contain oil spills           EnviroiaLtal protection              KIT, by July 1992.
during unloading of tankers,             equipmnt, oil contaiment
and elsewhere in the port.               booms and skimers to be
procured.
3.  Marine Environmental                 Non.                                     Esteblish a Marintal   i. Jiue 1mr92.
Unit                                                                          Unit in KIPT.
e.  Accountina and Financial
1. Tariff Adjustaent                    GOP has approved the following            Starting from 1992/93 nnual          GDP June 1992.                       0t 
tariff increases effective:              tariff adjustmnts In
- May 1, 1991  - 55                  consultation betwen GOP/XP2
- July 1i 1992 - 152                  and the Bank.
- July 1. 1993 - 151                                                                                            O
- July 1, 1994 - 152                                                                                            tt
0%
2. Tariff Study.                        TOR for the port subsector tariff         The study wiu be fitincd by          To be cqlted by
were drafted by the  8k and              ADB.                                 Dec"er 31, 1991.
forwarded to GOP in JeMUary 1991.



ACTION PLAR
Responsibility of
ActivitT                                Present Situation                         Action to be Taken          limina of lunlementation
3. Revaluation of fixed                During post-appraisal KPT assured      Task Force to be established.      July 1. 1993.
Assets needs to be                 revaluation exercise will be
updated.                           undertaken.
4. External Audit of                  Audit for 1989/90 underway.             Confirmation on submission of    mU. 1989-90 by December 31. 1991.
UPT's Accounts.                                                           Audit Report to the Bank.
Subsequent years audits to be     UT, witbin 6 months after the
compLeted and submitted to the    closing date.
Bank.
S. Writing-off old                    During post-appraisal KPT offered       UPT to assign 3 teams of two      UPT - June 30, 1992.
outstanding                        assurances that work regarding         UT staff and use services
balances in UT                     outstanding balances will be           of external auditors.
accounts.                         undertaken.
6. Investment Program                 Prepared in consultation with UPT.      UPT ahall consult with the Bank    UT.
1990/91-199S/96.                   Investment program was confirmed       prior to approving any major
during negotiations.                   modifications to their investment
progrm.
F.  Funding
Local Funds required for              Confirmed during negotiations.                                            UT.
project implementation.
G.  Renorting
1. Format of Quarterly                Confirmed at neBotiations.                                               1KPT.
Reports.
2. Project Completion                 Confirmed at negotiations.                                                U.T Decer 1997.
Report.
3. Disbursement made                  Satisfactory procedures                                                   URT.
against $O0.                      confirmed during negotiations.
I.  Condition of Board Presentation
Tariffs                               Tariff increases approved.              None.
J.  Conditions of Effectiveness
1. Subsidiary Loan Agreement          Agreed during negotiations.                                               GOP/UPT. before Loan
will be executed between                                                                                    Effectiveness.
GOP and UT.
%.n
0



ACTION PLAN
ctivity                                  Present Situation                           ction to be Taken           Timing of Ilinentetion
2. KIT will designate a                 Agreed during negotiations.                                                 GOP/ IT, before Loan
qualified Deputy Hanager                                                                                        Kffectivs
for PhAPR) and astablish
thre Task Forces.
0
a'
CO



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KQRACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS
A. List oi Project Items
(a) Civil ZQlft6rks
(i) Liquid Products Marine Terminal:   Construction of a new oil
terminal in replacement of two existing physically outlived and
obsolete OP-II and OP-III oil berths;
(ii) Outfitting Pier and Crane Pier: Reconstruction of the two existing
structures that have reached the end of their useful lives; is
intended to provide facilities for repairing ships while afloat and
enhance maintenance of navigational fittings respectively;
(iii) Jinnah Brid8e Phase II:   Construction of a roundabout with a
flyover to improve land accesses to the port;
(iv) Ouay Side Pavements: Reconstruction of up to 8 quay side aprons
which are in a poor state of repair; and
(v) Keamari Groyne Access Road: Conversion of an existing road to a
dedicated road, between the Port and Keamari Groyne, to include
Keamari Groyne into custom bonded area and to ensure its full
utilization.
(b)  fiaument
(i) Dredging Plant:   Procurement of a non-propelled bucket chain
dredger of 850 liter bucket capacity and two hopper barges of 800
M' capacity;
(ii) Com2uters: Procurement for KPT of software and compatible hardware
as well as PCs for improvement of port operations and for
interlinking electronically with port users and with organizations
engaged in port related activities;
(iii)  gdar:   Installation of a radar at KPT to provide appropriate
control of the outer anchorage to 12 miles limit and improve
maneuverability of ships entering and exiting Karachi Port;



- 47 -
AMEX 2
Page 2 of 5
(iv) EquiRment for Environmental Protection: Procurement of floating
and land based equipment and floating craft, floating booms,
skimmers and oil analysis equipment to protect effectively marine
environment in Karachi Port from violations caused by visiting
ships; and
(v) Spare Parts: A backlog in replenishment of spare parts required
by KPT would be financed up to US$1 million. KPT's replenishment
of normal spare parts will be financed from annual Foreign Exchange
(F.E.) allocations from GOP.
(c)   Trade Facilitation - Traee promotion in Pakistan will be further developed
with specific measures as recommended in the Trade Facilitation Workshop
which took place in Karachi in October 1989 and KPT is expected to play
a key role in the implementation of the recommendations and in organizing
additional training required for this activity;
(d)   Institutional Strengthening - With development of computerization and
electronic interlinks within and outside KPT as well as engagement of a
transport economist, creation of port security, marine environmental cell
and a marketing unit, KPT's management organization will have to be
suitably altered to meet the challenges of technological developments;
(e)   Project PreRaration. Project Sunervision. Studies. Technical Assistance
and Iraining - Consultants were engaged by KPT for preparation of tender
documents for Liquid Products Marine Terminal, Jinnah Bridge Phase II,
Dredging Plant!/ and Mobile Cranes and for supervision of construction of
the same.V   Studies will be undertaken by consultants of KPT for:
rationalization of pipelines and storage to increase pumping rates at
liquid product berths;2/ feasibility studies and preparation of tender
documents  for:   (a)  Second Stage Computerization and Institutional
Strengthening, (b) marine environmental protection, (c) master plan of
Karachi Port and dredging, (d) procurement of a radar and related
equipment, and (e) handling of general, bulk and random containers to be
undertaken by the private sector.   KPT will engage specialists to train
KPT staff in modern port operations and maintenance of equipment; also
additional training will be provided to selected KPT staff both abroad and
in Pakistan in the use of computers, in marketing and for other port
related activities, as well as in trade facilitation.
J/ Consultants for preparation of tender documents for procurement of Dredging
Plant financed under Dutch Bilateral Aid.
2/ The mobile cranes were dropped in February 1990 from the project.
/  This study will be financed by KPT out of its own generated funds.



- 48 -
ANNEX-2
Page 3 of 5
B. DescriRtion of Major Proiect Items
(a)   Liquid Products Marine Terminal (OP-V)
1.         The new terminal will be built in the location of existing OP-Il and
OP-III which have reached the end of their useful lives.  Demolition of the
existing piers will be included in the contract for construction of the new
terminal. Liquid cargoes which will be handled at the new terminal will comprise
various refined products such as furnace oil, high speed diesel oil, kerosene,
motor spirits, naphtha, lubricating oils etc, and also non-dangerous liquids
comprising edible oils, tallow, molasses and alcohol. Provision will also be
made for handling crude oil.
2.         The new terminal will consist of two level loading platforms 43.6 x
22 m, two berthing dolphins, one on each side thereof, each 12.2 x 7 m with
necessary fendering, and four mooring dolphins 4.6 x 4.6 m (equipped with quick
release hooks), all interconnected by 1.5 m wide walkways. The loading platform
will be connected to land by a rockfilled embarkment causeway and a piled
concrete trestle.
3.         The face of the berthing dolphins will be about 61 m from the eastern
edge of the lower harbour channel, and the loading platform about 4 m behind
the face of these dolphins. The seabed in front of the the terminal will be
dredged to a 11.3 m depth below Karachi Port Datum to accommodate loaded 75,000
DWT tankers at all states of the tide. Floating containment booms and skimmers
will 'a provided to contain and clean up any possible spillage. A similar boom
will also be supplied for OP-IV.
4.         Construction of the terminal will be of reinforced concrete supported
on tubular steel piles. Cathodic protection will be provided for the piling.
5.         On the approach structure, from land to the loading platform, there
will be a 4.6 m wide access road, two pipeways each 7.9 m wide for liquid
products pipelines. At the shore end of the approach structure a pipe manifold
chamber, a road culvert and a security/control building will be located. From
shore pipe manifold to the loading platform there will be a complete common user
piping system. Provision will be made for laying about 20 common-user pipelines
of 20.30 cm to 76.0 cm in diameter. At the shore erid marketing companies will
be able to connect their facilities to the common-user pipelines through pipe
manifold with provision of "pigging" arrangement.  There will be a complete
spillage and slop collection arrangement on the loading platform and at shore
pipe manifold chamber etc, and foam/water fire fighting services as well as air
inflated type polyurethane contairment booms and skimmers.



- 49-
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
(b) Crane Pier and Outfitting Pier
6.         The presence of heavy civil engineering piling plant for use in
construction of the liquid Products Marine Terminal, provides an excellent
opportunity to reconstruct two small service piers which due to old age are in
dilapidated condition.  These piers are:  the Crane Pier at Manora used for
servicing channel marker buoys and for handling Marine Craft and Stores of the
Pilotage Department and the Outfitting Pier at the entrance to Manora Graving
Dock which is used for maintenance and repairs of KPT flotilla while afloat.
These piers will be constructed as steel box pile jetties with reinforced
concrete deck and fendering systems adequate for all service vessels used in the
harbour. The piers will be constructed under the same contract as OP-V, which
should reduce investment costs by half when compared to construction costs of
building these facilities under separate contracts.
(c) Jinnah Bridge Phase II
7.         This component of the project will consist of an elevated roundabout
over Pakistan Railways (PR) tracks with ramps to Chundrigar Road, and M.T. Khan
(Queens) Road, and connected to the existing Jinnah Bridge and a new flyover to
Mauripur Road. The roundabout will provide two continuous lanes of 3.7 m each,
for weaving traffic and a minimum of two lanes of 3.7 m wide each for left turns
off each approach.  The inner radius will be approximately 81 m. The roundabout
will be connected to the intersection of Mauripur Road and Dockyard Road through
a six lane (3 lanes in each direction) flyover (viaduct). The flyover would be
constructed of precast concrete elements of 24.4 m span length. This road link
cannot be built at ground level because of the need to preserve rail access via
sidings to several port-oriented industries located in this area. The flyover
would have two single lane ramps (on and off) forming a half-diamond interchange
connecting to the southeast side of the West Wharf Road.
8.         To improve the traffic flow for the street system feeding the
northeastern approach to the proposed roundabout a traffic management program
will be implemented. This would consist of reversing the direction of the flow
around the block bounded by Chundrigar, A. Dinshaw, A. Khan and G. Alana to
counterclockwise, except that Chundrigar would remain two-way and A. Khan could
continue to have no more than one lane in the northbound direction, with forced
left turn (no through movement on A. Khan permitted). As part of this scheme,
the existing approach ramp from Chundrigar Road to Jinnah Bridge would be flared
at the northern end to permit an improved transition to the adjacent
intersection.
9.         To avert saturation of the roundabout, and enable southern bypass
traffic to avoid the roundabout altogether construction of a 2 lane overpass (1
lane each direction) over the new roundabout linking M.T. Khan (Queens) Road with
the proposed flyover is included in the project as an option. The option of
construction of an overpass, will be considered towards the end of construction
of the roundabout. The decision will depend on the traffic forecasts. Should
traffic forecast not justify construction of the overpass at that time, it will



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of r
be postponed to a future date. The roundabout and flyover would be designed and
built to accommodate addition of the overpass, whenever justified, over the
roundabout. These provisions would include strengthening foundations at some
points and the widening of the existing approach ramp from M. T. Khan (Queens)
Road _..o 6 lanes.
(d) Dredging Plant
10.        The proposed dredging plant to be procured under the project will
consist of a stationary bucket chain dredger and two hopper barges together with
initial stock of spare parts. The bucket chain dredger will be of 850L bucket
capacity with chain speed of 16-24 buckets per minute, and normal dredging depth
of 15 m and capable to dredge to a maximum depth of 21 m.  The two self-
propelled barges will have 800 m hopper capacity, will be of split-type, and
twin screw diesel driven at a service speed of 11 knots.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8
PAKISTA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KARACNI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Dry Cargo Handling
1.    Pakistan's seaborne dry cargo traffic grew from 2 million tons in 1947
to 13 million tons in 1989/90. A limited number of commodities make up about
60X of the dry cargo tonnage. Major commodities are imports of iron ore,
coal, wheat, sugar and cement, and fertilizer and exports of rice and cotton.
2.    Future trends depend on the developments in the major import and export
commodities as well as the growth in general cargo imports and exports which
are tied more closely to overall GDP developments and the promotion of non-
traditional exports respectively. Rice exports, which had been increasing,
were adversely affected by poor weather in 1988-1990. However assuming normal
weather, rice exports are projected to recover and to grow at about 2Z p.a.
through 2000. Cotton exports are likely to increase at a similar rate.
Pakistan had been approaching self sufficiency in wheat but the long term
trend in production appears less favorable than earlier, and imports of 0.75
million tons per year are projected through 2000 assuming normal weather.
Increasing use of fertilizer in agriculture will lead to increased imports of
urea as well as phosphate. Pakistan has been moving towards surplus capacity
of cement, but, as a high cost producer, sustained exports are unlikely.
Imports of iron ore and coal for the steel mill will level off by the mid-
1990's as the mill reaches full capacity. As a result, the import of scrap
and steel products, which had declined in recent years as domestic production
increased, will again rise. General cargo imports and exports are projected
to grow at about the same rate as GDP. Total dry cargo are projected to
increase from 13 million tons in 1989/90 to 17 million by 1999/00 (Annex 3,
Table 1).
3.    Although only a modest increase in total bulk cargoes is forecast by the
year 2000, there is the likelihood that from time to time wheat import would
increase by 1-2 million tons over trend projections due to the effect of
adverse weather conditions on domestic production, as in 1988/89 and 1989/90.
Also if delays occur in increasing domestic cement and fertilizer production,
it is also quite likely that imports of these commodities could be 0.5-1.0
million tons above the trend projection in any given year. Prudent port
planning should therefore allow for sufficient margin in port capacity to
handle an extra 2-3 million tons of bulk imports in any year.
Berth Utilization and Improved Cargo Handling
4.    Despite the increased berth productivity resulting solely from the



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
expected further shift from break bulk to containerization with the rate of
containerization of general cargoes increasing from 62% in 1989/90 to 75% in
1999/00, occupancy of the dry cargo berths at Karachi and Qasim taken
together, is expected to rise from 65% in 1989/90 to 81% by 1999/00 (Table
2.6). This leaves only a small safety margin and exceptional imports of
wheat, fertilizer and cement could raise occupancy to 93% by 1999/00 and lead
to congestion of ships waiting off the port resulting in demurrage costs of
US$27 million per year. Rather than building new berths, the preferred option
is to increase berth productivity. Accordingly, the project supports KPT's
efforts to have the private sector provide improved facilities for handling
containers. This is to be achieved both through construction of a container
terminal on BOT basis, provision of modern second generation mobile quay
cranes together with specialized container and bulk handling and result in
berth occupancy facilities being at an acceptable level of only 63% in 1999/00
even with exceptional imports.
5.    In view of the only limited familiarity with mobile quay cranes in
Pakistan, it would be worthwhile to further quantify their benefits. The
benefits to ship operators from using mobile cranes to handle containers arise
from permitting faster loading/unloading of ships and from being able to use
cheaper gearless container ships instead of geared ships (Annex 3, Table 2).
Sav'ngs are calculated based on the typical container ship currently serving
Pakistan which is operated on a 5 day round trip between Karachi and the Gulf
and loading/unloading 400 TEUs per trip. Annual savings from using 6 mobile
quay cranes equals US$6.3 million less operating costs of US$0.7 million. The
rate of return is estimated to be 32% (Annex 3, Table 3).
B. Liguid Products Marine Terminal (OP-V)
Liuuid Cargo Traffic
6.    Consumption of oil products is expected to continue growing rapidly
during the 1990s because the overall development of Pakistan's economy leads
to rising use of petroleum fuels, and because the acceleration in the power
generation program will lead to a rapid increase in the use of fuel oil as a
result of delays in developing major base-load hydro plants. A 7% p.a. growth
in consumption is projected during the 1990s, somewhat less than the 10% p.a.
growth in the 1980s. Domestic production of crude oil which rose sharply from
0.6 million tons in 1984 to 2.2 million tons in 1988, is expected to stabilize
at about 2.7 million tons per year. With these developments imports of crude
oil and petroleum products are expected to rise from 9 million tons in 1989/90
to 17 million tons in 1999/00. Other liquid products consist primarily of
molasses exports and edible oil imports. Volumes have been on a modest upward
trend during the past 15 years and this is expected to continue resulting in
volumes increasing from 2.3 million tons in 1989/90 to 3.2 million tons in
1999/2000. Total liquid cargo movements are forecast to reach 20 million tons
by 1999/00.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8
Existing Facilities
7.    Pakistan's facilities for the import of liquid products are principally
at Karachi Port.  The 2 major berths are:
OP-IV       built in 1978 for 75,000 DWT tankers.  Equipped with a 30
inch pipe for crude, a 20 inch pipe for fuel oil and, since
December 1987 a 20 inch pipe for diesel and kerosene; and
OP-I        built in 1966 for 35,000 DWT tankers.  Equipped with a 16
inch and a 12 inch multi-product pipelines, a 12 inch
naphtha export pipeline, plus a multitude of other pipes
including those for molasses and edible oils.
8.    There are also two other berths at Karachi (OP-II built in 1910 and OP-
III built in 1955) but both are virtually out of use because of disrepair.
There are also edible oil storage tanks behind West Wharf berths No. 20 and 21
which handle a small volume of edible oil imports and, beginning in 1988/89,
small quantitics of crude oil have been exported from these berths. In
addition, fuel oil for the Bin Qasim Power Station is now being handled at one
of Port Qasim's multi purpose berths; 0.3 million tons was handled in 1989/90
and this is expected to rise to about 1.0 million tons within 2-3 years. The
volume of liquid products handled in recent year was:
Berth               1981/82          1985/86      1989/90
Million of Tons
1.  Karachi       OP-IV                  5.3             4.4          6.3
OP-I                  2.2              3.5          4.5
OP-II                 0.2              0.2          0.2
OP-III                0.2              0.1          0.0
West Wharf            0.2              0.1          0.5
2.  Port Qasim Multi-Purpose Berth        -                           0.3
Total                                    8.1             8.3          11.6
9.    Adjacent to the liquid product berths at Karachi Port are associated
storage and pipeline facilities. The oil storage facilities amounting to
433,000 tons are used not only for transit storage but also for distribution
of imported and locally refined products. Seven handling companies operate
storage facilities at Karachi Port for edible oil and molasses, and their
storage tanks have an aggregate capacity of 550,000 tons. Each company has
separate pipelines for molasses and edible oil from their tanks to OP-I, which
results in OP-I having a very complex system of petroleum product, molasses
and edible oil pipelines. Many of the pipelines are old and in need of repair
which limits the pipeline pressure and hence pumping rates.



- 54 -
ANNEX_ 
Page 4 of 8
New Berth: OP-V
10.   The existing facilities at Karachi have become inadequate to handle
rising liquid cargo volumes. Occupancy levels of OP-IV and OP-I rose from 59X
in 1985/86 to 80X in 1989/90 and are projected to reach 100X in 1993/94 (Annex
3, Table 4). With only two berths, such occupancy levels have resulted in
increased ship waiting times, and demurrage charges are estimated to increase
from US$5 million in 1989/90 to US$25 million in 1993/94. To avoid this, KPT
will construct a new berth, OP-V which would handle 75,000 DWT tankers. The
economic cost of the new berth would be US$24.4 million.
11.   The benefits of the new berth are twofold.  First is the difference
between ship waiting time when the new facility is operating and the waiting
time that would occur if the old facility were handling this level of cargo.
The second benefit is the savings in freight rates of tanker operating costs
since larger tankers could be used with the new berth. The new terminal would
reach its design capacity in about 1999/00 and the level of benefits in that
year are used in the economic evaluation for ths remaining life span of OP-V.
The economic rate of return is calculated to be 70X (Annex 3, Table 5).
C.  Dreduing Craft
12.   KPT undertakes two major types of dredging operations.  First is the
dredging of approach channels and lower harbour to remove the sedimentation
resulting from coastal currents and monsoon. This work is done by a trailing
suction dredger built in 1980, with an average of 350,000 cubic meters of
solids being removed per year.
13.   The second major type of dredging is that of the upper harbour using two
bucket dredgers, both built in 1964. The annual dredging requirements for the
upper harbour are about 600,000 cubic meters of solids. Sedimentation is due
to tidal incursion twice a day in the harbour and debris dropped into the sea
during loading/.-loading of ships. The initial capacity of each of the bucket
dredgers was 300,000 cubic meters per annum (600,000 cubic meters in total),
but due to age, wear and tear, and deterioration, the total volume of dredging
has declined in recent years and was only 236,000 cubic meters in 1989/90
(Annex 3, Table 6). The bucket dredgers are supported by 5 hopper barges
which dispose of dredged spoil in off-shore dumping grounds located about 8 km
south east of the lanora Breakwater. Two barges were built in 1959, one in
1966 and two in 1972.
14.   While the approach channel and lower harbor dredging is currently
satisfactory, the breakdown and repairs to the bucket dredgers and hopper
barges has lead to limited maintenance dredging being carried out in the upper
harbour for considerable periods. Each 100,000 cubic meter of dredging
arrears in the 200 hectares upper harbour area is estimated to result in an
average siltation of about 2 inches. Thus at the current rate of dredging,
siltation of 4-6 inches is occurring per year. The cumulated arrears from
reduced dredging capacity are resulting in reduced depths available at berths
and in the navigable channel. As a result fully loaded vessels are delayed



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 8
since they have to wait for high tide. With projected future arrears, berth
depths could decline by as much as 4 ft. over the next 10 years, seriously
affecting port operations and reducing the size of ships that can use the
harbour.
15.   Additional bucket dredging capacity is also needed for carrying out
capital dredging in the upper harbour including progressive deepening of the
upper harbour navigable channel from 30 ft. to 34 ft. which requires removal
of about 2 million cubic meters. This work would be done in stages over the
next 10 years and would also result in additional maintenance dredging
requirements.  Thus in planning for upper harbour dredging requirements, the
target of 900,000 cubic meters annual capacity for bucket dredging is
specified. The proposed dredging plant to be procured under the project will
consist of a stationary bucket chain dredger, and two hopper barges, at an
estimated cost of US$19.5 million.
16.   The 'without project" costs are basically those which would result from
siltation of the channel and harbor. To assess this accurately would require
a detailed study of the consequences of siltation on ship movements but KPT
has made an approximate evaluation assuming that the reduced dredging
operations with the existing dredgers could be arranged to prevent total
closure of the port. However, as harbor depths decline, ships would have to
wait for high tide to enter and leave port. The benefit of fully meeting
dredging requirements would be to eliminate these increased waiting times and
their associated costs in ship time and berth occupancy.Y Additional savings
would also result from higher efficiency in dredging, reduction in personnel
on the dredger and normal maintenance costs incurred in using a new dredger
rather than the existing 25 year old equipment. The approximate ERR was
estimated to be 29% (Annex 3, Table 7).
D. Jinnah Bridge Phase II
17.   Karachi's current populacion of about 9 million is expected to reach 15
million by the year 2000. At present there are relatively few motor vehicles
(500,000 in 1986) for a city of this size, but rapid motorization stimulated
by economic growth is leading to annual traffic volume increases exceeding 7%
in the central developed portion of the urbanized area. Although the private
passenger vehicle fleet has been increasing at 7-8% per year, over 80% of
trips ara still made by public transportation, consisting of numerous
11    Benefits are calculated assuming that without dredging, all dry cargo
ships would have to wait an average of 6 additional hours to enter and
leave harbor while 10% of ships would also miss one tide. In addition
berths would be occupied for three additional hours per ship and 10% of
ships would occupy berths for an additional 12 hours. The annualized
cost of a berth is estimated to be US$2.2 million per year or US$6250
per day. The number of ships is projected to grow bv 2% per year, and
the cost of a ship averages about US$8,000 per day. Full benefits from
the new dredger are assumed to take 2 years before the backlog is
eliminated.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 8
privately owned bus companies. The existing urban transportation
infrastructure is inadequate to handle existing and expected future travel
demand.
18.   The PoxL. of Karachi is not only a major generator of traffic, but is
also located at a central point of the city road system. The road network
surrounding the port is expected to be used by 118,000 daily vehicle trips in
the year 2012, of which two thirds will be originating in or destined for the
Port. Moreover the landside access of the East Wharf area, which generates
approximately 30,000 daily vehicle trips (one third are trucks), is
complicated because this part of the port is located on Keamari Island. A
bridge, built in 1862 and known as the Napier Mole Road Bridge, focused
landside traffic on a single point on the mainland, leading to a concentration
of port related services around the mainland approaches to the bridge. Rail
access to the East Wharf is provided via a parallel bridge, and the road
traffic must cross the rail line to the port and the suburban circular line
before connecting to the rest of the urban road system.
19.   The physical deterioration of the original bridge and the congestion
affecting port traffic, led KPT and KDA to propose the Southern Bypass scheme
in the early 1970s. The scheme would provide improved access to local and
upcountry destinations for port-generated traffic and would also facilitate
cross-city movement of interurban traffic between residential, commercial and
industrial areas in Karachi. The center section of the Southern Bypass, known
as the Jinnah Bridge project, links Keamari and the center of Karachi city in
the north/south direction, and links M.T. Khan Road on the east with Mauripur
Road on the west. The western section, known as the Mauripur Road Improvement
scheme, would connect the Jinnah Bridge Project with the Super-Highway and RCD
Highway, while the eastern part of the Bypass would connect M.T. Khan Road
with the National Highway east of Karachi.
20.   Phase I of the Jinnah Bridge project was completed in 1982 and comprised
the replacement of the Napier Mole Road Bridge. Phase II is to provide a
modern intersection between the north/south port-city link and the east/west
southern bypass. The possible design configurations are highly constrained
because of (i) the railway line dividing the Jinnah Bridge and M.T. Khan Road
from the other roads; ii) the development of adjoining land; and (iii) the
need to preserve rail access to various locations.
21.   Extensive traffic counts, speed studies and roadside origin-destination
(OD) interviews were undertaken to determine travel patterns in the area of
the proposed improvements.  This comprises a sub-*ietwork of arterial and local
streets shown in Map IBRD 21185 and includes Jinnah Bridge, M.T. Khan Road,
M.A. Jinnah Road, Chundrigar Road, Aga Khan Road, West Wharf Road, Aduljee
Dinshaw Road, G. Alana Road, Dockyard Road and Mauripur Road. Whereas the
1971 OD survey conducted for Phase I preparation, found that a high proportion
of traffic entering the intersection was turning traffic, the 1988 OD survey
indicated that there had been a substantial increase in the proportion of
traffic moving directly across the intersection, reflecting in part, the
growth in non-port related urban traffic. Also a significant amount of other



- 57 -
ANNEX3
Page 7 of 8
urban traffic would divert to the new facility once it and the remainder of
the Southern Bypass is constructed because of the improved connection it will
offer between various parts of the city. Additional through traffic is also
likely once the Northern Bypass linking the Super-highway with the west end of
the Mauripur Road is completed. Planning for the Bypass is now well advanced.
The Mauripur Road had been severely congested but KDA has carried out interim
measures to improve the road. Also KPT will be the executing agency for KDA
for a project to upgrade the road to Southern Bypass standards.
22.   A capacity evaluation was made of continuing with the existing road
system plus three scenarios consisting of combinations of the following items:
(i) an elevated roundabout over the railway at the mainland approach to the
Jinnah Bridge linking it with the M.T. Khan Road and with the
Jinnah/Chundrigar Roads; (ii) a flyover to Mauripur Road; (iii) traffic
management on city streets close to the Jinnah/Chundrigar Road intersection,
which would be feasible once the roundabout and flyover are in place, and
would reverse the direction of flow on Aduljee Dinshaw, Agha Khan and G.
Allana streets; and (iv) two lane overpass (1 lane in each direction) over the
roundabout to allow traffic to go directly from M.T. Khan Road to the Mauripur
Road flyover without using the roundabout. The scenarios were:
-  Scenario 0:  do nothing;
-  Scenario 1:  roundabout and flyover;
- Scenario 2:  roundabout, flyover and traffic management;
- Scenario 3:  roundabout, flyover, overpass and traffic management.
23.   The methodology for analyzing the scenarios was to assign the origin-
destination matrix to the individual links of the sub-network. The analysis
also included as input, the link length, number of lanes, capacity, and
turning movement impedance. The shortest paths for each pair of origin and
destination points were calculated and vehicles assigned to paths in
proportion to the travel time. The type, volume and the average speed were
calculated for each individual link. This program was run without "capacity
restraint", i.e. vehicle trips were assigned to a link even if the total
volume thus assigned exceeded the traffic capacity of that link. When the
assigned volume exceeds capacity, the model arbitrarily computed link speed as
one half the speed at capacity. The model treated each link independently
without making allowances for the effects of bottlenecks on upstream or
downstream links. The lack of capacity restraint is acceptable, but the
interpretation of results requires care. When a bottleneck occurs in a
traffic system, queues develop which eventually can block upstream
intersections and adversely affect other links. When the model predicts that
a particular link becomes "saturated" (volume reaching or exceeding capacity),
then all upstream links are assumed to be similarly affected. Due to the lack
of alternative paths withir. the sub-network, the occurrence of a single
saturated link would lead to the saturation of all upstream links and hence
the complete breakdown of traffic flow on the entire system, including the
proposed facilities. The minimum threshold for an acceptable design is



- 58 -
Page 8 of 8
therefore to avoid any links becoming saturated.
24.   The assignment model was run for the years 1992 and 2012, and the
results are summarized in Annex 3, Table 8. Under the do nothing scenario, 10
links would be saturated by 1992 and average travel time would exceed 13
minutes. Under scenario 1, construction of the roundabout and flyover would
reduce the number of saturated links to only 3, but these effects would spill
back to the roundabout and choke its operation. The addition of traffic
management would result in a satisfactory situation in 1992 and reduce average
travel time to 3.5 minutes. However by 2012 the Jinnah Bridge approach to the
roundabout would be saturated. The addition of the 2-lane overpass (Scenario
3) would reduce the volume of traffic and eliminate the saturated link.
Accordingly, the civil works have been designed to construct the roundabout
and flyover together with a common foundation for the overpass that would be
needed if the projected increase in traffic volume materializes.
25.   The economic benefits of the project compared with the without project
case are the savings in vehicle operating costs and cargo and passenger value
resulting from the reduction in time from traffic negotiating the intersection
together with reduced traffic accidents.  Economic analysis indicates a rate
of return of 20X (Annex 3, Table 9).  The analysis used a 4% annual growth in
traffic but while 4% may be realistic for the growth in port traffic, urban
traffic in the central area of Karachi has been growing at 7% per annum. With
the completion of the Mauripur road improvement project and the Northern
Bypass in the late 1990s, a rapid growth in non port-generated traffic is very
likely. The economic analysis therefore is likely to have understated the
project benefits.



5 59 -
ANNX 4
Page 1 of 2
PAKISIAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
AssumMtiQns Made in Preparing Financial Forecasts
A. General
1.          The financial projections in current prices cover the six-year
period 1990/91 - 1995/96. These projections account for increases in traffic
throughput, assume tariff increases, as well as some reduction in the growth
rates of working expenses due to improvements envisaged under the proposed
project.
B. Revenues
2.          Traffic increases of 5% p.a. based on traffic forecast and in line
with the past traffic growth have been assumed. Tariff increases effective
July 1 of each fiscal year have been assumed across the Board as follows:
Fiscal Year              1991I92  1992193  1993/94   1994/95    1995/96
Tariff Increases           45X      15X       15       10%          10
3.          The tariff adjustments used in the forecasts are not proposals,
but indicators of the order of magnitude of the adjustments that would be
necessary. In fact, KPT recently implemented a 551 increase for 1991/92 which
is not reflected in the financial forecast, but will significantly strengthen
the financial results. Each fiscal year starting FY93 tariff increases
required will be determined on the basis of KPT's cost of inputs, inflation
and necessary cash generation to finance its capital expenditure. This will
be done in agreement between GOP/KPT and the Bank.
C. Operating Expenses
4.          (a)   Labor costs ar3 projected to increase by 151 p.a. due to
pressure from GOP for KPT not to reduce its labor force.
Despite this KPT expects to decrease the growth rate to 151
p.a. compared with 17.51 p.a. over the past few years;
(b)   Maintenance and repair costs are assumed to increase by 151
p.a. (past 12.91 p.a.) as KPT intends to increase its
emphasis on maintenance to arrest deterioration of its
assets.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
(c)   Materials and supplies and administration cost8 are
projected to increase by 10X p.a., because of planned
restructuring of KPT's organization and new initiatives
under the proposed project such as computerization;
(d)   Depreciation figures on a historlcal cost basis were
provided by KPT The Bank staff provided for additional
depreciation charges based on revalued (estimate) fixed
assets. The following rates were used: (i) buildings and
structures -- 3X p.a.; and (ii) plant and equipment --
between 5 and 10X, which are consistent with the recent
past (1984/85 to 1989/90).
D. Intexest Charges
5.          Forecasts assume an interest rate of 14X p.a., however, the
proceeds of the Bank loan to GOP will be on-lent to KPT at the same rate
charged by the Bank to GOP plus the foreign exchange premium charged by the
State Bank of Pakistan (at present the foreign exchange premium is 5.5% p.a.).
The term of the loan is assumed to be for a period of 20 years, including 5-
year grace period. These terms are reflected in the forecasts.
E. Capital Expenditure
6.          The sources and applications of funds forecast were determined on
the basis of the investment program shown in Table 5.7. For the Jinnah Bridge
component the GOP will contribute the foreign costs and KPT the local costs.
These are reflected in the forecasts.
F. Balance Sheet
7.          The new capital expenditure 1990/91 - 1995/96 has been grouped
under work-in-progress with the exception of renewals and replacements. Those
assets which have been completed and put into service have been transferred
from work-in-progress to respective fixed asset category in 1994/95. Fixed
assets at historical cost have been revalued (estimated) using appropriate
domestic and international price indices. A formal. revaluation exercise is to
be conducted uider the project.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
PAKI3TAN
STAFF APP.AISAL REPORT
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LESSONS LEARNED FROM PORTS III AND PORTS IV PROJECTS
With a view to improving implementation of the proposed project, problem areas
in the execution of Karachi Port III and IV Projects were identified and appropriate
measures proposed to prevent their recurrence, and are listed below:
Problems which Arose in                    Suggested Preventive Measures
Ports III & IV                              Under the Proposed Project
(a)   A Domestic firm with no previous       In the prequalification criteria,
experience and know-how was            experience will be rigorously
prequalified in joint venture          applied.
with a foreign firm (as a result
of political pressure).
(b)   High cost over-run due to              Tendering process to be
unforeseen international               accelerated by opening bids
price escalation, forced to            for major civil works
make up required additional            contracted before loan
funds through bilateral aid            effectiveness.
or barter arrangements.
(c)   Staff promoted to new positions        Proper job specifications
without appropriate qualifica-         will be established and
tions, and experience.                 adhered to.
(d)   Traditional cargo handling             Under the project, appro-
equipment continued with only          riate equipment is to
small scale mechanization.             be procured to improve
productivity.
(e)   The appointment of five general        This problem will be
managers did not make worthwhile       addressed under the KPT
differences in decentralizing          Institutional
managerial powers.                     Strengthening Stu4y.
(f)   Audit of accounts was on the           Backlog has been cleared
average 24 months in arrears.          and with submission of
1989/90 audit by June 30,
199'. KPT audits will be
up-tto-date.



- 62 -
ANNE% 6
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LIST OF PROJECT FILE DOCUMENTS
A.     Selected Regorts and Studies Related to Project
A.1 Transport Secr:or Report (Issues and Options in the Transport
Sector), May 1987.
A.2   Transport Strategy Paper, September 1988.
B.     Information on Prolect ImRIementation
3.1   Technical Assistance in Modern Cargo Handling Equipment - TOR
B.2   Technical Assistance in Modern Maintenance of Cargo Handling
Equipment - TOR
B.3   KPTVs Second Stage Computerization and Institutional Strengthening
Study - TOR
B.4   Port Sub-Sector Strategy and Port Subsector Tariff Study - TOR
B.5   Rationalization of Pipelines Study - TOR
B.6   International Trade Facilitation Workshop Recommendations
C.     Selected Information Obtained for KPT
C.A   P.C.-1 Form for Liquid Products Marine Terminal.
C.2   Bucket Dredger with Pusher Tug and Hooper Burges Feasibility
Report.
C.3   Detailed Report on Operational Aspects Relating to the Port of
Karachi.
C.4   Computerization Requirement in Karachi Port.



- 63 -
ANNEYX 6
Page 2 of 2
C.5   Back-to-Office Report on Trade Facilitation.
C.6   Detailed Report on Repair of Cargo Handling Equipment.
C.7   Karachi Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment).
C.8   Compedium of Bylaws Karachi Dock Labour Board.
C.9   KPT Year Book 85/86.
C.10 KPT Management of Container Terminal Operations.
C.11 Karachi Port Trust Act 1986.
C.12 Karachi Port Trust Staff College Training Courses 1987.



PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT M0DERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Domestic Freight and Passenner Traffic. 1971/72 - 1987/88
1971/72                        1982/83                   1987/88                     Averaae X Amual Growth
Item            bitlion       bilLion       billion     billion       bitlion       billion       1971/72-1987/88  1982/83-1987/88
ton-kms       pass-kis      ton-kms     pass-kits    ton-kms        pass-kms      Freight  Pass.  Freight  Pass.
Rail           7.8  (492)    9.5  (212)    7.5  (25X)  16.5  (17X)   7.8  (192)   17.0  (13X)    0.0       3.7      0.1     0.1
Road           8.0  (51)   36.5  (79X)   21.2  (702)  79.5  (822)   1.7  (77X)  110.7 (852)    9.0        7.2      8.4     6.8
Air             -   -        0.3  (02)     -    -        1.3  (12)     -    -       2.2  (22)      -       13.3      -      14.9
Pipeline        -                          1.6  (         -     . -    7  (4         *-                             1.2      -
Total         15.8 t100X)   4SL tl00X)  30.3 (100j,   97  (100X) 41.2 (1002)  129.9 LQ           6.2     _6. 7     6.4     5.9
Source: Data supplied by GOP
~~WL1 



- 65 -
TABLE 2. 1
pAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISA REPORT
KARACHI PORT NODERNIZATION PROJ-ECT,
Trends in Cargo Handled Through Pakistan Ports. 1947/48 - 1989/20
and Forecast for the Year 2000
(millions of tons)
Imports             ExIorts               Total
Dry      Liquid      Dry      Liquid     Dry      Liquid
Year         Cargo      Cargo     Cargo    Cargo       Cargo     Cargo
Trend
1947/48       0.8        0.4       1.0        -         1.8       0.4
1960/61       2.6        1.4       1.0        -         3.6       1.4
1970/71       2.7        3.5       2.6       0.6        5.3       4.1
1977/78*      3.9        5.0       1.6       1.2        5.5       6.2
1978/79*      6.5        5.4       1.7       1.3        8.2       6.7
1979/80*      5.2        6.0       2.1       1.3        7.3       7.3
1980/81       5.2        6.2       2.4       1.3        7.6       7.5
1985/86       8.3        7.3       3.7       1.0       12.0       8.3
1986/87       8.1        7.8       3.6       0.7       11.7       8.5
1987/88       8.3        8.9       3.2       1.0       11.5       9.9
1988/89       9.5        9.1       3.3       1.1       12.8      10.2
1989/90       9.7      1.0.1       3.0       1.5       12.7      11.6
Eo-recast
1999/2000    11.7       18.4       5.7       1.7       17.4      20.1
* Congestion period.
SOURCE: Data supplied by GOP and mission estimates.



KARACHI PORT NOOERNIZATIOI PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Se borne Caa3o 1975/76- 1999/2000
(thousands of tons)
Actual                                                      Forecast
1975/76         1978119       IS85/6       1986/87     1987/88       1988/89        1989190             199912000
1. mtla
Wy Cargo
lWhet                                  1.450           2.161          1.949         468         580         2,354           2.126             7I0
Sugar                                     30               10          268          771         323            27             179             200
Cement                                     -             630           217           18          12            24               3             400
Rock Phosphate                            35              136          225          238         251           263             271             600
fertilizer                               324            1.400          456        1,024       1.044           782           1.067            1.000
Iran and Steel Strap                    402              463           602          774       1.122           778            609              800
Iron Ore                                   -               -         1.303        1.378       1.505         1.389           I.547           1.900
Coal                                       6              21          8aS           941          o10          910           1.024            1,350
Other Dry Cargo                        1.2.367                                     !501                                    U2 a30           4.900
Total                              3,                      N78.24O                          6.539    8 12,S22 9,           NS      8     11.I0O
Liquid Cargo                                                                                                                                                         a%
Crude Oil                              2.962           3.919         3.726        3,715       3,841         3,571           3,507         )16,500
POi                                      305           1.035         2.614        3.265       3.991         4,S39           S.438
Idibe Oil sad Tellow                     19;5            49             2ic       -W          8.853                         I.IS             1.90
toel3,962       5.448          .29S        r4
2. Emorts
Dry cargo
Cotton                                   785             363           512          492         397           600             212              600
Cotton Tarn                               83               9            55          138          110           00              51              200
Rice                                     198           1.008          1.321       1.239       1.203           688             636           1I500
Fertilizer                                 3               3           379            '           '            10
CowOung O-                                                              90          196         156           162             717             200
Other Dry Cargo                           81247 1.3                           1 0              UN 1.      7 3.2
Total                                1              1,M1          3,84         3,569       3,1T6         3,2S2          2,996            S,100
Liquid Care-
Crude Oli                                  -               -             -            -           -           135            259              300
POL                                      376             881           258          211         264            82   ,         142             100
molasses                                 1               416           UI           A         .50           5169            LS
Total                                 502           1.297           994         684        1014           E073           .S36           1T6S0
3. lot I
Ory Cargoes                              5.459           8.280        12.041       11.689      11.515        12.774          12.654          17.400
LiquId Cargoos                           4.464           6. 745        8.289        8,483       9.867        10.107          11.636          20.050
Source: Data Suptiid by GOP and mission estimates.



- 67 -
TABLE 2.3
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Drv Careo Sglit betwsen Karachi and Osaim. 1978/79-1989/90
(milllons of tons)
Karachi                        Oasim
General    Bulk  Total         Bulk   Iron Ore/Coal  Total
1978/79           2.8        5.4   8.2           -            -          -
1979/80           3.4        4.0   7.4           -            -
1980/81           3.6        3.7   7.3           -            0.4        0.4
1981/82           3.8        3.1   6.9          0.2           1.2        1.4
1982/83          4.0         2.7   6.7          0.4           1.3        1.7
1983/84          4.5         2.2   6.7          1.6           1.3        2.9
1984/85          4.1         2.5   6.6          1.1           1.9        3.0
1985/86           5.0        2.5   7.5          2.2           2.2       4.4
1986/87          4.8         3.0   7.8          1.6           2.3        3.9
1987/88           5.0        2.8   7.8          1.4           2.3        3.7
1988/89           5.8        1.8   7.6          2.8           2.3        5.1
1989/90           5.5        2.2   7.7          2.4 #         2.6        5.0
W' In 1989/90 Port Qasim also handled 0.3 million tons of fuel oil lmports.
Source: Data Supplied by GOP and staff estimates
KPV



KARAChI PU  fINMtRhIZATIOU IMM!
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KPT 8erth 12Ej2nM  $tatiltcs. 1941U75-198910
lesra Crp   Mps                                       Bulk Ships                              ull Tankers
Average  Avera     tot)    Carp                Average  verage   Total   Cergo            Average Average p  otal   Cargo
ISo. of Walt'ng  Service  Turmrowud Tonnage/   No. of  Vetting Service Tarnaround Tonnae/  No. of Vatting Service Turnaround Toanagej
Ships    rim riT          Tbr      Vse        Ships     Tim    Time    Tim      vessel    Shbps    Tim    Tim      T1u    Vessel
1974/15   1.143    79.4   222.3   301.7      2.695       268    137.0   171.0   308.0   11.042    223       68.0   71.0   137.0   20,733
1975/76    974    161.3   215.S  362.8    2.M98          196    176.0   232.5   408.5   13,459    m         49.8   63.9   113.7   20.111
1976/77    994    213.5   244.8   458.3    2.883         13t    330.0   319.6   649.6   14.809    232       40.8   66.9   107.7   20,627
19771/78   1.086    224.6   21S.2   439.8    2.697        122    260.2   223.0    483.2   21,526    263     66.?   63.2   131.9   23.582
1978/79   1OSI    239.0    194.1  433.1    2.687        249    448.8  191.6   646.4   21.913    281        38.1    59.5    97.6   24.002
1979/80   1.000    127.1    169.1   298.2    3.351       2W3    1689.9   181.5   351.4   17.746    295      45.4   58.3   103.7   24,915                    OD
198018t   1.033    31.9    137.8   169.7    3.472        227     54.9   156.0   220.9   16.869    273       34.3   48.a    83.1   27.343
1981/82   1.285    36.7    103.6  140.3    3.015         230    110.2   15B.S   268.7   13.573    276       29.4    53.8    83.2   29.716
1982/83   1.279    41.3    107.4   148.7    3.151        161    123.2   220.6   343.8   16.641    296       33.7    51.1    84.8   27.290
1983/84   1.298    30.7    104.4   135.1    3,434         110    150.6   221.5   372.1   20.313    280      30.?   48.3    79.0   28.805
2934/85   1.218    15.2    86.9   102.1    3.392         135    108.6  262.9    371.5   18,828    296       33.4   44.4    77.8   27,783
19&8/86   1.383    16.1    79.9   98.0       3.616       132     63.6   257.1   3ZO.7   19.165    313       37.0   44.7    81.7    26,450
1986/87   1.397    19.2    73.4   92.0    3.459          204     89.9   257.7    347.6   14,658    321      40.0   43.1    83.7   26.428
t981/88   1.337    17.9    79.0   96.9    3.774          220     95.8   279.3    375.1   12.756    344      38.5   43.t    82.1   28.681
198889   1.382     22.7    87.1   109.8    4.218         141     64.7   311.2    3?5.9   13,244    349      35.2   42.1    77.3   29.130
1989/90   1.444    40.2    75.1   115.4    3.824         130    121.8  301.8   423.6   17.349    366        45.7   40.1    8U.4   30.667
____________________ __________-___   ---      -------------------_   - ---- -___________________--------------------
Source: Data Supplied by KWT.
#F|Q4



- 69 -
TABLE 2.5
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OccuRancy Rate for Drv Cargo Berths in Karachi. 1978/79 - 1989/90 L
(percentage)
1978/79                        120
1979/80                        100
1980/81                         86
1981/82                         80
1982/83                         70
1983/84                         65
1984/85                         58
1985/86                         59
1986/87                         63
1987/88                         73
1988/89                         72
1989/90                         65
La    Based on 24 berths up to 1981/82, 28 berths from 1982/83 to 1986/87, and
26 berths from 1987/88 onwards. In 1987, the areas behind 2 berths
collapsed making them unfit for handling cargoes.
KPMP25



- 70 -
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Dry Cargo Berth Occuiancv. 198/o90-1999/2000
Tons Handled           Total
Tonnage            per Ship                Service
('000 tonsl         Service Hour           Hours
A.  Excitini  Hgndling Facilities (33 berths)
1989/90
Containers                3,421              115.4                 29,645
Breakbulk                 2,101               26.7                 78,689
Bulk                     i4.51                57.2                 79.738
Total                 10,083                                    188,072
Berth Occupancy                                                        65X
1999/2000 PJ
Containers                6,750              115.4                 58,492
Breakbulk                 2,250               26.7                 84,270
Bulk g                    5.150               57.2                 90.Q35
Total                 14,150                                    232,797
Berth Occupancy                                                       811
(with 2 million tons extra of bulk cargo)                           (932)
B.  Imoroved Handling
199912QQQ
Containers                6,750               230 2                29,348
Breakbulk                 1,125               26.7                 42,135
1,125               53.4 d/              21,067
Bulk                      3,150               57.2                 55,070
2.00               114.4 W               17,483
Total                 14,150                                    165,103
Berth Occupancy                                                       572
(with 2 million tons extra of bulk)                                 (632)
Source: Staff estimates
A/    In 1999/2000 PQA lill be using 1 berth for handling 1 mitlion tons of fuetl oil, requirig about 1450
hr.. of service time.
W     Excluding bulk Iron ore and coal which is handled at a specialized berth at Port Qasim.
c/    Hndling rate assiumed to double with use of modern quay cranes ard dedicated container terminal.
gi    Approximtely 501 of break bulk corgoes assuaed to be multi-unitfaed with doating of handling rate.
Al    2 million tons assued to be handled with specialized buLk equlpment yielding doubtle the
handling.rate.



- 71 -
TILE 2. 7
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Oil Berth Occupancy. 1985/86-1999/2000
1985/86     1989/90     1993/94      1999/00
1. Existing Facilities
Total Liquid Cargo
(million tons)                   8.3        11.6         14.5         .0.1
Handled at OPI, OPVI
(million tons)                   7.9        10.8         13.1         18.7
Berth Occupancy X                   59         80           100 I        143 1/
2. New Facilities
Handled at OPI, OPIV, OPV
(million tons)                    ..          ..         13.1         18.7
Berth Occupancy                      .40W                                 57W
A/  Calculated on basis of average cargo handled of 33,000 tons per ship and average
service time 44 hours.
/ Calculated on basis of average cargo handled of 45,000 tons per ship and average
service time of 36 hours.
KPMP2.7



PAKISTAN
LARACI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Sixth and Se_venth Ptan Port Investment Prmora
CRs mittion)
Sixth Ptan                   Seventh Plan               Armuat Devetooment Proaram
(1983/84-1987/88)              C 1988/89-1992/93)           1988/89 1989/90 1990/91
Allocation    UtiLization                ALlocation                 Actual    Allocation
Karachi Port            1,570              300                   1,340  a                 34      120     320
Port Uasim              1,358              780                     772L/b                 12       60      S
Gwadar Nini Harbor        326               79                     407                    37      400     400
Total                3&25                                     2 51958                                  752
Source: Seventh Plan Document, GOP ArmuaL Development Program, and KPT.
/a  Consists of container terminal., Rs 500 million; olt berth Rs 240 million; dredger, Rs 200 million; aid iqwoved cargo handting equipment; Rs
400 million.
/b  Consists of dredger, Rs 407; oil termfnal, Rs 150 miLtion; and miscellaneous onging work to complete the port facilities, Rs 215 million.
KPMP"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 73 -
TABLE 3.1
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Rupee  Million --.-          USS Millton .-
Description                             Local  Foreign    Totat    Local  Foreign    Total
...... ...........  ....... .......     ..........  ...........    .....  .......  .......    .......... ..
A. Civil Works
a) Marine Olt Products Term.(OP.V) /a   126.0   344.3    470.3        5.6     15.3     20.9
b) Jlinnah Bridge Phase II              382.5    571.5   954.0       17.0     25.4     42.4
c) Reconst. of Quayside Pavement. /c    315.0       0.0    315.0     14.0      0.0     14.0
d) Keamari Groyne Access Road            33.8       0.0    33.8       1.5      0.0       1.5
.... . .... ... ..... ......................... ... .... ..
Sub-Total    857.3    915.8  1,773.0    38.1       40.7     78.8
8. Equipment
a) Dredging plant                         0.0   438.8    438.8        0.0     19.5     19.5
b) Equipment for environmental protec     0.0      31.5     31.5      0.0      1.4      1.4
c) Computers, software & hardware /d      0.0    56.3       56.3      0.0      2.5      2.5
d) Radar                                   0.0     33.8     33.8      0.0      1.5       1.5
e) Spare Parts                            0.0      22.5     22.5      0.0      1.0      1.0
............ .. ........  .... i. ..    .....    ...... .....   ...........    .....
Sub-Total      0.0    582.8    582.8      0.0      25.9     25.9
C. Consultants
a) PPF                                    0.0    33.8       33.8      0.0      1.5       1.5
b) Retroactive Financing   /e              0.0    92.2      92.2      0.0      4.1      4.1
c) Local Costs                            9.0       0.0      9.0      0.4      0.0      0.4
d) Construction Supervision               22.5     63.0     85.5      1.0      2.8      3.8
e) Studies                                13.5    45.0    58.5        0.6      2.0      2.6
f) Technical Assistance                   5.2      11.3    16.4       0.2      0.5      0.7
g) Training                               4.1    20.3       24.3      0.2      0.9       1.1
.....    ..... . . .....   .....  . .... .....  .......... .. .... .. .... ..
Sub-Total     54.2    265.5    319.7      2.4      11.8     14.2
Total Base Cost  /f                     911.5  1,764.0  2,675.5      40.5     78.4    118.9
Physical Contingencies                   85.5    132.8   218.3        3.8      5.9      9.7
Price Contingencies                      166.5   159.8   326.3        7.4      7.1      14.5
... ........    .......    ....... . ... ..... .   ..... . .... ..... ...............
TOTAL COST  1,163.5  2,056.5  3,220.0     51.7      91.4    143.1
.......  ....  ......    .. .     ...      ...
/a.Including Outfitting Pier and Crane Pier & skimer, of the total amount USS3.5
militon is proposed to be financed on retroactive basis from the loan (C,b).
/b.Except for equipment, the cost estimate for remaining items Includes taxes and
duties.
/c.total number of quay-side aprons to be rebultt will depend on the speed of
fmplementatfon of the Pilot Project. Cost estimate indicated here refers to a total
of 8 quay lngths which is the maximum number of aprons that could be rebuild within
project execution period.
/d.cost estimate for computer is indicative, as It depends on the softwarx to be
selected on the basis on which hardware will be procured.
/e.Retroactive financing includes USS 3.5 million for OP-V and uSS .6 million to
consultants payments for work done.
/f.Base costs are as of 1989-90.
/g.10 on civil works and 5 on equipment.
/h.AppLied to base cost and physical contingencies using inflation rates provided by EMICO.
Year:      1991-92   1992-93   1993M94   1994.95   1995-96
Local:       9.0       6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0
Forefgn:    6.4        2.3       1.5       2.3       3.0
Source: KPT/Staff Estimates
Date:    Decembar 1990



- 74 -
TAABLE 3.2
KtARACHI PORT MOKNAIWPROJ!CT
EST!H!   Scan!    DISDT
IE   Final Towt a                   ...... uS NItls .......
More , W(no                         MA*W            0C't. v..
Sapwer 1991                          6.0              6.0
a.~er 1991                           2.9               S.9
March 1992                           3.0              11.9
Jw   1992                            3.0              14.9
5eptafer 1992                        3.0              17.9
Ateceche 199                        13.8              31.7
March  93                           10.3              '2.0
JUN 1I9                              5.4              50.4
Sepuawr 199                          6.?              57.1
oe ee  1993                          6.6              6.7
March 1994                           6.6              70.3
-i 199                               6.7              77.0
SeI:MIe 1994                         3.7              80.7
o@aer 1994                           3.7              54.4
arch 199                             2.3              u.r
Jam  199                             2.3               9.0
FM91
Septeiser 199                        2.4              91.4



PAKISTAN
KARACNI PRIT NODERfIZATION PROJECT
EVEIlE AM) EXPEIIDITURE ACCOUNTS FR THE PERIOD 194105 - 1969/90
(figures in Current Rs Nillion)
194/85      1985/86        1986/87         1987/U        198            19/90
Total Traffic - nilltin Ton                            14.9         15.8           16.3            17.7           17.9            19.0
OPERATING REVEIES:
Cargo Handling                                254.3        278.0           302.1          379.1           496.0           509.3
Cargo Storage                                 249.1        183.1           206.0          285.8           373.4          434.6
Ship Novemt & Services                        134.6        145.6           157.2          189.4           305.S          357.1
Property Nwagemt                                41068                       du             02L1 all 9
Total Operating Revenus                       742.7        713.5         ?E.3             919.3         1,231.5         1.397.?
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Personnel Cost                                357.3        391.0          478.0           475.9           672.0          1101.5                              I
operating Material & SLpias                   151.0        175.0           195.4          194.6           207.2          248.?
Repairs A NaIntenaie                           33.8         32.5           37.0            27.6            50.1           42.0
Administrative Overhead                        ZLI          EJ              ,.              l!             L              Au
SU TOTAL                              571.0        63.3            734.6          738.0           963.8         1,172.2
Depreciation
Jww 30                                        .21.!         ft.           12Ll            JIiiJa                         J
Total Operating Expenses                      668.0        733.1          837.7           843.4         1,09M.4        1,302.2
MET OPERATING INCOHE/(LOSS)                            74.7        (19.6)         (87.4)           7S.9          133.3            95.s
39-OPEefATING ITEIS:
Intercst - Existing Lomns
June 3                                         45.9         68.6           68.7            84.1           ss.A            ".0
Other Debits                                  118.2        129.2          126.8            45.8           148.2            5.2
Other Credits                                 (68.6)       (5S.31                         (40,6) I  &LILU
NET                                            955".5 A    IHL                             &-a           J.               lii
NET IllCOE/(LOSS)                                     (20.8)      (162.1)        (245.8)         (13.4)          (14.4)           71.1
Source: EPT
Date : iIemeer 1990
ItMVPU9B6



PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT NODERNIZATlO1 PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET
YEAR ENDING JIUNE 30
(Figures in Current Rs Miltlion)
A_C T U A L                                   P-ROISIONAL
ASSETS                                    1984/85        1985/86         1986/87         1987/88        1988/89         19S9/90
CURET SSET:
Cash                                        166.7          154.4            42.2           55.3            59.7           75.6
Accoant Reoeivable Trade                    140.6          174.1           186.6           175.3          203.1           235.4
Advance dbposit Z Other Receivable          258.5          288.9           318.6           369.9          422.9           412.2
Inventory (Stores)                          126.5          156.4           156.4           173.3          196.3           198.1
other Investwr-                             422.9                                                         434.3
TOTJJ OURET ASSETS                ~.115.2                        1,056.2         1. 000.2        1,119.3        1,316.3          1,348.2
FIXED ASSETS - HlSTORCALb:
Land                                         14.9           14.9            14.9            14.9           14.9            14.9
Buitding & Structures                     1,738.6         1,799.0        1,834.3         !,849.4        1,056.6         1,958.8
Plants 1 Equipjent                          619.3           MA                                           . 86  94103.2  1.116,4
SUB TOTAL                         2,572.8         2,668.9        2,731.8         2,773.7         2,974.7        3,090.1
Less: Accuwlated Deprecfation               713.3                                       JJ3. M14.3  1.017.  l.t32.3     1L262.3
MET                               1,859.5         1,856.8        1,817.5         1,756.0         1,842.4        1,82T.8
Work-in-Progres - Project                   149.5          215.0           218.1           214.9           29.9            34.2
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                                2,009.0        2,071.8         2,035.6         1,970.9        1,872.3         1,862.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                      3,124.2        3,128.0         3,035.8        3,090.2         3,188.6         3,210.2                            ON
LlABtLITIES A EQUITY
CURERT LIABILITIES
Accounts payablo                            294.1          m.3             329.6          353.1           318.8           317.2
Others                                       85.0           94.6           120.0           156.5          163.9           190.3
Current Poitifn of Long Ters Debt.           40.5           52.4            73.9           85.0            46.7            38.9
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                          419.6           439.3           523.5          S94.6           529.4          546.4
Non Current Liabilities
Existing Foreign Debt*                      664.1          746.8           768.6          736.0           805.1           726.2
Ewployees Wetfare Fwd                       239.4          27m.4          3!3.2           375.2            84.1           496.5
TOTAL NM0 - CIURENT LIABILITIES                    883.5         1,025.2         1,091.8         1,111.2        1,289.2         1,222.7
EQUITY:
Capital Furd                                 0.5             0.5             0.5            0.5             0.5            0.5
Capital Reserves                             45.7           48.9            51.4           55.3            55.3           55.3
Revenue Reserves                            884.6          884.6           884.6          884.5           84.4            84.4
Retained Earnings                           890.3          729.5           484.0          444.1           429.8           500.9
TOTAL EQUITY                                      1,821.1        1,663.5         1,420.5        1,384.4         1,370.0        1,441.1
TOTAL LIA8ILITI'IL & EQUITY                      3,124.2         3,128.0         3,035.8        3,090.2         3,138.6         3,210.2
Current Ratio                                        2.7             2.4             1.9            1.9             2.5            2.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                                  35/65           45/55          54/46           53/47          59/41           50/50                         .
F foreign debt revalued each year based on exchange rates existing as of Jure 30 of each year.
Source: KPT
Date : Decenber 1990
U\MAVr.O



KARACHI POUT NoSERUIzATIoN PROJEtT
K.P.T. COST ALLOCATIO  TO REVENNE PRUUCINO ACTlIVTIE9
tIn curr nt Ba. NhllionI
1964/85                19635/                   197                     197/88                 196/                   1989/90
PARTICULAMS         RERREE NUT 01U1h-  EVWE   FULLY DISTMl- REWIR   FULLY 01ST   REiE UE   FULLY DISRI- REVE UE   FULLY D05TRI- REVERE   FULLY DISTRI-
UUTEb COST              BUTED COST               U1TO cIUD COST BUE                                  cost  UTED  COST
INCLUDIU                INCLUDING               ICUDfb                 INCLUDING                UINCLOIG               IUCLWI,E
DEPRECIATIO             DEPRECIATIC             DEPRECIATIOU            DEPRECIATION           DEPIEIAT'IOU            DEPRECIATION
INTEST &                INTEREST &              INTEREST &              INTEREST *             INTEREST &              INTEREST &
EXCLSE                  EXROIRE                 EKUANSE                 LOS6ES ON              EXCEANSE                EXCNUAIE
LOSSES OX 0             LS T                    LOSSSES 0               DEBT SERVICES          LOSSES 0N               LOSSES ON DEMT
SERVICES                0 OM  SERVICES         DOMT SERVICES                                   DEBT SERVICES           SERVICES
celgo   ludting      254.3      441.1           218.0      484.1      02.1        559.0      379.1      535.3       496.0        701.0      509.3           726.8
Cargo Stors"         249.1      116.5           183.1      130.3    206.0         144.9      285.       136.3       373.4        181.8      434,6           205.7
Sbip Sarvicas        134.6      216.3           145.6      251.3    157.2         279.5      189.4      253.0       305.5        350.5      357.1           370.3
Prowm ny bmg      Int  104.7     58.2           106.8       65.2      85.0         51.8       65.0       48.7        56.8         64.9       96.7            68.6
TOMm:             742.7      832.1           713.S     930.9    750.3        1,035.2      919.3      973.3    1,231.7       1,29.2    1.39,.?          1,371.4
Tbe actuet 1989t90 f.m.. and *xpenteur seeounSt by different typ of services is
*natyzed belt, s re;prossntatIva of WPTs finmneal profite:
.. .    19J9/90.---------      -W .
(a)                       (b)                    Cc)         (d)        (e)
Revenues         1      tca           I       lIn.o    L l   a            a
(ft. NllIleon)                    (-b)       (b-a)
Carge huidting                  509.3            36.4      TZ6.8     53.0        (217.5)      70.0      142.7
Cargo Storage                   434.6            31.2     205.7       15.0        228.9      211.0       47.3
Ship Services                   357.1            25.5     370.3      27.0         (13.2)      96.0      103.7
Propes"ty    _    t              96 7. W9                  MA         la           au        140.0       70.9
TOTAL:                     1.3SO 7             C.O      fA4      1.             Di
KPT generated about 312 of Its revnuae  tree storage. Net revsius (ft. 228.9 million) frau this activity
acss-subeidlzed toss an cargo handling (Rs. 21t7.S0 milion) nd covered sbAstantial portln of the net loss
(fs. 13.20 dittion) on shipping sorvices. Easier elearances through better trade facilitation measures
contapptated under the proposed project shutd hotp reduc storage tim  of goods. The tariff stud*  witt
unlyso  approp istmnas of atlocetion of fulty distributed costs to the different seaviesn  nd recc  nd
adjiutments to the levl of tariffs of thOes srwvices, wiich wulid take into ccount more truty the cost of
services provided.
Smunso:  Of/Staff Esti_mtes
Date :  *e mer 1990
rwrs 



- 78 -
TABLE 5.4
PAKISTAN
KARACNI PORT IOCERNIZATION PROJECT
REVEIUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS  1990141-1995/96
FORECAST:  (in Current Re. Nillion) *
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ......... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Actual
.. . .......
Total Traffic - VoIuwe                  19.0    19.2    20.2    21.0    22.3    23.9    24.9
OPERATING REVEWNES
Cargo HandLing                       509.3   514.4   764.7   933.5  1,131.3  1,325.6  1,S13.7
Cargo Storage                        434.6   438.9   669.6   796.5   965.3  1,131.1  1,;.91.5
Ship ovemnt I Service                357.1   360.7   550.3   654.6   793.3   929.5  1,061.4
Prqperty Mangement                    96.7   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Total Operating Revemes          1.397.7  1,414.0  2,104.5  2,484.6 2,989.9 3,486.2 3,966.6
WERATING EXPENSES
P'ersuwl Costs                       801.5  1,001.0 1,151.2 1,323.8 1,522.4  1,750.8 2,013.4
operating Materales & Supplies       248.7   275.6   301.0   331.1   365.2   400.6   S40.6
Repirs & Maintennce                   62.0    71.3    82.0    94.3   108.4   124.7   143.4
Administrative Overhead               60.0    66.0    72.6    79.9    87.8    96.6   106.3
Sub TotaL         1,172.2  1,411.9  1,606.7 1,829.0  2,082.8  2,372.7 ;,703.7
Depreciation - Hist.+ RevaL.         130.0   280.0   290.0   298.9   325.0   400.0   500.0
Total Operating Expes            1,302.2  1,691.9  1,896.T 2,127.9 2,407.8 2,M.7 3,203.7
Net Operating Incomm/(Loss)           95.5  (277.9)  207.8   356.7   582.1   713.6   762.9
New Exp                 1,553.1  1,767.4 2,011.9 2,291.1  2,609.9 2,974.1
New Rev                 1,275.2 1,975.2 2,368.6 2,873.2 3,323.5  3,736.9
NON OPERATING ITENS                             0.10    0.06    0.05    0.04    0.05    0.06
Interest - Loans                      64.0    66.3   140.6   241.5   298.6   313.3   322.6
Other CredIts                        (39.6)  (39.8)  (39.3)  (38.8)  (38.5)  (38.0)  (37.6)
Sub TotaL           24.4    26.5   101.3   202.7   260.1   275.3   285.0
Net Incofe/(Loss)                     71.1  (304.4)  106.6   154.0   321.9   438.3   477.9
* Financ1il forecasts are based on an aswmptfon of a 45% tarfff Increase in 1991 and do not refolect
the recently mplemented 55% tariff Increase. The actual increase mill result In a stronger
financial situation than Indicated In these projections.
Sources: KPT/Staff Estimates
Date:   Deemrber 1990



- 79 -
TABLE 5.5
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT NODERNIZATION PROJECT
BALANCE SKEET - 1W    1.-1-W5/96
FORECAST:   (in Current Rs. Million)
.....................................................................................................
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996
..................................................................................................................................... 
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                             91.7    85.7        6.8    63.1    101.9    173.0
Account Receivables Trade                       249.5   264.5   280.3    297.2   315.0   333.9
Advnce Deposit & Other ReceIvable               432.8   454.4   464.4    501.1    526.2    552.5
Inventory - Stores                              201.9   205.7   209.6    213.6    217.7    221.8
Other Investments                                153.2    104.4     19.5    104.0    616.9  1,195.8
Total Current Assets                        1,129.1  1,114.7   980.5  1,179.0  1,777.7  2,477.0
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                              14.9    14.9      14.9     14.9    14.9      14.9
Buildings & Structres                         1,958.8  1,958.8  1,958.8  1,958.8  1,958.8  4,151.5
Revaluation                                  1,100.6  1,375.9  1,576.0  1,788.1  2,012.9  2,251.2
Plant * Equipment                             1,116.4  1,116.4  1,116.4  1,116.4  1,116.4  3,309.1
Revaluation                                   388.0   523.4   621.7   726.0    836.6    953.8
Sub Total                   4,578.6  4,989.4  5,287.8  5,604.2  5,939.6 10,660.4
Less Accumulated Depreciation                 1,835.0  2,125.0  2,423.9  2,748.9  3,148.9  3,648.9
Not Fixed Assets                            2,743.6  2,864.4  2,863.9  2,855.3  2,790.7  7,031.5
Work In Progrnss - ProJect                      354.2  1,398.1  3,280.0  4,421.5  S,126.9  1,202.5
Total Fixed Assets                          3,097.8  4,262.5  6,143.9  7,276.8  7,917.6  8,234.1
ToTiL ASSETS                                  4,226.9  5,377.2  7,124.4  8,455.8  9,695.2 10,711.1
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Account Payable                                 322.3    327.5    332.7    338.0    343.4    348.9
Others                                          224.4    264.6    311.9    367.8    433.6    511.2
Current Portion of L.T. Debt                     38.9    38.9    38.9    38.9    38.9          38.9
Total Current Liabilities                     585.6   630.9   683.5    744.7   815.9    89W.0
NON CURRENT LIABILITIES
Existing Foreign Debt                           732.3  1,226.4  2,122.8  2,661.6  2,902.2  2,995.2
EWloyees Welftre Fund                           575.9    668.1    775.0    89.o  1,042.5  1,209.7
Total Non Current Liabilities               1,308.2  1,894.5  2,897.8  3,560.6  3,944.7  4,204.9
EQUITY
Capital Furd                                      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Capital Reserve                                  55.9     57.2      56.7     56.7     59.4     59.4
Revewe Reserve                                  8B4.4    884.4    884.4    884.4    884.4    884.4
Reserve - Assets Revaluation                  1,195.8  1,606.6  1,905.0  2,221.4  2,556.8  2,912.2
Grant from GP & GOS                               0.0      0.0    239.5    208.6    216.3      55.4
Retained Earnings                               196.5    303.1    457.0    779.0  1,217.3  1,695.2
Total Equity                                2,333.1  2,851.7  3,543.2  4,150.5  4,934.6  5,607.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                  4,226.9  5,377.2  7,124.5  8,455.8  9,695.3 10,711.0
Current Ratio                                      1.93      1.77     1.43     1.58     2.18     2.76
Debt/Equity Ratio                                  0.31     0.43      0.60     0.64     0.59     0.53
* Financial forecasts are based on an assumption of a 45X tariff Increase In 191 and do not reflect
the recently loplmmanted 55X tariff increase.  The actual Increase will result in a stronger
financial situation than ndircated In these projections.
Sourest KPT/Staff Estimtes
Date:   Decumber 1990



- 80 -
TABLE 5.6
PAKISTAN
KARACNI PORT NCOERNIZATION PROJECT
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATENENT - 1990/91--1995/96
FORECAST:   (in Current Rs. Miltion) *
 ..,............................................................................................
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
SOURCES
INIERNAL GENERATION
Net Operating Income                         (277.9)  207.8   356.7   582.1   713.6   762.9
Add Depreciation  Hist.+Rev&L.                280.0   290.0   298.9   325.0   400.0   500.0
Add Won Operating Other Credits                39.8    39.3    38.8    38.5    38.0    37.6
other items                                     0.6      1.3    (0.5)    0.0       2.7      0.0
Contribution from GOP                             0        0  239.52  208.56   216.3   55.38
Increase in Uelfare Fund                       79.4    92.2   106.9   124.0   143.5   167.2
Sub Total                    121.9   630.6  1,040.3  1,278.1  1,514.1  1,523.0
SORROWINGS
Foreign Currency Prograim                      45.0   533.0   935.3   577.7   279.5   131.9
Total Sources                               166.9  1,163.6  1,975.6  1,855.9  1,793.6  1,655.0
APPLICATIONS
Investment Program                            320.0 1,043.9  1,881.9  1,381.0   914.0   677.3
Debt Servie - Loan Repayments                  38.9    38.9    38.9    38.9    38.9    38.9
Debt Service - Interest Payments               66.3   140.6   241.5   298.6   313.3   322.6
Sub Totat Debt Services                   105.2   179.5   280.4   337.5   352.2   361.5
Cho4e In Working Cepstat                       (0.7)   (4.9)  (22.8)   (3.7)  (24.3)  (33.8)
Total Applications                          A24,  1,218.5 2,139.5 1,714.9 1,241.9  1,005.0
CASH POSITION
Amwml Surptus/(Deficit)                      (257.6)  (54.8)  (163.9)  141.0   551.7   649.9
opening Balance                               502.5   244.9   190.1    26.1   167.1   718.8
Closing Balance                               244.9   190.1    26.1   167.1   718.8  1,368.8
* Finwncial forecasts are based on an assumption of i 45% tariff increase in 1991 and do not reflect
the recently ifplemnted 55% tariff increase.  T'e actual increase wilL resutt In a stronger
ffnancial situation than Indicated In these projections.
Source: KPT/Staff Estimates
Date:   December 1990



PAKISTAN
KARACNI PORT NMDERNIZATION PRWECT
INMVSTiENT PROGU - 1990/m1--19951n6
(in Curift ft. NIlltin)
.................................................................   ................................................   -.---           - -   ------i----------------pnvestnnt Outtay .e it   t
--Estimated Costs-   --.1WO9909 ----    -- 1991/92 ---   -1992/3          9 --   .-. W  .3 n-/- . .-1994 195----    --- 1995/96- -
S.1o.              Nam  of Project                  Total      FEC    Total       FEC    Total       FEC    Total      FEC    Total       FEC    Total       FEC    Total       FEC
--........-. .........__... ............ ........ .............. ................ ............................... .. .... .... ...... .......... .......... ................... .. .............. ......................... ,... .. .-
1.  KARACNI PORT R3ERNIZAtION PROJECT
a. Liquid Produets Terminal                 645.1    495.2       0.0      0.0    376.4    288.9    268.7    206.3        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
b. Jimul  BriOdge - Phase-1i              1,199.5    692.3       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    399.2    234.5    347.>    200.9   3EM.S    205.0         92.3     52.0
c. Oumystde Pavweents 9 Access Road         401.9       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    212.0       0.0    189.9       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
d. Keasmri Groine Access Road                42.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      42.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
e. Bucket Oredger 4 Ancillart   Craft       502.4    592.4       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    232.4    232.4    270.0    270.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
f. Ancillary eqpip ent including            165.8    165.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     78.5      70.5     58.7      58.7     28.6     28.6       0.0      0.0
NavIgational Aids. Radar, Cputers
environuent,l protection eqoip ent etc.
q. Techmical  Asistance, Studies t Traini   110.9      83.9      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      34.2     26.1     50.6      38.3     26.1      19.6      0.0      0.0
h. Cmnuwttwnces/Construction Sipervisio   153.9    117.0         0.0       0.0     52.4     47.9      34.9     21.4     44.1      31.7     22.5      16.2      0.0       0.0
~~~~~~~~......   ........ ......   ........ ......   ------.. ------   ------.. ------   ------   ------.......... .... . ... ._. 
Sub Totat 1.  3,221.6  2.056.?        0.0       0.0    428.9    336.8  1,301.9    79..2    961.0    599.6   437.6    269.1         92.3     52.0
2.    AJtI DEVELOPNMT tS
a. Ancillary works for modernizatiVen      6e0.0*       0.0    100.0       0.0    100.0      0.0    100.0       0.0    100.0       0.0    100.0       0.0    100.0       0.0
upgrading of Port infratructure
b. lecnstructffn of Trusit Plinths           160.0     30.0     20.0       0.0     40.0     10.0      40.0     10.0      20.0      5.0     20.0       5.0     20.0       0.0
am storae area                                                                                                                                              I
c. Road loprovmuts                          110.0*    10.0      10.0       0.0     20.0      S.0      20.0      S.0     20.0       0.0     20.0       0.0     20.0       0.0
d. ModemWrn ibousins Cmplex                1260.0i      0.0     10.0       0.0     6S.0      0.0      65.0      0.0     60.0       0.0     30.0       0.0     30.0       0.0
d.  oSP TuBS a Pleot  Cmtl                  425.0*   2n.o        0.0       0.0    15o.o    150.0    125.0    125.0      50.0       0.0     50.0       0.0     50.0       0.0
f. Opert t;nal * Utility bDildings           85.0       0.0     19.0      0.0      20.0      0.0      20.0      0.0     10.0       0.0     10.0       0.0     15.0      0.0
8. Croe Pier, Out fitting Pier and           50.0      3S.0      0.0       0.0     30.0     20.0      20.0     15.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
workshop Pier-cm-Fitting out berth
h. Recaostrtction of Uerths lo.S to a       120.0'   50.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     40.0      20.0      0.0      30.0
i. tamdeltlrnleconstr,ution at               75.0      1S.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     25.0      5.0      50.0      10.0
T.P.X. area
J. Imodellingkecomtruttion of                75.0      15.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     25.0      5.0      50.0     10.0
----    ......   .. . .,,.,.,  . . .....  ......  . ..,.,,....   ... ...   ... ...   ----    ----    ----    ----    -----
Sub Total 2.   1,960.0    430.0    150.0        0.0    425.0    185.0   390.0    155.0    260.0         5.0    320.0      35.0    415.0     50.0
3.  NORMAL CAPITAL t12S
a.  ormt  eivit Morks.                      300        30.0     50.0      S.0      50.0      5.0     SO.0       5.0     50.0       5.0     50.0       5.0     50.0      5.0
b. nomal NechanicalEtlettrical Ior1k        30C.       60.0     SO.0      10.0     50.0     10 0 .    50 0     10.0     SO.0      10.0     50.0      10.0     50.0      10.0
c. Norml Craft & EqApent                    436.*   141.2       70.0      30.0     90.0     20:0 V   90.0      20.0     60.0      20.0     56.4      21.2     70.0     30.0
... ..................... .... .............   ...... ........   ...... ........   ......   ........   ......  ........   ...... ........   ...... ........   ......
Sub Total 3.   1,036.4    231.2    170.0      45.0    190.0    35.0    190.0        35.0    160.0      35.0    156.4     36.2    170.0      45.0
Total Outside A.D.P. 1,2.3. 6.218.0  2,717.9    320.0        45.0  1,043.9    556.8  1,881.9    989.2  1,381.0    639.6    914.0    340.3    677.3    147.0
......................... ................................................. .. .._._. _........ ............ ......... ...................................................................................... .. .....  . ............... ..
* Portions of these components will be executed by the private sector through leasing mechanisms and
suppliers credit.  In total Rs. 1,070 million is expected from these private sector schemes.



KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT - PORTS V
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
Chuinw
Ur I
F 1I~~~I F~~I  I               lFomndant
chw  cmd macbankw ~  ~      Ch ma
I   II  ~~'  ~~j Mafag                  Comoa xIa                         ___II___________
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Decembe 1990                                                      .c
I~ ~~18 .SW lW I    .    I
Deeme  -19901                                              .II  



- 83 -             ~~~~CHART 2
-83-               ~~~~~Page lof 5
2
A~z.  .   _ 
DI  _i  Ii  i



- 84~ -                       Page 2 of 5
_  V           
o: .- _
C:_.    ._ 
_o                                   _ 
.                                             _
_ U
S      _ 
a 
a 
____ _f i~;1I  i~IIiijiII
e:u                                     _      _



KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT - PORTS V
PQIECT EXECUTION SCHEDULE
Time    in      MonIh3
-~~~~~~~9 9" 19              990    *9 2|                              It 99  3      1-81  .|9 *    .
C PR3OJECTSUPERbVISION
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
UW(S 1 of Iao                        lilllI1 11T1 ttg                                          L                      lm
HI~~~~~~~~~~~~c
PC2 Tl"_ S                        "_        t# - sr s.aX5.
u W Sup Cnq*duc"p_eq_Ww
---------
V. Tfa&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
W,21T.b*i ubum hmess    etg  ad.aqa."*I. asj vi am   flvwmw ml.
21  WoMt mso bequIuu cwpkaa0.qi~s isaew by frst. 31



fIt  j%  fTj[1  U
ill
1                           r
~e Jo tf                              r
".VH    '-E_9-              -



CHART 2
-87 -                                                              Page 5oP 5
U,.,ll1
S   .                                                      .       ..                                               
D .   _  .           _               _                                                           l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
_O _ S . =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:   _ _   .                                                                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i            iii._.                                                               _W 
*                                                            
*                                   _ 4-.                    =7                                 
J a.                                                                     _     .             
t:   _   .                   _     _                                                                 _~~~~~~~~~I
.    ___   _  _         _          .                               .  -    =            '      .  _          i
IAi                  ______                         ___      _    _                                .     _     _     __            _  _



IBRD 21 18
. ~~~~~~PA K IST AN                          /MAN FIELD IMR |JNABID /
KARACHI                       q//   ALA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT :                                  
PORTS V                    51                   /
KARACHIPC)RT                   /               4, 
W E S T ER N                /          i<                 s  E
BACKWATER                              //                     v
WNd X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
t    ,   -     \             d    /               o    o o  o          \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
,.^ . F   X   \        e |   /     o   o  o o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X  \\  \ >            OIL INSTAL(ATIONS                \eA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
>L  k  \  X \ ZA ii;i;;i _ \~cl
S  . \   )\    /t$.! X  \    X  \   IMARINE TERMINAL|  . - --           1       o~~~R
- ~~~'~~ .^ Ir \ r )  d  \  \  3> _\~~~~Komar
D  --.nd;, -   2 /  \  o \  \ 
\   \     \S    5p                \\    \\Ot PIESI \                        Powr.d Roods PIE
\   \\   ( l       \ \  , \y   \ffiD, \           * | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roilroods
<  \   ,   \} t .         \\zR \    \W\\\              _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transit Sheds
\  \ \   '' (2           \\ 9 \     0, \            <    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mangrove Swomps
\\ \ \ X wFO \ \\ > ? C~~~ Tidol Mud F1.1
\    \\   \                  \ $ \    \&          --6-*~~~~~~~~~ International Boundaries
\\'  P  \\ o\\ \ o, looo~~~~~~~~~~~~0       0?     20?0    soco  101no
T^; iPiR$1NdiS  ~~~~~~~~-~~-   ~~   /                  \  \ \p                           -
TS.Sl M   V;of                                          Q,            \     \
fvhisnn k 1ufhSis_/                                       o,  
<;FTWS8MIeXetAS     CRANE PIER |    /    O              \     \    __~~~~~~~~~~~~-gh
In^VnetEFFC<Vfer8XM   8 F O PIER IHw
lbz &nsoninet -e owle ie t
esciy~~~~~~~~~~~~Aciii (r r4c zl
6tPAKISTAN ,y*  
C}S H     \   ~~~~INDIA                                               V       
K{ch;i\    2                                                          / 



IBRD 21217
|                 ~~~~~~P A K I 5 T A N                                       j's   1g                                                                                 PAKISTAN    r        l
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION  \2t A                                                                                                                           0,                       NI
\ ~TRANSPORTATION  NEIWOR,  t  |AoIKnSr ,RS
\   b     Proiect Compo.entr    |                                                                                                          ,! '                Aopbdr
\          -~~~~Selected Rw&d                                                                                                                                 b.d //   i  
< ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                            /                                                  U SSR . 'pHIN
POKISTAE IS P\ON \                                                                                                                                        AS 
PROJECT - POTS VEOT
\ '\                                                                                                  ~~~ ~~~   -~ ~~~'~~~\\ )/ \ \ /_> XC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \\s< _ X N I~~A r b i n   e a - 
KARAC-il/QSIMRAC AH
m         A r o b i ~Porc COipfHi 5 e                      \        -    -                       ''7/r<                                       ,,3 \j O
\E,~~~~~~~~~~~~M        I  Y kR
So\HE
ORANGI                                                       ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aird  Mllro   O
V                                                           Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASIM PORT
-a----~~                            S   i0ne a                                                   -



IBRD 21 18
PUes map has Deen plepaled hl,
The Wrlad Bn* ks stafl ck,s,c"et'
to, tIe Convese of the
,eaders and,s esChStsfely tP, the                                                                     ,
temahe Iste,ofatNlt W FaeNa,*                                                                                       0            500            1000           1500
Co,popakIn The dleo-tons                                                                        r ,O*
rsed arnr the bopndales shom l                                                                                                           FEET
0 tIhs map do not ep on the                                                                                                              FEET
pad of The Wokd Bansk and the
fenakeOatl fanc Copqolalon.
arY, #,dne9el on the legal Status                                       ^v lu
of ae terntoy 'W  * ally 
endowsenelt of acceplance of
sOch bolodanes                                                                      0
TRAFFIC FLOW UNDER                               t/-              >
OVERHEAD FLYOVER
, t4
'IO~~~~~~~~~~C
\t4<' ~t US. S. R.                             KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT -PORTS V
D   %       CrNA                                              ~~~~~~~~~JINNAH BRIDGE - PHASE II
CHINA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~i.CUOIA   D
)-f   4 \                                          :          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Round About ond Flyover
ISLAMIC REP.  )AFFHANISC O    NDER
OF IRAN               'hrbd                                                          r          Overpass
. a. pn     AJ   PAKISTAN /30_   Paved Roads
INDIA                                               RIN          B    ilroI ds
Xsijr/M; )   vroborl s    <                                  ---   ~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
FEBRUARY 1991



KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT (PORTS V)
Liquid Products Marine Terminal (OPV)
General Layout
Boat 8asin   \ )    \  Of Ece        Bottom uiiding -  1.6 m W 9  ti)                          a
3ungal                                       11    al 
5::             I              ii       S.'                     Expansion Joint                  - 
/ Ughted           z   E ic Sub-StaionIOffic
g/        /~~ SNoign  to\                4',Sea Wter   U                          Moorlng Dolphins   
Boa  osin    /                   OfP               ttion Oper/\onX
BsothI   /      ~Fender Dolhin                                                          N  t0      
>/                              re~^~ Fighting MonitoB          wove_
Froec ieon hig  oio
Slo pe 1of Slope 12
sion Joint
Note:I                      SEWater AI                              Moorin refer Po  r-   Do .phi
Note: AJI Levels refer to KaIr  metr Port Datum (KPD)
All dimensions are given In mneters. if not shown otherwise.



