Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18766
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3335-PAK
December 30, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          = PKR 22.5(Rupees) - 1990/91
PKR1          = US$0.04 - 1990/91
US$1          = PKR 46(Rupees) - November 1998
PKR1          = US$0.022 - November 1998
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =0.62 miles (mil)
1 sq. kilometer (km)   =0.386 sq. miles (mil)
1 metric ton (ton)     =2,205 pounds (LB)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
BOT        Build, Operate and Transfer
dwt        Deadweight tons (vessel)
ECC        Economic Coordination Committee of the Cabinet
ECNEC    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
GOP        Government of Pakistan
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
KPT        Karachi Port Trust
MOC        Ministry of Communications
NHA        National Highway Authority
NLC        National Logistics Cell
OP-V       Oil Pier-V
PAKPRO   Pakistan Simplifications of International Trade
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:       Mieko Nishimuzu
Country Director      Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager        Frannie Humplick
Task Leader:          Robert Panfil



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ................................................................1I
EVALUATION  SUMMA RY .................................................................2
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Objectives ...........................................................6
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives ...........................................................7
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................................   10
D.  Project Sustainability ..........................................................             12
E.  Bank Performance ..........................................................                   12
F.  Borrower Performance ..........................................................    13
G. Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................    15
H.  Future Operation ..........................................................                   15
I.  Key Lessons Leamed ..........................................................                 15
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment .17
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3:  Project Timetable .20
Table 4:           Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual    20
Table 5:           Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                                     21
Table 6:    Key Port Operation Indicators .22
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project .23
Table 8A:  Project Costs .24
Table 8B:  Project Financing .25
Table 9:           Economic Costs and Benefits (KPT Traffic - Actual and Projected) 25
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .26
Table 11:          Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .29
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .29
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .30
APPENDIXES
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoir .........................            .................................    32
B. Economic Re-evaluation ..........................................................              37
C. Financial Evaluation ..........................................................                50
D. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ..........................................................   56
E. Map IBRD No.  World Bank 43152
IBRD 21184R
IBRD 21185
IBRD 21217
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3335-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Karachi Port Modernization Project
in Pakistan, for which Loan 3335-PAK in the amount of US$91.4 million was approved on May
30, 1991, and made effective on February 6, 1992.
The Project was closed on June 30, 1998, after a one-year extension granted beyond the original
closing date of June 30, 1997. Because of foreign cost savings, US$16 million was cancelled on
October 31, 1998. The final disbursement was made on December 18, 1998, and the remaining
undisbursed balance (US$6,769,341.29 million) was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Robert Panfil, Lead Infrastructure Specialist with the assistance of Raul
Auzmendi, Transport Economist (consultant), particularly with the economic evaluations and
Omar Hayat, Financial Analyst (consultant), with the financial assessment. The report was
reviewed by Sadiq Ahmed, Country Director, Hiroaki Suzuki, Acting Infrastructure Sector
Manager, Lynn Bennett, Social Sector Manager, Marc Juhel, Lead Ports Specialist and Peer
Reviewer, Ismail Mobarek, Principal Port Engineer and Task Manager, John Tillman, Senior
Economist and Navaid Qureshi, Senior Urban and Transport Specialist. In addition, Irene
Christy, SASIN, provided active support in the preparation of the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in June
1998 and a Mission to Karachi took place in October 1998. The ICR is based on the mission's
findings, which are included in Appendix A, material in the Project File, and discussions with
officials of the Bank and Borrower. In addition, the borrower contributed to preparation of the
ICR by providing an evaluation and data, which are included as Appendix D.



2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3335-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)    Karachi Port Trust (KPT), located on the south side of Karachi City, is Pakistan's
largest port. The port has a 4km long entrance channel and provides access for tankers
up to 75,000 DWT and general cargo/container vessels up to 22,000 DWT. Presently,
KPT handles about 10 million tons of dry cargoes (60% containers, 10% break-bulk and
30% bulk) and 13 million tons of liquid cargoes. Until Port Qasim was developed in the
early 1980's, KPT was Pakistan's only port. Port Qasim, located near Karachi and
accessed by a 35 km channel, was originally built to serve the Pakistan Steel complex.
With the recent construction of a container terminal, PQA now is in direct competition
with KPT.
Project Objectives
(ii)   The major Project objectives were to: (a) assist with the development of an
appropriate strategy for the medium/long-term development of the port subsector; (b)
reduce port costs at Karachi through improved cargo handling productivity, accelerated
cargo and document clearance and improved land-side access to the port; (c) strengthen
the Karachi Port organization through changes in institutional, managerial and financial
structures; and expand liquid cargo handling facilities.
(iii)  To accomplish the objectives, the Project consisted of five components: (a) Civil
Works (70% of total appraisal costs) - Construction of: a liquid products marine terminal;
the Jinnah Bridge Phase II, Quay-side pavements; and the Keamari Groyne Access Road;
(b) equipment (21%) - Procurement of: dredging plant, environmental protection
equipment, port operations computers and software, radar and related equipment and
spare parts; (c) trade facilitation improvements; (d) Institutional strengthening in
administration, economics, marketing security and environment; and (e) project
preparation and supervision, studies, technical assistance and training.
Implementation Experience and Results.
(iv)  At the beginning, the appraisal of the Project was delayed by about 18 months
(June 1988 to December 1990). The main causes of the delay were due to the Planning
Commission's concern about the use of mobile cranes and the Bank's concern that
procurement for the major works be well advanced. The delayed appraisal allowed
important issues to be resolved and advanced project and procurement preparation. In the



3
end, the overall project implementation period (from appraisal to completion) did not
suffer.
(v)   After the project approval, the implementation of most components was
effectively carried out, although there were some delays and the Project was completed
one year behind schedule. The most important delays took place with the construction of
the Jinnah Bridge Phase II (32 months)and the procurement of the hopper barges for the
new dredger (64 months). These were mainly caused by contractor performance
problems. Towards the end of the Project, political instability was also a major factor
causing delays and this led to the cancellation of several new components that had been
added late in the project.
(vi)   Overall the Borrower's performance was considered to be satisfactory.  In
general, KPT performed better on the 'physical' components than on the 'institutional'
components. KPT did a good job to ensure that the works and goods were of high
standards.  Also, most of the studies were well done and produced adequate
recommendations.    However,  follow-up  on  several  key  studies  involving
computerization, navigational systems, trade facilitation and cargo handling operations
still remains to be undertaken.
(vii)  KPT is financially sound and has been able to generate sufficient cash to meet its
investment obligations. However, several important financial issues still remain to be
addressed such as the re-evaluation of fixed assets, separation of accounts based on
activity-wise cost and profit centers, rationalization of the tariff structure and market
management of KPT's extensive real estate holdings.
(viii) Overall the Bank's per.formance was considered to be satisfactory. Considerable
effort was devoted to the appraisal and subsequent supervision. Having the bid price for
the major civil works before the Board Presentation reduced the risk of cost differences
and delays. Also the Bank showed flexibility by agreeing to include several additional
items in the Project that would increase the efficiency and environrmental safety of the
port. The Bank's performance would have improved if the appraisal had focused greater
attention on private sector participation and on 'shore-to-gate' (land-side) performance
indicators. Also, more supervision input and focus might have been usefully spent on
port operations, private sector participation and management.
(ix)   Overall the Project outcome and impact was rated as satisfactory (Table 1). The
physical components were of high priority and are expected to have a high economic rate
of return. Ship waiting and service times have decreased during the Project period.
However, labor productivity in some cases did not increase as much as expected in the
SAR. In addition, the outcomes from institutional strengthening are mixed. Also, while
there have been some institutional strengthening improvements (port security and
environment control), many noted in the Appraisal still remain to be addressed
(computerization, privatization and marketing). These issues will be addressed in a
proposed follow-on project (Karachi Port Development Project).



4
Key Lessons Learned.
* Trade facilitation needs high level support. KPT was not able to gain the support
and cooperation of other key stakeholders.  To gain the cooperation of key
stakeholders, trade facilitation efforts need strong sponsorship at the ministerial
(national) level.
*  Limit covenants to key policy issues. The large number of covenants (nearly 30)
detracted attention from the important issues (e.g. privatization, port operations and
labor productivity) that would have a direct influence on the achievement of the
Project objectives. Greater selectivity in the use of covenants will increase their
impact.
* Obtain bids for major civil works and goods before Board Presentation. Before the
Project was presented to the Board, procurement of the major components was well
advanced. The advanced procurement provided firmer cost estimates, allowed faster
initial disbursements and provided further time for discussion of important policy
issues during the preparation of the Project.
* Define agreed measurable targets for the objectives: The Project contained a
number of performance indicators which allowed a straightforward assessment of
some of the objectives. The targets needed to be fully agreed with the counterpart
agency and broadened to cover such area as institutional strengthening and 'shore to
gate operations'.
*  Focus greater appraisal and supervision attention on port operations.  Major
attention was given to the appraisal and supervision of the procurement and
implementation of civil works. While this was justified, even greater returns might
have been gained had the appraisal and supervision included more port operations and
private sector development specialists.
*  Provide greater clarity in concession/ ROT bidding documents.  The bidding
documents for the container terminal did not sufficiently detail the responsibilities of
all involved parties and resulted in long negotiations and litigation. The importance
of clear, well prepared bid documents has been reconfirmed.






6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3335-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The major project objectives were to:
* assist with the development of an appropriate strategy for the medium/long-
term development of the port subsector;
* reduce port costs at Karachi through improved cargo handling productivity,
accelerated cargo and document clearance and improved land-side access to
the port;
- strengthen the Karachi Port organization through changes in institutional,
managerial and financial structures; and
3 expand liquid cargo handling facilities.
2.    The objectives were consistent with both the Government's and Bank's strategies
to increase the productivity of the transport sector and ports subsector to support
Pakistan's economic and social development. These strategies involved expanding
planning and coordination within the sector/subsectors; improving the operations and
maintenance of existing assets; increasing private sector participation and competition
(both to improve efficiency and provide a source of capital); and focusing investments on
rehabilitation and modernization of existing assets. In addition, the Government began a
policy of decentralizing responsibilities in the ports subsector in the early 80s. This
included self-financing of port operations, generating investment funds through internal
cash generation, and promoting competition among ports for cargo.
3.    The objectives of the Project were clear, realistic and in line with both the
Government's and Bank's strategies in the sector. Through the training, studies and
physical investments proposed under the Project, it was expected that Karachi Port would
operate in an efficient and competitive manner both nationally and internationally.



7
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Components
4.    To accomplish the objectives, the Project consisted of five components:
*  Civil Works (70% of total appraisal costs): Construction of: a liquid products
marine terminal (OP-V) and of an outfitting pier and crane pier (20%); the
Jinnah Bridge Phase 11 (37%), quay-side pavements(12%); and the Keamari
Groyne Access Road (1%);
*  Equipment (21% of the total appraisal costs): Procurement of: dredging plant
(16%); environmental protection equipment (1%); port operations computers
and software (2%); radar and related equipment (1%); and spare parts for
floating and land based equipment(1%);
*  Trade facilitation improvement: Establishment of the Pakistan Simplifications
of International Trade Procedures Committee (PAKPRO) and three task
forces to simplify trade procedures and associated data flow;
*  Institutional strengthening:  Study to restructure KPT's administration
(reinforce the Computer Center and Finance Division); engage a transport
economist; create a marketing cell; and set up a port security force and marine
environmental cell;
o Project preparation and supervision assistance, studies, technical assistance
and training (9%  of total appraisal costs):  Feasibility, design and
supervision/procurement assistance for OP-V, Jinnah Bridge Phase II,
dredging plant, and mobile cranes;   Studies for (a) second stage
computerization and institutional strengthening, (b) environmental protection,
(c) rationalization of pipelines, (d) master planning and dredging, (e) radar
and related equipment, and (f) improvement of general and bulk cargo
handling operations; Technical assistance for cargo handling and equipment
maintenance; and training for use of PCs and computer programming,
operation and maintenance of the new dredger, marketing of port services and
facilitation of trade.
Objectives
5.    Assist Development of Subsector Strategy. Fully achieved. A national master
plan study was carried out with financing by ADB and a master plan for Karachi Port to
complement the national master plan was funded under the Project. The KPT master
plan was successfully completed and approved by the KPT Board. During the time of
preparation of the Project there was considerable discussion about the future expansion of
the port and how it should be carried out. Specific issues involved the development of
new areas versus rehabilitation of the existing port, the role of private sector investment
and operations, and the landlord port operations concept. While the study was not the



8
only factor, the KPT, Government and the Bank have now agreed that the way forward
involves increasing the role of the private sector and putting into operation the landlord
concept. The next proposed project will further carry out this strategy.
6.    Reduce port costs. Partially achieved. Port costs were expected to be reduced
through improved capacity and productivity. Specifically, the new oil berth was expected
to allow larger vessels to be handled at a quicker rate. The new dredger was to provide
greater depths in the harbor channels. The Jinnah Bridge Phase II and reconstruction of
the quay-side pavements were to provide better port land-side access. Cargo handling
improvements were to be derived from increased trade facilitation, computerization,
private sector participation, and reorganization and training.
7     The productivity of the port, particularly for 'ship to shore' operations, has
increased during the Project, but not to the extent expected in the appraisal. For all cargo
traffic, ship waiting time, and ship turnaround time have been substantially reduced
(Table 6). For container traffic, the tons handled per ship service hour have increased
with the introduction of mobile cranes by the private sector. It appears likely that the
SAR 1999/00 target of 230 tons per ship hour will be met with the new private sector
container terminal just completed at KPT and increased competition from Port Qasim.
However, for oil traffic, productivity has not improved and it does not appear likely that
the SAR target of 987 tons per ship service hour will be reached.
8.    For 'shore to gate' operations, the picture is more mixed and cost savings are not
as evident. The construction of the Jinnah Bridge (Phase II) certainly improved access to
the port.  However, relatively little progress was made with trade facilitation,
computerization, private sector participation and reorganization and training. General
cargo still stays in the port storage area for an inordinate time period. Nearly 50% of the
KPT's revenue is derived from storage of cargo in the port. The Committee (PAKPRO)
for the simplification of international trade procedures and appropriate task forces were
established in 1991 and 1992. However, while KPT has made some improvements, it
was not able to obtain the support of the interested parties to carry out major reforms. As
indicated below (para 9) implementation of computerization, private sector participation
and reorganization has also been slow.
9.    Institutional Strengthening Partially achieved. Under the Project KPT was to
carry out measures to strengthen its management including:
V (i) restructuring its computer center and finance division. The computer center was
restructured and PCs were introduced under the first phase of computerization. The
second stage of computerization was to establish a central on-line computerized data
bank with inter-links to port users and associated organizations. However, after
delays in undertaking the study and obtaining its approval, the second phase was
never implemented after a change in Government (See Para 15).
v (ii) engaging a transport economist in the Planning and Development Division. A
transport economist was not hired.



9
V (iii) creating a marketing unit in the Operational Division. The marketing unit was
not created.
V   (iv) improving port security and environmental control.  Port security was
strengthened with the appointment of key staff. A Marine Pollution Control Cell has
been established and flooding booms, floating tanks, and skimmers were procured.
Fines are being applied to delinquent ships, but the fines are low. Also, water quality
laboratory equipment and surveillance facilities still need to be procured with KPT's
own resources.
V (v) improving general and bulk cargo handling operations including encouragement
to the private sector.  After considerable delays, a private container terminal
concession has been established and KPT is now planning to call for bids for a second
terminal. A study has been completed to encourage more extensive private sector
participation but it is still under consideration and may be implemented under the
proposed new project.
10.   Expand liquid cargo handling facilities.  Fully achieved.  The new liquid
products Marine Terminal OP-V has been successfully constructed and equipped with
modem facilities for handling processed oils (including crude oil for emergencies) & non
processed oil products. OP-V has replaced the old oil piers OP-II and OP-III and has the
capacity to receive ships up to 75,000 DWT.
Economic Evaluation
11.   An updated economic analysis was undertaken of the same major Project
components evaluated at the time of the SAR. These amount to 79% of Project costs. To
be consistent with the SAR economic evaluation, the same methodology, to the extent
possible, was employed in the reassessment (see annex 3).
Updated Economic Rates of Return
Components       % of Project Cost Updated ERR (%)   SAR ERR (%
Jinnah Bridge Phase II      30                20                20
Oil Terminal            17                73                70
Dredger & Barges          32                 17               29
ALL 3 components           79                30*               36
Cost weighted average which is consistent with SAR; overall estimated ERR based on discounted flows is 22%.
12.   The economic reassessment indicates that the major physical components of the
Project are likely to meet their objectives. Except for the dredger, the components are
expected to have ERRs that are similar to those estimated in the SAR. The ERR for the
dredger and barge component, is estimated to be less than the SAR estimate because of
the higher costs and delays during construction, particularly the hopper barges. The



10
absence of the barges, which are not expected to be completed until January 1999, greatly
lowered the dredger's productivity.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
13.   Appraisal delays. The Project was originally appraised in June 1988, but the
appraisal was not finalized (post-appraisal) until December 1990. Negotiations took
place in April 1991 and Board Presentation was in May 1991. The main reason for the
delay was due to a disagreement over the procurement of mobile container cranes. Five
mobile cranes to be owned and operated by the Port Authority were originally proposed
by the KPT and the Bank. At the time container traffic was rapidly growing and both
KPT and the Bank saw the crane as an efficient intermediate step until fully equipped
container terminals could be developed. The planning commission, who withheld
Government Project approval, argued that mobile cranes were relatively inefficient and
were not a worthy investment. Great pains were taken to explain the merits of the mobile
cranes (speed, flexibility and quick procurement). In the end the planning commission
saw the merits of the mobile cranes and a compromise was agreed that the cranes would
be procured by the private sector and not by the KPT.
14.   The Project was also delayed when the Bank decided that the bids for the major
civil works components should be available before presenting the Project to its Board. In
the end however, overall Project implementation time was not delayed. During the
eighteen months following the early appraisal, procurement documents were being
prepared and bids were being solicited.
15.   Political instability and labor unrest. Particularly towards the end of the Project
in 1996/97 political conditions had affected the decision-making process of the country.
The caretaker Government's attention was focused mainly on holding elections and
transferring power to an elected Government. As a result, virtually all economic
development activities were suspended and various procurement items being processed or
under award were put on hold. In the case of the computerization (2nd Phase), the sole-
source implementation contract was reversed after the change of Government. Also,
additional items (tug boats environment control equipment and pilot vessels) which were
included near the end of the Project, could not be procured because of the delays. In
addition, because of the unrest at times the supervision missions were unable to travel to
Karachi. The political instability is also affecting preparation of the proposed follow-up
project. Decisions concerning private sector participation are being delayed and the
interest of the private sector to participate is also reduced.
16.   Slow traffic growth. The Port of Karachi is the largest port of Pakistan, handling
over 85% of the whole dry and liquid cargo in the country. However, the traffic handled
in the period 1993/94 to 1997/98 has been stagnant at a total average of 23.2 million tons,
composed by 9.8 million tons of dry cargo and 13.4 millions of liquid cargo. It now
appears unlikely that the SAR projections of 30.4 million tons (11.7 dry cargo and 18.7
oil) will be obtained.



11
17.   The stagnation of traffic at KPT has been caused by two main factors. First, the
general Pakistani economy has suffered because of political turmoil in recent years.
Second, possibly of more importance, Port Qasim (PQ), located about 30 km. from
Karachi Port, has developed specialized facilities for wheat and containers. In particular,
a BOT container terminal established by private shippers to handle 200,000 boxes started
operations on September 7, 1997, and is operating efficiently. This development will
bring KPT into direct competition with PQ for lucrative container traffic and should
provide a powerful incentive to improve productivity. KPT julst put into service its first
BOT container terminal in November 1998.
18.  Appraisal Risks. The SAR noted three risks - possible delays because of ECNEC
approval and slow procurement, competition from an oil berth at Port Qasim and
insufficient capacity of the Jinnah Bridge layout. No risks were identified for the
dredging component. As noted in the SAR, all the major components had ECNEC
approval and procurement was well advanced so that the delay risk was expected to be
mitigated. This certainly was true. The delay between the original appraisal and post
appraisal of 18 months allowed Project preparation to advance and helped to reduce
implementation delays. Nevertheless, delays did develop during the implementation of
the Project and most components were delayed one-to-tvvo years.  In particular,
contractor performance problems developed with the construction of the Jinnah Bridge
and the hopper barges for the dredger. To some extent, such risks were hard to avoid and
are part of larger civil works projects. Of more concern were the delays in the studies
and institutional strengthening components. These do not appear to have been prepared
and agreed in the same degree of detail as the engineering works. These components
tended to be delayed in starting for two - three years and implementation and subsequent
follow-up was also delayed and often not implemented.
19.   The possible risk of another oil berth in Port Qasim did not materialize. As
indicated in Para 16, oil traffic has grown at a slower rate than projected (13.1 tons actual
in 1997/98 verses the projection of 18.7 in 1999/00). There are no capacity problems in
the near future.
20.   Also the risk of undercapacity of the Jinnah Bridge has not materialized. At the
time of SAR, it had been estimated that the overpass could be needed by 2012 to avoid
saturation at the Jinnah Bridge approach to the roundabout. It had been agreed then to
construct the roundabout and the flyover together with a common foundation for the
overpass, which would be built later on as traffic warrants. However, the overpass was
built at the same time as the rest of the structure. Low additional cost (about US$2.9
million), availability of the contractor in place, avoidance of having to disturb traffic
during the future construction, and the current availability of the overpass to facilitate
transport and, eventually, to be used in case of emergencies, justified the decision.



12
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.  It is likely that KPT will maintain and build upon the Project's achievements and
the Project will be sustainable. While KPT needs to modernize its organization, it
possesses a great deal of technical competence which should enable it to adjust to the
future. It also possesses a strong asset base and sound finances which should provide the
means for further development of the organization. In addition, the fact that Port Qasim
has now become a major player, particularly for container traffic and potentially for oil
traffic, should provide a major incentive for KPT to continue to improve its productivity.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   Overall the Bank's appraisal and supervision was considered satisfactory.
Considerable effort was devoted both to appraisal and supervision.
23.   Appraisal and Design. A thorough appraisal process was followed. The major
cost components (oil berth OPV, Jinnah Bridge quay repaving and dredger) involved
rehabilitation and replacement of existing structures/equipment. All were needed and
justified. In addition, delays between the appraisal mission and the post appraisal
mission allowed the Project to become better prepared. Having the bidding price for the
major civil works before the Board Presentation reduced the risk of cost differences and
delays. Also, the decision to encourage the private sector to finance the mobile container
cranes was correct.  In hindsight, the privatization and labor issues needed to be
addressed more directly. Even more of the port's operating and support services could
have been contracted out or done on a BOT basis. The next proposed project is
considering such arrangements.
24.   Performance indicators. The Bank did include several performance indicators in
the SAR and the KPT was obligated to produce additional indicators. These indicators
allowed a fair assessment of the port's performance. However, most of the indicators
focused on the port's 'ship-to-shore' performance and not on the 'shore-to-gate'
throughput performance indicators such as cargo clearance time and average cargo
storage time. Specifically, for import containers the dwelling time in ports, time required
for customs clearance and percentage of containers physically controlled by customs are
important performance indicators.   Performance indicators for the institutional
strengthening components were not indicated. These could include the number of staff of
the Port Authority, tonnage handled per staff and revenues per staff member. In addition,
additional financial indicators would have been useful such as the percentage of revenues
from storage and rate of return on port assets and other real estate holdings.
25.   Flexibility. The Bank showed considerable flexibility in pursuing the objectives
of the Project. For instance, in August 1995, the Bank agreed to include a number of
additional items which would increase the efficiency and environmental safety of the
port. These items included financing of redundancy payments for KPT staff and
procurement of fire fighting/pollution control tugs and a harbor safety craft for night



13
navigation. Also consultant services were included in the Project for design of a new
Napier Mole Bridge, deepening of the channel, and design for the refurbishment of the
pipeline reticulation of OP 1 to integrate it with the pipeline system of OP5. The Bank
also showed flexibility by extending the Loan closing date to allow the additional items
to be completed after political instability delayed Project implementation (para. 15).
Unfortunately, even with the extension, because of slow processing and longer than
expected delivery dates, many of the additional items were not undertaken.
26.   Supervision personnel. The Project was mostly supervised by civil engineers.
On the one hand this was appropriate because most of the day-to-day problems involved
procurement and construction. On the other hand, more input and focus might have been
usefully spent on operations and port management. The ultimate objective of the Project
was to improve ship-side and land-side throughput and more attention to this objective
might have helped to fully achieve the Project's objectives.
27.   Supervision Time. Because of the appraisal delays, the Bank spent a higher-than-
average time on Project preparation and appraisal compared with other port projects.
This, however, allowed the procurement to be well advanced by Board presentation. The
time on supervision was about average for Bank projects.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   Overall the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. In general, KPT performed
well on the civil engineering side. Performance on the institutional side, particularly the
implementation of study recommendations, was weaker.
29.   Procurement and contractor payments.  Overall most procurement was
satisfactorily executed by KPT. However, delays in approving contracts frequently
occurred because of the bureaucratic clearance procedures both at the KPT and national
levels. Payments to contractors were also frequently delayed for bureaucratic reasons.
The delays in payments were frequently mentioned by contractors.
30.  Implementation Delays Completion delays of one to two years were common for
most Project components (Table 5). For large civil engineering projects, these delays of
this magnitude are common and, for the most part, the delays were well managed by
KPT. Two of the physical components, the Jinnah Bridge (2nd Phase) and the hopper
barges suffered extensive delays.  In both cases weak contractors were involved.
However, the delays in undertaking institutional strengthening activities were more
avoidable. They indicated a reluctance on the part of KPT to make major changes in port
operations, particularly in the area of private sector participation. At the start of the
Project it was expected that container terminals would soon be established. However,
because of unclear procurement documents and prolonged negotiations, one terminal is
just now coming on stream.
31.   Studies.   Several important studies were carried  out during  Project
implementation (Table7). In general, they were done properly, produced adequate



14
recommendations and were approved by KPT and the Bank, but the implementation of
study recommendations has been mixed. The Rationalization of the Oil Pipelines was
carried out and implemented concurrently with the construction of OP-V. In addition, the
Master Plan Study is, to a large extent, the basis for the strategy KPT is following in the
foreseeable future. However, the Computerization Study (2nd Stage) for the improvement
of port operations and for electronic inter-linking with port users has not been
implemented. Radar and related equipment needed to monitor extended harbor limits and
support safe ship maneuverings under the Navigational Aids, Radar and Traffic Systems
Study has been deferred. The private sector participation recommendations under the
General and Bulk Cargo Handling Operations have also not been followed up.
Equipment procurement under the Environment Protection Study also needs to be
completed.
32.   Trade facilitation. Despite the high expectations at the beginning of the Project,
only modest improvements were made in this area. KPT made significant documentary
progress reducing the number of documents required from 32 to 4 or 6. However, the
improvement did not spread to other agencies. A stronger sponsorship from the central
government was needed. KPT was not in a position to effectively influence major
stakeholders such as customs, the banking industry, Ministries of Finance and Commerce
and private industry. Also, in some respects, KPT has a conflict of interest in the matter.
The more efficient the port throughput, the less revenues it collects from storage fees.
Presently storage fees amount to about 45% of KPT's total revenues. Trade facilitation
needs strong sponsorship at the national level, such as the Ministry of Finance or
Commerce.
33.   Covenant Compliance KPT's compliance with the covenants was mixed. In the
end, KPT met the legal covenants, but delays were frequent. More importantly the spirit
behind the covenants was sometimes not met. Many of the covenants referred to
undertaking studies. While the studies were completed, recommendations were not
implemented or only partially implemented (para 30). In hindsight, the large number of
covenants may have lessened their effectiveness. Many were redundant in that they were
already covered by the implementation schedule. A few selective covenants, might have
drawn greater attention of both KPT and the Bank to private sector participation and
increased productivity.
34.   Financial Management. The Port is financially sound and has been able to
generate a positive internal cash generation during the Project. The working ratio in
1996/97 was 65% and the debt to equity was 10.5% in 1996/97. KPT has financed
almost 49% of its capital expenditure from operations which is over the Project's legal
covenant of 40%. Also, the rate of return on 'historical cost' assets in 1995/96 was over
50%. In addition the audit reports, submitted by a private auditor, have generally been
satisfactory.
35.   Despite KPT's apparent sound position, several important financial management
issues noted in the SAR were not addressed during the Project. In accordance with the
loan covenant, KPT undertook a reevaluation of fixed assets, but the accounts have not
yet been adjusted. Separate accounts based on activity-wise cost and profit centers



15
including administration and subsidiaries have also not been established. In addition, the
tariff structure was to be rationalized and made more transparent, but this has not been
completed. KPT also has extensive real estate holdings which are leased to various
parties at significantly lower than market rates. Resolution of these issues is basic to
improving KPT's financial management.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   Overall the Project outcome was rated as satisfactory (Table 1). The physical
components had high priority and are expected to have a high economic rate of return.
Ship waiting and service time has decreased during the Project period. On the negative
side labor productivity in some cases did not increase as much as expected in the SAR.
In addition, the outcomes from institutional strengthening are mixed. Also while there
have been some institutional strengthening improvements (port security and environment
control), many noted in the Appraisal still remain to be addressed (computerization,
privatization and marketing).
H. FUTURE OPERATION
37.   A new operation is under consideration to further extend the gains made under the
Karachi Port Modernization Project. The objectives of the new project are to: (i)
improve the performance of Karachi Port Trust (KPT) organization as a landlord port;
(ii) assist in creating an enabling environment for private sector participation in port
activities; (iii) improve the port safety and environment; (iv) reduce the constraints to
trade growth and competitiveness, in coordination with the proposed Pakistan Trade and
Transport Facilitation Project, through facilitation of procedures and operations. Under
the proposed project the role of KPT would be expanded beyond that of infrastructure
provider to that of trade and hinterland transport facilitator. Project preparation will
involve "up-front" actions which will promote the landlord port concept and private
sector participation such as corporatization and divestment of subsidiary services as well
as taking into account the lessons learned from the previous Project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   Trade facilitation needs high level support. Under the Project, KPT was to play
a lead role in introducing trade facilitation. KPT did attempt to coordinate trade
facilitation efforts and internally did make some improvements with document
simplification. However, to gain the cooperation of key stakeholders, trade facilitation
efforts need strong sponsorship at the ministerial (national) level.
39    Limit covenants to key policy issues. The Project had nearly 30 legal covenants
ranging from important policy issues to implementation dates for studies. Many of the



16
covenants were redundant. More importantly, the large number of covenants detracted
attention from the important issues (e.g. privatization, port operations and labor
productivity) that would have a direct influence on the achievement of the Project
objectives. Greater selectivity in the use of covenants should increase their impact.
40.   Obtain bids for major civil works and goods before Board Presentation. Before
the Project was presented to the Board, procurement of the major components was well
advanced. This did not eliminate later implementation delays that took place because of
weak contractors. However, it provided firmer cost estimates, allowed faster initial
disbursements and provided further time to discuss important policy issues during the
preparation of the Project.
41.   Define agreed measurable targets for the objectives: The Project was advanced
in this respect. It contained a number of performance indicators which made the
assessment of the objectives relatively straightforward. However, the targets needed to
be fully agreed with the counterpart agency and broadened to cover such areas as
institutional strengthening and land-side operations.
42    Focus greater supervision attention on port operations. The main objective of
the Project was to increase productivity which would lower throughput costs of the port.
Major attention was given to the supervision of the procurement and implementation of
civil works.  This effort was justified and investments are expected to increase
productivity. However, even greater returns could have been gained if more supervision
time were devoted to port operations. This includes shore-to-gate operations as well as
ship-to-shore operations.
43.   Provide greater clarity in concession/BOT bidding documents. A public tender
was undertaken for the concession of the container terminals. The open tender provided
transparence, however it was not sufficient to avoid extended subsequent negotiations
delays and legal proceedings. The bidding documents did not sufficiently detail the
responsibilities of all involved parties and left too much discretion to the port authority.
The importance of clear, well prepared bid documents has been reconfirmed.



17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial         Partial          Neli ibleNotapplicable
(f )         (f ) 77-                       . (V }
Macro Policies                           Q                  l                 0         I
Sector Policies                          0               I                   0            0
Financial Objectives                     Q                                   El 0   
Institutional Development                                DU                  a            o
Physical Objectives                      3                0                   0           0
Poverty Reduction                        a                El                 E 
Gender Issues                            a                 :                  0          x
Other Social Objectives                 n1                !J                 1 
Environmental Objectives                 j                  J                0           E
Public Sector Management                 n                 Q                m3            0
Private Sector Development              C]                                   E 0l
Other (specify)                         El                 nl                El           0l
B. Project sustainability                   Likely                    Unlikely           Uncertain
0(V                                              0
C. Bank Performance                         Satisfactory             Satisfactory         Deficient
(V1)                       ()(
IdentiflcationEJIJl
Preparation Assistance                  ElIX                                              E
Appraisal                                                          [ElE
Supervision                             El[E                                              E



18
D.  Borrower Performance                            satisfactozy     Satisfactory       Deficient
(V)              (/)               ($)
Preparation                                          l              [3                [
Implementation                                    [ a                                i:i
Covenant Compliance                               1 j 
Operation (if applicable)                          a                                  5 D
Highly                                          Higl
E. Assessment of Outcome                   Satisfactory   Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
(C)              (5E    0 



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title        Purpose                        Year of             Status
approval/closing
Preceding operations
1. Loan 126-PAK,      Aimed at improving and expanding    1955   1965   Closed
US$14.8 million       the port of Karachi
2. Loan 376-PAK,      Aimed at improving and expanding    1964   1973    Closed
US$17.0 million       the port of Karachi
3. Credit 422-PAKt    Aimed at improving and expanding    1973   1983    Closed
US$18.0 million.      the port of Karachi
4. Credit 492-PAK$    Aimed at improving and expanding    1974   1983   Closed
US$16.0 million       the port of Karachi
5.Loan 3241-PAK       Aimed at implementing sectoral    6/1990
US$184.0 million      reforns to improve overall transport
efficiency and to meet future
transport demand.
Following operations
1. Proposed Karachi   are to: (i) improve the          FYOI             Under
Port Modernization    performance of Karachi Port                        preparation
Project (PK-PE-41886)  Trust (KPT) organization; (ii)
assist in creating an enabling
environment for private sector
participation in port activities;
(iii) improve the port safety and
environment; (iv) reduce the
constraints to trade growth and
competitiveness through
facilitation of procedures and
operations.
2. Proposed Pakistan  To support the initial learning phase              Under
Trade and Transport   of Pakistan's medium-term trade and                preparation as a
Facilitation Project  transport facilitation program                     LIL
including informnation flows,
documentation and related
legislation.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned               Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  January 1988            January 1988
Preparation                                 May 1987 - June 1988    May 1987-June 1988
Appraisal                                   June 1988               June 1988
Post-Appraisal                                                      December 1990
Negotiations                                                        April 1991
Board Presentation                          January 1989            May 1991
Signing                                                             November 1991
Effectiveness                                                       February 6, 1992
Project Completion                          December 1996           January 31, 1999
Loan Closing                                June 30 1997            June 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97 FY98  FY99(est)
Appraisal Estimate           14.9  50.4   77.0   89.0  91.4
Actual                       1.3   12.4   28.7   40.3  47.1   49.9   61.7   71.5
Actual as % of Estimate     8.7%   24.6%  37.3%  45.3%  51.5%  54.6%  67.5%  74.0%
Date of Final Disbursement
NOTE: US$16.0 million was cancelled in mid-1998.
Final disbursement is expected to take place in December 1998



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                Estimated                      Actual
Completion of Civil Works                                _
1. Oil Terminal                     11/92                        04/94
2. Jinnah Bridge Phase II           04/95                         12/97
3. Quayside Pavement                07/94                        06/98
4. Keamari Groyne Access            08/92                        02/93
II. Completion of Equipment
Procurement
1. Dredging Plant
Dredger                      07/93                         03/95
Hopper Barges                07/93                         01/99
2. Cargo Handling Equipment         12/95
3. Computers 2nd Stage
Phase I                      04/93                         12/94
Phase II                     11/93                        Not completed
4. Spare Parts                      02/92                        01/96
5. Radar and Related Equipment      07/92                        Not completed
6. Environmental Protection         07/92                        07/97
Equipment                               _
III. Appointment of
Supervision Consultants
I. Marine Oil Terminal                  02/91                    12/92
2. Jinnah Bridge - Phase II             10/91                    03/93
3. Dredging Plant (new)                  10/91                   07/93
IV. Completion of Technical
Assistance and Training
1. Cargo Handling                       05/94                    10/94
2. Equipment                            06/93
3. Computers (2nd phase)                09/94                    Not complete
4. Drafting Trade Facilitation          09/91                    Not complete
V. Completion of Other
Activities
I.Drafting program to transfer
cargo handling operations to
private sector                      10/92                         10/94
2.Revalue assets on KPT's
Balance Sheet                       07/93                        03/96
3.Establish marine environment
protection unit                     09/93                        09/93



22
Table 6: Key Port Operating Indicators
Key Operating Indicators     1991/92      1996/97       1997/98       1995         1999/00 7
Actual       Actual       Actual      Appraisal    Appraisal
Estimates     Estimates
1. Container cargo handled per    126           170          181                         230*
ship service hour (tons)
2. Containerized cargo in                                     13           20
units/hr/crane
3. Average turnaround time of     207           120           97           60
break-bulk cargo vessels (hrs)
4. Ship waiting time for break-    66           24            10           10
bulk cargo vessels (hrs)
5. Break-bulk cargo handled        23           31            34                          40*
per ship service hour. (tons)
6. Availability of cargo           75                         92           90
handling equipment in %
7. Bulk cargo in                                340                      900#
tons/gang/shift
8. Average turnaround time for    459           448          382
bulk cargo vessels (hrs)
9. Ship waiting time for bulk      153          154           64
cargo vessels (hrs)
10. Bulk cargo handled per ship    58           50           67                           57*
service hour (tons)
I1. Average turnaround time for   148           81           73
oil tankers (hrs)
12. Ship waiting time for oil     109           35           27
tankers (hrs)
13.Oil cargo handled per ship     736          711           723                         987**
service hour (tons)
14.Total staff                                              12500
* 1999/00 SAR Table 2.6 ** 1999/00 SAR Table 2.7  # assumes specialized equipment



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined         Status       Impact of Study
1.2nd Stage         Make recommendations and   Completed       KPT Board approved it on
Computerization     define implementation                      7/31/96. As the main impact,
program for second stage                   use of computers in KPT has
computerization                            been partly intensified. For
political problems,
implementation of study on
BOT basis has been delayed.
2.Environmental     Formulate measures to     Completed 07/94   As a result of the study, Marine
Protection          reduce the detrimental                      Pollution Control Center was
effects of port activities to              created; floating booms, floating
the environment                            tanks, and skimmers were
procured. Fines to delinquent
ships are applied. Water quality
laboratory equipment and
surveillance facilities under
process to be procured with
KPT's own resources.
3.Rationalization of   Make recommendations to    Completed 08/94   The Study was carried out
Pipelines           reduce five hazards through                concurrently with, and
rehabilitation of the pipeline            implemented during the
trench and enactment and                   construction of OP-V. The
enforcement of more                        hazards have been reduced.
efficient parking regulations
4. Master Planning  Study options for future port  Completed 11/94  The Master Plan Study is, to a
and Dredging        development, make                          large extent, the basis for the
recommendations and                        strategy KPT is following in
prepare phased program for                the foreseeable future.
carrying out recommended                   Privatization and staff
measures                                   rationalization are major
targets.
5. Navigational Aids,                                          Based on study
Radar and Traffic                                              recommendations solar powered
Systems                                                        lights and modem buoys have
been installed. A radar system at
Manora is being considered.
6. Improvement of    Define improvements in   Completed 11/94  No action program prepared or
General and Bulk    general and bulk cargo                      implemented. The study
Cargo Handling      handling operations                        perhaps lacks details on
Operations          including encouragement of                 specifics of the operations.
the private sector



24
Table SA: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Local    Foreign     Total    Local      Foreign     Total
Item                           Costs      Costs               Costs       Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Marine Oil Terminal (OP-V)      5.6      15.3      20.90        7.4        16.7     24.1
2. Jinnah Bridge Phase-lI         17.0      25.4      42.40       28.4        15.3     43.7
3. Quay side Pavement Reconst.    14.0       0.0       14.0        0.6         0.0      0.6
4. Keamari Groyne Access Road     1.50       0.0        1.5          -         0.0
5. Mauripur Road                                                   8.8                  8.8
6. Maikolachi Bypass                                               3.8                  3.8
7. Crane Pier OP-V                                                 4.2                  4.2
Sub total                         38.1      40.7       78.8       53.2        32.0     85.2
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Dredging plant                  0.0      19.5      19.5        24.1       22.2      46.3
2. Equipment for environment       0.0       1.4        1.4        0.9         0.5      1.4
protection
3. Computer, software/hardware     0.0       2.5       2.5         0.6         0.0      0.6
4. Radar                           0.0       1.5       1.5           -         0.0      0.0
5. Spare Parts                     0.0       1.0       1.0         0.2         0.2      0.4
Sub total                          0.0      25.9      25.9        25.8       22.9      48.7
C. CONSULTANTS
1. PPF                             0.0       1.5       1.5                    1.3       1.3
2. Retroactive Financing           0.0       4.1       4.1                    0.0       0.0
3. Local Costs                     0.4       0.0       0.4                    0.0       0.0
4. Construction Supervision        1.0       2.8       3.8         2.4        3.9       6.3
5. Studies                         0.6       2.0       2.6          1.8       1.5       3.3
6. Technical Assistance            0.2       0.5       0.7         0.3        0.3       0.6
7. Training                        0.2       0.9       1.1         0.1                  0.1
Sub total                          2.4     11.80      14.2         4.6        6.9      11.5
Total Base Cost                   40.5      78.4      118.9
Physical Contingencies             3.8       5.9        9.7
Price Contingencies                7.4       7.1       14.5
Labor Redundancy Payments*                                                   9.6        9.6
TOTAL COST                  |   51.7       91.4      143.1       83.6      71.5      155.1
Notes: - New component added to the Project.



25
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local     Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign     Total
Source                  Costs       Costs                   Costs      Costs
IBRD/IDA                                91.4       91.4                   71.5      71.5
Karachi PortTrust           51.7                    51.7      83.6                  83.6
Other External Sources
Domestic Contribution
TOTAL                      51.7        91.4        143.1     83.6       67.2      155.1
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits*
KPT Traffic - Actual and Projected
Millions of Tons
Years     Containers Break-bulk   Bulk    Total           Liquid            Total
Dry Cargo         Cargo            Cargo
1989/90               3.4        2.1      2.2       7.7             11.3             19.0
1990/91               3.9        1.9      2.5       8.3             10.3             18.6
1991/92               4.7        2.0      2.5       9.2             11.2             20.4
1992/93               5.1        2.0      2.5       9.6             12.5             22.1
1993/94               5.2        1.6      2.4       9.2             13.3             22.5
1994/95               5.4        1.4      2.2       9.0             14.0             23.0
1995/96               5.7        1.7      2.5       9.9             13.6             23.5
1996/97               6.0        1.2      3.7      10.9             12.5             23.4
1997/98               5.9        1.0      2.7       9.6             13.1             22.7
1999/00 (SAR)*        6.8        2.3      2.6      11.7 _           18.7             30.4
See Appendix B: Economic Re-evaluation for additional information and data.
**SAR Projections (Tables 2.6 and 2.7).



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT (LOAN 3335-PAK)
Agree    Section    Covenant Present    Original   Revised            Description of                Comments
-ment               Type    status  fulfillment date fulfillment        Covenant
date
Loan  Section     01        C       01/30/1994              KPT to furnish the Bank the annual
4.01(b)(ii)                                          audited accounts and auditors opinion.
Section 3.03 02       C      06/30/1994              KPT to generate funds from intemal  For FY96/97 income
Article IV                                           sources equivalent to not less than    exceeded expenditure by
4.02(a)                                              40% of KPTs average annual capital  Rs. 6965 million against
expenditure.                    capital expenditure of
Rs. 1188 million.
PA    Section 4.01  01      C       03/31 annually          KPT to fumish the Bank the annual   Complied with. .FY96197
(b)(ii)                                              audited accounts and auditor's opinion. Audited Accounts sent to
Bank
Article IV   02       C      03/31 annually          KPT to review tariffs and status of    1 5% tariff increase was
4.02(b)                                              compliance with requirements set forth implemented in July 1994
in para. (2) (a) and furnish Bank with a which covered the need of
copy.                           funds for 1996/97.
Article IV   02       C      03/3111994              KPT to introduce on the basis of such  KPT has mounted study for
4.02(c)                                              review (para. 2(b)) such adjustments to rationalization of tariffs
KPTs tariffs shall be required to meet where further adjustments
such requirements.              of tariffs will be studied, but
no changes in tariff
structure have been
implemented.
Schedule    05        C      04/15/1991              KPT to establish a Committee for the  PAKPRO was set up on
2A, 2(a)(i)                                          simplification of intemational trade   April 15, 1991, and Task
procedures assisted by Task Forces for Forces on October 11,
simplification of documents     1992.
procedures and computerization and
electronic data communications.
Schedule 2,  05       CD     09/30/1991    05/12/93  Committee to prepare and fumish  Draft action plan given to
2(a)(ii)                                             Bank for review, an action program to Bank for comments on
implement recommendations of ITF   December 5, 1993. Bank
workshop in 1989.               comments given in January
1994.
Schedule 2,  05       CD      12/01/1991             Start implementation of action plan.   Started but structure
2(a3(iii)                                                                             changed and
implementation postponed
Schedule    09        CD                             Establishment of productivity targets  Targets monitored until
2A,2(b)                                              and monitoring of the achievement for 1995 except for unitized
Annexure I                                           KPT.                             cargo (traffic did not
I                                        I                                 materialize).
Schedule    10        CD     06/30/1992     10/1/94   Employment of consultants to assist in Consultant included under
2A, 2(c)                                             preparation of program satisfactory to  cargo handling equipment
the Bank for the repair and      consultancy and was
replacement of KPPs equipment.    employed in December
1993. Report finalized in
October 1994.
Schedule    09        CD                             Completion of construction in    Major delays in Jinnah
2A, 3(a)                                             accordance with a time schedule.  Bridge Phase It and
delivery of two hopper
barges.
Schedule    05        CD     08/01/1994              Preparation of a detailed list, including Both preparation of list
2A, 3(b)                                             cost estimates, of the spare parts to be procurement of equipment
financed from the loan.         delayed.



27
Schedule    09        CD     06/30/1993     10/30/93  Completion and furnishing to Bank of Recommendations
2A, 4(a)                                             findings and recommendations of    submitted in October 1993.
second stage computerization and the  Tenders for PCs invited in
preparation of a program satisfactory  January 1994. IBM
to Bank for implementation of   proposal to develop and
recommendations.                install the system on a BOT
basis was not been accepted
and program not
implemented.
Schedule    09        CD     06/30/1992    06/30/94  Canying out of aspects of master  Consultants were appointed
2A, 4(b)                                             planning study for Karachi Port with  in December 1993. Final
assistance of consultants and accordin report submitted in
to time schedule satisfactory to Bank; November 1994. Plan
preparation of phased program for    approved by KPT Board.
carrying out measures recommended
under such study, in agreement with
Bank.
Schedule 2A  05       CD     03/06/1992     12/15/199 Employment of consultants to assist in Consultants were appointed
4(c)(I)                                    3         canying out the study for further  in December 1993. Final
improvement of general and bulk    report submitted in
cargo handling operations including   November 1994.
the encouragement of private
participation in such operation.
Schedule    09        CD     06/30/1992     11/01/94  Canying out suitable measures to  Consultants were appointed
2(A) 4(c)(ii)                                        assess the scope of private interest in  in December 1993. Final
such an operation.              report submited in
November 1994.
Schedule    12        CD     09/30/1992    08/01/94  Preparation, on the basis of such  Consultant's
2A, 4(c)(iii)                                        assessment and report prepared by    recommendations approved
such consultants, of specific program   by KPT, but
programs for transferring cargo  implementation did not
handling operations to private sector  follow.
operations concems.
Schedule    05       CP      06/30/1992     12/01/94  Preparation and st  of          Only a limited number of
2A, 4(d)                                             implementation of training KPT staff  training programs were
in operations and maintenance of  carried out, particularly in
equipment, in the use of computers,  the areas of computers and
marketing and other port related  marketing.
activities.
Schedule    06       CP      06/01/1992    07/01/94  Formulation and implementation of   Pollution Control Study
2.A (5Xa)                                            measures to reduce the detrimental   complete. A Marine
effects of port activities to the  Control Center has been
environment in Karachi Port Harbor.  established. Equipment
procurement not completed.
Only limited pollution
control measures being
undertaken
Schedule 2A  06      C                      12/01/95  Reducing frre hazards through
5(a)(i)                                              rehabilitation of the pipeline trench
and enacttnent and enforcement of
more efficient parking regulations.
Schedule    06        CP                   07/01/94  Reducing sea pollution through a  A Marine Pollution Control
2(A) 5(a)(ii)                                        program to monitor and control the    Cell has been established
quality of dredged materials in  and equipment is in process
accordance with relevant international of being procured.
standards; the establishment of
reception facilities in Karachi Port,
including the fishing port area, for oil
and polluted water and the monitoring
and control of dumping of pollutants
by ships using the port facilities.



28
Schedule 2A  06         C        09/01/1993                Establishment in KPT of marine       Unit was established in
5(a)(iii)                                                   environmental protection unit.      September'1993.
Schedule 2A  06         CD       03/06/1992      07/01/94   Employment of consultants to study    Procurement of
(5Mb)                                                       the disposal of liquid and solid waste  recommended equipment is
in the Karachi Harbor and to prepare   being done in phases.
the bidding documents for the
procurement of environmental
protection equipment.
Schedule 1,  05         C                                   Employment of consultants
l   11                                                     satisfactory to the Bank to assist KPT
in ensuring satisfactory project
implementation.
Schedule 2.B 05         C                                  Quarterly report to include information
Action Plan                                                 on operational statistics.
b (iii)
Article IV    01        C                                   KPT to consult with Bank prior to
(Sec.4.03)                                                  approving any major modifications to
Investments Program (excluding USS5
Million, annually), until the
completion of Project.
Article IV    01        C        07/01/1993                 KPT to complete in accordance with
Section 4.04                                               principles satisfactory to the Bank, an
evaluation of its fixed assets.
Schedule    05          CP       08/01/1994                KPT to carry out the measures to     Most studies have been
(2AI)                                                       strengthen its management including   completed, but
restructuring its computer center and   procurement and
finance division, improving         implementation have only
environmental control, creating a    been partially completed.
marketing unit in the Operational
Division, strengthening its security
unit and providing related equipment.
Article 11    10        C        05/01/1994                 KPT to carry out the obligations set
Section 2.03                                                forth in Section 9.09 of the General
Conditions relating to land Acquisition
in respect of the Project Agreement.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                      8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from        9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                      10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of Project funds                11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                         allocation
S. =  Management aspects of the Project or executing agency  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
6. =  Environmental covenants                                     action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                             13. = Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual/Statement (OD or
OP/BP) was noticed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned        Revised          Actual
Project Cycle                           _
Weeks  US$   Weeks  US$   Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                              54.5    128.9
Appraisal-Board                                                      119.5    323.9
Negotiations through Board Approval                                   16.9      48.5
Supervision                                                          148.9    416.6
Completion                                                            12.1     46.5
TOTAL                                                               351.9    964.4



30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                       Specialized      Implemen-       Development
Stage of          Month/         of         Days in         Staff Skills       tation         Objectives      Types of
Project Cycle        Year        Persons        Field        Represented         Status                         Problems
Through Appraisal        11/75       3           8              TE, FA, TN              -                -               -
3/76        1           4              TE                      -                -               -
10/87       2           17             PE, TE                  -               -                -
3/88        7           26             PE, TE, EN, CS,         -                -               -
TN,FA,CH
Appraisal through Board   6/88       6           27             PE, TE, TN, FA,         -               -                -
Approval                                                        ER, TF
5/89        2           16             PE, TE                  -                -               -
10/89       2           10             PE, TE                  -                -               -
6/90        1           8              PE                      -                -               -
11/90       4           30             PE,FA,TE,PO             -               -
Supervision              12/91       1           6              FA                       2               1             M, P, S
10/92       2           17             PE, PO                   2               1           C,M,P,S,E
3/93        2            14            PE, PO                   2                1          C,M,P,S,E
7/93        I           8              FA                      -                -
11/93       2           14             PE, PO                   1               i               _
5/94        1            15            PE                       2               1          M,P,T,TA,S,E
7/95        2           5              PS, TE                   S               S          M,P,T,TA,S,E
3/96        4            14            PE, TE, PD, TN           S               S          M,P,T,TA,S,E
3/97        I           4              PE                       S               S               _
Completion
Notes:
Ratings:                      Minor Problem: I; Moderate Problem: 2; Major Problem: 3
Highly Satisfactory: HS; Satisfactory: S; Unsatisfactory: U; Highly Unsatisfactory: HU
Specialization:               Port Engineer (PE); Transport Economist; (TE); Cargo Handling Specialist (CH); Environmentalist (EN);
Computer Specialist (CS); Transport Engineer (TN); Financial Analyst (FA); Trade Facilitation Expert
(TF); Equipment Repair Specialist (ER); Project Officer (PO); Port Specialist (PS); Private Sector
Development (PD)
Problems:                     Covenant Compliance: C; Management Performance: M; Procurement Process: P; Environment Aspects:
E; Studies Progress: S; Training Progress: T; Technical Assistance Progress: TA



31
APPENDIX - A
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



32
Appendix A
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3335-PAK
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
(October 20 - 26, 1998)
A. GENERAL
1.    A World Bank (WB) mission composed by Transport Consultant Raul Auzmendi
visited Karachi, Pakistan from October 20 to 26, 1998. The objectives of the
mission were: (i) to assess in place the major results achieved during the
implementation of Loan No. 3335-PAK, (ii) to gather information for the
preparation of the ICR, and (iii) to collect supporting data to undertake, on return
to WB Headquarters, the economic re-evaluation of the main components of the
project. The mission met the Chairman of Karachi Port Trust (KPT) Vice Admiral
Khalid M. Mir, and high level officials of the different divisions of KPT (for a
complete list of persons met during the mission refer to Annex I). Also, the
mission inspected in-situ the major project components such as Jinnah Bridge
Phase II, Liquid Products Marine Terminal (OP-V), the Dredging Plant, the new
Karachi International Container Terminal and the Port of Qasim. The views
expressed herein are those of the mission and would in due course be confirmed
by the WB. The mission wishes to thank all parties concerned with the project, for
the courtesies and cooperation extended to it.
B. OVERALL ASSESSMENT
2.    All the physical project components were adequately completed with some delays
with respect to the original Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) schedule. These delays
are considered to be within reasonable limits for this type of projects. The
components were executed within the SAR estimated costs. They were built in
accordance with the required high standards, are being properly maintained and
are operating correctly, with some observations indicated in paras. 5 and 7. Most
of the studies financed by the project were properly carried out and approved by
the KPT and the Bank. In general, the recommendations were sound and
applicable to the specific conditions of the country. The degree of their
implementation varies, and more details are included in para. 8. The overall
objective of the project was to improve the efficiency of the port, as measured by



33
specific operational targets specified in para. 3.24 of the SAR. Comparison of
these values with the actual ones can be found in Annex II. In general, progress
has been mixed. From the time of the SAR, productivity values have remained
about the same for movement of bulk cargo and for the average turn around time
of general cargo vessels, has shown some improvements for movements of
containerized cargo (carried out by mobile cranes), while significant
improvements have been obtained in ship waiting tinme and availability of cargo
handling equipment. However, this has to be considered in line with a general
stagnation of the traffic handled by KPT (traffic numbers are almost the same, for
all types of cargo, inl997-98 as they were in 1992-93). The operation of the new
BOT container terminal installed in berths 22-24 will start in November 1, 1998.
The terminal, which will be privately operated, has three modem gantry cranes,
adequate lifting and transport equipment, and a well designed storage area. This
system would undoubtedly help improving the movement of containers to the
range of 22-25 boxes/hr/crane, which is comparable with port productivity
achieved in developed countries. In general, KPT is concerned about improving
productivity, and related actions are taken through an intensification of privatizing
selected port activities and reduction of its personnel (see para. 9).
C. SPECIFIC COMMENTS
3.    Jinnah Bridge Phase II: The quality of the construction of the interchange,
composed by a roundabout, a flyover and an overpass, is good, and the system
functions adequately. An area that at certain times of the day used to be highly
congested before, is now operating at a comfortable level of service. To get an
indication of the impact of the structure in the system, during the mission a travel
time survey was carried out at peak hour, registering the time it takes now to
connect specific points in the project influence area. The results were compared
with similar information gathered in 1988, before Loan approval, and the result is
that in that year it was taking 64% more time than now to connect all of the same
points. The result is impressive, and it is conservative because obviously the
system carries now a higher traffic volume as a result of the normal growth
occurred along ten years. Incidentally, during the mission a comparison was made
between actual traffic counts taken by KPT in 1996 in eight links of the project
influence area, with the related traffic volumes in the same links as forecasted for
the same year at appraisal. The consistency is high, which validates the forecast
included in the SAR.
4.    At the time of SAR, it had been estimated that the overpass could be needed by
2012 to avoid saturation at the Jinnah Bridge approach to the roundabout. It had
been agreed then to construct the roundabout and the flyover together with a
common foundation for the overpass, which would be built later on as traffic
warrants. However, the overpass was built now together with the rest of the
structure. Low additional cost (about US$2.9 million), availability of the
contractor in place, avoidance of having to disturb traffic during the future



34
construction, and the current availability of the overpass to facilitate transport
and, eventually, to be used in case of emergencies, justified the decision.
5.    The mission indicated two observations with respect to the current operation of
the interchange. First, the system is not simple, and the users should be clearly
instructed about the main characteristics of it. The mission is of the opinion that
the current signing system is inadequate in number, size and content. KPT
indicated that a related bid would be call for, during the next few months. Second,
as happens in similar cases in other countries, the interchange dumps large
volume of traffic in the connector points, and consequently the conditions in them
should be carefully studied to avoid congestion. In particular, the mission verified
that this is especially bad at the connection with the Mauripur Road. Apparently,
the solution consists of widening a section of about 100 meters, work that the
Municipality, together with a 30% financing by KPT, will call for bid soon.
6.    Liquid Products Marine Terminal (OP-V):  The construction quality and
maintenance of this terminal is good. The timing for its construction was very
appropriate, because the combined capacity of the new OP-V and the existing OP-
IV (built in 1978 for 75,000 DWT tankers, under another WB loan) will be
enough to satisfy the demand for some years to come. This will permit the
temporary closure of the third berth OP-I (built in 1966 for 35,OOODWT tankers)
which should then be replaced by a new, larger, more modem facility. The traffic
moved in 1997-98 by OP-V was about 5.4 million tons, which represents more
than 40% of the total port traffic. Only about 10% were moved through OP-I, and
the rest was handled, almost entirely, by OP-IV. Berth occupancy before OP-V
started operations in April 1994, was reaching high levels around 80%, which
with only two berths resulted in increased ship waiting time and demurrage
charges. After OP-V was operational, the berth occupancy came down to
comfortable levels around 65%.
7.    Dredging Plant: The bucket chain dredger is mechanically working fine, and it
has been properly maintained. In February 1997, outside the guaranty period, it
had a major breakdown, but the supplier promptly fixed the problem, at no charge
for KPT. It started operations in March 1995, but significant delays occurred in
the construction of two hopper barges, which were supposed to satisfy the hauling
needs of the dredged soil to its final deposit. These barges are now expected to be
in place in early 1999. In the meantime, existing old and smaller barges have been
utilized. This seem to be one of the major reasons for the low production achieved
by the dredger, that in slightly over three years of operation could only dredge an
average of about 320,000 cubic meters of solid per year. Its theoretical capacity is
about three times that value. On top of the indicated delays in counting with
adequate barges, it seems KPT is experiencing shortage of qualified manpower
and outdated working conditions. KPT is concerned with respect to this situation,
and solutions are being worked out, including privatization of part of the dredging
activities.



35
8.    Studies: Several studies were carried out during project implementation. In
general, they were properly done, produced adequate recommendations, were
approved by KPT and WB, but their implementation has been mixed. The Master
Plan Study is, to a large extent, the basis for the strategy KPT is following in the
foreseeable future. The Computerization Study helped in encouraging the use of
computers in KPT, which has been partly achieved. The study on Rationalization
of Handling Equipment and Privatization perhaps lacks details on specifics of the
operations. As a result of the Environmental Impact Study a Marine Pollution
Control Center was established, and some related equipment, such as floating
booms, skimmers, floating tanks, laboratory equipment for water quality, have
been purchased. The Rationalization of Pipelines Study was carried out
concurrently with and implemented during the construction of OP-V.
9.    KPT Strategy to Improve Productivity: Two major actions have been taken by
KPT to improve efficiency: privatization and reduction of personnel strength. A
top of the line dedicated BOT container terminal at a cost of US$65 million is
going to start operations in November 1, 1998. Private interests in developing a
second container terminal in berths 6 to 9 are going to be called for soon. Other
privatization schemes are also under consideration. As far as reduction of
personnel strength is concerned, a golden handshake program is been
implemented. Out of a total of 12,500 people, about 600 has accepted the
conditions for leaving the organization.
D. CONCLUSIONS
10.  In summary, the project was executed without major problems. It was executed
within reasonable variations in cost and timing. Some US$16 millions from the
Loan were cancelled because of savings in foreign exchange components of civil
works and equipment contracts. Government financed similar amount of money
in Rupees in related works. The facilities are properly maintained. In general, the
facilities function well with some operational improvements required in certain
areas. The impact of the studies was mixed. Improvements in productivity were
only partly achieved.
Raual Auzmendi
Transport Consultant
World Bank
October 26, 1998



36
APPENDIX B
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



37
Appendix B
PAKISTAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3335-PAK)
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
I. GENERAL
1.    An updated economic analysis was undertaken of the same project components
evaluated at the time of the SAR, namely: (a) the construction of a roundabout and its
road connectors with the city and port networks (Jinnah Bridge Phase II), (b) the
construction of a Liquid Products Marine Terminal (Oil Pier V [OP-V]), and (c)
provision of a replacement dredger and two hopper barges (Dredger Plant). These amount
to 79% of project costs (see Table 8A and 9). To be consistent with the SAR economic
evaluation, all inputs and outputs were converted to constant 1990 prices. Financial cost
estimates were converted to economic costs by applying appropriate factors as used at the
time of appraisal. All the physical project components were adequately completed with
some delays with respect to the original Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) schedule. In
particular, the delivery of the two hopper barges is still pending. However, these delays
are considered to be within reasonable limits for this type of projects. The components
were executed within the SAR estimated costs. They were built in accordance with the
required high standards, are being properly maintained and are operating correctly, with
some observations indicated below.
II. COSTS AND BENEFITS
2. Jinnah Bridge Phase II: The quality of the construction of the interchange,
composed by a roundabout, a flyover and an overpass, is good and the system functions
adequately. An area that at certain times of the day used to be highly congested in late
80's is now operating at a comfortable level of service. To get an indication of the impact
of the structure in the transport system, a travel time survey, using the moving observer
method, was carried out at peak hours on October 21, 1998, registering the time it takes
now to connect specific points in the project influence area. The results were compared
with the same information gathered in 1988, before Loan approval. The conclusion is that
in that year it was taking 64% more time than now to connect all of the same points.



38
Table BI shows the information in 1988, without the project, and the current, with the
project. This is impressive. It is also conservative because obviously the system carries
now a higher traffic volume as a result of the normal growth occurred along ten years.
Table B1
Travel times at peak hours
(in seconds)
From\to    (1)         (2)       (3)        (4)       (5)        (6)        (7)         (8)
M.T. Khan Rd.     (1)      X         130       140        X         240        240        180        230
(52)      (130)                (135)      (202)      (95)       (165)
linnah Bridge     (2)     140        X          140        X        240        240        180        260
(100)                (135)                (67)       (134)      (90)       (150)
Chundrigar Rd.    (3)     180        140        X         X         250        250        210        270
(100)     (66)                            (137)      (190)      (130)      (120)
Jinnah Rd.        (4)      X         X          X          X         X          X          X          X
210       2525                                                  23          o
Mauripur Rd.      (5)    (145)      250        250         X         X          X         230         100
_______________________  ________    (80)      (140)                                      (270)       (55)
Dockyard Rd.      (6)     210       250        250        X          X          X         230        100
(195)     (148)     (213)                                       (75)       (113)
West Wharf Rd.    (7)     250       250        220        X         210        210         X          170
(105)     (95)       (120)               (193)       (125)                 (70)
A. Khan Rd.       (8)     240       250        240        X         100        100        240         X
(183)     (145)      (90)                 (58)       (125)      (65)
Note: Travel time in black corresponds to 1988 data when the project had not been built.
Travel time in red and between parenthesis was collected in October 1998, with the
project in full operation.
No travel time could be determined for links marked by X.
Total travel time w/o project: 8,220 sec. Total travel time w/project: (5,006 sec.)
Savings = 3,214 sec. or 64% of current time.
3. At the time of SAR, it had been estimated that the overpass could be needed by 2012
to avoid saturation at the Jinnah Bridge approach to the roundabout. It had been agreed
then to construct the roundabout and the flyover together with a common foundation for



39
the overpass, which would be built later on as traffic warrants. However, the overpass
was built now together with the rest of the structure. Low additional cost (about US$2.9
million), availability of the contractor in place, avoidance of having to disturb traffic later
during the future construction, and the current availability of the overpass to facilitate
transport and, eventually, to be used in case of emergencies, justified the decision.
4.    There are two observations with respect to the current operation of the
interchange. First, the system is not simple, and the users should be clearly instructed
about the main characteristics of it. The current sign system is inadequate in number, size
and content. KPT indicated that a related bid would be call for, during the next few
months, adopting international standards. Second, as happens in similar cases in other
countries, the interchange dumps large volume of traffic in the connector points with the
road network, and consequently the conditions in them should be carefully studied to
avoid congestion. In particular, during the ICR mission it was possible to verify that this
is especially bad at the connection with the Mauripur Road. It seems the solution should
be widening a section of about 100 meters, work that the Municipality, together with a
30% financing by KPT, will call for bid soon.
5. To update the economic evaluation, actual financial costs were converted to 1990
prices (bid prices were of 1991) and multiplied by a factor of 70% to transform them into
economic costs. This is the factor used in the report "Construction of Jinnah Bridge,
Phase II" (CJB-PHII) by consultants, which was the basis for the SAR.
6.    Moreover, one of the major matters to be confirmed is how the actual traffic
volumes compared with the corresponding traffic volumes forecasted at the time of
appraisal. The assignment model utilized for (CJB-PHII) is not available anymore Due to
limitations of time and resources, it was not possible at the ICR mission to carry out a
complete traffic survey in the project area. However, a very comprehensive Traffic
Survey had been carried out in 1996, by one of the consulting firms that had prepared the
basic report (CJB-PHII) mentioned above. That survey was conducted while the project
was under construction, and consequently non-operational. So, the traffic volume results
of the 1996 survey, in specific posts, were compared with the forecasted traffic volumes
in the same posts and for the same year, 1996, based on the results of the original traffic
survey conducted in 1988 for the (CJB-PHII). The results are shown in Table B2. The
variation among posts is somewhat broader because the area is an urban one, and
consequently traffic diversions among links are likely. But the aggregate values indicate
that what was forecasted for 1996 at SAR is only 11% lower than the actual values
registered in the same year. The result is very good, and it could be concluded that for the
update analysis it could be conservatively assumed the same traffic volume values of the
SAR. As a final check, annual traffic growth at appraisal was assumed to be 4%, which
also seems to be conservative if it is compared with an actual annual growth of 5.2% in
the motor vehicle registration in Karachi during 1986 to 1996 (Table B3).



40
TABLE B2
COMPARISON BETWEEN ACTUAL TRAFFIC COUNTS AND FORECASTED
STATION         96 COUNTS  96 FORECASTS  DIFFERENCE. PERCENT
M.T. Khan      34602        27880          6722         19%
Jinnah Bridge   61019         44875         16144        26%
Chundrigar     65737         74875         -9138        -14%
G.A. Alana     63083         43400         19683        31%
Dinshaw       46239         45700          539         1%
West Wharf      46095        44050          2045         4%
Agha Khan      38714         42850         -4136       -11%
Mauripur      46708         35800         10908        23%
TOTAL:        402197       359430         42767
+11%
(a)    TABLEB3
MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION IN KARACHI DIVISION
YEAR   Registered Motor Vehicles
1986          545,319
1987          565,474
1988          612,550
1989          650,141
1990          694,419
1991          740,765
1992          789,251
1993          832,266
1994          859,458
1995          880,979
1996          908,408
(b)    Average annual growth of registered vehicles: 5.2%
7. Table B4 shows the Updated Economic Rate of Return Analysis (ERR) for Jinnah
Bridge Phase II. Capital Costs are the actual values converted as indicated above. Gross
Benefits are the same as indicated in the SAR for the corresponding years. As shown
above the total traffic volume in the area could be considered the same as in SAR. The
only transport infrastructure in the area is the interchange, so, undoubtedly, traffic must
be assigned as expected at SAR, and the traffic forecast for future years seem to be
conservative. Another reason that supports the conservative nature of the assumption is
that the interchange has now the contribution of the overpass, whiat in the SAR evaluation
was considered to be built later on. The ERR results to be 19.7%, almost the same as the
calculated at SAR (20%). As a switching value, if the values of the gross benefits are
reduced to 54.5% of the assumed values, the project would have an ERR of 12%.
Obviously, it is highly unlikely that a situation like that may hap pen.



41
TABLE B4
2.    PAKISTAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(i)    Jinnah Bridge Phase II
Updated Economic Rate of Return Analysis (ERR)
(million of Rs)
Year           Capital Costs    Maintenance Costs     Gross Benefits      Net Benefits
1992/93             98.4                                                      -98.4
1993/94             61.3                                                      -61.3
1994/95             86.4                                                      -86.4
1995/96             146.6                                                    -146.6
1996/97             170.9                                                    -170.9
1997/98             194.2                 __.              88.9              -105.3
1998/99           ..                    1.4                183.7              182.3
1999/00                                 1.4               190.1               188.7
2000/01                                 1.4                195.0              193.6
2017/18             -378.9              1.4                301.5              679.0
ERR = 19.7 %
Switching Value: If gross benefits are 54.5 % of the assumed values, the ERR = 12%.
Note: Gross benefits in 1997/98 are 50% of the annual value because the interchange became operational at the end of
CY97.
Source: ICR mission of October 20-26, 1998.
8.     Liquid Products Marine Terminal (Oil Pier V  [OP-V]): The construction
quality and maintenance of this terminal is good. The timing for its construction was very
appropriate, because the combined capacity of the new OP-V, which is designed to
handle 75,000 DWT tankers, and the existing OP-IV (built in 1978 for 75,000 DWT
tankers, under another WB loan) will be enough to satisfy the demand for some years to
come. This will permit the temporary closure of the third berth OP-I (built in 1966 for
35,000DWT tankers) which should then be replaced by a new, larger, more modem
facility. The traffic moved in 1997-98 by OP-V was about 5.4 million tons, which
represents more than 40% of the total port traffic. Only about 10% were moved through
OP-I, and the rest was handled, almost in its entirety, by the existing OP-IV. Berth
occupancy before OP-V started operations in April 1994, was reaching dangerous levels
around 80%, which with only two berths resulted in increased ship waiting time and
demurrage charges. After OP-V was operational, the berth occupancy came down to
comfortable levels around 65%. Consequently, average tankers waiting time came down
from a high value of 103.5 hours/ship in 1993/94, to 45.5 in the year OP-V started



42
operations, and a current value of 26.9 in 1997/98. However, the service time and the
volume of cargo unloaded per tanker have remained about the same.
9.    As indicated in para. 1, in order to be consistent with the SAR economic
evaluation, all inputs and outputs of the updated economic analysis must be converted to
constant 1990 prices. This was not necessary for OP-V, because its tender opening was
February 28, 1990. The actual financial costs were multiplied by a factor of 80% to
transform them into economic costs. This considers that part of the contract consisted of
imported materials and part was construction work.
10.   The benefits of the new OP-V are twofold. First, is the difference in ship waiting
time, for the same volume of cargo, between the without project situation (only OP-IV
and OP-I operate) and the with project situation, when the OP-V is incorporated into the
system. Table 51 summarizes the calculations of the demurrages foregone (benefits), as a
result of the project. The second benefit is the savings in freight rates of tanker operating
costs since larger tankers could be used with the new berth. In the economic analysis it
was assumed larger ships after 2002. However, statistics show that in the four years OP-
V has been in operation, the cargo per ship has remained practically constant. This
benefit will be disregarded as part of the sensitivity analysis.
l Its methodology is based on queue theory and Poisson arrival of ships.



43
TABLE B5
Foregone Ship Demurrage (in million US$)
ITEM                         90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98  98/99 (a) 02/03 (b) 07/08(b)  12/13 (b) 17/18 (b)
A. Cargo Volume (in million tons)
>Total Liquid Cargo         9.4    11.2    12.5    13.3      14     13.6    12.5    13.1      12.7     N. A.    N. A.    N. A.    N. A.
>Moved at Karachi main OPs    9.4    10.7    12.1    12.6    13.9    13.5    12.4    13       12.6     14.8     18.1      21       23.7
B. w/o project facilities (OP 1,V)
>Berth occupancy (c) (in %)  72     81      92       96     106      103     94       99      96       113       138      160      180
>Time waiting/Berthing factor   0.80    1.45    3.50    4.60    5.00    5.00    4.10    4.90  4.60     5.00     5.00      5.00     5.00
>Demurrage (US$ millions) (d)   2.8  5.8    15.8    21.6    25.9    25.1    18.9    23.7    21.6       27.5     33.7      39.1     44.1
C. w/project facilities (OP l,IV,V)
>Berth occupancy (e) (in %)                                  71      68      63      66       64        45       55       64        72
>Time waiting/Berthing factor                               0.45    0.38    0.28    0.33      0.29     0.09     0.18     0.29      0.48
>Demurrage (US$ millions) (f)                                2.3     1.9     1.3     1.6      1.4      0.4       0.9      1.7      3.2
BENEFITS:                                            23.5    23.2    17.6    22.1    20.2       27.2     32.8      37.4     40.9
(a) Annualized from 1st Quarter
(b) From Rendel Oct. 98 Report
(c) As in SAR: ave. cargo 33,000 tons/ship; ave. service time 44 hours/ship, confirmed by recent
statistics
(d) Annual demurrage calculated as # berth days x factor x demurrage rate per day waiting of
USS 6,700
(e) Same as in (c) until 2002; afterwards, ships would range from 75,000 to 35,000 DWT tankers, with ave. cargo 45,000 tons/ship in 36 hours
service time
(f) Calculated as in (d), but after 2002 using demurrage rate per
day waiting of US$ 8,425
Source: ICR mission of October 20-26, 1998



44
11. Finally, Table B6 shows the Updated Economic Rate of Return Analysis (ERR) for
OP-V. The ERR is 73%, slightly higher than the value of 70% derived at SAR. A very
unlikely reduction of 50% of the benefits, would reduce the ERR to a healthy 43%. If the
increase in ship size after 2002 is disregarded, the ERR remains about the same as in the
base case.
TABLE B6
PAKISTAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(ii)    Liquid Products Marine Terrninal (Oil Pier V [OP-VI
Updated Economic Rate of Return Analysis (ERR)
(million of US$)
Capital Costs       O &M               Denurrage         Freight Rates    Net Benefits
1991/92        2.9                                                                       -2.9
1992/93        6.8      i                   i                               _       _    -6.8
1993/94        9.5      T                                          _                     -9.5
1994/95   _                      0.5                 23.5                                23.0
1995/96 T                        0.5                 23.2                _               22.7
1996/97                          0.5                 17.6                                17.1
1997/98                          0.5                 22.1                                21.6
1998/99                          0.5                 20.2                                19.7
1999/00                          0.5                 23.2                                22.7
2000/01                          0.5                 23.2                                22.7
2001/02                          0.5                 23.2                                22.7
2002/03                          0.5                 27.2                1.2             27.8
2003/04                          0.5                 28.3                1.2             29.0
2018/19                          0.5                 41.6                1.9             43.0
ERR = 73.1 %
ERR = 42.9 % (with 50 % of the benefits)
ERR = 72.9 % (without increase in the size of the ships after 2002)
Source: ICR mission of October 20-26, 1998



45
12.   Dredger and two hopper barges: The bucket chain dredger is mechanically
working fine, and it has been properly maintained. In February 1997 it had a major
breakdown, but the supplier promptly fixed the problem. It started operations in March
1995, but significant delays occurred in the construction of the two hopper barges, which
are supposed to carry the dredged soil. These barges are now expected to be in operation
in early 1999. In the meantime, existing old and smaller barges have been utilized. This
seems to be one of the major reasons for the low productivity achieved by the dredger,
that in slightly over three years of operation could only dredge an average of about
320,000 cubic meters of solid per year. Its theoretical capacity is about three times that
value. On top of the indicated delays in counting with adequate barges, it seems KPT is
experiencing shortage of qualified manpower and outdated working conditions. For
example, a barge that can operate with 13-14 persons, is forced to have 28 in accordance
with the rules. KPT is concerned with respect to this situation, and solutions are being
worked out, including privatization of part of the dredging activities.
13. The dredger operates, as expected at SAR, in the upper harbor, together with other
two dredgers. A trailing suction dredger carries out the dredging of the approach channel
and lower harbor. The annual maintenance dredging requirements for the upper harbor
are about 600,000 cubic meters of soils, which since the incorporation of the project
dredger, has roughly been the aggregate production of the three dredgers. Additional
production is needed for carrying out capital dredging, including progressive deepening
of the navigable channel from 32 ft. to 37 ft., the depth of Port Qasim.
14. The traffic of general cargo, bulk cargo and oil tankers handled in the Port of Karachi
has shown a general stagnation during the 90's. The Chart shows the general trend,
together with a projection of the traffic for the next 20 years, as prepared by consultants
TAMS in 1994 and updated in October 1998 by Rendel Palmer & Tritton. Those values
were used in the Updated Economic Analysis of the Dredger Plant.
15. The contract price was in DEM and it was converted to US$ for the updated
economic analysis. Taxes are duties are not included in the contract price. The benefits of
the dredger are basically the avoidance of the operational delays which would have been
caused to the ships in case the maintenance dredging was not entirely performed. Also,
through capital dredging, it would be possible to gradually count with deeper depths,
which would permit larger ships to operate in the Port of Karachi. As indicated in the
SAR, to assess these benefits accurately would require a detailed study of the
consequences of siltation on ship movements. Simplifying assumptions were made at
SAR to obtain an approximate ERR, and a similar approach is followed in this analysis.
Table B7 gives details of the assumptions made to estimate the benefits.



46
TABLE B7
Dredging Benefits (in million US$)
Type of Cargo:     87/88 88/89  89/90 90/91  91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95  95/96 96/97  97/98   02/03   07/08   12/13  17/18
General Cargo       5    5.8   5.5   5.8   6.7   7.2   6.8   6.9   7.4   7.2    6.9            8.8      10.7    12.4   14
Bulk Cargo         2.8   1.9   2.3   2.5   2.6   2.5   2.4   2.2   2.4   3.7    2.7            3.1      3.8     4.4     5
Oil Tankers        9.9   10.2  11.3  10.4  11.2  12.6  13.3  14.1  13.7  12.6   13.1    16.5    20.2    23.4   26.4
TOTAL              17.7  17.9  19.1  18.7  20.5  22.3  22.5  23.2  23.5  23.5   22.7    28.4    34.7    40.2   45.4
Siltation in inch.                                                       3      7      10      25       40      55      70
(W /O)             I____        _____        _____   ______      ___ _   _____   _____   ______ ____
Siltation in ft. (w/o)                   ___                    _       0.3   0.6    0.8       2.1      3.3     4.6    5.8
Increase draft (ft)                                                                            1.5       3       5
Ave. draft (w/o)              _      _               ____32   31.7  31.1   30.3    28.3    25.0    25.0   25.0
Ave. draft (w/p)        .                                         32    32    32       32      33.5     35      37      37
Savings in US$                                                                      1 =   =  = =  =  25033981633857119560714  l_ l
NOTES:
* w/o project: I inch siltation per each 100,000 cu.m. dredging
arrears; about 3 inch per year
* w project: capital increase depth by 0.3 ft
per year after 98/99;
* Savings: number of ships x (3hrs in 1997/98, 6hrs in 2002/03, 6hrs in 2007/08,
but lower ave. cargo/ship) x 8000 US$/day
Source: ICR mission of October 20-26, 1998



47
Table B8 shows the updated economic analysis. The updated ERR is a satisfactory
17.2%, although substantially lower than the value of 29% of the SAR. The result is not
surprising given the operational difficulties found to obtain adequate productivity. The
analysis is conservative because the future production of the dredger is estimated to be
around 600,000 cu. meters per year, almost twice the current production with old barges,
but below its technical capacity of 900,000. As a switching value, if the values of the
benefits come down to an unlikely 64% of the assumed values, the project would have an
ERR of 12%.
TABLE B8
PAKISTAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Dredger and two hopper barges
Updated Economic Rate of Return Analysis (ERR)
(million of US$)
Year      Capital Costs   O&M        Ship Benefits   O&M Benefits   Net Benefits
1993/94        12.2                                                     -12.2
1994/95        7.3                                                      -7.3
1995/96        0.7           0.8                                         -1.4
1996/97         -           0.8                                         -0.8
1997/98         -           0.8            2.5            0.9            2.7
1998/99        2.1           0.8           3.3            0.9            1.3
1999/00                      0.8           4.0            0.9            4.2
2000/01                      0.8           4.8            0.9            5.0
2001/02                      0.8           5.6            0.9            5.7
2019/20                      0.8           9.6            0.9            9.7
ERR= 17.2%
Switching Value: If benefits are 64 % of the assumed values, the ERR = 12 %.
Source: ICR mission of October 20-26, 1998.



48
III. OVERALL EVALUATION
16.   Based on the project costs and benefits described above, the updated economic
rates of return for the three main project components and the overall are:
TABLE B9
Updated Economic Rates of Return
Project Items       % of Project    Updated ERR (%)        SAR ERR (%)
Cost
Jinnah Bridge Phase II       30                19.7                 20
Oil Terminal             17                73.1                 70
Dredger & Barges           32                17.2                 29
ALL 3 components           79                 22.1     =



49
APPENDIX C
FINANCIAL EVALUATION



50
Appendix C
PAKISTAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Loan 3335-PAK)
FINANCIAL EVALUATION
1.    The operating results of KPT's past performance between 1991/92 and 1996/97
are summarized below and detailed.
Key Financial Statistics
(Rs. Millions)
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96     96/97
Operating Revenue      2358      3043     3440      4458    5396      5544
Operating Expenses     1839      2225     2493      2953    3193      3837
Operating Income        519       818      947      1505    2203      1707
Net Surpluses           699      1147      1405     2386    3050      2929
Working Ratio (%)        73        69       69        62      55        65
Current Ratio (times)    1.6       1.9      1.4      2.0      2.2       2.2
2.    Financial Performance.  At the end of 1996/97, KPT's operating revenue
consisted of cargo handling (27%), cargo storage (45%), and ship movement & services
(28%). The operating revenue and operating income increased from Rs. 2.4 billion and
Rs. 519 million in 1991/92 to Rs. 5.5 billion and Rs. 1.7 billion in 1996/97 respectively.
During 1991/92 - 1995/96, KPT's operating revenue nearly doubled at an average annual
growth rate of 23%, representing about 84% of total revenue. These increases in
operating revenue can be attributed to the combination of tariff increases implemented
between 1991 and 1994, representing an overall tariff increase of 120% during the period
based against the 1988 tariff schedule. However, the operating revenue increased only by
3% between 1995/96 and 1996/97 mainly due to loss of cargo volume to Port Qasim. In
the non-operating revenue category, interest on number of investments accounted for
about 75% of total non-operating revenue. KPT has invested its net surpluses of about
Rs. 6.9 billion in various Government schemes as required by the KPT Act, earning about
15% per annum. The revenue from real estate property management only accounted for



51
8% of total non-operating revenue, which is a nominal amount considering the current
market value of properties owned by KPT.
3.   The past financial performance of KPT is reflected in its cumulative surpluses, and
positive internal cash generation. The cumulative operating and net surpluses during
1991/92-1996/97 amounted to Rs. 7.7 billion and Rs. 11.6 billion respectively, indicating
a very sound financial position. KPT's sound financial position is also reflected by its
positive internal cash generation over the years, which has significantly improved KPT's
liquidity. The current and acid test ratios confirm the improved liquidity of KPT, which
improved from ratios of 1.6 and 1.4 in 1991/92 to 2.2 and 2.1 in 1996/97 respectively.
The working ratio during the period from 1991/92 to 1995/96 improved from 73% to
65% as a result of an increase in revenue, which has contributed to KPT's continued
surpluses.
4.    At the end of 1996/97 the term loan (local and foreign) was 1.6 billion Rupees.
The leverage ratio (debt/total assets) of KPT of 0.09 times during the period clearly
shows the extent of KPT's solvency. During 1991/92-1995/96, KPT has financed almost
59% of capital expenditures through annual net cash flows from its operations and
remaining 41% from long-term loan. The rate of return on fixed assets valued at
historical costs in 1996/97 was about 51 %.2 The rate of return on equity is about 22%,
which is satisfactory compared to other ports in the region. KPT has a strong capital
structure with a debt to equity ratio of 11 %.
5.    External audit of KPT accounts. KPT has engaged private auditing firm to
audit its accounts. The audit reports submitted to the Bank over past few years have been
generally satisfactory.
Financial Issues Despite KPT's apparent sound financial position it faces a
number of major financial issues, many of which were discussed in the Appraisal. These
issues will need to be addressed in any follow-up project.
6.    Historical Asset Costs. KPT's operating expenses are understated, since the
depreciation charges accounted for are based on historical costs of assets which are
significantly below the market value. Under Ln.3335-PAK, an agreement was reached
that KPT would complete the revaluation of its assets to reflect the re-valued assets on
KPT's balance sheet as of July 1, 1993. KPT confirmed that the revaluation exercise was
completed in 1993, but it is yet to be reflected in its accounts. Also, KPT needs to
conduct the physical verification of inventories with the help of private accounting firns
to reflect the actual value on the balance sheet.
Separate and improve accounting systems. Separate accounts need to be based on
activity-wise cost and profit centers including administration and subsidiaries services.
Specifically, separate assets and liabilities need to be conveyed to Dredging and
Engineering services subsidiaries. In addition, local experts (reputable accounting firms)
2 The estimated 1996/97 rate of return based on revalued fixed assets was about 8%.



52
will be needed to review the present administrative and technical capacity of the Finance
Division and to identify areas to be further strengthened including cost accounting,
budgetary control, and management accounting system
Reassess real estate leases. The revenue generated from estate assets leased to various
parties is significantly lower than competitive market rates. KPT needs to review those
lease and develop mechanisms to adjust lease payments every 3 to 5 years to bring them
to par with going market rates.
Tariff restructuring. About 45% of KPT's revenues come from storage charges. The
operating results show no decline in storage revenue during the project implementation
period except during 1996/97, in which storage revenue decreased slightly from the
preceding year. KPT needs to improve the level and structure of tariffs with more
emphasis on cost-related charges. Also, the tariff structure needs to be rationalized with a
view to simplifying the tariffs structure and comparing its level with the level of tariffs at
surrounding ports in the region.
Table Cl
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT TRUST
Profit & Loss Statement
For the Twelve Months ended June 30
(Rs. million)
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97
Operating Revenues:
Cargo Handling                              893.4  1,169.2  1,314.8  1,431.9  1,442.7  1,499.0
Cargo Storage                               774.0  1,042.8  1,117.8  1,699.1  2,604.9  2,515.5
Ship Movement & Services                    690.4   830.6  1,007.1  1,326.9  1,348.6  1,529.2
Total Operating Revenue    2,357.8  3,042.6  3,439.7  4,457.9  5,396.2  5,543.7
Operating Expenses:
Personnel Costs                           1,151.4  1,387.5  1,517.3  2,049.2  2,029.7  2,584.5
Cess & Stevedoring                          105.0   111.9   119.5   129.9   197.0   264.1
Operating Materials & Supplies              264.8   282.3   293.8   270.4   378.7   404.6
Repair& Maintenance                         125.1   202.8   260.3   212.1   134.8   222.3
Administration Overheads                     73.4   118.8   175.3    86.4   229.6   137.9
Depreciation                                119.3   121.8   126.4   204.5   223.1   223.5
Total Operating Expenses    1,839.0  2,225.1  2,492.6  2,952.5  3,192.9  3,836.9
Operating Income                               518.8   817.5   947.1  1,505.4  2,203.3  1,706.8
Non-Operating Income:
Property Management                             94.7    90.0   102.2    94.4   112.4   119.6
Interest on Investments                         37.0   186.3   281.9   540.4   736.6  1,072.6
Interest on Deposits                            69.9    61.7   102.1    77.5    90.1   140.9
Miscellaneous                                   43.3    70.6    58.6    89.4    95.6    89.1
Total Non-Operating Income     244.9   408.6   544.8   801.7  1,034.7  1,422.2
Non-Operating Expenses:
Interest on Term Loans                          65.2    78.8    93.9   142.1   150.3   179.3
Prior Period Items                                                7.0   220.5  (38.0)   (20.5)
Net Income/(Loss)                              698.5  1,147.3  1,405.0  2,385.5  3,049.7  2,929.2
Source: KPT.



53
Table C2
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT TRUST
Balance Sheet
For the Twelve Months ended June 30
(Rs. million)
1991/92   1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash                                 504.3     632.5   829.4  1,349.0  1,805.7  2,144.1
Advances, Deposits & Other Receivable   397.3  402.9   502.8   756.9  1,338.6  1,864.8
Sundry Debtors                      236.0     297.3   330.4   497.0   513.0   537.9
Stores & Spares                     208.5     219.6   212.3   220.5   181.9   223.2
Total Current Assets     1,346.1   1,552.3  1,874.9  2,823.4  3,839.2  4,770.0
Investments:
Receivable from GOP                   9.8       9.8      9.8     9.8     9.8       -
Receivable in Res. of Employee W. Fund    235  250.2    31.9      -        -
Loans to Federal/Provincial Governments  113.7  73.7    30.7    20.7    20.7       -
Federal Investment Bonds            610.0   1,355.0  1,978.2  2,603.3  4,366.6  5,489.0
Others                               199.9    219.9   869.9  1,244.9  1,228.9  1,426.4
Total Investments       1,168.4   1,908.6  2,920.5  3,878.7  5,626.0  6,915.4
Fixed Assets:
Land                                  14.9      14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9    14.9
Building & Structures              1,923.5   1,997.6  2,086.4  2,873.2  3,093.6  3,260.5
Plant& Equipment                   1,159.5   1,195.8  1,243.7  2,291.4  2,484.7  2,667.6
Less: Accumulated Depreciation  1,481.8   1,603.6  1,730.0  1,934.5  2,157.6  2,381.0
Work in Progress                     95.5     492.2  1,322.7   668.2  1,157.3  2,196.6
Total Fixed Assets       1,711.6   2,096.9  2,937.7  3,913.2  4,592.9  5,758.6
Total Assets                          4,226.1   5,557.8  7,733.1 10,615.3 14,058.1 17,444.0
Liabilities & Capital Employed
Current Liabilities:
Creditors and Accrued Expenses      525.6     574.2   906.1   972.5  1,094.3  1,486.4
Deposits                             186.6    223.5   371.7   384.5   512.5   580.1
Short-Term Loan from Bank            87.8             -       -       -            -
Current Portion of Long-Term Debt    38.9       38.9    38.9    41.6   154.6   147.6
Total Current Liabilities         838.9     836.6  1,316.7  1,398.6  1,761.4  2,214.1
Long-Term Liabilities:
Long Term Debt                      469.5      739.8  1,175.7  1,497.5  1,570.7  1,593.9
Employees Welfare Fund               239.1     155.5    10.0   102.9    60.0    40.9
Total Long-Term Liabilities       708.6     895.3  1,185.7  1,600.4  1,630.7  1,634.8
Total Liabilities                     1,547.5   1,731.9  2,502.4  2,999.0  3,392.1  3,848.9
Equity:
Capital Fund                          0.5       0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5
Capital Reserves                 *   51.5       51.5    51.5    51.5    51.5    51.5
Revenue Reserves                    911.9     911.9   911.9   911.9   911.9   912.0
Retained Earnings                  1,714.7   2,862.0 4,266.8  6,652.4  9,702.1 12,631.0
Total Equity                       2,678.6   3,825.9  5,230.7  7,616.3 10,666.0 13,595.0
Total Liabilities & Equity            4,226.1   5,557.8  7,733.1 10,615.3 14,058.1 17,443.9
Source: KPT.



54
Table C3
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT TRUST
Key Financial Ratios
For the Twelve Months ended June 30
(Rs. million)
1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97
Working Ratio                       72.9%/e    69.1%    68.8%      61.6%     55.0%      65.2%
Operating Ratio                     78.0%/    73.1%      72.5%     66.2%     59.2%      69.2%
Operating Income/Operating Revenue    22.0%/o    26.90/e    27.5%  33.8%     40.8%      30.8%
Net Income/Operating Revenue        29.6%     37.7%      40.8%     53.5%     56.5%      52.8%
Current Ratio                          1.6       1.9        1.4       2.0       2.2       2.2
AcidTestRatio                          1.4       1.6        1.3       1.9       2.1       2.1
Rate of Retum on Fixed Assets       40.8%     54.7/o    47.8%      61.0%     66.4%      50.90/%
Rate of Retum on Total Assets       16.5%     20.6%      18.2%     22.5%     21.7/o    16.8%
Retum on Equity                     26.1%     30.0%      26.9%     31.3%     28.6%      21.5%
Debt to Equity                      14.9%     16.2%      18.4%     16.4%      12.8%     10.5%
Leverage Ratio                       0.17       0.16      0.15       0.15      0.12      0.09
Source: KPT.



55
APPENDIX D
BORROWER'S EVALUATION



56
Appendix D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT V
(LOAN NO. 3335 - PAK)
PREFACE
The component of Karachi Port Modernization Project Port V, Loan No. 3335-
PAK for US$ 91.4 million was approved and made effective from 6h Feb, 1992. The
loan extended once for 12 months, is to be closed on 301h June 1998. Final disbursement
will be made on 30h Oct 1998. The loan was partially disbursed.
This ICR is prepared by Messers Syed Adil Gilani (Project Manager (P), P&D
Division, KPT) and Mr. Hasan Arif Bilgrami (AXEN (E)/TO-I, P&D Division ,KPT)
The ICR began one month before the Loan closing date, and is based on
information in the project files.



57
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT V
(LOAN NO. 3335 - PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVE:
a.    Karachi Port, which is located on the south side of Karachi city, handled 8 million
tons of dry cargo in 1989/90 and 11 million tons of liquid cargo. The port has a 4 km long
entrance channel (183 meters wide and 12.2 meters deep), and provides access for
tankers up to 75,000 DWT and for general cargo/ container ships of up to 22,000 DWT.
b.    Karachi Port is a medium size port which is comparison with other regional ports
required significant improvements, especially in handling of general cargo and bulk
commodities.
c.    Beside this, the landside movement of cargo beyond Karachi Port becarne
constrained by traffic congestion. The traffic problem in Karachi is caused by two
factors. First, urban development has generated considerable growth in city traffic,
reaching as high as 6-7% per annum in many areas. Second, not only is the port a major
generator of traffic, but it is located at a central point in the city road system. Moreover,
the landside access to the East Wharf area, which is located on Keamari Island, is
primarily via Jinnah Bridge Phase-I bridge, and landside traffic is thus focused on a
single point on the mainland. Severe congestion is affecting urban and port traffic, and
improvements were required to build now road/ bridge network specially Jinnah Bridge
Phase-II project.
d.    Dry cargo traffic grew at an average rate of 6% per annum during 1979/80 and
1989/90, and future trends depend upon developments in Pakistan' major import and
export commodities as well as the growth in general cargo imports and exports which are
tied more closely to overall GDP development.
e.    The solution to this problem is: (I) constructing and equipping specialized
container facilities, (ii) introducing modem second generation mobile quay cranes to
handle containers, multi-unitized general cargo and bulk (whenever unloaded in
Karachi); and (iii) constructing specialized bulk handling and storage facilities and
equipment would result in berth occupancy of an acceptable rate of 63% in 1999/2000.



58
f.    As part of its overall privatization policy , GOP has decided that in future cargo
handling equipment is to be purchased and operated by the private sector whenever
feasible.
g.    The growth rate of oil imports depended largely on the growth in the domestic
consumption of petroleum products, since Pakistan's production of crude oil is expected
to remain largely unchanged during the next 10 years. Consumption growth was
projected to be about 7% per annum, reflecting economic development and the
acceleration in the construction of fuel oil fired power stations. A modest growth in other
liquid products (edible oil and molasses) was also anticipated, resulting in overall liquid
product cargoes increasing from 11.6 million tons in 1989 to 20.1 million tons in the year
2000 at a 5.7 % annual growth rate.
h.    To deal with this situation, KPT was required to construct an additional oil liquid
products berth, that would provide liquid product handling capacity of about 19 million
tons per year at a berth occupancy rate of 60%.
Implementation Experience and Results.
a.    The project will be completed satisfactorily by June 30, 1998. The closing date
was extended for one years due to a delay in the Karachi Port component which is under
the same loan.
b.    Project implementation was satisfactory because all objectives were achieved:
Physical components were constructed ahead of schedule, equipment was procured, and
the action plan, training and a study were carried out. Training provided extensive
courses for both managers and workers. The Master Plan and Port Optimization Study
provided a solid basis for future development, implementation of an action plan improved
the port environment; port operations became more efficient and physical capacity was
substantially increased with the addition of the Oil Terminal OP-V and the Port Project.
These achievements were partly due to the project's relative lack of complexity and to
coordination between the KPT and the Ministry of Communication (MOC), which has
overall responsibility for the port sector.
c.    The project benefit included savings in: (a) Cargo-handling cost, (b) Ship waiting
and berthing time, and (c) cargo time. The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for
project components in SAR was estimated at 20% percent for Jinnah Bridge Phase II,
70% for Oil Terminal V, and 29% for dredgers and barges. The achieved corresponding
EIRR on completion of the Project at the end of the loan closing period are, 19.7%,
73.1%, and 17.2% respectively. The EIRR for two projects are satisfactory and the lower
EIRR for dredger and barges is due to delay in construction of barges.
d.    Cost estimates at appraisal were reasonable. The final cost was estimated at about
US $ 57.31 million. In loan amount and disburse amount is due to the saving in foreign
component of project.



59
e.    KPT financial performance is solid. Although the operational ratio (operating
costs/operating revenues) was higher than estimated in the SAR (61.8 percent against
56.5 percent) due to sharp domestic prices increases in 1992-98, KPT absorbed this by
increasing the amount of container traffic it handled. Since container traffic will most
likely expand further, KPT's financial condition will remain solid.
f.    No environmental or resettlement problems arose during implementation.
Sustainability:
g.    At completion, the project appeared sustainable. Because port traffic will
undoubtedly grow along with rapid economic development in the Port area , the
expanded facilities clearly needed. In fact, traffic in containerized cargo has soared, and
the project's oil terminal operate efficiently due to the modem facilities and equipment
and trained staff provided under the project. In addition KPT is financially stable and has
enough resources to maintain and operate the port properly, if it maintains its current
operating scale.
Findings and Lessons Learned:
The finding and lessons include the following:
(i)    KPT capably carried out the construction, procured equipment, conducted
studies and developed its organization; KPT completed construction of
berths four months ahead of the schedule with satisfactory quality.
(ii)   With regard to the procurement of equipment & work, there is a risk that
problems will surface when the lowest bidders of Govt. Sector Companies
are awarded contracts.
(iii)  Projects should be designed as independently as, possible. Although tthe
are separate and   independent   projects  ( the project entities and
activities
are both different), the Karachi Port Project, implementation of which was
on time, could not be closed due to the delay by various reasons and had
to wait for one year.
(iv)   Performance indicators with regard to port operations, maintenance and
environment quality were clearly stated in the SAR ( to monitor the
project's progress) and proved quite useful,
(v)   Project design was relatively straightforward and thus avoided problems
of coordination among various agencies; and
(vi)   When tariffs are regulated and price increases are high, actual tariffs
cannot reflect actual costs. It is suggested that some mechanism should be
added into the tariff calculation to reflect actual operational cost.



60
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT V
(LOAN NO. 3335 - PAK)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES.
1.    When project was identified in the mid 1985-88, Karachi Port was badly
congested and container berths, bulk cargo berths, port equipment, storage yards and
transport infrastructure ( distribution), were in short supply. In fact, it appeared that
congestion would threaten the expansion of Karachi foreign trade. To remedy the
situation, the Government began to reform the port in PQA in 1980-81, and gradually
applied to other ports, through decentralization of responsibilities, which included self-
financing of port operations, generating investment funds through internal cash
generation, and promoting competition among ports for cargo.
2.    The main objectives of the project were to make Karachi's handling of Oil
Tankers & general cargo more efficient by constructing special berths with modern
equipment. The project also promoted efficiency by rehabilitating existing facilities and
training both operational and managerial staff. Finally, it optimized future development
by studying the potential of the port to distribute and transport cargo more effectively and
economically.
3.    Development under the project consisted of:
(a)   Construction of Liquid Products Marine Terminal, OP-V.
The new liquid products Marine Terminal OP-V, at a cost of Rs. 575
million has been constructed in replacement of existing Oil Piers OP-II
and OP-III, having a capacity of 6 to 8 million tons, provided with modern
facilities for handling POL & Non-POL products and additional provision
of handling crude oil for emergency.
(b)   Construction of Jinnah Bridge Phase-II with Flyover Connection.
The Jinnah Bridge Phase II is an extension of the Phase-I Bridge and is a
three level traffic junction between the existing roads (15 level) i.e.
Keamari Road, Moulvi Tamizuddin Khan Road (New Queens Road) and
1.1 Chundrigar Road, (McLeod Road), accomplish by means of a free
flowing elevated roundabout (2nd level) with an elevated flyover (2nd level)



61
connection to the Mauripur Road, and an Overpass (3rd level) as a direct
east-west connection, designed to fully cater for the future increased
traffic volume in 2015. The layout and alignment of the scheme have been
planned keeping in mind the future traffic needs of the port and will
conveniently mesh into the transportation network of Karachi.
The new structure, (roundabout, flyover and overpass), is a modem,
aesthetically planned and elegantly designed State-of the Art of
construction. The project has substantially been completed and formal
inauguration ceremony was held on 10- 10-97 by the Minister.
(c)   Procurement of Bucket Dredging Plant.
I. BUCKET DREDGER:
Stationary type Diesel electric bucket dredger (B.D. AFTAB)
arrived at Port on 27-12-1994, under the World Bank loan (3335-PAK)
having cost of DM=24,755,912, (i.e.. Rs. 408,472,548).
The dredger was in operation 26-03-1995. The salient feature of the
Bucket Dredger are as under:
-     Capacity of dredger is about 700 Cum/ hour.
-     Maximum dredging depth. 20 meters.
-     Each Bucket capacity is about 850 liter.
-     Chain of Bucket included 56 Buckets.
II. TWO NOS. SPLIT HOPPER BARGES.
Associated work of construction of two Hopper Barges was
awarded to Karachi Shipyard & Engineering Works and the Keel Laying
was carried out in October. 1994. Contract completion date was March
1995, which has passed. The progress of work has been extremely slow
and seriously delayed. Barges were finally launched during Nov./Dec.
1995 and at present approx. 35% work is left for completion. Which is to
be completed by 27-01-99 as per addenda contract signed with KSEW on
27-05-1998.
(d)   Construction of RCC Quay-Side Pavements and Access Roads.
The existing quay-side aprons in most of Karachi Port area is in a
poor state of repair and rails embedded in the aprons make it unsuitable for



62
working effectively with modem cargo handling equipment. Due to extensive
usage for the last four decades and fundamental changes in cargo handling
brought about by containerization and utilization, the storage and transit plinth
access roads and other areas, are in a broken and dilapidated condition, needing
re-construction. KPT under the modernization project, has therefore proposed the
re-construction of quay side pavements of eight berths at East Wharves in a
phased manner at a cost of Rs. 400 million in local currency. About 60,000 sq.m
has already been constructed and work is in hand on further similar area. The
approach road to Keamari Groyne Cargo Complex has been completed at a cost
of Rs. 12 million. Reconstruction work of quay side pavements of Berth No. 12-
13 has been recently completed and further work on other berths is under
implementation.
(e)   STUDIES (Technical Assistance) & Training.
Various studies for improving Port efficiency and productivity under the
Port Modernization Project at a cost of about Rs. 105 million, were included.
They are:
I.    Computerization - Stage-II
II.   Enviromnental Protection.
III.   Master Plan Study.
IV.   Improvements in General and Bulk Cargo Handling Operation
Including encouragement of Private Sector Participation.
V.   Radar and Related Equipment.
VI   Hydrography study



63
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT V
(LOAN NO. 3335 - PAK)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE
This was the fifth Bank-assisted port project in Pakistan (KPT). The KPT had
overall responsibility for project implementation.
Civil Works: The individual contracts were undertaken for the Oil Terminal
(OP-V), Jinnah Bridge Phase-II & Reconstruction of Quay side pavement and Access
Road. Construction was delayed due to various reasons. The detail of each project
(subproject) are as under:
a)    Construction of Liquid Products Marine terminal., OP-V.
The new liquid products Marine Terminal OP-V, at a cost of Rs. 575 million with
69% foreign currency component, has been constructed in replacement of existing Oil
Piers OP-I1 and OP-III. It has a capacity of 6 to 8 million tons and is provided with
modem facilities for handling POL & Non-POL products and the additional provision of
handling crude oil for emergency. The facility was completed by M/s. China Harbour
Engineering Company of China and after successful tests & trials the formal
commissioning by the then Prime Minister of Pakistan was held on 23rd February, 1995.
Pollution control equipment under this contract arrived in Karachi in December 1996 and
has been handed over to MPCC.
b)      Construction of Jinnah Bridge Phase-1l with Flyover Connection.
The Jinnah Bridge Phase-II with Flyover Connection at a cost of Rs. 933 million
with 25% foreign exchange component was awarded to China Yunnan Corporation.
China (CYC) for completion in 96 weeks and was to be completed by 18-12-95. The
work has been delayed due to lack of expertise, ability, contractual knowledge and
management capabilities of the Chinese Contractor. Despite signing of two MOUs in
June 94 and Sept. 95, no significant improvement in MWs. China Yunnan Corporation
performance was observed. Accordingly Contractor's responsibility from China was
called to have a high level meeting between KPT. Consultant & Contractor, chaired ;by



64
Chairman KPT from 19-25 March 96, and some improvement were observed. After
December 96, the progress again suffered due to the absence of the Chief Resident
Engineer. In Jan 1997 MWs. LA&P refused to take up further work till their all
outstanding payments are finalized.
High level meetings were held in May, 1997 between the high officials of the
Contractors, Consultants and KPT. However. M/s LAP did not take up the site
supervision from May 15, 1997 as committed in these meetings. To resolve this issue,
MIs. Indus Associated Consultant were appointed as Engineer for the balance work of the
project with the approval of the World Bank and Govt.
The project has substantially been completed and the formal inauguration
ceremony was held on 10-10-97 by the Minister for Communications Mr. Azam Hoti and
Madam Chen Muhua Special Envoy of the Peoples Republic of China. The rotary,
flyover and overpass have been brought in use. Minor works like footpath, lighting
poles, roads signs and marking painting & energizing electric poles etc. are in hand and
will be completed shortly.
c)    Construction of RCC quay-Side Pavements and Access Roads.
The East Wharves of the Port Of Karachi were constructed under the first phase
of Port Development during 1954-60. Due to extensive usage over the last four decades
and fundamental changes in cargo handling brought about by containerization and
utilization, the storage and transit plinth, access roads and other areas are in a broken and
dilapidated condition, needing re-construction. KPT under the modernization project has
therefore proposed the re-construction of quay side pavements of eight berths at East
Wharves in a phased manner at a cost of Rs. 400 million in local currency. About 60,000
sq.m has already been constructed and work is in hand on further similar area. The
approach road to Keamari Groyne Cargo Complex has been completed at a cost of Rs. 12
million. Reconstruction work of quay side pavements of Berths No. 12-13 has been
recently completed and further work on other berth is under implementation.
Procurement of Bucket dredging:
The KPT Board and the Federal Government had approved procurement of a new bucket
dredger with two hopper barges in replacement of old and outlived dredging fleet. The
new plant will have a capacity of 900,000 cum. per annum.
The new Dredger was completed by DWE of Germany in their yard at Deggendorf.
Germany. After confirmatory trials and final test/inspection the new Dredger "Aftab",
was taken over on March 26, 1995. One year guarantee period has been completed and
the Certificate of Due Performance issued by the Engineer/KPT. The Dredger is working
satisfactorily.



65
Associated work of construction of two Hopper Barges was awarded to Karachi Shipyard
& Engineering Works and the keel laying was carried out in October, 1994. Contract
completion date was March 1995, which has passed. The progress of work has been
extremely slow and seriously delayed. The Barges were finally launched during Nov./
Dec. 1995 and at present approx. 35 % work is left for completion. The contract has
since been concelled and the remaining work on the barges will be carried out through
other agencies and Project (subproject) is being completed through KPT's own funding.
STUDIES (Technical Assistance) & Training. This includes:
a.    Computerization - Stage-Il
b.    Environmental Protection.
c.    Master Plan Study.
d.   Improvements in General and Bulk Cargo Handling Operation
Including encouragement of Private Sector Participation.
e.    Radar and Related Equipment.
f     Hydrography study
g.    Training.
a.    Computerization- Stage-II:
To establish a central on -line computerized data bank with interlinks to port users
and associated organisation a specialist firm viz. M/s. Nolmac of Netherlands, was
selected by KPT Board, for detailed study and recommendations for implementation. The
Final Report and the recommendations were approved by the KPT Board on July 31,
1996.
For phased introduction of computer applications, procurement of 100 PCs with
LAN was completed. While reviewing the tenders for additional software and hardware,
the World Bank advised to implement the project on BOT basis. During the then Prime
Minister's visit to USA on April 06, 1995, an MOU was signed with IBM. LOI was
issued to IBM. A draft implementation Agreement was submitted by IBM and KPT had
asked for clarifications on some issues which were not given satisfactorily by IBM.
Meanwhile the validity of the LOI/offer expired. World Bank Supervision Mission
(March 17-12. 1997) has recommended to advertise for fresh offers. PC-I is under
preparation to finance the project from KPT 's own resources.
b.    Environmental Protection:
For effective pollution control measures in Karachi harbour and environmental
protection in the port area, a study has been canried out by MIs. NESPAK of Pakistan in
association with Frank Ayles and H.R. Wallingford AEA Port of Liverpool ( Merey
Dock) of U.K. and Final Report is received. As per recommendations of consultants the
Pollution Control equipment is being procured at a cost or Rs. 350 million with US $ 7.0
million foreign currency. PC-I for the procurement has been approved by CDWP &
ECNEC. Bids for craft and equipment were also received and evaluated but had to be



66
discharged as the procurement was not possible before the loan expiry date of June 97.
As approved by Board (B.R. No. 365 dated 15-06-1997) tender for surveillance cum pilot
boat were re-invited but had to be discharged as approved by KPT Board. Approval of
World Bank is awaited for re-inviting the tender.
C.    Master Plan Study:
This study was entrusted to MWs. Tams Consultants of USA in association with
M/s. I.Z. Associates of Pakistan. The work has bee completed and the Final Report
received. Near Medium & Long term master planning will be followed for formulation
future development plans. The report was also considered by the KPT Board's
Committee on Port Development and the KPT Board and approved. Further action will
be taken accordingly under the next project.
d.    Radar & Related Equipment:
This study has been carried out by experts from MWs. Port of London Authority (PLA) of
U.K. Based on the study solar powered lights and modem buoys have been installed.
Radar & Navigation facilities will also be installed to monitor extended harbour limits
and for safe ships maneuverings. As advised by the Planning Commission the Extent of
the facility was re-examined and report forwarded to World Bank based on which a PC-I
has been prepared and sent to GOP for approval during August 1996. However, the
procurement has been deferred by KPT Board. However it is now proposed to install a
Radar System at Manora to monitor the movement of ships in outer anchorage and in port
as advised by GM(O), with data transmission at 2 stations, one in H.O and 2n in
Harbour. Master office is Keamari Groyne Area. Estimation work is in hand.
e.    Improvements in General and Bulk Cargo Handling Operations including
encouragement of Private Sector Participation.
This study was entrusted to M/s. C.L.E Consult of Ireland in association with M/s.
Engineering Consultants of Pakistan and was successfully completed in October 1994.
The Final Report has been forwarded to World Bank and other concerned agencies/
departments for information and record.  Consultants recommendations are under
consideration of the KPT's Committee on Port Development and further action will be
taken accordingly. On the approved by the World Bark PC-II for the 2nd phase of study
was prepared but the KPT administration has decided to defer this. The second phase of
the Studies is comprising of: i) Optimization of Railway System., ii) Improvement of
Bulk Handling Facilities, iii) Improvement and Maintenance of Manora Workshop.
f.    Feasibility study of deepening the upper harbour and approach channel of
Karachi Port:
Karachi Port Trust wishes to examine the upper harbour area of the Port of
Karachi from the Boat Basin to Juna Bandar to take larger vessels with the aim of
accommodating Panamax Container vessels of upto 12 m draft. Accordingly, the Karachi



67
Port Trust intends to engage an intemationally reputed hydraulics research consultancy
firm well equipped and experienced in carrying out hydraulic studies in the locality
including inter-alia data collection on hydrographic, wave climate tide and tidal currents
and comprehensive hydraulics and sedimentation studies including analysis through
computer modeling. Karachi Port Trust invites applications from consulting firms
specializing in the work . The scope of work in progress and comprises but is not limited
to the following elements.
1.    Optimization of the Approach Channel:.
*     Navigation.
*     Capital Dredging.
*     Maintenance dredging.
*     Beneficial use of dredged material.
2.    Optimizing of the Port dredging works:
*     Navigational
*     Capital dredging.
*     Beneficial use of dredging material.
*     Maintenance dredging.
*     Effect on the hydraulic region.
T     ^Assessment of the effects of the work on the stability of
existing structure.
The contract has been awarded to M/s. H.R. Willingford Ltd. With technical
association of MIs. Techno & Hydrographic consultants. This; contact is made upon the
28th May 1998. The salient features of this study are as under:
i)    Date of study Commencement     Feb 8h 1998.
ii)    Date of Final Report submission    Feb 8th 1999.
iii)   Duration of contract          9 Months.
iv)   Total cost of contract.  LCC=Rs. 13,465,122, FCC= 332,820.
g.    Training under the Loan 3335-Pak.
Only a limited number of training programs were carried out particularly in areas
of computer and marketing. About 10 KPT officers were also sent on foreign training on
various port operational fields. The program of training could not be fully implemented
because of restrictions by Federal Government due to austerity measures.



KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT (PORTS V)
Liquid Products Marine Teffninal (OPV)
General Layout
III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E Ulcricground Pipe Channel
_                           ~~~~~~~~~~~(Bottom Surface - 1.68 m 5.S~)   {     / /2
/'1Sign                                                                                                                         I 'lSaOO
/                      L    Pump Stationds
Boat Basin         \=l\ O^ce-                  Operationalt                    i Prtcto     tor
Building~I
Note: AN Levels rotor to Kagochi Put Datum (KPD)ctio
All dimeaslons ore given ki meters.  not show otherwisewall
Slcpe 1:2Slope                                                                        r B       2
a/   {         v .    aX                   11 S~~~~~~~~~~~~Expansion Jont   ~ 
i/         / ~~Lighted     '        Electric Sub-Station_;1 
>/         ' l~~Nviation    8          >sea waterA                             MootingaDolphins 
<P/   /             r     e~ ~~~~~~~Pum Station                   
vh I    /       ~~~Ferxb Dlhn    |0         > tl<                                 =
_._ = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L _r 
Eaistern Limit of Novgable Channel
Note Ali llsa refar to Kal Port Dattim (KPD)
All dinerElon are ghoon In mtem If not sheown othervAse.
Wold BankA3`152



IBRD 21184R
PA K ISTA N                                                                      JINNAH BRIDGE
KARACHI                                    MANS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIELD IMPORPAEI
KARACHI                             0 a;:0           X X RAILWAY YARD
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORTS V                                   :
KARACHI PORT                         /
WESTERN                          /      \                           5RR<6 S
BACKWATER                         /                                           .1'
I    ,        ?/(f*f           <tS2//                            L
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0    Xt  0 T:S~
V ew  //      7       /   00 c0   0     *:X
-            lshryd         \  \       ~ ~ ~~~~~/                    s' =  ~s
/~~~~~~~~
"~~~~~~ ,.\\4                                                       \           a
'00
b/                          0 d     _  MRNETRIA 
\\                                    IN\LAI_
%   \                                         \       \ ~~~~~~~~    ~       ~     ~    ~ ~~~~~OIL PIER  ELM    Project Components
Sohld   \   \\>\                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved Rovods
\>    ng,         | S e ~~~~~~Railroads
\                  \\  \       )wK,                _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transit Sheds
\ \ s \ N;OL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mangrove Swamps
\                 tFO         \\   \       t            to       Tidal Mud Flats
\   j ,           \ v \       \           _  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
-Vp -\<- /             \         10O0   20C    3000  4000
Th.   ;"-,! =  4                                                              \      \
^Wuf rX 1041                                     /  *0A,A~~~~~ / 
f Ib  /|CRANE P\
b"ki w-        d.                        & F\O P\
=,_ tHould ir"-                                                      H...
P.4-V - i6 1.0 O.W. f -0                   / ,Y 
(,AFG,HANiSTAN,--  70o-   r.                                                                  t or \ 
X   j             30-                                                    Xo\         \\   ie(30,
Q \l PAKISTAN     JQ<                                                                            ^
7  v   a    INDIA 
25   Karachi  25-I 2 -                                                         /
Bay at' Bengal   J                                                                                 /
PRIL 1991



IBRD 21185
Th,s mrap has been prepared by
The World bank s staff e-c--srvetp
tbr the convenmence t thee
readers and s e-ctu-veY tnr the h
Internal use ot The Wonrtd dank                                                                                  e
and the ntMrnat,onat FmIance                                                                                  /\k                  0              500             1000             1500
Corporat,on The denom-inat,ns-
used and the boundares shown                                                                                                                               F
on this rap do nOp rhey on the                                                                                                                             FEET
part ot The World Bank and the                                                                         /  /
,ntornat,nnat Fmnance Cnrpnrabon /
-ry .udgM,nt on he legal stat-sot /
of any terntonY Sr any
endorsement or a:neptanne of                                             0 
such boundarie                                                              0/
Ct
I_\~~~~T K eP T  X
TRAFFIC FLOW UNDER
OVERHEAD FLYOVER
60b               70'
PAKISTAN
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT - PORTS V
JINNAH BRIDGE - PHASE 11
CHINA
______;j_    Round About and Flyover
ISLAMIC REP      AFGHANISTAJ        ,O
OF IRAN      |            s-bsd                                                                  _           Overpass
30'                  -JP   PAK STAN  /30'                                                                       Paved Roads
lnAR  9-5                                                                      -'---'---- Railroads
INDIA
\.U.A E             Korscht *in
s\  /roMAN                                                                                         -International Boundaries
ASRABtAU8Cl   60                701
FEBRUARY 1 991



IBRD 21217
|/  AFGHANISTAN     A]b
I  P A K I 5 T A N           x                        "-4                                                   Z                    N c/                      '7,
KARACHI PORT MODERNIZATION                                                                                                                              PAKISTAN    /
PROJECT - PORTS V
NORTH  o                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
\ ~~~~~KARACHI/QASIM                                 K ARACHI _S{XrL NI
\ TRANSPORTATION NETWORK                      g               /               =              K       c      r o e h i                              a
\ w ~~~~~Proe-t C-Tpon-tI:, 
-  -  -  Pl.-nd  I.mk,                                                                                                                                             0
\ ~~~~Ri-es/  \,! 
\ \ ~~~~~~~~~KILOASETER Ss   ..... .9/11 
9 %S         S   + ,   ~~~             ~~E  /                                                ;PK.-k
- g \ , > x MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIR
lF~~~~~L                                                                                KOAG                                                                                    K..W'C :hi> 
FEBRUARY 1991



