Report No. 23457
Report No: I057770 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/08/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ETHIOPIA        Project ID: P057770
Project: Cultural Heritage Project       Task Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees
Appraisal Date: January 18, 2002         IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: March 28, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 4.95
Managing Unit: AFTES     Sector: MY - Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Ethiopia is the site of some of the oldest human settlements in Africa.
Though the beginning of recorded Ethiopian history dates to the reported
meeting around 1000 BC of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, relatively
recent discoveries have shown that it has a rich prehistory as well. Early
Christian influences date to around 400 AD and Islamic influences followed
several hundred years later, and these have had a profound impact on
Ethiopian culture and tradition. A rich civilization flourished around
Axum until the 7th century AD which was an amalgam of indigenous culture
and external influences, notably from Southern Arabia. Other dynasties,
such as the Zagwe (responsible for the construction of eleven monolithic
churches in Lalibela some time before the late 1200s) left a deep imprint
on Ethiopia as well. The fortress city of Fasil Ghebbi in Gondar,
residence of the Emperor Fasilides and his successors during the 16th and
17th centuries, contains palaces, churches, monasteries and unique public
and private buildings marked by Hindu and Arabic influences, and
transformed by the baroque style brought by Jesuit missionaries.
While evidence of Ethiopia's culture and history is found in its ancient
monuments, cities, and prehistoric sites, its living cultures are
reflected in the work of architects, musicians, writers, artisans and
crafts people. Strong traditions have long contributed to Ethiopia's
material wealth by producing illuminated parchment manuscripts,
leatherwork, metalwork, jewelry, basketry, woodwork, and pottery. Much of
this rich heritage is being eroded by rapid development and growth, and
ancient craft skills are being lost as markets and values for artisanal
crafts change over time.
Government is seeking World Bank support with a Learning and Innovation
Loan with the objective of testing out and developing, on a pilot basis,
the means for more fully integrating the conservation and management of
its cultural heritage into local and national economic development. The
project would support the development of approaches to the conservation of
cultural heritage assets through site planning and conservation of
archaeological and historic buildings and sites, and through the
development of better information for conservation planning and threat
mitigation. The project would also contribute to the revitalization of
economic activity by testing out approaches for small crafts-based
enterprises and by capitalizing on tourism potential.
The decision to process it as a LIL instead of as a larger project is
because of strong capacity building elements, the pilot nature of



individual components for which viable technical, financial, and social
solutions need to be tested and developed, and the need for
experimentation with different partnership arrangements with respect to
the involvement of NGOs, local, regional, and central administrations,
communities, and groups of artisans and craftsmen.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Cultural Heritage Project has three components: Site Planning and
Conservation, Inventory and Documentation Development, and support for the
development of Artisanal Crafts. Central to the design of the project is
the idea that the three project components are closely related, and should
be carried out in a way which brings together the conservation of historic
sites, support for living culture, and economic development through
support to the tourism and small enterprise sectors. The opportunity for
learning different methods of institutional cooperation to bring this
about is at the core of this LIL.
(a) Site Planning and Conservation
The project will provide resources for site planning and conservation in
two pilot sites, Gondar and Axum. The project would finance a conservation
plan for the walled fortress palace complex of Fasil Ghebbi in Gondar to
identify priorities for future site conservation activities, taking into
specific concern the potential for strengthening the involvement of the
community in the palace complex. This work would be carried out in
conjunction with efforts to improve site interpretation, for local,
national, and foreign visitors to the site. The development of an
interpretation center will be planned in the process, and the project will
partly finance its establishment. Training and capacity building for site
planning and interpretation will be key elements of this activity. Finding
mechanisms for the fuller involvement of the people of the town of Gondar
in the management and use of the site will be an underlying objective of
the planning process.
With regard to Axum, the project will finance site planning activities for
the town's archeological sites, including the development of plans for an
expanded archeological museum which may also be designed and constructed,
in part as a local cultural education facility, to house more recent
historical acquisitions as well. Museum planning will be carried out in
conjunction with efforts to increase the institutional capacity, through
curation skills training, at the national and regional levels better to
handle the tasks of museum curation and management. Site planning will
focus on specific needs for better site presentation and interpretation to
assist in the management of visitors to Axum, and for an inventory of 19th
and 20th century vernacular Tigrayan architecture in the older parts of
Axum (carried out in conjunction with the inventory component of the
project), as an input into a proposed old town master plan. The Site
planning process is seen to be a complement to the preparation of a new
master plan, which is a local and regional priority, and which will assist
in identifying how to go about developing infrastructure in the old town
in a manner which is sensitive to the specifics of the site. The interests
of the community in the future of old Axum, and the potential for closer
cooperation with the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in the conservation of
ecclesiastical art will be explored.
- 2-



(b) Inventory and Documentation Development
This component is designed to build the capacity for establishing a better
information base about cultural assets for the purposes of planning,
conservation, and threat mitigation. Capacity development will be
coordinated by ARCCH, which will work with regional and zonal bureaus to
improve methodological approaches, technologies, and capacity to manage
documentation requirements, and to ensure consistency with accepted
standards and practices, in priority zones and regions. Pilot inventories
are expected to be undertaken in 3 regions: Tigray, Amhara, and Oromiya
regions.
As a first step, and working closely with the regional bureaus, ARCCH will
review and assess the extent of existing national, regional, local, and
project specific inventories, and would then manage a series of workshops
to gain a consensus about core national standards and methodologies and
about the most effective system for coordinating the collection and
exchange of inventory information between the center and the regions.
Once core national standards have been agreed, ARCCH would mount a series
of workshops and training initiatives in the three pilot regions more
fully to develop the skills of regional and zonal staff to carry out
inventory work, and to build the capacity of professionals and local
organizations for priority-setting, participation, and involvement in
selected pilot inventory sites.
A critical and growing need, which the project would also address, relates
to the development of the capacity within ARCCH, to provide specific rapid
assessment capabilities in advance of the establishment of hydroelectric
and other dams, roads, and other development activities. The objective of
developing this capacity would be to enable ARCCH quickly to survey
potentially threatened archeological sites which could be inundated as a
result of dam or other development projects and to put in place mitigation
measures, such as the relocation of project activities, modifications in
project design so that sites and structures can be conserved, studied,
documented, and, as appropriate, preserved in situ, or, as a last resort,
physical removal of artifacts. ARCCH would develop a methodology for
rapid assessment, and would prepare mitigation guidelines to assist
regional bureaus in responding to this immediate threat to archeological
sites. Pilot efforts would be focused on Oromiya region.
(c) Artisanal Crafts Development
The rich material culture of Ethiopia is captured in the work of
traditional craftsmen and artisans. This component of the Cultural
Heritage Project has the objective of finding ways of preserving these
ancient craft traditions and of reestablishing craft making as a vital
part of community and national economic life. Working on a pilot basis,
tentatively in Axum, Gondar and Harar, this component will provide
artisans with design guidance, technical skills, business training, and
direct market links to generate sales to local, tourist, regional, and
export markets and to develop the market momentum and local capacity
needed to sustain craft industry growth for the coming decades.
Key strategies for achieving these objectives will include bringing
experienced commercial designers to work with artisans to create
-3 -



tradition-based but market-driven products with increased salability to
key market segments. The project will also provide training in costing
and pricing, production management, and marketing to increase independent
entrepreneurial capacity. In addition, assistance will be provided to
improve links between artisan producers and retailers, exporters, and
shippers to increase local craft sales opportunities and to support the
export trade. Craft product lines developed through the project will be
exhibited in local galleries and at international trade shows with the
support of the project.
Subject to reaching an agreement with regional culture and tourism
bureaus, the project will establish small artisan centers, also on a pilot
basis, in renovated historically or architecturally significant structures
as a place for training, and to provide a venue for demonstration of
traditional craft making, and for exhibiting locally-made crafts. The
artisanal centers would be established also as a means of facilitating
access of producers to alternative and expanded markets, and of buyers to
a wider range of dealers, craftsmen, and craft product. The project will
also seek to develop the capacity of NGOs to become involved in craft
development and marketing by working with them to organize artisans,
provide training and marketing guidance, and other support designed to
foster independent craft entrepreneurship and craft market growth.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
These are described in the area above.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are not expected to be any safeguards issues or impacts associated
- 4 -



with the proposed project. Possible minor impacts may be associated with
site conservation activities, but these are expected to be negligible.
In terms of limiting potential future negative impacts of development
activities, through the Inventory and Documentation Development component,
the project will prepare guidelines, and pilot an approach, for mitigating
impacts of development on cultural sites (particularly, archeological
sites).
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None are expected.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
New construction will be negligible and the project will focus on the
re-use and renovation of existing structures and facilities. The
implementing agency will invite the National Environment Agency to review
the Project Implementation Plan and, where any monitoring is required,
will involve the Agency.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Project Component
Stakeholders
Form of Participation    Site Planning and Conservation   Inventory and
Documentation     Artisanal Crafts Development      (a) Primary beneficiaries and
other affected groups Communities living close to cultural sites of Axum and Gondar      IS,
CON, COL    Residents of Axum and Gondar would be involved in the development and
implementation of site planning and conservation activities;     Involvement in
participatory inventory and documentation activities as input into urban planning
activities    Local residents consulted for their dependence on traditional crafts in
Axum, Gondar, and Harar School children IS        Dissemination of information through site
interpretation activities       N/A     Some training may be provided.   Craftspeople and
artisans       IS, CON, COL     N/A     Consulted for knowledge about traditional artisanal
production methods     Heavily involved in all aspects of component implementation
Traditional building tradespeople        IS, CON, COL     Involved in site conservation
activities as source of knowledge, and as skilled site workmen          Consulted for
knowledge about traditional building methods     May be consulted and involved in
renovation of arts centers Urban and regional planners       IS, CON. COL    Involved in
site planning as it relates to urban town planning      May be involved in urban
inventories    N/A      (b) Other key stakeholders Ethiopian Orthodox Church and its
members       IS, CON Church is involved in all aspects of implementation as a member of
the project Steering Committee. Islamic Council and its members IS, CON Islamic Council
is involved in all aspects of implementation as a member of the project Steering Committee
- 5 -



National heritage NGOs and cultural organizations         IS, CON, likely COL     Likely
consultation and possible collaboration in site planning and conservation activities.
Will be kept appraised of project activities, and consulted for inputs into design of core
national inventory standards.       Collaboration likely to be sought as appropriate.
International cultural heritage organizations    IS, CON, COL     IS as required by statute,
CON and COL when possible.   Partnership arrangements likely to be sought.     Partnership
arrangements likely to be developed to bring expertise and resources.     'Fair trade' NGOs
will be consulted. Possibilities for collaboration. Tourism private sector IS, CON, COL
Views of the industry sought during site planning         N/A Opportunities for
collaboration will be explored.   Visitors to cultural sites in Ethiopia   IS      Views
will be assessed about potential improvements in visitor experience.       N/A     Views
will be sought regarding tourist market for craft products.       Notes:
IS =  Information Sharing; CON = Consultation; COL =
Collaboration
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)        Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 6 -



If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Peter A. Dewees 01/04/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         01/07/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Agi Kiss         01/07/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 11, 2002\I057770.txt
January 8, 2002 8:24 AM
-7-



