Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23806-ET
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4. 1MILLION
(US$5.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
CULTUTRAL HERITAGE PROJECT
March 5, 2002
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
1 Ethiopian Birr = US$0.12
US$1.00 = 8.44 Ethiopian Birr
FISCAL YEAR
July I -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC         Assistant Project Coordinator
ARCCH       Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage
AWPB        Annual Work Program and Budget
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
EHT         Ethiopian Heritage Trust
ETC         Ethiopian Tourism Commission
FMR         Financial Management Report
GOE         Government of Ethiopia
ICCROM      Intemational Center for the Study of the Preservation
and Restoration of Cultural Property
IDA         Intemational Development Association
LIL         Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF         Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development
PMR         Project Management Report
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
WMF         World Monuments Fund
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:   Agnes I. Kiss
Task Team Leader:   Peter A. Dewees



ETHIOPIA
CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                     6
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                               6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      9
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                            11
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          11
2. Financial                                                                         12
3. Technical                                                                         12
4. Institutional                                                                     12
5. Environmental                                                                     14
6. Social                                                                            15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                17



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     17
2. Critical risks                                                                     17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     19
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            19
2. Other                                                                              19
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         20
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         29
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             30
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       32
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            43
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                              45
Annex 12: Key Performance Indicators                                                     52
MAP(S)
IBRD 31720



ETHIOPIA
Cultural Heritage Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTES
Date: March 5, 2002                              Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees
Country Director: Ishac Diwan                    Sector Manager: Agi Kiss
Project ID: P057770                              Sector(s): MY - Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Social Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [Xp Credit    [ ] Grant    1 ]Guarantee     1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      0.65           0.05          0.70
IDA                                                           1.90           3.10          5.00
Total:                                                        2.55           3.15          5.70
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Responsible agency:
Ethiopian Tourism Commission
Address: P.O. Box 2183, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Yusuf Abdullahi Sukkar, Commissioner of Tourism
Tel: 251-1-513991           Fax: 251-1-513899            Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage
Address: P.O. Box 13247, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Jara Haile Mariam, General Manager
Tel: 251-1-157630           Fax: 251-1-510705            Email:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005      2006      2007
Annual     0.70       1.40       1.30      1.20      0.40
Cumulative    0.70       2.10       3.40      4.60       5.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  01/15/2007
OCS PAD Fn F   M. Ma.. 2CI



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Ethiopia is the site of some of the oldest human settlements in Africa. Though the beginning of recorded
Ethiopian history dates to the reported meeting around 1000 BC of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba,
relatively recent discoveries have shown that it has a rich prehistory as well. Early Christian influences date
to around 400 AD and Islamic influences followed several hundred years later, and these have had a
profound impact on Ethiopian culture and tradition. A rich civilization flourished around Axum until the
7th century AD which was an amalgam of indigenous culture and external influences, notably from
Southern Arabia. Other dynasties, such as the Zagwe (responsible for the construction of eleven monolithic
churches in Lalibela some time before the late 1200s) left a deep imprint on Ethiopia as well. The fortress
city of Fasil Ghebbi in Gondar, residence of the Emperor Fasilidas and his successors during the 16th and
17th centuries, contains palaces, churches, monasteries and unique public and private buildings marked by
Hindu and Arabic influences, and transfonned by the baroque style brought by Jesuit missionaries.
While evidence of Ethiopia's culture and history is found in its ancient monuments, cities, and prehistoric
sites, its living cultures are reflected in the work of architects, musicians, writers, artisans and crafts
people. Strong traditions have long contributed to Ethiopia's material wealth by producing illuminated
parchment manuscripts, leatherwork, metalwork, jewelry, basketry, woodwork, and pottery. Much of this
rich heritage is being eroded by rapid development and growth, and ancient craft skills are being lost as
markets and values for artisanal crafts change over time.
Government is seeking World Bank support with a Learning and Innovation Loan with the objective of
testing out and developing, on a pilot basis, the means for more fully integrating the conservation and
management of its cultural heritage into local and national economic development. The project would
support the development of approaches to the conservation of cultural heritage assets through site planning
and conservation of archaeological and historic buildings and sites, and through the development of better
information for conservation planning and threat mitigation. The project would also contribute to the
revitalization of economic activity by testing out approaches for small crafts-based enterprises and by
capitalizing on tourism potential.
The decision to process it as a LIL instead of as a larger project is because of strong capacity building
elements, the pilot nature of individual components for which viable technical, financial, and social
solutions need to be tested and developed, and the need for experimentation with different partnership
arrangements with respect to the involvement of NGOs, local, regional, and central administrations,
communities, and groups of artisans and craftsmen.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The Cultural Heritage LIL will test an operational model and implementation mechanism for more fully
integrating cultural heritage concerns into multiple development sectors at the national, regional and local
levels. As a LIL, the success of the project will be determined by the effectiveness of institutional
partnership arrangements at these several levels in:
*   developing and implementing, on a pilot scale, site conservation, management and visitor interpretation
plans, identifying 'good practices' for doing so, building the capacity and laying the groundwork for
conservation activities, and building on synergies between sectors with common interests (such as the
tourism industry);
-2 -



*   more fully integrating local and community development and poverty reduction efforts into cultural site
management efforts;
* broadening the involvement of other partners in cultural asset management, particularly the private
sector, NGOs, and international organizations with interests in cultural heritage, in a way which
mobilizes both resources and expertise;
*   improving the information base for cultural asset conservation and management, particularly building
the capacity to identify and mitigate threats to cultural sites and objects;
* supporting the development of the artisanal crafts sector and increasing its contribution to local income
generation, and improving the basis for innovation and development of crafts and artisanal design.
Experience with project implementation will provide a basis for determining the potential for replicating
and/or modifying the approaches taken in other sites of national or local cultural importance. Key
performance indicators will measure the technical and managerial capacity of the implementing agencies
and the effectiveness of a multistakeholder coordinating mechanism. The impact of project investments on
various stakeholders will also be assessed through monitoring and evaluation, particularly to determine the
extent of local positive development impacts, income generation, and employment creation. Key
Performance Indicators are described in greater detail in Annex I and Annex 12 to this PAD.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-198    Date of latest CAS discussion: December 5, 2000
The Interim Support Strategy (ISS) for Ethiopia was discuss by the Board in conjunction with its review of
the Demobilization and Reintegration Project. The Interim Support Strategy reviewed implementation of
the Bank's assistance strategy to Ethiopia prior to the outbreak of hostilities with Eritrea, and articulated a
program of future Bank support for meeting near-term emergency humanitarian needs, for reconstruction,
and for Ethiopia's wider economic recover and development efforts. The ISS anticipated that, in addition to
supporting reconstruction and recovery, future lending would focus on institutions, capacity building, and
service delivery, complemented by activities to revive the private sector which would be necessary to
generate growth and employment. It is within this framework that the Cultural Heritage Project has been
proposed.
The need for investment in cultural heritage conservation is not explicitly identified in the Interim Support
Strategy. The Bank agreed to consider providing support for this area at the specific request of the Prime
Minister, Meles Zenawi, during discussions with President Wolfensohn in January, 1998. The approach
proposed in this LIL is consistent with the previous CAS's objectives related to capacity building,
increasing sources of growth and poverty alleviation.
* Capacity building will be the focus of training activities associated with the development of site
planning and conservation in selected pilot sites and with the development of regional inventories of
cultural heritage databases. Capacity to undertake these tasks had formerly rested with the central
Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage (ARCCH), which continues to have
overall responsibility for the management of Ethiopia's World Heritage Sites. Regional cultural
bureaus, which are under the mandate of regional governments (and not ARCCH) have assumed some
of the responsibility for management of the World Heritage sites, and for developing and maintaining
regional inventories, but lack trained staff to do so.
- 3 -



*   The project will provide opportunities for increasing sources of growth by bringing about
improvements in the planning, conservation, and interpretation of historic sites in a manner which
increases their value for the tourist industry and which improves the context for urban growth around
these sites. The project will also support the development of the artisanal crafts industry by providing
opportunities for strengthening the local crafts trade to meet both domestic and export market demands
for quality craft production.
* Poverty alleviation is a specific focus of the artisanal crafts development component, which was also
designed to reflect the idea that culture and sustainable development are closely linked, and that
cultural heritage can be a theme ofjob creation and development. Craftspeople traditionally are among
the poorest groups in Ethiopia, and this specific activity will increase incomes and reduce poverty in
this group.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
Elsewhere in Africa, the loss of cultural heritage assets -- language, music, dress, the arts, architecture,
religious traditions -- was accelerated by the colonization process. In Ethiopia, the loss of cultural
traditions has been accelerated primarily by neglect. Notwithstanding the ratification of the World Heritage
Convention in 1977, and the classification of Ethiopia's seven World Heritage Sites between 1978 and
1980, much of its important heritage was ignored during the Dergue regime, and the remains of
archaeological sites, marketplaces, historical and religious structures have, over time, been forgotten.
Building and crafts skills, healing traditions, and language skills are similarly being lost with time.
Expressions of artistic traditions are at the risk of degenerating into 'airport art' to meet the demands of a
limited market, constrained from innovating into new forms of material culture. There is also a growing
concem about the need to prevent the further loss of cultural artifacts which are stolen from churches and
other public places, and their sale on international art markets.
As Ethiopia continues its recovery from the years of mismanagement and neglect during the Dergue regime,
rapid development, too, poses a significant threat to the loss of ancient sites and cultures. Planned new
hydroelectric dams and roads may obliterate ancient settlement and archeological sites, long before there is
any understanding of what might be lost. There is a growing recognition of the need better to document
these cultural sites, and then to mitigate the potential negative impacts of further development.
Until recently, few of Ethiopia's historic sites had been managed with the view that they have much to offer
to the national, regional, and local economies. Despite their significant influence on Ethiopian heritage,
these rich centers of culture are surrounded by communities of poverty. These contradictions have become
increasingly clear to the current government, which is seeking ways of strengthening the role of culture in
the country's economic life. At the heart of the federal state is the idea that regional identities are strongly
rooted in cultural expression.
The main sector issues with regard to cultural heritage conservation and management in Ethiopia relate to
the need to:
*   more fully integrate a cultural dimension into Ethiopia's economic and social development program and
to incorporate this approach into local development efforts;
*   build the capacity to prevent the loss of cultural heritage assets through strategic conservation
planning, protection and threat mitigation, and the development of better information about the extent
and condition of these assets; and to
-4 -



* coordinate institutional efforts for cultural heritage management amongst multiple stakeholders:
between central, regional and zonal authorities; within communities; between tourism and cultural
interests; and with other institutions such as the Supreme Islamic Council and the Orthodox Church.
Government strategy
In this post-conflict period, Government's overriding development objective is to attain relatively fast,
broad-based, and more equitable economic growth with macroeconomic stability. A rapid increase in
agricultural output, coupled with accelerated growth in the industrial and services sectors, is the
comerstone of economic growth and poverty alleviation in Ethiopia. Macro stability is expected to be a
consequence of structural reforms, which are focusing on export promotion and private sector development,
on liberalizing the investment code, and on accelerating privatization. This overall strategy aims to create
an environment conducive to export diversification. Closely related to the twin objectives of economic
growth and macroeconomic stability is the aim of progressively integrating Ethiopia into the global
economy.
In the early 1990s, Ethiopia found itself the beneficiary of a growing global market for cultural tourism,
and has sought the means for addressing the dual needs of cultural heritage conservation and tourism
market development and growth. Visitor numbers are small, currently around 125,000 visitors per year.
The bulk of these are ovemight visitors. Only around 25,000 tourists per year stay for the purposes of
holiday, while another 42,000 arrive on business. There is a small, but growing, group of private tour
operators in Ethiopia, and until the recent conflict, visitor numbers had been increasing at a rate of around
7 percent annually. Responsibility for tourism policy, planning, and promotion rests with the Ethiopian
Tourism Commission (ETC, in the Prime Minister's Office), which, in 1995, completed a Regional
Tourism Development Plan for North, East, West Ethiopia. The Tourism Development Plan articulates
Government's strategy for developing more fully the potential of cultural tourism. The Commission has
also focused on the potential linkage between cultural tourism, community development, and the artisanal
crafts industry, having extensively reviewed the sector in a 1997 Feasibility Study of Traditional
Handicrafts Development in the Tourist Industry of Ethiopia.
The institutional mandate for management and protection of the country's cultural heritage assets rests in
part with the Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage (ARCCH) and in part with
regional cultural bureaus. Among other things, ARCCH legally has oversight for management of the
country's World Heritage Sites, and finances some site conservation activities through regional cultural
bureaus. Regional cultural bureaus, in contrast, operate under the mandate of regional administrations but
usually have extensive, though informal, contacts with ARCCH. They vary widely in their capacity and
ability to deliver on the cultural heritage conservation agenda. Capacity is constrained, and they remain
dependent on technical support from ARCCH. There is growing recognition that ARCCH should
increasingly work toward building the capacity of regional cultural bureaus to take on a wider range of
tasks responsive to regional and local development priorities.
Legislation which provides for the conservation of assets with major artistic, scientific, cultural, or
historical value, was adopted in 1989, and has recently been revised. The revised legislation provides for
the establishment of ARCCH. The Proclamation to Provide for Research and Conservation of Cultural
Heritage (Proclamation 209/2000) was endorsed by the Council of Ministers and has now been adopted
by the National Assembly. Despite the strong synergies and interests between tourism and cultural heritage
institutions, they have tended to operate in isolation from one another, the former focusing primarily on
market and infrastructure development, and the latter focusing primarily on site management.
-5 -



Additional key stakeholders with regard to cultural heritage include the Ethiopian Orthodox Church and the
Supreme Islamic Council. These institutions maintain much of the living heritage of the country, in its
churches and mosques, in its illuminated parchments, fine ecclesiastical metal and wood work, religious
paintings, language, and architecture. Both institutions retain custody of large collections of immense
historical significance as well, having been inextricably involved in matters of state for generations prior to
the Dergue regime.
The most significant challenge for Goverrnent, then, will be to build on the institutional synergies between
these many stakeholders, especially between the tourism, community development, and cultural subsectors,
and to support ways of more strongly coordinating their activities. A key element of this approach depends
on finding ways of more fully involving communities in cultural site management. Because of this,
mediating between community, zonal, regional and national interests becomes a central element in
Government's cultural heritage strategy.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will provide resources to pilot the development of site planning and conservation initiatives in
selected priority sites and to build national, regional, and local capacity for site planning and conservation
in a way which integrates cultural site management with local development priorities. The creation of a
multistakeholder steering committee to oversee project implementation, the scope for partnerships with
national and international NGOs, and the need to collaborate closely with communities on site management
and development initiatives will provide opportunities to test out alternative approaches toward institutional
collaboration, and will promote innovative opportunities for institutional learning.
Govenmment's more general strategy of developing mechanisms for identifying - and then mitigating - the
potential negative impacts of development activities on cultural sites and assets will be strengthened
through the project, by developing core national standards for inventory and documentation, and guidelines
for managing sites likely to be affected by development.
Finally, the project will provide opportunities for preserving and reviving artisanal traditions and for
reestablishing craft making as a vital part of community and national economic life. The project will pilot
learning opportunities for artisans and craftsmen, with design guidance, business training, improved
technical skills, and by developing market links to generate sales to local, tourist, regional, and export
markets.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
2I Economic     1 Technical    1 Social        OI Participation
O Financial     1 Institutional  ] Environmental ] Other
Technical
The project is expected to provide opportunities for strengthening the technical capacity at the national,
regional, and local levels for site conservation, planning, and interpretation; for museum curation; for
inventory and documentation; and for artisanal crafts development. Government's strategy of developing
mechanisms for identifying - and then mitigating - the potential negative impacts of development activities
on cultural sites and assets will be strengthened through the project.
- 6 -



Institutional
The creation of a multistakeholder steering committee to oversee project implementation, the scope for
partnerships with national and international NGOs, and the need to collaborate closely with communities on
site management and development initiatives will provide opportunities to test out alternative approaches
toward institutional collaboration, and will promote innovative opportunities for institutional learning. The
Steering Committee on Cultural Heritage will have a central role in moving these opportunities forward.
Social
The project will provide opportunities for involving communities in site planning and conservation, and for
more fully integrating communities into the life of important historic sites. It will also focus on preserving
and reviving artisanal traditions and for reestablishing craft making as a vital part of community and
national economic life. The project will pilot learning opportunities for artisans and craftsmen, with design
guidance, business training, improved technical skills, and by developing market links to generate sales to
local, tourist, regional, and export markets.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Cultural Heritage Project has four components: Site Planning and Conservation, Inventory and
Documentation Development, support for the development of Artisanal Crafts, and support for Project
Management. Central to the design of the project is the idea that these components are closely related, and
should be carried out in a way which brings together the conservation of historic sites, support for living
culture, and economic development through support to the tourism and small enterprise sectors. The
opportunity for learning different methods of institutional cooperation to bring this about is at the core of
this LIL.
(a)    Site Planning and Conservation
The project will provide resources for site planning and conservation in two pilot sites, Gondar and Axum.
The project would finance a conservation plan for the walled fortress palace complex of Fasil Ghebbi in
Gondar to identify priorities for future site conservation activities, taking into specific concern the potential
for increasing benefits to the community as a result of their proximity to the palace complex (to which they
currently have no access). This work would be carried out in conjunction with efforts to improve site
interpretation, for local, national, and foreign visitors to the site. The development of an interpretation and
documentation center will be planned in the process, and the project will partly finance its establishment.
Training and capacity building for site planning and interpretation will be key elements of this activity.
Finding mechanisms for the fuller involvement of the people of the town of Gondar in the management and
use of the site will be an underlying objective of the planning process.
With regard to Axum, the project will finance site planning activities for the town's archeological sites,
including the development and planning of an expanded archeological museum in part as a local cultural
education facility, as well as to house more recent historical acquisitions. Museum planning will be carried
out in conjunction with efforts to increase the institutional capacity, through curation skills training, at the
national and regional levels better to handle the tasks of museum curation and management. Site planning
will focus on specific needs for better site presentation and interpretation to assist in the management of
- 7 -



visitors to Axum, and for taking into account of the results of an inventory of 19th and 20th century
vernacular Tigrayan architecture in the older parts of Axum, which was completed as an input into the
town's master plan. The Site planning process is seen to be a complement to the new master plan, which is
a local and regional priority, and which will assist in identifying how to go about developing infrastructure
in the old town in a manner which is sensitive to the specifics of the site. The interests of the community in
the future of old Axum, and the potential for closer cooperation with the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in the
conservation of ecclesiastical art will be explored.
(b)    Inventory and Documentation Development
This component is designed to build the capacity for establishing a better information base about cultural
assets for the purposes of planning, conservation, and threat mitigation. Capacity development will be
coordinated by ARCCH, which will work with regional and zonal bureaus to improve methodological
approaches, technologies, and capacity to manage documentation requirements, and to ensure consistency
with accepted standards and practices, in priority zones and regions. Pilot inventories are expected to be
undertaken in 3 regions: Tigray, Amhara, and Oromiya regions.
As a first step, and working closely with the regional bureaus, ARCCH will review and assess the extent of
existing national, regional, local, and project specific inventories, and would then manage a series of
workshops to gain a consensus about core national standards and methodologies and about the most
effective system for coordinating the collection and exchange of inventory information between the center
and the regions. Once core national standards have been agreed, ARCCH would mount a series of
workshops and training initiatives in the three pilot regions more fully to develop the skills of regional and
zonal staff to carry out inventory work, and to build the capacity of professionals and local organizations
for priority-setting, participation, and involvement in selected pilot inventory sites. This work would be
carried out in conjunction with recent UNESCO proposals for inventory development.
A critical and growing need, which the project would also address, relates to the development of the
capacity within ARCCH, to provide specific rapid assessment capabilities in advance of the establishment
of hydroelectric and other dams, roads, and other development activities. The objective of developing this
capacity would be to enable ARCCH quickly to survey potentially threatened archeological sites which
could be inundated as a result of dam or other development projects and to put in place mitigation
measures, such as the relocation of project activities, modifications in project design so that sites and
structures can be conserved, studied, documented, and, as appropriate, preserved in situ, or, as a last
resort, physical removal of artifacts. ARCCH would develop a methodology for rapid assessment, and
would prepare mitigation guidelines to assist regional bureaus in responding to this immediate threat to
archeological sites. Pilot efforts would be focused on Oromiya, or another region, in agreement with the
Bank.
(c)    Artisanal Crafts Development
The rich material culture of Ethiopia is captured in the work of traditional craftsmen and artisans. This
component of the Cultural Heritage Project has the objective of finding ways of preserving these ancient
craft traditions and of reestablishing craft making as a vital part of community and national economic life.
Working on a pilot basis, tentatively in Axum, Addis Ababa, and Harar, this component will provide
artisans with design guidance, technical skills, business training, and direct market links to generate sales to
local, tourist, regional, and export markets and to develop the market momentum and local capacity needed
to sustain craft industry growth for the coming decades.
-8 -



Key strategies for achieving these objectives will include bringing experienced commercial designers to
work with artisans to create tradition-based but market-driven products with increased salability to key
market segments. The project will also provide training in costing and pricing, quality and production
management, and marketing to increase independent entrepreneurial capacity. In addition, assistance will
be provided to improve links between artisan producers and retailers, exporters, and shippers to increase
local craft sales opportunities and to support the export trade. Craft product lines developed through the
project will be exhibited in local galleries and at international trade shows with the support of the project.
Subject to reaching an agreement with regional culture and tourism bureaus, the project will establish small
artisan resource centers, also on a pilot basis, in renovated historically or architecturally significant
structures as a place for training, and to provide a venue for demonstration of traditional craft making, and
for exhibiting locally-made crafts. The artisanal centers would be established also as a means of
facilitating access of producers to alternative and expanded markets, and of established buyers to a wider
range of dealers, craftsmen, and craft product. The project will also seek to develop the capacity of NGOs
to become involved in craft development and marketing by working with them to organize artisans, provide
training and marketing guidance, and other support designed to foster independent craft entrepreneurship
and craft market growth.
d)     Project Management
The project will provide funds for project management, particularly, to cover the costs of the Project
Coordination Unit. Funds are provided to employ specialist staff to work in the unit, as needed. It is
envisaged that the Coordination Unit will separately employ an Accountant, Procurement Specialist, and
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist. The positions of Project Coordinator and Assistant Project
Coordinators are likely to be filled by existing staff within ETC and ARCCH respectively, but provisions
have been made to employ qualified staff for these positions on a contract basis.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
Site Planning and Conservation   Non-Sector Specific   2.00      35.1      1.80       36.0
Inventory and Documentation      Non-Sector Specific   1.30      22.8      1.10       22.0
Development
Artisanal Craft Development      Non-Sector Specific   2.00      35.1      1.80       36.0
Project Management               Non-Sector Specific   0.40       7.0      0.30        6.0
Total Project Costs                   5.70     100.0      5.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     5.70     100.0      5.00     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is to be implemented over a period of four years. The main implementing institutions are the
Ethiopian Tourism Commission (ETC), the Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage
(ARCCH), and regional cultural bureaus in Tigray, Amhara, and Oromiya.
The primary responsibility for providing overall guidance about the scope and direction of the project will
rest with a project Steering Committee, which has already been established (and which has been centrally
involved in project design). The Steering Committee is chaired by the Ethiopian Tourism Commission, and
comprises representatives from MFED, ARCCH, the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, the Supreme Islamic
-9-



Council, and representatives from Regional cultural and tourism bureaus. The composition of the Steering
Committee is subject to change in order flexibly to respond to some of the perceived needs and interests of
various sectoral stakeholders. It is envisaged that the Steering Committee will have primary responsibility
for overseeing project performance and progress, reviewing and approving annual work plans, evaluating
project impact on the basis of project performance indicators, and for providing guidance about the overall
scope and direction of the project. The Steering Committee will be the primary mechanism for ensuring
that the interests of key stakeholders, particularly those in the regional bureaus, are adequately addressed
during project implementation. It is envisaged that the Steering Committee will meet on a quarterly basis,
or at other times as needed.
Because of the multiple institutions which are to be involved in project implementation at the national and
regional levels, the effective coordination of project activities amongst implementing partners will be key.
With this in mind, the Steering Committee concluded that day to day project management responsibilities
should rest with a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established within the Planning Division of the
Ethiopian Tourism Commission. The Coordination Unit will be responsible for overall project
administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and overall project
supervision. The Unit will comprise a Project Coordinator assigned by the ETC, one Assistant Project
Coordinator for each of the project's three components, an Accountant, a Procurement Specialist, and a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist. It is envisaged that the Project Coordinator will have primary
responsibility for overall project management.
ETC will be responsible for the overall management of project funds and will maintain the project's
accounts. A Financial Management Specialist conducted a review of the financial management systems of
ETC during the Preappraisal Mission and found the systems adequate for the purpose of implementing the
project. Details of financial management arrangements, disbursements, and special account operations are
summarized in Annex 6. Project financial reports (including SOEs, Special Accounts, and related financial
information) will be prepared by ETC and will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. A
single audit report on the project's annual financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the end of the govemment fiscal year, and will also include opinions on the use of SOEs and
the Special Accounts.
With respect to implementation of project activities, ETC will have primary responsibility for implementing
the Artisanal Crafts Development Component, and, in collaboration with regional and municipal authorities
as appropriate, for operating the proposed Addis craft center, and regional centers in Harar and Axum.
ARCCH will have primary responsibility for facilitating the implementation of the Site Planning and
Conservation component, and will work in close partnership with regional cultural bureaus in Tigray and
Amhara in order to do so. ARCCH will also be responsible for implementation of the Inventory and
Documentation component, also working in close partnership with regional cultural bureaus in Tigray,
Amhara and Oromiya. The Inventory and Documentation component is primarily intended to improve the
capacity of regional cultural bureaus to prepare cultural asset inventories, and to use information from
these inventories to provide guidance for future cultural asset conservation activities. The main roles of
ARCCH are to provide services to regional cultural bureaus to: a) facilitate access to funds by regional
cultural bureaus to implement project activities; b) facilitate access to technical inputs needed for project
implementation at the regional level; and c) provide technical supervision and assistance to regional cultural
bureaus, as needed. ARCCH should cooperate closely with ETC in developing site interpretation inputs,
and in marketing historic sites.
- 10 -



Regional cultural bureaus in Tigray, Amhara and Oromiya and in Region 14 (Addis Ababa), will be
responsible for overseeing day-to-day project activities in Axum, Gondar, Harar, and Addis Ababa
respectively and for ensuring that these activities are consistent with regional development priorities.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The Project Coordination Unit will implement a systematic and detailed monitoring and reporting system,
focusing on both the outputs and outcomes of the project. The system should allow for an effective
evaluation of (i) the project's delivery mechanisms, implementation procedures, and institutional
arrangements; (ii) performance effectiveness, evaluated on the basis of the project's development objectives
and the input, output, outcome, and impact indicators identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1);
and (iii) the potential replicability of project activities on a wider scale. Progress towards project outcomes
will be evaluated during project supervision and during a Mid-Term review. The Mid-Term Review would
determine the extent to which the project is performing against the objectives set for it, and would carry out
a preliminary assessment of the potential for wider scale replication. Preparation of an hmplementation
Completion Report will be initiated by the Bank prior to the project's closing date, in conjunction with the
preparation of Government's own evaluation report. Monitoring and Evaluation will be the responsibility
of a M&E Officer, employed by the Project Coordination Unit.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
In the context considered here, 'cultural heritage' includes both the material aspects of culture (for
example, historic sites and buildings, landscapes, and objects of particular historical, architectural,
aesthetic, or cultural significance) as well as nonmaterial aspects such as social practices, symbolic forms
of expressions (for example, the arts, music, dance, oral traditions, literature, etc.), values and beliefs.
In light of the pilot nature of this project, only notional and qualitative economic analyses will be
undertaken a priori. The project is expected to generate a range of benefits associated with: a) experience
gained with various institutional partnership arrangements for cultural heritage conservation; b) improved
planning and site interpretation to accommodate conservation needs and tourism interests in cultural sites;
c) growth and poverty reduction associated with better access to local, regional, and intemational markets
for artisanal crafts products; d) conservation of cultural assets which might otherwise have been lost, for
example, to theft or as a result of development; e) community involvement in cultural site conservation and
management; and f) improved institutional capacity to formulate and implement cultural asset management
programs.
Cost-effectiveness was carefully considered during project design. As pilot operations, interventions under
all components are expected to be relatively small-scale and will seek to optimize the impacts of resource
use by developing partnership arrangements with domestic and intemational organizations such as the
Ethiopian Heritage Trust (an NGO), the World Monuments Fund, ICCROM, and UNESCO. Site
conservation activities are expected to use local building materials and techniques and labor intensive



methods. There is a very strong element of capacity building in the project design, which is intended to
contribute to longer-term sustainability.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Because of the nature of the LIL, particularly its size and emphasis on testing and innovation, the monetary
and non-monetary benefits have not been analyzed in the comprehensive way normally associated with
more traditional Bank investment projects. As the LIL is effectively a pilot operation, the project will test a
variety of approaches for providing resources through several institutional arrangements. Site Planning and
Conservation activities are expected to provide resources to the regions, through the Authority for Research
and Conservation of Cultural Heritage and through partnership arrangements with other institutions such as
the World Monuments Fund, ICCROM, and UNESCO, contributing to the longer-term viability of these
sites as cultural centers. The Inventory and Documentation component will similarly provide resources for
capacity building at the regional level, again through ARCCH. The Artisanal Crafts Development
component is expected to focus strongly on the need for financial sustainability, and will examine further
the prospects for working through communities and local organizations in doing so.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The need for technical studies associated with site conservation in Gondar and Axum will be identified as
an outcome of the planning process. These studies might include activities related to archeological
investigation, building stabilization, drainage improvement, or archival studies. The scope for using
advanced dating, remote sensing, and conservation technology (GPS, radiocarbon dating, etc.) to enhance
the planning and conservation process will also be explored and developed for wider-spread application
elsewhere in Ethiopia. The Inventory and Documentation component will also provide limited resources,
through technical assistance, to develop the use of enhanced documentation tools for records management.
Finally, the Artisanal Crafts Development component will provide resources for technical specialists in
crafts technologies (such as vegetable-based leather tanning, natural dye production, and ceramics
production) to work with designers to assist in developing marketable products and in reviving traditional
crafts and technologies. It is expected that new technologies piloted in the LIL would be evaluated for their
potential for scaling up in subsequent activities.
4. Institutional:
Implementation responsibilities are described more fully in Section C.2.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be executed primarily by the Ethiopian Tourism Commission, the Authority for Research
and Conservation of Cultural Heritage, and regional cultural bureaus in Tigray, Amhara, Harar, and
Oromiya regions, under the direction of a project Steering Committee, chaired by the Commissioner of the
Ethiopian Tourism Commission and on which a range of stakeholders are represented.
4.2 Project management:
Project management responsibilities will rest with a Project Coordination Unit established within the
Planning Division of the ETC. The Project Coordination Unit will comprise a Coordinator (from ETC),
one Assistant Project Coordinator for each project component (one assigned by ETC, and two assigned by
ARCCH), a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, and an Accountant. Where
needed, implementation capacity will be strengthened with technical assistance, training, and capacity
building.
- 12-



4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement financed under the project will be limited to recruitment of consultants services, office
equipment, a limited number of vehicles, some civil works, and incremental operating costs. An
experienced Procurement Specialist will be recruited by the Planning Division of ETC and is to be
responsible for ensuring that procurement for works and goods is carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, in September 1997, and January 1999). Consultancy services financed by IDA
will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997, and revised September 1997 and January 1999).
A General Procurement Notice will be published in United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and
will include a description of required services or goods, the client agency, and the budgeted cost. This
notice will be updated every year during the execution of the projects until all contracts and assignments
have been procured. In the case of contracts which are expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent,
Specific Procurement Notices will be issued seeking expressions of interest through the national press.
To the extent possible, procurement arrangements have been designed to respond to the need for flexible
use of procurement methods, given the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. A Procurement
Plan, based on the inputs identified in Project Implementation Plan has been prepared, and this will be
revised annually during preparation of the Annual Work Program and Budget. Whenever possible,
procurement items will be consolidated into appropriately-scaled contracting packages.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Disbursements will be in accordance with the Bank's Disbursement Handbook on the basis of incurred
eligible expenditures. ETC will be responsible for the management of project funds, including the proceeds
of the credit and counterpart funds. A review of ETC's accounting and financial management systems
concluded that these are basically sound, but that capacity should be strengthened to take on the tasks of
managing project funds. The following steps will be carried out to help build this capacity:
*   a qualified Accountant will be recruited as a condition of effectiveness;
*   a detailed Chart of Accounts, appropriate for the project will be developed, within 6 months of
effectiveness;
*   a financial reporting format acceptable to the Bank will be developed, within 6 months of effectiveness.
The Finance Division of ETC will establish a financial reporting system which will include the following
features: (a) application of consistent accounting principles for documenting, recording, and reporting its
financial transactions; (b) a Chart of Accounts, and a coding system, will be prepared which allows the
Accountant to prepare meaningful summaries of financial transactions for financial reporting purposes; (c)
the use of an asset register; (d) regular closing and reconciliations of accounts and statements; (e) the
production of annual financial statements acceptable to IDA. These systems will be supplemented by
specific measures covering the project budget, and the management of the Special Accounts and a Project
Account. Financial Management Reports (FMRs) are expected to be prepared every six months and will
include, at a minimum, the following documents: (a) a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds; (b) uses of
Funds by Project Activity; (c) summaries of the Special Accounts activities and of SOE disbursements, and
(d) notes to the financial statements.
The Commission and the Project Coordination Unit, with the agreement of the Bank, may choose either
traditional or Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements, though is expected to use
- 13 -



traditional disbursement methods in the first instance. In the event that the PCU wishes to adopt
streamlined PMR-based disbursement methods, this decision will be made in consultation with the Bank
Financial Management Specialist who will:
*   review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submissions, operation of the Special
Account, SOE submissions and documentation retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of
project management and accounting staff;
*   ensure that the Special Accounts have been reconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
*   review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues;
*   review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
an opinion on the reliability of project accounts.
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures for
operating costs and for contracts with a value of $30,000 or less for goods and equipment or for civil
works, and for consultant services under US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals for which
reimbursements may be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation will
be retained by the PCU and will be available for inspection and review as requested by IDA Supervision
Missions and by project auditors. Above these thresholds, the borrower would submit fully documented
withdrawal applications.
Two Special Accounts, acceptable to IDA, will be established. The first is to be used for activities
associated with Project Management, and costs associated with the Artisanal Crafts Development
component (which is primarily implemented by the Ethiopian Tourism Commission) and the second is to be
used for costs associated with the Site Planning/Conservation and Inventory/ Documentation components
(which are primarily implemented by the ARCCH.) The authorized allocation of these accounts will be
US$ 250,000 each. The advance to the Special Account is to be used by the Borrower to finance IDA's
share of program expenditures under the Credit. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account could
be submitted to IDA every month under normal circumstances, but in any event, not less frequently than
once every three months. Project accounts and counterpart accounts would both be opened at the Central
Bank of Ethiopia, or at a commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
The borrower shall appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor shall be responsible for
the audit of the annual financial statements. A single audit report will include an opinion on the financial
statements as well as opinions on the eligibility of the expenses disbursed on the basis of SOEs and
transactions from the Special Account. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with auditing standards
and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The costs of the audit will be covered with project funds.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are not expected to be any significant negative environmental impacts of the project. Possible minor
impacts may be associated with site conservation activities, but these are expected to be negligible. The
implementing agency will invite the National Environment Agency to review the Project Implementation
Plan and, where any monitoring is required, will involve the Agency.
In terms of limiting potential future negative impacts of development activities, through the Inventory and
Documentation Development component, the project will prepare guidelines, and pilot an approach, for
mitigating impacts of development on cultural sites (particularly, archeological sites).
- 14 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n/a
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
n/a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n/a
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
n/a
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Preliminary stakeholder analyses have been carried out in Axum by the regional government, which is
intent on improving the urban fabric of old town Axum through better planning. A symposium held in
April 1998 identified priority actions to be undertaken to ensure that development needs are balanced with
the safeguarding of cultural heritage assets. Similar work is needed in Gondar, and this may be carried out
in partnership with the World Monuments Fund. The project seeks to build on these early findings to
strengthen the role of the community in planning and managing these sites.
The 1997 Study of Traditional Handicrafts Development in the Tourist Industry of Ethiopia focused on
the social dynamics of craftspeople, and the fact that these are often the most impoverished groups lacking
access to markets and new skills. The project seeks to provide assistance to address the factors which are
constraining sectoral performance, in particular by developing new markets for Ethiopian crafts and by
strengthening traditional craft production methods to meet these market demands. A series of consultations
in Axum and Harar were carried out with respect to establishment of local craft centers. The project will
work with both men and women artisans, keeping in mind specific needs and barriers that may pertain to
women. The project will establish links with the Women's Development Initiative (LIL), also funded by the
Bank.
It is expected that a Social Assessment will be carried out within the first six months of credit effectiveness,
and will begin to articulate social and community issues with respect to site planning and conservation, and
artisanal crafts development, using a range of qualitative and quantitative methods. The qualitative aspect
of the social assessment will focus on a range of stakeholders, in particular the communities around Axum
and Gondar, as well as artisan communities. The Social Assessment will consider the potential social
impacts of the involvement of these communities and groups in project activities, and will contribute to the
development of a project Monitoring and Evaluation system. The quantitative dimensions of the social
assessment will provide baseline infornation and will focus on socio-economic data collected at the
household level (including income), for a sample of main beneficiary groups. The Terms of Reference for
the Social Assessment are included as Annex 11 to this Project Appraisal Document.
- 15 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project Component
Form of          Site Planning and            | Inventory and Documentation | Artisanal Crafts Development
Stakeholders                  Participation    Conservation                                               I
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
Communities living close to   IS, CON, COL     Residents of Axum and Gondar  Involvement in participatory  Local residents consulted for their
cultural sites of Axum and                     would be involved in the      inventory and documentation   dependence on traditional crafts
Gondar                                         development and implementation  activities as input into urban  in Axum, Gondar, and Harar
of site planning and conservation  planning activities
activities;
School children               iS               Dissemination of information  N/A                           Some training may be provided.
through site interpretation
activities
Craftspeople and artisans     IS, CON, COL     N/A                           Consulted for knowledge about  Heavily involved in all aspects of
traditional artisanal production  component implementation
methods
Traditional building tradespeople IS, CON, COL  Involved in site conservation  Consulted for knowledge about  May be consulted and involved in
activities as source of knowledge, traditional building methods  renovation of arts centers
and as skilled site workmen
Urban and regional planners   IS, CON. COL     Involved in site planning as it  May be involved in urban   N/A
relates to urban town planning  inventones
_b) Other key stakeholders
Ethiopian Orthodox Church and  IS, CON         Church is involved in all aspects of implementation as a member of the project Steering Committee.
its members
Islamic Council and its members IS, CON        Islamic Council is involved in all aspects of implementation as a member of the project Steering
Committee
National heritage NGOs and    IS, CON, likely  Likely consultation and possible  Will be kept appraised of project Collaboration likely to be sought
cultural organizations        COL              collaboration in site planning and activities, and consulted for  as appropriate.
conservation activities.      inputs into design of core national
inventory standards.
Intemational cultural heritage  IS, CON, COL   IS as required by statute, CON  Partnership arrangements likely  'Fair trade' NGOs will be
organizations                                  and COL when possible.       to be developed to bring expertise consulted. Possibilities for
Partnership arrangements likely  and resources.             collaboration.
to be sought.
Tourism private sector        IS, CON, COL     Views of the industry sought  N/A                           Opportunities for collaboration
during site planning                                        will be explored.
Visitors to cultural sites in  IS              Views will be assessed about  N/A                           Views will be sought regarding
Ethiopia                                       potential improvements in visitor                          tourist market for craft products.
I .               experience.
Notes:
VS - Information Sharing; CON = Consultation; COL = Collaboration
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations will be key for implementation of the site planning and conservation component and the
crafts development component. These consultations are integrated into the implementation process. It is
expected that links will be established with other groups involved in cultural asset management, such as the
Ethiopian Heritage Trust, World Monuments Fund, and NGOs specializing in crafts product development.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Social assessments are considered a key part of the site conservation and planning component, and this
component heavily derives from the results of the inventory and social and economic survey completed
within the historic areas of Axum and Gondar. The project will include monitoring of social impacts, as
part of its monitoring and evaluation work. Terms of Reference for a Social Assessment are included as
Annex  1.
- 16 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An M&E specialist is to be employed to develop and implement monitoring mechanisms, derived from
social assessments and household studies which have already been, or will be, completed. The M&E
specialist is expected to work closely with social scientists employed through the project in doing this. The
Social Assessment will include a quantitative assessment for the M&E baseline, as well as qualitative
analysis.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
n/a
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Site Conservation and Planning.             N         Involvement of ETC in Project Steering
Conserved sites will be attractive to                 Committee to ensure tourism needs are
tourists.                                             addressed.
Other partners will be willing to           N         Partnerships already established with UNESCO,
participate in cultural heritage                      ICCROM, Ethiopian Heritage Trust, World
conservation activities.                              Monuments Fund, and others.
Institutions within Ethiopia are able and   S         Steering Committee has central role in
interested in collaboration to meet the               coordination with multiple stakeholders.
project's objectives.
Inventory and Documentation                 M         Developers are legally required to finance
Development. Resources will be available              mitigation steps. The effectiveness of this
to implement mitigation plans in                     legislation will depend on Govenmment's
- 17 -



threatened sites.                                    willingness in enforcing it.
Partnerships can be developed to assist in  N        Partnerships have already been established and
financing and implementing priority                  are being used to mobilize additional resources
actions identified through the inventory.            for site conservation and management activities.
Inventory process should assist in identifying
priorities for future action through partnerships.
Artisanal Crafts Development.               M        Business training and market development have
Institutional sustainability is possible             been designed as components of the project.
given existing fiscal constraints.
Tourism potential is developed and          H        Project seeks to diversify markets for craft
provides market for craft product.                   product, depending on local, regional, and
national markets.
From Components to Outputs
Adequate financial management and          M         Recruitment of Accountant and Procurement
procurement skills are in place for project           Specialist are conditions of effectiveness.
management.
Mechanisms for collaboration and            H        Steering Committee must give priority to
cooperation between implementing                     establishing mechanisms for collaboration.
agencies are clear;
Counterpart funds are made available in a  M         Future co-financing possibilities are being
timely manner; co-financing obtained for             explored.
key activities;
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
There are two significant risks. The first relates to the continuing challenges of development in the
post-conflict period. The second relates to the challenge of coordination between the multiple institutions
involved.
The recent conflict will limit the extent to which economic retums may be realized, because of the
sensitivity of the tourism industry to regional conflict. Much damage to the tourism industry, which is
heavily dependent on cultural resources, has been done. Longer term recovery of the industry will depend
on regional stability.
With regard to the more immediate impacts of the conflict on project management and implementation, it
may be difficult to recruit the specialists needed in the face of the perception of instability. Consulting
firms and individuals can be expected to bid high, to reflect continuing concems of placing employees into
potential conflict situations. Other problems may include logistical issues such as the cancellation of
flights and airport closures. Project supervision may equally be constrained, though this is less likely to be
an immediate concem outside of project areas in northem Ethiopia.
- 18 -



Institutional coordination will be a central challenge during implementation, both with regard to
coordination between central and regional institutions, within some of the lead institutions involved, and
between government and nongovemment and religious organizations. The success of the project will
depend on cooperation and joint action of central and regional authorities. Ill will or mistrust could
jeopardize project implementation. These risks will be mitigated by the establishment of the project
Steering Committee, on which the primary implementing institutions are represented. The Steering
Committee could be used as a means for resolving implementation difficulties, for conflict resolution
between stakeholders, and for clarifying responsibilities and actions required by various stakeholders.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no particularly controversial aspects of the project envisaged. The most significant challenge
will be to foster effective coordination and collaboration between the multiple stakeholders involved.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A PCU has been established and Government has appointed the Project Coordinator, Assistant Project
Coordinator, Accountant and Procurement Specialist, all with experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Association.
The Borrower had opened the Project Account and made the Initial Deposit into it.
The Borrower has established a Financial Management and Accounting system satisfactory to the
Association for the Project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
FI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 19 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Peter A. Dewees                    Agi Kiss                          shac Dwan
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Director
- 20 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To support Govemment's     * National, regional and  * Targeted ESW (possible  Cultural heritage conservation
cultural heritage conservation  local governments      institutional assessment  contributes to increased
agenda, particularly with     actively involved in     for cultural heritage  income through tourism, craft
regard to capacity building,  cultural heritage        conservation)         development, associated
increasing sources of growth  conservation initiatives;  * Public Expenditure  businesses, and general
and poverty alleviation.   * Integration of cultural   Reviews               economic growth and
heritage conservation  * Country Economic       development.
work with tourism         Memorandum
initiatives;                                    Political stability in the region
* Increased contribution of                       creates an enabling
the crafts/artisanal sector                     environment for tourism
to local development and                        development
income generation.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
* Scope for expanded
action is identified
* Pilot initiatives are
assessed for useful
lessons, and used as a
basis for a wider program
of support
* Additional financing is
sought from other donors
- 21 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                  I  Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To test the effectiveness of  * Good practices for    * Project M&E 'good      Partnerships have the
approaches for managing       cultural heritage         practice' reports prepared potential for bringing about
Ethiopia's cultural assets    conservation activities are  for Gondar and Axum  cultural heritage conservation.
through partnerships in pilot  identified and lay the
sites.                        groundwork for future
investment and support;
* Regional and local      * Monitoring of          Regional and local
govemments gain           involvement of regional  govemments share the
perspectives on how       and local authorities in  national cultural heritage
cultural heritage         project implementation/  agenda.
conservation can generate  involvement in Steering
benefits;                 Committee
* Partners (i.e. the private  * Project reports on  Private sector has the capacity
sector, NGOs, regional    partnership arrangements to bring resources to bear on
governments) take a more  and involvement in     cultural heritage conservation.
active role in cultural   meetings.
heritage conservation;
* Improved basis for      * M&E of progress with
innovation and            crafts/centers work and
development of crafts and  Social Assessment.
artisanal design.
- 22 -



Key Performance      | Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Appropriate system has  * Model conservation plan  * M&E of site conservation Conserved sites will be
been tested and is in place for  developed and site     plan development       attractive to tourists;
cost-effective development of  conservation activities  process. Site inspections.
site plan for Gondar and      launched in Gondar, and   Regular project reporting.
Axum;                         in Axum. First phase of
site conservation
activities is launched.
* Visitor interpretation  * M&E reports. Site      Other partners will be willing
work completed.           inspections.           to participate in cultural
heritage conservation
activities.
* Additional partners are  * M&E reports. Regular  Institutions within Ethiopia
involved in               communications with   are able and interested in
implementation of site    partners and involvement collaboration to meet the
conservation plans;       in meetings.           project's objectives.
* Community-based         * M&E reports and project
activities are incorporated  reports. Site inspections.
into implementation       Community members are
plans.                    given responsibility for
specific implementation
steps.
* Craft/cultural center   * M&E reports for this
integrated into site      component, Gondar, and
planning and              Axum work. Site
implementation, where     inspections
appropriate
* Axum museum planned     * Planning documents
and designed
* 12 regional and national  * Training reports
staff trained in museum
curation
2. Databases of cultural assets  * Methodology and pilot  * Database. M&E of its  Resources will be available to
are developed in pilot regions  database of cultural    use and applications;  implement mitigation plans in
and are functional and        heritage assets developed                        threatened sites.
accessible to key stakeholders;  through integrated effort
of national and regional
institutions and
communities. Includes
priority setting process,
critical assets and threats.
* Plans in preparation for  * Planning outputs. Project Partnerships can be developed
steps to conserve cultural  reports of the planning  to implement additional
heritages in specific     process.               activities related to the
areas.                                           planning process.
* Guidelines are prepared  * Project reports, and
outlining how threatened  Guidelines
site mitigation plans
should be prepared
- 23 -



3. Functioning craft advisory  * Functioning craft and  * Site inspections. M&E  Institutional sustainability is
services are provided through  cultural centers established  reports. Market studies. possible given existing fiscal
two regional craft centers    in which artisans and     Social Assessment and  constraints.
which are established in      producers design, develop,  Baseline surveys of
renovated architecturally     display, and sell local   craftspeople           Tourism potential is developed.
significant structures, and   products, and test
integrated into local cultural  marketing approaches.
heritage conservation efforts.  Increased income of
craftspeople.
* mechanisms are in place to * Mid-term review. Final
ensure sustainability and  evaluation. Project
quality standards are     reports. Client surveys.
developed and             Guides to quality
implemented through local  standards prepared.
and export marketing
efforts
* evaluation system is in  * Project reports. Evidence
place which provides      that evaluation system
framework for             affected out
decision-making at craft
center level
* increased site visitor  * Visitor surveys
satisfaction
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                          Outputs)
1. Conservation planning  IDA:     1.8                * Supervision Mission    Needed staff are hired in a
and physical site restoration  GOE:  0.2                interviews with project  timely manner by
in Gondar and Axum         Subtotal: 2.0                staff/ stakeholders,   implementing agencies
periodically reported in
PSR.
2. Pilot inventory and    IDA:     1.1                * Regular PMR            Mechanisms for collaboration
database of cultural heritage GOE:  0.2                                        and cooperation between
assets in Tigray, Amhara, and Subtotal: 1.3                                    implementing agencies are
Oromiya                                                                        clear;
3. Establishment of pilot  IDA:    1.8                                         Counterpart funds are made
regional centersfor        GOE:     0.2                                        available in a timely manner;
traditional artisans and   Subtotal: 2.0                                       co-financing obtained for key
craftsmen in Addis Ababa,                                                      activities;
Axum, and Harar
4. Project management      IDA:   0.3
GOE:    0.1
Subtotal: 0.4
- 24 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
This Annex is condensed from the Working Papers which describe each project component more
fully, and which comprise part of the Project Implementation Plan. Project costs in this Annex
include physical and price contingencies and counterpart financing.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.00 million
Site Planning and Conservation
The project will provide resources for site planning and conservation in two pilot sites, Axum and Gondar.
Two specific sets of activities will be undertaken in both sites:
*      Site planning. The project would provide the resources for development of documentation and a
full site analysis leading to the formulation of a conservation, development and interpretation master plan
for both the Axum and Gondar World Heritage Sites. A document search and an integrated planning
exercise will be undertaken with the orchestrated inputs of an interdisciplinary team of experienced national
and intemational specialists and technical advisers, which will focus on the principal site conservation
problems in light of local infrastructure needs and development priorities and the identification of practical
solutions adapted to the local context. The results will eventually be consolidated into a set of conservation
guidelines, which will complement and reinforce ongoing efforts. The documentation and site analysis
work will contribute directly to the planning and development of an interpretation and community outreach
and participation program.
*      Site conservation and interpretation. The project would finance the development of a series of
pilot activities in architectural conservation and archaeological consolidation coupled with the production
of interpretative aids and exhibits, and community involvement in the process, to bring the conservation and
interpretation master planning exercise into the real world. Detailed planning of this second phase will need
to take place upon inception of the project with strategic inputs provided by the different short-term
experts. The aim is three-fold, to stabilize the structures and archaeological remains most at risk, to
produce visible results as quickly as possible in order to learn and lay the groundwork for further works
and public programs, and to strengthen the framework for interpreting the site to visitors.
In Gondar, the project would finance the development of a conservation plan for the walled fortress palace
complex of Fasil Ghebbi to identify priorities for future site conservation activities, taking into specific
concern the potential for strengthening the involvement of the community in the use of the palace complex.
This work would be carried out in conjunction with efforts to improve site interpretation, specifically to
enhance the experience of local, national and foreign visitors to the site. The development of an
interpretation center will be planned in the process, and the project will fnance its establishment. Training
and capacity building for site planning and interpretation will be key elements of this activity. Finding
mechanisms for the fuller involvement of the people of the town of Gondar in the management and use of
the site will be an underlying objective of the planning process.
With regard to Axum, the project will finance site planning activities for the town's archeological sites,
including the development of plans for an expanded archeological museum which may also be designed and
constructed to house more recent historical acquisitions as well, and to serve as a local cultural education
resource. Museum planning will be carried out in conjunction with efforts to increase the institutional
- 25 -



capacity, through curation skills training, at the national and regional levels better to handle the tasks of
museum curation and management. Site planning will focus on specific needs for better site presentation
and interpretation to assist in the management of visitors to Axum, and on integrating the results of an
inventory of 19th and 20th century vernacular Tigrayan architecture in the older parts of Axum into the site
plan, in conjunction with the recently completed town master plan. The interests of the community in the
future of old Axum, and the potential for closer cooperation with the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in the
conservation of ecclesiastical art will be explored.
Implementation of this component would be the responsibilities of regional and zonal culture and tourism
bureaus in Axum and Gondar, with technical support and resources provided through the Conservation
Department of ARCCH. The project will also include financing in the third or fourth project years to
initiate priority conservation activities identified as an outcome of the planning process. Site Planning and
Conservation activities will be undertaken on a pilot basis to develop the capacity and techniques for these
tasks amongst local, regional, and national staff and to lay the basis for future site conservation activities
elsewhere in Ethiopia, for example, in other World Heritage Sites such as Lalibela and Tiya. The project
will seek to establish stronger links between ARCCH and ETC in marketing and promotion of these sites.
Project Component 2 - US$1.30 million
Inventory and Documentation Development
The objective of this component is to develop the capacity to enable regional govemments more effectively
to manage cultural resource assets by establishing a better information base for the purposes of planning,
conservation, and threat mitigation. Capacity development in this area will be a central function of
ARCCH, which will coordinate its activities with regional and zonal bureaus to improve methodological
approaches, technologies, and capacity to manage documentation requirements, and to ensure consistency
with accepted standards and practices, in priority zones and regions. Pilot inventory activities will be
regionally identified and then reviewed by the Steering Committee and are expected to be undertaken in 3
regions: Tigray, Amhara, and Oromiya regions. The role of the ARCCH will be incrementally to support
the development of an enhanced and coordinated system of inventorying and assessment that directly serves
the needs of regional bureaus in conserving and developing sites and cultural resources.
Implementation of this component would be the responsibility of a team assembled from two Departments
within ARCCH, the Conservation Department and the Inventory Department with technical assistance as
needed. The objective of developing a closer working relationship between these two Departments is to
ensure that inventory activities are undertaken in a way which leads directly to planning for conservation
and other activities, rather than as an end in itself. As a first step, and working closely with the regional
bureaus, the Inventory Department will review and assess the extent of existing national, regional, local,
and project specific inventories. ARCCH would then manage a series of workshops to gain a consensus
about core national standards and methodologies and about the most effective system for coordinating the
collection and exchange of inventory information between the center and the regions. Within this basic
framework, the needs for adaptive inventory information to meet specific local or regional demands, would
also be identified. The project will build on recently completed UNESCO efforts in the area of inventory
and documentation.
Once core national standards have been agreed, ARCCH would mount a series of workshops and training
initiatives in the three pilot regions more fully to develop the skills of regional and zonal staff to carry out
inventory work, and to build the capacity of professionals and local organizations for priority-setting,
participation, and involvement in selected pilot inventory sites. The equipment needed to support inventory
preparation on a pilot basis would also be provided through the project.
- 26 -



A number of potential regional pilot inventory activities have been identified. During the earliest stages of
project implementation, agreement would be reached between the regional bureaus and ARCCH about the
activities which should receive priority. In Tigray Region, for example, there are needs for the application
of consistent national standards to archeological surveys proposed for old town Axum, as well as needs to
develop better information in an inventory format about the rock-hewn churches of Tigray and their artistic
holdings. In Amhara region (and in conjunction with site planning and conservation work in Gondar), there
are needs to focus attention on the application of consistent national standards to the development of a
proposed documentation center, scope for improved inventory and documentation development of historic
sites around Gondar, and needs for an inventory of ecclesiastical holdings (in cooperation with the Church)
of the island monasteries of Lake Tana.
A critical and growing need, which the project would also address, relates to developing the capacity within
ARCCH's Archeology Department, to provide specific rapid assessment capabilities in advance of the
establishment of hydroelectric and other dams, roads, and other development activities. The objective of
developing this capacity within ARCCH would be to enable it quickly to survey potentially threatened
archeological sites which could be inundated as a result of dam development projects and to put in place
mitigation measures, such as the relocation of project activities, modifications in project design so that sites
and structures can be conserved, studied, documented, and, as appropriate, preserved in situ, or, as a last
resort, the physical removal of artifacts. ARCCH would develop a methodology for rapid assessment, and
would prepare mitigation guidelines to assist regional bureaus in responding to this immediate threat to
archeological sites. Pilot efforts would be focused on Oromiya region or on another region, to be agreed
with the Bank.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.00 million
Artisanal Crafts Development
The rich material culture of Ethiopia is captured in the work of traditional craftsmen and artisans. This
component of the Cultural Heritage Project has the objective of finding ways of preserving these ancient
craft traditions and of reestablishing craft making as a vital part of community and national economic life.
Working on a pilot basis, tentatively in Axum, Addis Ababa, and Harar, this component will provide
artisans with design guidance, technical skills, business understanding, and direct market links to generate
sales to local, tourist, regional, and export markets and to develop quality standards, market momentum,
and local capacity needed to sustain craft industry growth for the coming decades. One of the outcomes of
the activity would be an increase in tourist spending in pilot sites, and the linkage of crafts production with
the cultural life in these areas.
Key strategies for achieving these objectives will include bringing experienced commercial designers to
work with artisans to create tradition-based but market-driven products with increased salability to key
market segments. The project will also provide training in costing and pricing, production management,
and marketing to increase independent entrepreneurial capacity. In addition, assistance will be provided to
improve links between artisan producers and retailers, exporters, and shippers to increase local craft sales
opportunities and to support the export trade. Craft product lines developed through the project will be
exhibited in local galleries and at intemational trade shows with the support of the project.
Subject to reaching an agreement with regional culture and tourism bureaus, the project will establish small
artisan centers, also on a pilot basis, in renovated historically or architecturally significant structures as a
place for training, and to provide a venue for demonstration of traditional craft making, and for exhibiting
- 27 -



locally-made crafts. The artisanal centers would be established also as a means of facilitating access of
producers to alternative and expanded markets, and of buyers to a wider range of dealers, craftsmen, and
craft product.
The project will also seek to develop the capacity of NGOs to become involved in craft development and
marketing by working with them to organize artisans, provide training and marketing guidance, establish
linkages with the private sector, and other support designed to foster independent craft entrepreneurship
and craft market growth.
Project Component 4 - US$0.40 million
Project Management
The project will provide funds for project management, particularly, to cover the costs of the Project
Coordination Unit. Funds are provided to employ specialist staff to work in the unit, as needed. It is
envisaged that the Coordination Unit will separately employ an Accountant, Procurement Specialist, and
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist. The positions of Project Coordinator and Assistant Project
Coordinators are likely to be filled by existing staff with ETC and ARCCH respectively.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
(US$ 000)
Components Project Cost Summary             Local     Foreign     Total
A. Site Planning and Conservation
1. Gondar                                             400        440        840
2. Axum                                               370        520        890
Subtotal Site Planning and Conservation                   770       960       1,730
B. Inventory and Documentation Development
1. Inventory Development                              310        450        760
2. Capacity Building for Rapid Assessment and Mitigation  130    180       310
Subtotal Inventory and Documentation Development          440       630       1,070
C. Artisanal Crafts Development                           570      1,160      1,740
D. Project Management                                    400           -       400
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    2,180      2,750     4,930
Physical Contingencies                                 160        170       330
Price Contingencies                                    210        230       440
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     2,550      3,150     5,700
Project Costs by Category
Total Project Costs (US$ '000)
Expenditure Category        Total        Local         Foreign
1. Civil Works                 1,000         1,000             0
2. Goods and Equipment           940           270           670
3. Consulting Services         2,780           720          2,060
4. Training                      540           210           330
5. Operating Costs               440           350            90
Unallocated                        -             -             -
Total Project Costs            5,700         2,550          3,150
- 29 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
In the context considered here, 'cultural heritage' includes both the material aspects of culture (for
example, historic sites and buildings, landscapes, and objects of particular historical, architectural,
aesthetic, or cultural significance) as well as nonmaterial aspects such as social practices, symbolic forms
of expressions (for example, the arts, music, dance, oral traditions, literature, etc.), values and beliefs.
Summary of benefits and costs:
In light of the pilot nature of this project, only notional and qualitative economic analyses will be
undertaken a priori. The project is expected to generate a range of benefits associated with: a) experience
gained with various institutional partnership arrangements for cultural heritage conservation; b) improved
planning and site interpretation to accommodate conservation needs and tourism interests in cultural sites;
c) growth and poverty reduction associated with the development of enterprises to support artisanal craft
development; d) conservation of cultural assets which might otherwise have been lost, for example, to theft
or as a result of development; e) community involvement in cultural site conservation and management; and
f) improved institutional capacity to formulate and implement cultural asset management programs.
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness was carefully considered during project design. As pilot operations, interventions under
all components are expected to be relatively small-scale and will seek to optimize the impacts of resource
use by developing partnership arrangements with domestic and intemational organizations such as
Ethiopian Conservation Trust, ICCROM, the World Monuments Fund, and UNESCO. Site conservation
activities are expected to use local building materials, local techniques, and labor intensive methods. There
is a very strong element of capacity building in the project design, which is intended to contribute to
longer-term sustainability.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
Years Ending
June 30
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.7        1.5       1.4       1.2       0.4       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         0.8        1.6       1.5       1.3       0.5       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             0.8        1.6       1.5       1.3       0.5       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.7       1.4       1.3        1.2      0.4       0.0       0.0
Government                0.1       0.2       0.2       0.1       0.1       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    0.8        1.6       1.5       1.3       0.5       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
Procurement
General
Procurement financed under the project will be limited to recruitment of consultants services, office
equipment, a limited number of vehicles, office rental, and some civil works. An experienced Procurement
Specialist in the Project Coordination Unit will be responsible for ensuring that procurement for works and
goods is carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and
January 1999). Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January
1997, and revised September 1997 and January 1999). Procurement arrangements and prior review
thresholds are detailed in Table A and Table B.
A General Procurement Notice will be published in United Nations Development Business (UNDB) for the
procurement of ICB goods and major consulting assignments and will include a detailed description of
required services or goods, the client agency, and the budgeted cost. This notice will be updated every year
during the execution of the projects until all contracts and assignments have been procured. In the case of
contracts which are expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent, Specific Procurement Notices will be
issued seeking expressions of interest through the national press and UNDB.
To the extent possible, procurement arrangements have been designed to respond to the need for flexible
use of procurement methods, given the institutional capacity of the implementing agencies. A detailed
Procurement Plan summarizing procurement requirements for the first year of the project has been
prepared, and this will be revised annually during preparation of the Annual Work Program and Budget.
Whenever possible, procurement items will be consolidated into appropriately-scaled contracting packages.
Procurement Evaluation Committee
Most procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out by the PCU. Participating agencies
will be able to procure a limited number of small items (i.e. incremental operating expenditures such as
fuel, office supplies, DSA, etc.) to facilitate the timely execution of tasks.
A Procurement Evaluation Committee (PEC) will be constituted by the Steering Committee to support the
implementation of the Cultural Heritage Project. Its primary function will be to evaluate tender documents
for all goods, works, and services to be financed by the Project, and on the basis of these evaluations,
provide recommendations for contract awards. The Committee consists of:
Project Coordinator, Chairman
Procurement Specialist, PCU (Member & Secretary)
Accountant, PCU (Member)
Other members to be assigned on an ad hoc basis
The presence of all PEC members will be required for all bid evaluations.
- 32 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other'       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.25          0.75         0.00        1.00
(0.00)          (0.15)       (0.60)       (0.00)      (0.75)
2. Goods                            0.29           0.25          0.40         0.00        0.94
(0.21)          (0.17)       (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.68)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          2.78         0.00        2.78
(including audits)                 (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.63)       (0.00)      (2.63)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00          0.54         0.00        0.54
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.51)       (0.00)      (0.51)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00          0.44         0.00        0.44
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.43)       (0.00)      (0.43)
Total                            0.29           0.50          4.91         0.00        5.70
(0.21)          (0.32)       (4.47)       (0.00)      (5.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21/ ncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project.
The Procurement Specialist, who may require short term TA to assist in the preparation of TORs and
evaluations, will carry out two basic tasks: (1) advertising for, supporting and overseeing the process of
selecting consultants and contractors, and procuring goods and equipment required by the executing
agencies (ETC, ARCCH, and Regional Bureaus); and (2) contracting all procurement actions for the
Project. Procurement tasks will involve preparing detailed TORs for consultants, specifications for bidding
documents, preparation of short lists, evaluation of proposals and bids (in accordance with criteria set-out
in standard RFPs and bidding documents) and selection/award recommendations.
Civil works
Civil works to be carried out under this project are expected to consist of small contracts under
US$100,000 and therefore no procurement under ICB procedures is envisaged. Individual contracts for
civil works under US$75,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 will be procured following lump
sum contract procedures, and on the basis of three quotations from eligible contractors. It is envisaged that
contracts for larger site conservation for which extensive specialist skills are not required, and which cost
more than US$75,000 but less than US$100,000 per contract will be procured under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB). Smaller works executed under the direct supervision of staff from Regional Bureaus and
ARCCH and costing less than US$30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000 may be
procured under Force Account, particularly where experienced specialist craftsmen and builders who have
typically been employed by Regional Bureaus in the past are needed.
- 33 -



Goods and Equipment
Contracts for the procurement of goods (e.g. vehicles, computers and other office equipment not available
locally) will be packaged into larger contracts wherever possible. Goods with an estimated value of more
than US$ 100,000 per contract will be procured through International Competitive Bidding, using the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD). Equipment/furniture which is available locally with an
estimated value of less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of about US$250,000
equivalent will be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Goods and
equipment may be purchased through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the United
Nations, provided that individual contracts do not exceed $50,000 for an aggregate not to exceed $200,000.
National Shopping procedures, based on comparing price quotations from at least three domestic suppliers
in response to written invitation, may be used for items available off-the shell for individual contracts of
US$30,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of about US$200,000. All ICB contracts and all
other contracts above US$100,000 will be subject to Bank prior review. In addition, the first three
contracts procured under NCB will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Consulting Services and Training
Consultancy services for all components of the project, including studies, technical assistance, supervision
of works, and training, requiring the recruitment of consulting firms or individual consultants will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers. Contracts for assignments above the threshold of $100,000 for firms, and $50,000
for individuals will be awarded, following Quality and Cost Based (QCBS) procedures.
Individual consultants contracts and consulting firms contracts below the threshold of US$50,000 and
US$100,000 respectively may be awarded on the basis of qualifications and experience in accordance with
Bank guidelines. For these contracts, IDA's prior review will be required of all TORs, proposed budgets,
contracts, and consultant qualifications. Sole sourcing may be allowed on an exceptional basis and with the
prior agreement with IDA, subject to the conditions outlined in the Guidelines. Prior review will also be
required of all single-source consultancy or training contracts, regardless of their value. Contracts for
individual consultants below US$50,000, and for consulting firms below US$100,000, will be subject to
post-review. Technical evaluation report for contracts exceeding US$100,000 will require IDA's
no-objection. With regard to workshops, training, and study tours, IDA's prior review of arrangements
related to participation in workshops and training, including proposed budget, agenda, participants,
location of training, and other relevant details, will be required. For most activities, however, prior review
will be limited to ICB and to contracts above the thresholds stated above. IDA may request prior review of
bid documents, evaluation methods and contracts for which they require more detailed information.
Similarly, any request for no objection from Secretariat will be formally replied by IDA.
Incremental operating costs
Incremental operating costs are defined to mean building, equipment, and vehicle maintenance costs, fuel,
office supplies, building rental charges, utilities, and telecommunications costs, and the costs of Project
support staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the civil service (which are, in any event, not eligible for
IDA financing).
Post review
Under the project, the procurement actions not subject to prior review as described above, will be subject to
- 34 -



post-review. This to allow for fast disbursement of fimds while assuring transparency and consistency with
these procedures. All documentation used for the procedures of contracting , recruitment of consulting
services, evaluation and award shall be retained by the Secretariat for subsequent examination by
independent auditors and IDA supervision missions. The number, timing and pattern of supervision
missions will be determined at the start of the implementation program.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Procurement risks are assessed to be average for this project. It is expected that procurement matters will
be explicitly addressed in supervision missions twice during the first project year, and once per year
thereafter.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts subject
Expenditure Category    Contract value   Procurement method          to prior review
A. Civil Works /a       < $30,000        Force account to be used for  none
small, specialist tasks, up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 400,00(
< $75,000        Fixed price contracts (up to an  first three contracts
aggregate value of $ 200,000),
awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three
qualified national contractors
> $75,000 but    NCB                         first three contracts
< $100,000
B. Goods and Equipment  < $30,000        Local shopping, for an aggregate none
not to exceed $200,000
> $30,000 but    NCB, for an aggregate not to  first three contracts
< $100,000       exceed $250,000             subject to prior
review
> $100,000       ICB                         All
< $50,000        IAPSO. Contracts < $50,000 for none
an aggregate not to exceed
$200,000.
C. Consulting Services and  > = $50,000 for  QCBS. Sole sourcing may be  All
Training (including Audits)  individuals;  allowed, subject to clauses 3.8 -
>= $100,000 for  3.11 of Guidelines.
firms
< $50,000 for    Individual Qualifications. Sole  TORs, budget,
individuals;     sourcing may be allowed, subject qualifications,
< $100,000 for  to clauses 3.8 - 3.11 of     contract
firms;           Guidelines.
Workshops,       Acceptable national practice  All
training, study
tours
D. Incremental Operating  All operating  Local shopping              None
Costs                   costs and field
expenses
QCBS - Quality and Cost-based Selection
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
IAPSO - Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
- 35 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
General
Disbursements would be in accordance with the Bank's Disbursement Handbook on the basis of incurred
eligible expenditures. The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.
Accounting and Financial Reporting
Financial management arrangements
ETC is responsible for the management of project funds, including the proceeds of the credit and
counterpart funds. A review of ETC's accounting and financial management systems during the
Preappraisal mission concluded that these are basically sound, but that capacity should be strengthened to
take on the tasks of managing project funds. Experience with Bank disbursement procedures was gained
through the management of various resources made available for project preparation. The Commission has
also gained considerable experience in managing projects which have been financed from the capital
budget, as well as a UNDP project which was intended to build the capacity of the Commission and Tour
Operators. A qualified Accountant is to be recruited, by credit effectiveness, to handle project financial
management within ETC's Finance Division. The Finance Division is part of ETC's Finance and
Administration Department. The Division is comprised of 3 staff who hold Diplomas from the Commercial
College.
Accounting Arrangements
Most Ministries and Commissions in Ethiopia use single-entry accounting systems. Most are also
dependent on annual budgetary allocations, and only record receipts and payments using a standardized
journal. Ministry accounts are periodically inspected by the Inspection Department of the Ministry of
Finance and audited by the Auditor General, who reviews the use of funds allocated. Ministries themselves
don't normally prepare annual accounts, as such, using accountancy standards. The preparation of annual
accounts is carried out by the Ministry of Finance.
In contrast to this prevailing practice, and in order to ensure sound project financial management, the
Finance Division of ETC will maintain accounting systems for the project in accordance with current
single-entry accounting practices which will include the following features: (a) application of consistent
accounting principles for documenting, recording, and reporting its financial transactions; (b) a Chart of
Accounts, and a coding system, will be prepared which allows the Accountant to prepare meaningful
summaries of financial transactions for financial reporting purposes; (c) the use of an asset register; (d)
regular closing and reconciliations of accounts and statements; (e) the production of annual financial
statements acceptable to IDA. These systems will be supplemented by specific measures covering the
project budget, and the management of the Special Accounts and a Project Account.
Project expenditures will be recorded and reported by the Finance Division based on the accounts
maintained by it, as well as on information prepared by ARCCH and provided by regional culture and
tourism bureaus to ETC and ARCCH. Financial Management Reports (FMRs) are expected to be
prepared every six months and will include, at a minimum, the following documents: (a) a Summary of
Sources and Uses of Funds; (b) uses of Funds by Project Activity; (c) summaries of the Special Accounts
activities and of SOE disbursements, and (d) notes to the financial statements.
- 36 -



A review of accounting and financial management which was carried out during the Preappraisal Mission
concluded that, while the Ethiopian Tourism Commission's financial management system is basically
sound, it's capacity should be improved.The following steps will be carried out to help build this capacity:
*   a qualified Accountant will be recruited as a condition of effectiveness;
*   development of a Chart of Accounts, appropriate for the project (within 6 months of effectiveness);
*   development of a financial reporting format acceptable to the Bank (within 6 months of effectiveness);
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan Amount          Financing
Expenditure Category         (in US$ '000)       Percentage
1. Civil Works                   700                90 %
2. Goods and Equipment           650           100 % of foreign
expenditure;
90 % of local
expenditures
3. Consulting Services          2,500               100 %
4. Training                      500                100 %
5. Operating Costs               400                90 %
Unallocated                      250
Total                           5,000
The loan amount will be allocated by expenditure category amongst the project's two implementing
agencies to reflect expected expenditures in each component.
The Commnission and the Project Coordination Unit, with the agreement of the Bank, may choose either
traditional or Financial Management Report (FMR)-based disbursements, though is expected to use
traditional disbursement methods in the first instance. In the event that the PCU wishes to adopt
streamlined FMR-based disbursement methods, this decision will be made in consultation with the Bank
Financial Management Specialist who will:
*   review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submissions, operation of the Special
Account, SOE submissions and documentation retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of
project management and accounting staff;
*   ensure that the Special Accounts have been reconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
*   review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues;
*   review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
an opinion on the reliability of project accounts.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures for
operating costs and for contracts with a value of $30,000 or less for goods and equipment or for civil
works, and for consultant services under US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals for which
reimbursements may be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation will
- 37 -



be retained by the PCU and will be available for inspection and review as requested by IDA Supervision
Missions and by project auditors. Above these thresholds, the borrower would submit fully documented
withdrawal applications.
Special account:
Two Special Accounts, acceptable to IDA, will be established. The first is to be used for activities
associated with Project Management, and costs associated with the Artisanal Crafts Development
component (which is primarily implemented by the Ethiopian Tourism Commission) and the second is to be
used for costs associated with the Site Planning/Conservation and Inventory/ Documentation components
(which are primarily implemented by the ARCCH.) The authorized allocation of these accounts will be
US$ 250,000 each. The advance to the Special Account is to be used by the Borrower to finance IDA's
share of program expenditures under the Credit. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account could
be submitted to IDA every month under normal circumstances, but in any event, not less frequently than
once every three months.
Project Accounts/Counterpart Accounts
Project accounts and counterpart accounts would both be opened at the Central Bank of Ethiopia, or at a
commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The Project Coordination Unit within
the ETC would have financial monitoring responsibilities.
Auditing Arrangements
The borrower shall appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor shall be responsible for
the audit of the annual financial statements. A single audit report will include an opinion on the financial
statements as well as opinions on the eligibility of the expenses disbursed on the basis of SOEs and
transactions from the Special Account. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with auditing standards
and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The costs of the audit will be covered with project funds.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      5
First Bank mission (identification)             11/05/1998                   11/05/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     02/15/1999                   01/10/2002
Negotiations                                    04/15/1999                  02/20/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/15/1999                  07/01/2002
Prepared by:
On Government's behalf, the project was prepared by the Ethiopian Tourism Commission, the Authority
for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage, and Regional culture bureaus from Tigray, Amhara
and Region 14 (Addis Ababa) with close involvement of the World Bank.
Preparation was halted between June 1999 (when a Technical Mission was launched to finalize project
preparation), and January 2002 (when the Appraisal was completed) because of the conflict with Eritrea.
Preparation assistance:
Preparation assistance was provided by the World Monuments Fund, ICCROM (the Intemational Center
for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property), and Aid to Artisans. Additional
inputs have been financed with a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Grant
($177,000).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Peter Dewees                      Task Team Leader
Stephen Stem                      Cultural Heritage and Partnerships Specialist, SDV
Ann Pulver                        Conservation Planning Specialist, World Monumnents Fund
Karla Hostetler                   Artisanal Crafts and Marketing Specialist, Aid to Artisans
Joseph King                       Site Conservation Specialist, ICCROM
Getahun Gebru                     Operations Specialist, AFMET
Eshetu Yimer                      Financial Management Specialist, AFMET
Marylou Bradley                   Operations Officer, AFTH4
Roxane Hakim                      Social Anthropologist, AFTES
QUALITY ASSURANCE TEAM
Francesco Samo                    Procurement Specialist
Iraj Talai and Brighton Musungwa  Financial Management Specialists
PEER REVIEWERS
Maryse Gautier                    Senior Municipal Engineer, MNSID
June Taboroff                     Cultural Heritage Consultant
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, Surnmary
Working Paper 1: Site Planning and Conservation, Axum
Working Paper 2: Site Planning and Conservation, Gondar
Working Paper 3: Inventory and Documentation
Working Paper 4: Artisanal Crafts Development
Working Paper 5: Project Management
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Minutes of the Concept Review Meeting (10/26/1998);
Minutes of the Decision Meeting (6/14/1999);
Peer Reviewer's Comments (Maryse Gautier, 10/21/1998; June Taboroff, 10/20/1998)
C. Other
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet.
Including electronic files
- 40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
O 1 -Mar-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P069083       2001 GLOBAL DISTANCE LEARNING                         0.00     4.90       0.00      0.00      0.00      4.86       0.94      0.00
P067084       2001 EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND REHAB. PROJECT            0.00    230.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    181.86      96.03      0.00
P069886       2001 ETHIOPIA MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT          0.00     59.70      0.00      0.00      0.00     47.03       2.63      0.00
P073196       2001 Demobilization and Reintegration Project         0.00    170.60      0.00      0.00      0.00     109.18     30.00      0.00
P050342       2001 WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES PROJECT          0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      4.40       0.53      0.00
P052315       2001 CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL PLANTS                 0.00      2.60      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.41      -0.12      0.00
P035147       2001 CONSERV.& SUSTAIN. USE OF MEDIC. PLANTS          0.00      0.00      0.00      1.80      0.00      1.64       0.07      0.00
P000756       1999 HEALTH SECTOR                                    0.00    100.00      0.00      0.00     000      58.22      46.23      0.00
P000755       1998 ROAD SEC. DEV. PROG.                             0.00    309.20      0.00      0.00      0.00    169.85     171.48     60.49
P000736       1998 ET ENERGY II                                     0.00    200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     91.07      56.85      0.00
P000733       1998 AG. RESEARC & TRAIN                              0.00     60.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     37.04      23.37      0.00
P000732       1998 EDUCATION SECTOR INVESTMENT                      0.00    100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     33.45      23.46      0.00
P000764       1996 WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH                             0.00     35.70      0.00      0.00      0.00      9.56      14.08      0.00
P000771       1996 Social Rehab (ESROF 1)                           0.00    120.00      0.00      0.00     11.46     21.63      47.29     10.65
P000752       1995 NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT                           0.00     22.00      0.00      0.00      4.19      4.14      10.06      0.00
P000753       1995 NAT. FERTILIZER PROJ                             0.00    120.00      0.00      0.00      0.08     38.68       2.76      0.00
P000734       1993 ROAD REHASILITATION                              0.00     96.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     15.14      21.73     12.40
Total:       0.00    1,635.70     0.00    1.80       15.75     829.95    547.39      83.55
- 41-



ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
-42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan     Low-
Ethiopia    Africa   Income     Development diamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                      64.3       659     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    100       480      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      6.7       313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        2.6       2.6       1.9
Labor force (M)                                       2.3       2.6       2.4     GINI          /                 Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita             7        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban Population (% of total population)               18        34       32
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                       43        47       59
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000 live births)              107        92       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             ..        ..        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)   ..        55       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation aoe 15+)                    62        38       38
Gross primarV enrollment (% of school-aqe Population)  43        78       96               Ethiopia
Male                                                55         85      102                - Low-income group
Female                                               31        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..      8.6       6.5       6.4
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                        11.8      16.0      14.3                    Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP                     7.8      14.1      15.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            7.2       1.2      -1.0
Gross national savinqs/GDP                            9.0       8.0       8.9
Current account balance/GDP                          -2.8      -8.1      -5.4     Domestic                   Investment
Interest oavments/GDP                                 0.6       1.3       1.3     savings
Total debt/GDP                                      100.4      85.7      85.9
Total debt service/axports                   7.6     34.9      61.9      54.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                                37.5
Present value of debt/exports                                           239.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(everage annual growth)
GDP                                 1.1      4.7      6.5       5.3       6.8                  Ethiopia
GDP Per capita                     -1.9      2.4      4.0       2.8       4.5                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.4      9.5     -2.6      23.6       6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                          49.3      52.3      52.3
Industry                                             12.7      11.1      11.1     1=
Manufacturing                                       7.8        7.0      7.0      o
Services                                             38.0      36.5      36.5    .10     ss    o    97  N        o 
Private consumption                                  74.3      80.1      76.7    - 20
General government consumption                       18.5      18.7      24.4                    GDI      e*GOP
Imports of goods and services                        12.4      29.0      30.7
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.2      2.1       3.8       1.9 
Industrv                                     0.4      6.1      12.9       3.0    20
Manufacturing                             -0.9      6.5       17.7      4.2     20
Services                                     3.1      7.1       7.8       9.5       _   _               \   __      0
Private consumption                          0.2      2.9       3.1      -2.0
General qovernment consumption               4.5      9.2      37.3      33.2    |20
Gross domestic investment                    2.1      9.4      13.4      -6.2                Exports        Imports
Imports of qoods and services                1.5      6.4      18.4       6.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared with its income-group averaae, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-43 -



Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Innatlon I%)
Domestic orlces
(% change)                                                                       15   .
Consumer Drices                              4.5      5.2       3.9      4.2      o 
Implicit GOP deflator                                 35        15       14 o
Government finance
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                               s
Current revenue                                      17.7      17.8     18.3     so
Current budqet balance                               -3.9      -3.0     -8.2             -    GDP deflator  e   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -12.0     -12.1    -14.8
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (tob)                          459      366       484      486     2,000
Coffee                                              196       281      262
Leather and leather products                         64        32       35      1.500
Manufactures                                 .                                                            *.
Total imports (dn)                           692      881     1.558     1.611     oo0*                           *
Food                                                 73       100       116         j
Fuel and enerav                                     109       111      213
Capital goods                                ..     340       643      755        o
94   gs   9r,  97   99   59   0o
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       77        78       64
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      91         92       97                  MExports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       85        84       66
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millDons)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                569      672       915      984 o
ImDorts of qoods and services                782    1.069     1,878    1.962     _      _      E
Resource balance                            -213     -397      -963     -978     -2            f
Net income                                     7      -67       -52      -60      -.
Net current transfers                         80     220        494      691      s                            *l  i
Current account balance                     -126     -244      -521     -346
Financing items (net)                         86      196       500
Changes In net reserves                       40       48        21               o-
Memo:
Reserves Includina gold (USS millions)       262       55       434      348
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             2.1      2.1       7.5      8.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandino and disbursed         824    8.630     5.544    5.481
IBRD                                        56      27         0         0                  F: 117 G: 77
IDA                                        249     824      1,739    1.779
Total debt service                            45 U    236       585      540                        l     .   B 1.779
IBRD                                        10       9          0        0
IDA                                          2       10        31       34
E: 2,098
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            124     604
Official creditors                          67     279       -274     -277                                 c    86
Private creditors                           26      -57        -7      -10
Foreign direct Investment                    0       12                                              O    F
Portfolio eouitv                             0       0                                              D: 1,324
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0      79        160        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               28      74        148      137      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repaevments                        4       11        19       21     C.-IMF                      G- Short-term
Netflows                                    24      63        129      116
Interest pavments                            8       8         12       13
Nettransfers                                16       55       117      103
Development Economics                                                                                             9/18/01
- 44 -



Additional Annex 11: Social Assessment
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
Terms of Reference
1. Background
The Government of Ethiopia intends to implement, with World Bank financing, a Cultural Heritage Project.
The overall aim of this "Learning and Innovation Loan" is to test out the effectiveness of a multistakeholder
coordination mechanism in the context of cultural asset management, and its overall link to the country's
economic and social development. The project is to be implemented over a period of 4 years and is expected
to become effective in April 2002.
The project comprises 3 main components:
Component I - Site Planning and Conservation: The project will finance site planning and conservation in
two World Heritage sites, Axum and Gondar. Site plans will attempt to marry conservation approaches
with the fostering of local economic development through tourism. The location of the sites within vibrant
cities highlights the attention needed to local community involvement in site planning. The project aims to
develop a participatory approach to site conservation planning, through which local people are brought
closer to their physical heritage, and can benefit from the use of some structures. The project will also
finance some implementation of the plans to kick-start the process.
In Axum, the focus will be on the town's archaeological sites, including the development of plans for an
expanded museum as a local cultural education facility, and improved visitor experience. The plan would
be in harmony with the larger master plan for the city. In particular, the issue of the community role in the
future of old Axum and the potential of collaboration with the Ethiopian Orthodox church will be explored.
The Gondar sub-project has as its focus, the walled palace fortress complex of Fasil Ghebbi, which is
situated in the center of the city. The site interpretation is poor and falls far below the potential that exists.
There is need for discussion on opening the site to the community and the use of some structures to serve its
priorities.
Component 2 - Inventory and Documentation Development: This component is designed to build capacity
for establishing a better information and record base on cultural assets, for purposes of planning,
conservation, prevention of theft and threat mitigation. In addition, this component will focus on building
capacity at the regional level to provide rapid assessment capability for large infrastructure projects that
would impact cultural assets. This component will be piloted in Tigray, Amhara and Oromiya districts.
Component 3 - Artisanal Crafts Development: This component has the objective of finding ways of
preserving ancient craft traditions, while making them sustainable through their improved marketing, both
within Ethiopia, and on the international market. The project will establish 3 craft centers in restored
architecturally significant structures, which will both provide training and serve as exhibition centers. This
will also serve a purpose of organizing the artisan community, resulting, it is envisioned, in the
re-establishment of craft making as a vital part of community and national economic life. The project will
fund pilots in this component in the cities of Axum, Harar (Oromiya district) and Addis Ababa (capital).
- 45 -



2. Rationale for the Social Assessment
The proposed project enshrines within its overall objective and approach, the integration of cultural
conservation and crafts development approaches with economic and social development of people, at the
national, regional and most important, the local level. This requires that the wider community be consulted
on their views regarding project activities, and that they be included in the site development plans, so that
they can be effectively involved in implementing the sub-projects and benefit from them.
Social Assessment (SA) is an appropriate methodology to assist in better designing and implementing the
proposed project in a way that supports the active involvement of individuals and groups that are its
intended beneficiaries, as well as those directly affected by project activities. Experience has shown that
projects designed and implemented with the active input and participation of the intended beneficiaries and
those affected by a project have far greater likelihood of sustainable success. Participation can range from
simple one-way communication, such as information disclosed in a publicity campaign, to more intensive
interactions involving two-way discussions in which the informant's opinion is recorded and considered in
the Project's design and implementation arrangements. While this exercise will outline the main
implementation implication of the SA process, social analysis will be systematically carried out through
Project implementation, and should be viewed as an iterative process of consultations and analysis, to take
place throughout the Project's life cycle.
The two main objectives of the SA are:
*   To inform project implementation with regard to the involvement of local communities in Site Planning
and Conservation and in Artisanal Crafts development; and
*   To inform the monitoring and evaluation process. This includes contributing to baseline data, informing
initial M&E indicators that will be set up for the project, and continued analysis feeding into the
refinement of these indicators at later stages of the project.
The SA process is particularly relevant to components 1 and 3 of the project, and will be limited to these
components. Site plans developed in Axum and Gondar through component I will be based on a
three-pronged strategy that reconciles the objectives of structure conservation, economic impact (income
generation and stimulation of local and national economy) and the socio-economic development of the
surrounding local community. It is envisaged that this latter objective will be achieved by involving locals
in site plans such that:
*   They develop a sense of ownership for their local history as embedded in these structures;
*   Benefit economically to the extent possible from the increased tourism in the area;
*   Have physical access to and use of some structures so that they become a living part of their
community space and activities.
Component 3 goes beyond simply improving artisan income through increased sales and marketing of
improved and standardized products. Much of the approach is concerned with understanding how the
community of artisans is structured, the formal and informal norms governing relations both within the
group and with external stakeholders. A SA is well suited to such analysis.
3. Methodolo2ies and Scope
It is important that the consultant reviews the project documents and working papers for each component in
detail, and has brief discussions with the 2 assistant project coordinators responsible for the implementation
of components I and 3.
-46 -



The SA is structured in two parts: a qualitative study and a quantitative study. The qualitative approach
requires a deeper focus on issues over a longer period with relatively less groups. The quantitative study is
intended to serve as a baseline study to measure project impact on affected households. It will form the
basis of the work to be taken up by the Project Co-ordination Unit's M & E specialist.
Qualitative Analysis: This will involve the use a range of participatory techniques, outlined below, to better
identify and understand specific issues pertaining to the involvement and participation of locals in the site
plan at Axum and Gondar, and the revival of the crafts industry as a sustainable economic resource and an
integral part of community life, in the cities of Axum, Harar and Addis Ababa.
The Consultant will spend approximately 10 days each, in Axum and Gondar, and 7 days in Harar and
Addis Ababa. However, the final time-line will depend significantly on the size of the team and the mix of
methodologies implemented. While the main focus groups for the SA are the local communities of Axum
and Gondar, and the artisans in the 3 craft center cities, some time (budget in an additional 7-10 days) will
be marked for discussions with other stakeholders such as relevant NGOs, regional authorities responsible
for implementing the 2 components, tourists in Axum and Gondar, church authorities in Axum and Gondar,
and the local private sector in the cities.
1. Open-ended interviews will be the preferred method used with NGOs, private sector, religious
authorities and regional government authorities. Experience has shown that individual discussions are
more effective here as they permit the service provider to focus on 'specific' issues as he/she has
experienced them, rather than the 'general' and 'known' issues which are often prioritized in group
discussions and structured interviews.
2. Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) will be used with local residents of Axum and Gondar, tourists in
Axum and Gondar, and artisans who will work in the crafts centers. While tourist focus groups will be
mixed,. other focus groups would benefit from being targeted. For example, women residents may have
a very different interaction with regard to their current and perceived use of structures, young men may
be interested in focusing on a specific issue such as the potential to work as guides, a marginal group
such as blacksmiths may need a specific focus with regard to their involvement and role in the project,
women artisans may have special issues with regard to their interaction with male middlemen for
product marketing etc. As a general guide, gender, age, ethnicity, religion and occupation are
classically used to draw lines around focus group categories.
3. In-depth individual and/or household level discussions and/or case studies with a small sample of about
4 male and 4 female artisans, and about 5 local residents in each Gondar and Axum (these should
represent different ethnicity, religion, income bracket, gender, and social strata of the community to the
extent possible). These in-depth informal discussions (rather than structured interviews) should be
designed to allow the respondents to provide a history of their experience with leaming, practicing and
marketing their craft (component 3), and narrate their experience over a period of time with regard to
their interaction with, use of, and vision for the structures in question (component 1). This provides a
useful complement to the FGDs as it draws out specific problems faced by these individuals and
identifies coping strategies that are in use, as well as those that are potentially possible. While the
direct focus would be on the specific individual e.g. the artisan, much relevant analysis can be got from
involving other household members in the discussion.
4. Participant observation: The Consultant will be expected in Axum and Gondar, to reside in the house
of a local resident/s (preferably a resident in the old part of the city and whose house is a potential
restorable structure), and in Harar and Addis, with an artisan family, during the study period. The aim
of this technique is to draw a different perspective on more sensitive issues that are not effectively
understood or addressed through more formal techniques of interviews and focus group discussions.
-47 -



The consultant is encouraged to use this technique to observe and report on behavior such as household
dynamics, which is not easily assessed through questioning and self-analysis.
5. Participatory Rural Appraisal technique (PRA): Although this technique has been developed for a rural
context, it could be effectively adapted for discussing site development involvement of local
communities in Axum and Gondar. The exercise would work well if implemented along with the
targeted focus group technique for Component 1.
6. Documenting experiences versus asking questions: While asking people's views on a topic is important,
SAs often make the error of assuming that this is an adequate perspective of an issue. People are rarely
self-analytical and may not see connections that may be obvious to an outsider. It is hence
recommended, that the Consultant not frame all discussion in the form of questions, but encourage the
stakeholders to narrate experiences related to the topic under discussion, and make use of his/her
presence in the area to gain an understanding of issues. Casual conversation, informal social discussion
etc., often reveal a range of issues, which may not surface through direct questioning. For example
spending time around the area where women wash clothes on the Axum stelae may show that women
choose to come here as it provides an informal community space for them to socialize, thus indicating
that communal wash stands rather than fencing the stelae or having home washing facilities would be a
more effective and cheaper option.
Quantitative Analysis: This analysis is aimed at collecting baseline socio-economic data to assess project
impact on households impacted by the project. This will involve administering an appropriately designed
survey to reflect household level monetary and nonmonetary income, access to basic services, use of sites in
Axum and Gondar. It will be administered on a sample of households living within the site in Axum and
targeted to be resettled outside the area, Axum households living within the site and who will continue to
live there, households in Axum and Gondar living in close proximity to the sites, households/individuals
earning a direct income from site activities in Axum and Gondar, and artisans in Axum, Harar and Addis
Ababa who will be impacted through the project.
It is proposed that this component will need about 6 weeks in total: week I develop instrument and test,
weeks 2 & 3 train field staff and administer questionnaire, week 4-6 collate data, prepare draft report and
finalize.
Once the M & E specialist of the Project Co-ordination Unit is appointed, the Consultant will work closely
with him/her, especially with regard to the provision of baseline data and the development of M & E
indicators. The quantitative data (analyzed and raw) will be handed over to the Project Unit, to serve as the
baseline for the project.
4. Main Issues of Focus (lar2elv for qualitative studv)
To be an effective input into project design, implementation and supervision, the social assessment will use
the above-described methodologies to focus on the following issues (the analysis will include but not be
limited to these):
Institutional and Organizational Arrangements
1. Capacity and role of NGOs working in the community at Axum and Gondar.
2. Capacity and role of NGOs working with artisans, specifically in the 3 cities and in general in the
country (the NGO Alma has been identified as one such group).
3. Community Based Organizations (CBOs), formal and informal that exist in within the community in
Gondar and Axum (e.g. women's credit society, burial society, occupation guilds of private sector
etc.), and explore the potential if any for them to be involved in project activities (for example, a
- 48 -



women's credit society may be well organized and may be interested in investing in a small eatery in
the site that they would run, a local business consortium may be interested in helping maintain a theatre
arena for culture performance if allowed to advertise there, etc.).
4. Formal and informal organization of the artisan community with regard to credit, pooling implements
and other resources, apprenticeship and passing on of skill, marketing of products (specify if different
for men and women).
5. Leadership criteria and role in the local community (this could be an informal role which means that
the most educated and articulated ends up talking with authorities and wrongly being seen as
representing people), and identification of potential individuals for specific responsibilities relating to
site conservation implementation and craft revival. Leadership structure amongst artisan community (if
any).
6. Potential options for the use of the NGO grant fund.
Identification of Special Focus Groups
1. Are there specific sub-groups that tend to physically frequent specific monuments? Is their presence
disruptive and does it need to be restructured, limited, encouraged? (for example women washing
clothes on stelae could be destructive, whereas local school children wandering around the site may
need to be regulated but encouraged. What would be an effective communication strategy with these
groups?
2. Are there specific sub-groups within the local community such as belonging to a minority religion,
ethnicity, trade that may be excluded from both economic benefits of site development as well as
community access to structures? (for example a house owner of a potentially restorable old house may
be discriminated with regard to credit for restoring her structure to serve as a guest house on grounds
of being a widow, or of a certain faith or ethnicity).
3. Is there any issue of marginalization within the artisan community, both based on personal traits such
as religion, ethnicity, gender as well as craft type and family trade.
4. Any group/s that may be negatively impacted by a project activity (for example the focus on the crafts
center in Axum may put smaller, relatively unskilled younger boys making cheap tourist artefacts out
of business, fencing off and regulating entry to the sites may adversely affect illegal squatters and
vendors who may need to be compensated), and recommend accordingly. Specifically, the impact of the
craft centers on other artisans who may not be in the center, issue of aesthetic versus utilitarian craft
and discussion on criteria for eligibility to work in craft centers (also issue of positive discrimination
and reservation if any - for example for young artisans, higher fee for artisans who want to join but are
outside region etc.).
Options for Site Use and Economic Development
1. Identify specific structures that the community in Gondar feel could be used and for what purpose
(discussion of priority of needs). In particular, the discussion should refer to a possible library site.
2. Explore the following site use options: a space (need not even be within a structure which can serve
simply as a backdrop) to be used for specified community festivals/ceremonies at specific times of year
and marketed as such; use of a specific structure for cultural dance, theatre, music (explore the district
initiative in this and resource people if any in local community); use of structure for a public function
such as town hall or a leasable hall; capacity of locals and potential to operate cafes, restaurants, drink
stalls in the site; potential to recruit all guides from local community and who would be best suited
(unemployed youth who are becoming street nuisance or school kids on a rotating basis etc.); capacity
and capital in community to manage transport options within sites; the interest in and capital needed for
families to restore and run guesthouses, especially in old Axum; the need for communal spaces such as
wedding halls and whether any structure or site space could be used for this and any limitations that
may be needed,
- 49 -



3. Linked to the above- develop a strategy to lever the revival of nonphysical culture such as songs,
dance, through the restoration of physical cultural assets (e.g. a sound and light show with folk tales in
Gondar).
4. Any other strategy that would encourage locals to take an active role in both enjoying their physical
culture as well as benefiting from it (e.g. issuing ID cards to permit free entry to locals, maybe a
special discount in the restaurants/eateries and for functions within the site). Specifically, the role of
schools and education curriculum needs to be recommended on with regard to the Axum museum
plans.
5. Explore possible arrangements for targeting the use of a section of income from site (e.g. a percentage
of local guide fee) towards a locally beneficial activity (e.g. purchase of equipment for the local
school).
Artisan Component
1. Outline specific details of problems with regard to marketing (middlemen, bribes, policy, state trade
fines and taxes) that people may discuss
2. Explore the potential for using the artisan community as a focus for HIV/AIDS initiative in the region,
in the context of it being an urgent problem within the community, as well as using artisans to spread
the message through their work.
Policy Implications
1. Any formal or informal rules that have to be put in place to regulate and encourage community
relationship with and use of cultural assets in Axum and Gondar sites, and methods to enforce these
within accepted conmmunity system of penalties.
2. Rules regarding membership to craft centers (as discussed above).
3. Any rules regulating local-tourist relationship, rights, access issues.
6. Deliverables
1. Main Report A: The report will be written within the overall framework of the qualitative data, but will
use quantitative data to enrich and support its findings. The information will be presented and analyzed
in the context of their operational implications. Where relevant, recommendations will be made. These
will include but not be restricted to the following areas:
*   Suggestions for indicators to be used to monitor the participation of locals in site development
plans in Gondar and Axum, and the impact of the craft component on building social capital within
artisan community, and impact on surrounding communuity in Axum, Harar and Addis Ababa.
* Qualitative baseline information on socio-economic condition of artisan community and local
households in Gondar and Axum
* Institutional set-up (formal and especially infonnal) as outlined above. Recommendations on
changes to the current set-up, and potential extended use of set-ups for project activities.
* A section on options for community use of structures in Axum.
* A section on options for community use of structures in Gondar (specifically referring to the
library if this is deemed a priority by the community).
* A section on economic benefit options for the local community from Axum and Gondar site
developments
* A section on policy implications.
* A section on organization of artisan community and how to address identified special needs that
may go beyond economic dimension of marketing craft.
*   A discussion of the relationship between main focus groups i.e. local community in Axum and
Gondar and artisans - and extemal partners - describing the current relationship if any, and
- 50 -



potential for collaboration and possible conflict.
*   Other sections as deemed appropriate.
2. Annexes to Main Report A will include but not be restricted to:
*   A summary of 6 of the informal discussion/case studies
*   A short description of the basic methods used
* A note on the scope of study and any issues concerning replicability of findings to other areas of
the country.
*   Beneficiary participation action plans for Gondar and Axum outlining specific actions/activities
recommended to enable community involvement over the 4 year project period.
*   Any other annex of a discussion or issue that has specific relevance to the project.
3. Main Report B: This will contain an analysis of the quantitative data, with a section on M & E
indicators and a time-line framework for M & E through the life of the project. The survey instruments
used on the listed target groups should be included as annexes.
4. Raw Quantitative Data: will be handed over to the M & E officer in the Project Co-ordination Unit.
7. Reporting
The Project Co-ordination Unit based in the Ethiopian Tourism Commission will contract the Consultant.
The draft and final reports will be submitted to the Project Coordinator as well as a copy to the World
Bank. A Draft report is expected approximately 6-8 weeks after the commencement of the study and a final
report 2 weeks following comments by the project authorities and World Bank team. The report and
supporting documents will be in English although it is expected that most of the research will be conducted
in local languages.
8. Elieibilitv and Application Process
These TORs are designed to allow for a proposal from a qualified team of individuals or consulting firn. It
is envisaged that the team will have a task leader, who will have overall responsibility and will
himself/herself be responsible for the qualitative component (report A) along with 1-2 assistants. The
methodology is suited to working intensely in the area over a longer period. The quantitative component
will have a qualified leader who would design the survey instrument and train field staff. He/she would be
the main author of report B.
The task leader must have a PhD. or a Masters Degree in social science - preferably, social anthropology,
sociology, or social geography. Some previous work experience in social assessment for projects is
necessary, and knowledge of project management is desirable. Experience in the field of community
tourism will be attractive. The quantitative analysis leader must have a PhD. or a Masters Degree in
sociology, with some qualification in statistics. Knowledge of local languages is necessary in the team, and
a good knowledge of the country and regional context is highly desirable. Ability to write fluently in
English is a requirement of the task leader.
- 51 -



Additional Annex 12: Key Performance Indicators
ETHIOPIA: Cultural Heritage Project
1. Comprehensive site conservation and interpretation plans are completed for Axum and Gondar and first
phase of site conservation and interpretation activities is launched, in particular taking into account
municipal planning efforts.
2. Local community living within old Axum and in Gondar, municipal authorities, and the church in
Axum and Gondar are involved in preparation of their respective site plans, have participated in a
series of meetings and decisions during plan development, and see themselves as beneficiaries of the
proposed plan.
3. A plan for museum development, including site identification, architectural designs and a proposed
budget, is completed for a museum in Axum; 12 national and regional staff are trained in museum
curation.
4. The comnmunity in Gondar has clearly defined access to and use of structure/s within the Fasil Ghebbi
complex, and perceive an increase in benefits (as individuals or as a community) as a result of their
proximity to this World Heritage site. An information and documentation center is established in
Gondar and linkages are developed with local schools curriculum.
5. Site interpretation work is completed in Gondar and Axum.
6. Core national standards and guidelines are established for inventory and documentation of cultural
assets through an iterative process with key national, regional and local stakeholders.
7. Pilot inventories are completed in Tigray, Amhara and Oromiya regions, prepared jointly by ARCCH
and regional staff. Capacity at the national, regional, and local levels is increased to carry out
inventories.
8. Guidelines are prepared outlining how threats to important cultural sites (from development activities)
can be assessed and mitigated. Capacity is strengthened for site assessment and mitigation, on the
basis of pilot activities carried out in Oromiya region (or another region to be agreed with the Bank).
9. Three artisanal craft centers are established in Harar, Addis Ababa and in Axum where artisans
execute, display and sell craft products.
10. Income to craftspeople from the sale of crafts is increased by the development of local, national, and
export markets. Capacity for business planning and marketing amongst craftspeople is increased.
11. Ethiopian craft products are marketed at 4 major intemational venues. Marketing and business plans
are developed for each craft center.
-52 -



- 53 -






'A                      -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 31 720
v                                                                      --~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
S' U D A N~~~~~~~~~. ~
TIGRA-Y                                                         N      it
K                                                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SUD A) N
LID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAI
-V     *'~~~~                      .1 AMHAR'i' j                                           ROMIY    SOMALI  /
-15'~1
/                                                                                             KENYANG,J -7
I I ~~~~~~~~~~~~L ~~~~ETHIOPIA
--                       'N'                 Aware                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT
A  Al B ELA  '            '~~~~~~~~~~~  7(4                  tome  /           0  PLANNED PILOT INVENTORY SITES~~~~0 LANEDPIOT NVETOY STE
"P                              0  M- QR /s 1YA            A   O  A  I//0                           SITE PLANNING AND CONSERVATION PILOT SITES
'A      -                                                                 7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 A1ARTISANAL CRAPTS DEVELOPMENT
'nil         I  --  -  ---o/                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASPHALT, ALL-WEATHER ROADS
A~ ''. AVIEE, AELWPIATHER ROADS
'-S.N~N P.RS                                 7/*-'.RURAL AND/ OR DRY-WEATHER ROADS
I  /  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  i--              /                      0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED TOWNS
'I  ,  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  / ~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITALS
S   N                   1                                                                                  --STATE / REGION IUNOFFICIAE I 994 BOUNDARIES)
I                  2>                  1  3 -.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S O0  M   A   L   I  A   IN E N T 0 A L B U D R E
'7  51  1LIV  II'                                   ----..S( /N
UGANDA                                                                                                              -k G-p, -odey/ NDANTWeedrewI5orrrwordoyorerIeeweSm
UGANDA  r     1~~~~K E NYA                       /      ,-/                               OCEANI05m01/&0MOTwri-S-'1-
1ANUAR5 2002



