Report No. PID6992
Project Name                     Ethiopia-Cultural Heritage Project   @
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Non-Sector Specific
Project ID                       ETPE57770
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency
Address
Ethiopian Tourism Commission
Address: P.O. Box 2183,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Yusuf Abdullahi Sukkar,
Commissioner of Tourism
Tel: 251-1-513991
Fax: 251-1-513899
Authority for Research and Conservation of
Cultural Heritage
Address: P.O. Box 13247,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Jara Haile Mariam,
General Manager
Tel: 251-1-157630
Fax: 251-1-510705
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 24, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         January 18, 2002
Projected Board Date             March 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issuesElsewhere in Africa, the loss of cultural heritage
assets -- language, music, dress, the arts, architecture, religious
traditions -- was accelerated by the colonization process. In Ethiopia,
the loss of cultural traditions has been accelerated primarily by neglect.
Notwithstanding the ratification of the World Heritage Convention in 1977,
and the classification of Ethiopia's seven World Heritage Sites between
1978 and 1980, much of its important heritage was ignored during the
Dergue regime, and the remains of archaeological sites, marketplaces,
historical and religious structures have, over time, been forgotten.
Building and crafts skills, healing traditions, and language skills are
similarly being lost with time. Expressions of artistic traditions are at
the risk of degenerating into 'airport art' to meet the demands of a
limited market, constrained from innovating into new forms of material
culture. There is also a growing concern about the need to prevent the
further loss of cultural artifacts which are stolen from churches and
other public places, and their sale on international art markets.As
Ethiopia continues its recovery from the years of mismanagement and
neglect during the Dergue regime, rapid development, too, poses a



significant threat to the loss of ancient sites and cultures. Planned new
hydroelectric dams and roads may obliterate ancient settlement and
archeological sites, long before there is any understanding of what might
be lost. There is a growing recognition of the need better to document
these cultural sites, and then to mitigate the potential negative impacts
of further development. Until recently, few of Ethiopia's historic sites
had been managed with the view that they have much to offer to the
national, regional, and local economies. Despite their significant
influence on Ethiopian heritage, these rich centers of culture are
surrounded by communities of poverty. These contradictions have become
increasingly clear to the current government, which is seeking ways of
strengthening the role of culture in the country's economic life. At the
heart of the federal state is the idea that regional identities are
strongly rooted in cultural expression.The main sector issues with regard
to cultural heritage conservation and management in Ethiopia relate to the
need to:more fully integrate a cultural dimension into Ethiopia's economic
and social development program and to incorporate this approach into local
development efforts;build the capacity to prevent the loss of cultural
heritage assets through strategic conservation planning, protection and
threat mitigation, and the development of better information about the
extent and condition of these assets; and tocoordinate institutional
efforts for cultural heritage management amongst multiple stakeholders:
between central, regional and zonal authorities; within communities;
between tourism and cultural interests; and with other institutions such
as the Supreme Islamic Council and the Orthodox Church.Government
strategyIn this post-conflict period, Government's overriding development
objective is to attain relatively fast, broad-based, and more equitable
economic growth with macroeconomic stability. A rapid increase in
agricultural output, coupled with accelerated growth in the industrial and
services sectors, is the cornerstone of economic growth and poverty
alleviation in Ethiopia. Macro stability is expected to be a consequence
of structural reforms, which are focusing on export promotion and private
sector development, on liberalizing the investment code, and on
accelerating privatization. This overall strategy aims to create an
environment conducive to export diversification. Closely related to the
twin objectives of economic growth and macroeconomic stability is the aim
of progressively integrating Ethiopia into the global economy.In the early
1990s, Ethiopia found itself the beneficiary of a growing global market
for cultural tourism, and has sought the means for addressing the dual
needs of cultural heritage conservation and tourism market development and
growth. Visitor numbers are small, currently around 125,000 visitors per
year. The bulk of these are overnight visitors. Only around 25,000
tourists per year stay for the purposes of holiday, while another 42,000
arrive on business. There is a small, but growing, group of private tour
operators in Ethiopia, and until the recent conflict, visitor numbers had
been increasing at a rate of around 7 percent annually. Responsibility for
tourism policy, planning, and promotion rests with the Ethiopian Tourism
Commission (ETC, in the Prime Minister's Office), which, in 1995,
completed a Regional Tourism Development Plan for North, East, West
Ethiopia. The Tourism Development Plan articulates Government's strategy
for developing more fully the potential of cultural tourism. The
Commission has also focused on the potential linkage between cultural
tourism, community development, and the artisanal crafts industry, having
extensively reviewed the sector in a 1997 Feasibility Study of Traditional
Handicrafts Development in the Tourist Industry of Ethiopia.The
-2 -



institutional mandate for management and protection of the country's
cultural heritage assets rests in part with the Authority for Research and
Conservation of Cultural Heritage (ARCCH) and in part with regional
cultural bureaus. Among other things, ARCCH legally has oversight for
management of the country's World Heritage Sites, and finances some site
conservation activities through regional cultural bureaus. Regional
cultural bureaus, in contrast, operate under the mandate of regional
administrations but usually have extensive, though informal, contacts with
ARCCH. They vary widely in their capacity and ability to deliver on the
cultural heritage conservation agenda. Capacity is constrained, and they
remain dependent on technical support from ARCCH. There is growing
recognition that ARCCH should increasingly work toward building the
capacity of regional cultural bureaus to take on a wider range of tasks
responsive to regional and local development priorities.Legislation which
provides for the conservation of assets with major artistic, scientific,
cultural, or historical value was adopted in 1989, and has recently been
revised. The Proclamation to Provide for Research and Conservation of
Cultural Heritage (Proclamation 209/2000) was endorsed by the Council of
Ministers and has now been adopted by the National Assembly. Despite the
strong synergies and interests between tourism and cultural heritage
institutions, they have tended to operate in isolation from one another,
the former focusing primarily on market and infrastructure development,
and the latter focusing primarily on site management.Additional key
stakeholders with regard to cultural heritage include the Ethiopian
Orthodox Church and the Supreme Islamic Council. These institutions
maintain much of the living heritage of the country, in its churches and
mosques, in its illuminated parchments, fine ecclesiastical metal and wood
work , religious paintings, language, and architecture. Both institutions
retain custody of large collections of immense historical significance as
well, having been inextricably involved in matters of state for
generations prior to the Dergue regime.The most significant challenge for
Government, then, will be to build on the institutional synergies between
these many stakeholders, especially between the tourism, community
development, and cultural subsectors, and to support ways of more strongly
coordinating their activities. A key element of this approach depends on
finding ways of more fully involving communities in cultural site
management. Because of this, mediating between community, zonal, regional
and national interests becomes a central element in Government's cultural
heritage strategy.
2. Objectives
Ethiopia is the site of some of the oldest human settlements in Africa.
Though the beginning of recorded Ethiopian history dates to the reported
meeting around 1000 BC of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, relatively
recent discoveries have shown that it has a rich prehistory as well. Early
Christian influences date to around 400 AD and Islamic influences followed
several hundred years later, and these have had a profound impact on
Ethiopian culture and tradition. A rich civilization flourished around
Axum until the 7th century AD which was an amalgam of indigenous culture
and external influences, notably from Southern Arabia. Other dynasties,
such as the Zagwe (responsible for the construction of eleven monolithic
churches in Lalibela some time before the late 1200s) left a deep imprint
on Ethiopia as well. The fortress city of Fasil Ghebbi in Gondar,
residence of the Emperor Fasilidas and his successors during the 16th and
17th centuries, contains palaces, churches, monasteries and unique public
-3 -



and private buildings marked by Hindu and Arabic influences, and
transformed by the baroque style brought by Jesuit missionaries.While
evidence of Ethiopia's culture and history is found in its ancient
monuments, cities, and prehistoric sites, its living cultures are
reflected in the work of architects, musicians, writers, artisans and
crafts people. Strong traditions have long contributed to Ethiopia's
material wealth by producing illuminated parchment manuscripts,
leatherwork, metalwork, jewelry, basketry, woodwork, and pottery. Much of
this rich heritage is being eroded by rapid development and growth, and
ancient craft skills are being lost as markets and values for artisanal
crafts change over time.Government is seeking World Bank support with a
Learning and Innovation Loan with the objective of testing out and
developing, on a pilot basis, the means for more fully integrating the
conservation and management of its cultural heritage into local and
national economic development. The project would support the development
of approaches to the conservation of cultural heritage assets through site
planning and conservation of archaeological and historic buildings and
sites, and through the development of better information for conservation
planning and threat mitigation. The project would also contribute to the
revitalization of economic activity by testing out approaches for small
crafts-based enterprises and by capitalizing on tourism potential.The
decision to process it as a LIL instead of as a larger project is because
of strong capacity building elements, the pilot nature of individual
components for which viable technical, financial, and social solutions
need to be tested and developed, and the need for experimentation with
different partnership arrangements with respect to the involvement of
NGOs, local, regional, and central administrations, communities, and
groups of artisans and craftsmen.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Not to be completed for a LIL.
4. Description
The Cultural Heritage Project has four components: Site Planning and
Conservation, Inventory and Documentation Development, support for the
development of Artisanal Crafts, and support for Project Management.
Central to the design of the project is the idea that these components are
closely related, and should be carried out in a way which brings together
the conservation of historic sites, support for living culture, and
economic development through support to the tourism and small enterprise
sectors. The opportunity for learning different methods of institutional
cooperation to bring this about is at the core of this LIL.(a) Site
Planning and ConservationThe project will provide resources for site
planning and conservation in two pilot sites, Gondar and Axum. The project
would finance a conservation plan for the walled fortress palace complex
of Fasil Ghebbi in Gondar to identify priorities for future site
conservation activities, taking into specific concern the potential for
increasing benefits to the community as a result of their proximity to the
palace complex (to which they currently have no access). This work would
be carried out in conjunction with efforts to improve site interpretation,
for local, national, and foreign visitors to the site. The development of
an interpretation and documentation center will be planned in the process,
and the project will partly finance its establishment. Training and
capacity building for site planning and interpretation will be key
elements of this activity. Finding mechanisms for the fuller involvement
- 4 -



of the people of the town of Gondar in the management and use of the site
will be an underlying objective of the planning process.With regard to
Axum, the project will finance site planning activities for the town's
archeological sites, including the development and planning of an expanded
archeological museum in part as a local cultural education facility, as
well as to house more recent historical acquisitions. Museum planning will
be carried out in conjunction with efforts to increase the institutional
capacity, through curation skills training, at the national and regional
levels better to handle the tasks of museum curation and management. Site
planning will focus on specific needs for better site presentation and
interpretation to assist in the management of visitors to Axum, and for
taking into account of the results of an inventory of 19th and 20th
century vernacular Tigrayan architecture in the older parts of Axum, which
was completed as an input into the town's master plan. The Site planning
process is seen to be a complement to the new master plan, which is a
local and regional priority, and which will assist in identifying how to
go about developing infrastructure in the old town in a manner which is
sensitive to the specifics of the site. The interests of the community in
the future of old Axum, and the potential for closer cooperation with the
Ethiopian Orthodox Church in the conservation of ecclesiastical art will
be explored.(b) Inventory and Documentation DevelopmentThis component is
designed to build the capacity for establishing a better information base
about cultural assets for the purposes of planning, conservation, and
threat mitigation. Capacity development will be coordinated by ARCCH,
which will work with regional and zonal bureaus to improve methodological
approaches, technologies, and capacity to manage documentation
requirements, and to ensure consistency with accepted standards and
practices, in priority zones and regions. Pilot inventories are expected
to be undertaken in 3 regions: Tigray, Amhara, and Oromiya regions.As a
first step, and working closely with the regional bureaus, ARCCH will
review and assess the extent of existing national, regional, local, and
project specific inventories, and would then manage a series of workshops
to gain a consensus about core national standards and methodologies and
about the most effective system for coordinating the collection and
exchange of inventory information between the center and the regions.
Once core national standards have been agreed, ARCCH would mount a series
of workshops and training initiatives in the three pilot regions more
fully to develop the skills of regional and zonal staff to carry out
inventory work, and to build the capacity of professionals and local
organizations for priority-setting, participation, and involvement in
selected pilot inventory sites. This work would be carried out in
conjunction with recent UNESCO proposals for inventory development.A
critical and growing need, which the project would also address, relates
to the development of the capacity within ARCCH, to provide specific rapid
assessment capabilities in advance of the establishment of hydroelectric
and other dams, roads, and other development activities. The objective of
developing this capacity would be to enable ARCCH quickly to survey
potentially threatened archeological sites which could be inundated as a
result of dam or other development projects and to put in place mitigation
measures, such as the relocation of project activities, modifications in
project design so that sites and structures can be conserved, studied,
documented, and, as appropriate, preserved in situ, or, as a last resort,
physical removal of artifacts. ARCCH would develop a methodology for
rapid assessment, and would prepare mitigation guidelines to assist
regional bureaus in responding to this immediate threat to archeological
- 5 -



sites. Pilot efforts would be focused on Oromiya, or another region, in
agreement with the Bank.(c) Artisanal Crafts DevelopmentThe rich material
culture of Ethiopia is captured in the work of traditional craftsmen and
artisans. This component of the Cultural Heritage Project has the
objective of finding ways of preserving these ancient craft traditions and
of reestablishing craft making as a vital part of community and national
economic life. Working on a pilot basis, tentatively in Axum, Addis
Ababa, and Harar, this component will provide artisans with design
guidance, technical skills, business training, and direct market links to
generate sales to local, tourist, regional, and export markets and to
develop the market momentum and local capacity needed to sustain craft
industry growth for the coming decades.Key strategies for achieving these
objectives will include bringing experienced commercial designers to work
with artisans to create tradition-based but market-driven products with
increased salability to key market segments. The project will also
provide training in costing and pricing, quality and production
management, and marketing to increase independent entrepreneurial
capacity. In addition, assistance will be provided to improve links
between artisan producers and retailers, exporters, and shippers to
increase local craft sales opportunities and to support the export trade.
Craft product lines developed through the project will be exhibited in
local galleries and at international trade shows with the support of the
project.Subject to reaching an agreement with regional culture and tourism
bureaus, the project will establish small artisan resource centers, also
on a pilot basis, in renovated historically or architecturally significant
structures as a place for training, and to provide a venue for
demonstration of traditional craft making, and for exhibiting locally-made
crafts. The artisanal centers would be established also as a means of
facilitating access of producers to alternative and expanded markets, and
of established buyers to a wider range of dealers, craftsmen, and craft
product. The project will also seek to develop the capacity of NGOs to
become involved in craft development and marketing by working with them to
organize artisans, provide training and marketing guidance, and other
support designed to foster independent craft entrepreneurship and craft
market growth.d) Project ManagementThe project will provide funds for
project management, particularly, to cover the costs of the Project
Coordination Unit. Funds are provided to employ specialist staff to work
in the unit, as needed. It is envisaged that the Coordination Unit will
separately employ an Accountant, Procurement Specialist, and Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist. The positions of Project Coordinator and
Assistant Project Coordinators are likely to be filled by existing staff
within ETC and ARCCH respectively, but provisions have been made to employ
qualified staff for these positions on a contract basis.
5. Financing
Total                                    ( US$m)
BORROWER                                   0.7
IDA                                        5
Total Project Cost                         5.7
6. Implementation
The project will be jointly implemented by the Ethiopian Tourism
Commission and the Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural
Heritage. Oversite will be maintained by a multisectoral Steering
Committee comprised of representatives from key stakeholder groups.
- 6 -



7. Sustainability
As a LIL, this operation will test whether or not the proposed project
activities can be sustained.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This is a new operation in a new sector in which the Bank has had
relatively little experience. As a LIL, it seeks to test out pilot
activities, for possible future investment.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are not expected to be any significant
negative environmental impacts of the project. Possible minor impacts may
be associated with site conservation activities, but these are expected to
be negligible. The implementing agency will invite the National
Environment Agency to review the Project Implementation Plan and, where
any monitoring is required, will involve the Agency.In terms of limiting
potential future negative impacts of development activities, through the
Inventory and Documentation Development component, the project will
prepare guidelines, and pilot an approach, for mitigating impacts of
development on cultural sites (particularly, archeological sites).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Roxane Hakim
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 7014
Fax: 202 614 1014
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was prepared by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 7 -



