Page  1
Draft, September 4, 2004 
RP265 Vol. 
2 
Ethiopia Cultural Heritage Project (CHP) 
Abbreviated Resettlement Plan (ARP) 
for Three Households Affected by CHP in Axum 
 
Introduction: 
The Ethiopia Cultural Heritage Project is a Learning and Innovation 
Loan (LIL) with the objective of testing out and developing, on a pilot basis, the 
means for more fully integrating the conservation and management of the country’s 
cultural heritage into local and national economic development. It is designed to 
support development approaches to the conservation of cultural heritage assets 
through site planning and conservation of archaeological and historic buildings and 
sites, and through the development of better information for conservation planning 
and threat mitigation. The project will also contribute to the revitalization of 
economic activity by testing out approaches for small crafts-based enterprises and by 
capitalizing on tourism potential.
 
The project has three components: Site Planning and Conservation, Inventory and 
Documentation Development, and support for the development of Artisanal Crafts.  
Central to the design of the project is the idea that these components are closely 
related, and should be carried out in a way which brings together the conservation of 
historic sites, support for living culture, and economic development through the 
tourism and small enterprise sectors. The opportunity for learning different methods 
of institutional cooperation to bring this about is at the core of this LIL. 
 
The Bank board approval date of the CHP was in April, 2002 and the project was 
declared effective in December 2002.  In the project appraisal document (PAD) 
resettlement was not considered as an issue. As a result, an environmental impact 
assessment (EIA) or social assessment were not conducted in the project preparation 
phase.  
 
In the first supervision mission of the project held from June 18 to July 3, 2002, the 
mission found that the World Bank operational policy (OP 4.12) on involuntary 
resettlement will be triggered, as about 10 households were to be relocated due to 
project activities in Ras Mengesha compound,  a site planned to be converted into a 
crafts center under the artisinal crafts development component of the project. 
Subsequently, seven of the ten households were relocated by the local administration. 
To address this issue, ASPEN recommended the preparation of a Resettlement Audit 
for the seven households and a Resettlement/Rehabilitation Policy Framework (RPF) 
to address other resettlement issues that may arise due to implementation of the 
project. 
 
The RPF and the Resettlement Audit have been prepared and formally cleared by 
ASPEN. According to the resettlement audit, the seven households moved to less than 
200 meters from their old location. Five out of the seven relocated households have 
got larger and, qualitatively better rooms. While the other two have got about the 
Page  2
Draft, September 4, 2004 
same size of rooms but with better quality. All of the seven households are satisfied 
with their new houses. They have been compensated with relocation cost and 
relocation allowance amounting to ETB 140 per household by the Axum city 
administration as per the recommendation of the Audit. The Kebele administration 
has assisted the seven households in finding their current location and in facilitating 
their relocation.   
 
The Resettlement Audit has suggested that an Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan 
be prepared; submitted to the World Bank (ASPEN) for clearance prior to the 
relocation of the three households.  Based on this background, the following 
abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan for the remaining three households is prepared. 
 
Project Affected Persons (PAPs): 
The three households remaining in Ras Mengesha 
compound are: 
1. 
Mrs. Genete Abrehe, 
Family size - 4, Room area 12M
2
-
Length of residence 
in the room 12 years. 
2. 
Mr. Zenawi Zerihun
 , Family size - 3, Room area 15M
2
-
Length of residence 
in the room 12 years. 
3. 
Mr. Mekonnen Abrehe
:
Family size -10 (six out of the ten family members 
are residing elsewhere), room area 15M
2
Length of residence in the room 12 
years. 
 
Assets and livelihood: 
The three households, currently living in Ras Mengesha 
compound earn their livelihood in the informal sector
.
They are working in the market  
as petty traders and daily laborers. The assets of the three households, mainly include 
dining and cooking utensils (plates, dishes, knives); water fetching  materials such as 
jeri cans, tins and plastic buckets etc; and sleeping materials including beds, 
mattresses, pillows and sheets. The PAPs do not have any fixed structures or assets 
which could be lost as a result of relocation.  
 
All the 3 PAPs are tenants of the Keble living in single rooms, which is approximately 
between 12 and 15 M
2
.
Mud walls, natural stone, earth floors and corrugated iron 
sheet roofs was the housing standard for all of the three PAP households. As indicated 
in the Audit, rental cost  is  20 Birr/Month. 
 
According to the entitlement matrix in the Resettlement Policy Framework the 
category of the three PAPs is residential tenants. The  types of loss is loss of rental 
accommodation and their entitlement include replacement cost for non-movable 
assets, if installation was agreed with owner, six months rent, coverage of full cost for 
total transport expense and disturbance allowance. 
 
Relocation plan: 
The Woreda/Keble administration, 
together with the office of culture and tourism are 
Page  3
Draft, September 4, 2004 
responsible for the relocation of the three households. The 
PAPs have been informed about the project objectives, the 
need and timing of their relocation and their entitlement 
rights. In addition the PAPs have been notified of their 
relocation two months ago as preparation for 
implementation of the project activity in Ras Mengesha 
compound is being finalized. The Keble administration will 
assist the PAPs in finding appropriate rental houses within 
300 meter radius of their current location 
 
Compensation: 
A
compensation committee consisting of 
the PCU, representatives of the woreda and Kebele 
administration as well as representatives of the PAPs have 
reviewed the assets of the PAPs and established 
compensation plan for each affected household. 
Accordingly,  each household has  received 120 birr which 
is equivalent to six months rent and relocation allowance 
of 20 Birr which include 5 birr for transportation of their 
belongings to the new location. The compensation rate is 
in line with the entitlement matrix in the RPF. It is also 
based on the recommendation of the Audit and agreement 
of the PAPs. The compensation has already been paid for 
the three households together with the first group(seven 
households) of PAPs. Following requests by the three 
households, the contractor selected for the restoration of 
Ras Mengesha house has promised that the three 
households will be offered job opportunity when the 
construction work commences. In addition, the PCU will 
give the PAPs priority for job opportunity when the crafts 
center becomes operational. 
 
Cost Coverage: 
The Axum Municipality will cover the compensation cost, and all 
costs associated with the relocation as indicated above. 
 
Page  4
Draft, September 4, 2004 
Time line: 
Physical relocation will take place as soon as the PAPs find reasonable 
accommodations compared to their current residence. 
 
Page  5
Draft, September 4, 2004 
 
