                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00001072




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-36320 IDA-3632A)




                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION
                          (US$5.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                         FOR A

                           CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT




                                     April 20, 2009




Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development Unit (AFTCS)
Eastern Africa 3 Department
Africa Region

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2009)

            Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
           1.00 Ethiopian Birr = US$ 0.0911
          US$ 1.00 = 11.0940 Ethiopian Birr

                    FISCAL YEAR
                    July 1 ­ June 30

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

         ARCCH       Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural
                     Heritage
         CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
         CBOs        Community Based Organizations
         DCA         Development Credit Agreement
         ECHO        European Commission Humanitarian Office
         FMR         Financial Management Report
         EU          European Union
         IDA         International Development Association
         ISS         Interim Support Strategy
         KPI         Key Project Indicators
         LIL         Learning and Innovation Loan
         M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
         MOF         Ministry of Finance
         MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
         MTR         Mid-term Review
         NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
         PCU         Project Coordination Unit
         PDO         Project Development Objective
         QAE         Quality at Entry
         PMT         Project Management Team
         SC          Steering Committee
         SOE         Statement of Expenses
         TA          Technical Assistance
         TTL         Task Team Leader



     Vice President: Obiageli Ezekwesili
   Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi
    Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
Project Team Leader: Jean Delion
 ICR Team Leaders: Roxanne Hakim & June Taboroff

                                              ETHIOPIA
                         CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .........................................................
 6. Lessons Learned ........................................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................Error! Bookmark not defined.
 Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
 Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 38
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41
 Annex 7: Output indicators defined in the PAD
 Annex 8: Learning Expectations (per the PAD) and Results
 Annex 9: Lessons Learned of Relevance for Bank Operations


MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Cultural Heritage
Country:               Ethiopia               Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:            P057770                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-36320,IDA-3632A
ICR Date:              04/20/2009             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    LIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                       XDR 4.1M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ethiopian Tourism Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/21/1998    Effectiveness:                           12/11/2002
Appraisal:             01/11/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/17/2002    Mid-term Review:     06/15/2005          07/22/2005
                                     Closing:             01/15/2007          10/15/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Satisfactory           Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately             Implementing           Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower
Performance:           Unsatisfactory         Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              28                  28
General industry and trade sector                              36                  36
Other social services                                          36                  36


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other financial and private sector development                Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Kenichi Ohashi                   Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:           Ian Bannon                       Agnes I. Kiss
Project Team Leader:      Jean Delion                      Peter A. Dewees
ICR Team Leader:          Roxanne Hakim
ICR Authors:              Roxanne Hakim / June Taboroff

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Cultural Heritage Project is a Learning and Innovation Loan with the objective of
testing out and developing, on a pilot basis, the means for more fully integrating the
conservation and management of cultural heritage into local and national economic
development. The general goal of the project is to contribute to poverty reduction through
increased income generated by cultural assets and handicrafts development. The specific
project objective is to test and develop models for improved cultural site conservation,
preservation of cultural assets and development of artisanal crafts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No change in PDO

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value            Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                   approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Good practice for cultural heritage conservation activities are identified and lay
                 the groundwork for future investment and support
                                                                                Gondar site plan
                                                                                developed and fully
Value                                         Site Plans                        implemented;
(quantitative or No plans in any world        completed in                      Axum plan
Qualitative)     heritage sites               Gondar and Axum                   developed and
                                                                                partially
                                                                                implemented.
Date achieved 04/30/2002                      12/31/2002                        12/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %         80%
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Regional and local governments gain perspectives on how cultural heritage
                 conservation can generate benefits.

                                              Gondar, Axum,                     Regional

                                              Harar and Addis                   governments in

                 Regional and local           gain confidence                   Gondar and Axum

Value            governments do not have and pilot                              gain immense skill

(quantitative or skills to develop cultural approaches that                     from working with

Qualitative)     sites into economic asset demonstrates how                     TA on site plans.

                 base.                        cultural sites can                Harar and Addis

                                              generate economic                 benefits limited to

                                              value                             activities related to
                                                                                crafts people.
Date achieved 04/30/2002                      12/31/2002                        12/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %         70%
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    Partners (i.e., the private sector, NGOs, regional governments) take a more active
                 role in cultural heritage conservation.
                                                                                NGO involvement
                                                                                weak, regional

Value            Cultural heritage            NGOs, regional                    governments gained

(quantitative or conservation limited to      governments                       great perspective on

Qualitative)     federal agency ARCCH.        identify niche                    their roles and
                                              roles.                            responsibilities in
                                                                                cultural sites.

Date achieved 04/30/2002                    12/31/2002                        12/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %         60%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    Improved basis for innovation and development of crafts and artisanal design.
                                                                              4 international trade

                                            Craftspeople                      shows attended,

                                            trained in new                    training on new
                                                                              skills and design,
                 Dergue regime had          designs and                       income increase for
Value            eroded encouragement fortechniques,                          trainees as products
(quantitative or crafts. No new design and  improved products                 more attractive both
Qualitative)     people limited to local    for new                           to local market and
                 markets                    international and
                                            national markets,                 new national

                                            resulting in                      markets they now

                                            increased income.                 have access to.
                                                                              Trade fair not
                                                                              sustainable.
Date achieved 04/30/2002                    12/31/2002                        12/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %         90%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised       Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values    Target Years
                 Comprehensive site conservation and interpretation plans are completed for
Indicator 1 :    Axum and Gondar; first phase of site conservation and interpretation activities is
                 launched, in particular taking into account municipal planning efforts.
Value
(quantitative    0                          6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                    07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Visitors interpretation scheme implemented in six sites in Axum and Gondar
Value
(quantitative    0                          6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                    07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    Additional partners (i.e. donors) involved in implementation of site conservation
                 plans

Value
(quantitative  0                          2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                  07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Community based activities implemented
Value
(quantitative  0                          6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                  07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Craft/cultural centers integrated in to site planning and implementation in Axum
Value
(quantitative  0                          1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                  07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Axum museum designed
Value
(quantitative  0                          1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                  07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Regional and national staff trained in museum curation
Value
(quantitative  0                          18
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                  01/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :  Data base of cultural assets developed in pilot regions
Value
(quantitative  0                          3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                  01/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 9 :  Guideline including mitigation plan prepared
Value
(quantitative  0                         1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                 01/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Functioning craft and cultural centers established in Axum, Addis and Harar
Value
(quantitative  0                         3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                 07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 11 : Guideline of quality standards developed and implemented through local and
               export marketing
Value
(quantitative  0                         1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                 07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 12 : Evaluation study conducted on site visitors satisfaction
Value
(quantitative  0                         1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/11/2002                 07/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                           IP             Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     05/13/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     06/07/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  3     10/04/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  4     04/17/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  5     10/27/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.51
  6     04/27/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.53
  7     10/16/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.64
  8     12/08/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.69

  9   03/21/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           0.78
  10  10/06/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           1.02
  11  03/27/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           2.03
  12  09/18/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           2.98
  13  04/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    3.80
  14  11/28/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    4.24

  15  06/02/2008         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory           4.48



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

Context

The Ethiopia Cultural Heritage Project was approved in early 2002 after the cessation of
hostilities with Eritrea, when future Bank support was directed towards emergency humanitarian
needs, reconstruction, and the country's wider economic recovery and development efforts. The
Ethiopia Interim Support Strategy anticipated that, in addition to supporting reconstruction and
recovery, future lending would focus on institutions, capacity building, and service delivery,
complemented by activities to revive the private sector in order to generate growth and
employment. It was within this framework that the Cultural Heritage Project was proposed. The
Bank agreed to consider providing support for this area at the specific request of the Prime
Minister, Meles Zenawi, during discussions with President Wolfensohn in 1998. The approach
proposed was consistent with the previous Country Assistance Strategy's (CAS's) objectives
related to capacity building, increasing sources of growth, and poverty alleviation.

Development Objectives

The objective of this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was to test out and develop, on a pilot
basis, the means for more fully integrating the conservation and management of Ethiopia's
cultural heritage into local and national economic development. The project aimed to develop
approaches to the conservation of cultural heritage assets through site planning and conservation
of archaeological and historic buildings and sites, and to establish a computerized cultural
heritage inventory. Project activities were to contribute to the revitalization of economic activity
by improving the skill base and providing marketing opportunities for small crafts-based
enterprises, and by capitalizing on tourism potential of cultural sites and industries.

Design

The decision to process the project as a LIL was based on the strong learning objectives, the pilot
nature of individual components for which technical, financial, and social solutions were tested,
and the experimentation with different partnership arrangements with NGOs, local, regional, and
central administrations, communities, and groups of artisans and craftsmen. The opportunity
for learning different methods of institutional cooperation was cited as the core objective of
this LIL. The Quality Assurance at Entry (QAE) viewed the LIL as the appropriate instrument
for experimentation.


1.1 Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country and sector backgrounds, rationale for
Bank assistance):

Country

The project was prepared in a post-Communist context during which much of Ethiopia's
archaeological and built heritage and craft skills had been neglected and eroded. Opportunities
for private entrepreneurship were few, craft production had not adapted to new market demands,
and the Communist legacy had weakened the tourism service industry. Government's overriding
development objectives were to attain fast economic growth with macroeconomic stability. From
the early 1990s, Ethiopia benefited from a growing global market for cultural tourism which until



                                                 1

the conflict saw an annual increase of economic growth in Ethiopia of around 7 percent per
annum. Therefore investing in heritage was seen to meet the dual needs of heritage conservation
and tourism development.

Sector

The cultural heritage sector faced the challenges of mobilizing adequate capacity and working
cooperatively with other sectors such as tourism and infrastructure. The institutional mandate for
management and protection of cultural heritage rests with the Authority for Research and
Conservation of Cultural Heritage (ARCCH) and the regional cultural bureaus. ARCCH has
oversight of the country's World Heritage Sites (including Axum, Gondar, and Harar) and
finances some site conservation activities. Tourism was under a separate Tourism Commission.
The regional cultural and tourism bureaus operate under the mandate of regional administrations.
Other important stakeholders are the Ethiopian Orthodox Church and the Supreme Islamic
Council, both of which maintain much of the living heritage of the country as well as the built
heritage of churches, mosques, shrines and other religious structures and collections of
manuscripts and other ecclesiastical objects.

Rationale

As this project was a LIL, it was exempted from providing a separate rationale in the PAD. The
PAD assumes that the rationale is implicit in the learning objectives of this LIL.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective was to test the effectiveness of approaches for managing
Ethiopia's cultural assets through partnerships in pilot sites.

The outcome/impact indicators were defined to be:
      1) Good practice for cultural heritage conservation activities are identified and lay the
          groundwork for future investment and support;
      2) Regional and local governments gain perspectives on how cultural heritage
          conservation can generate benefits;
      3) Partners (i.e., the private sector, NGOs, regional governments) take a more active role
          in cultural heritage conservation; and
      4) Improved basis for innovation and development of crafts and artisanal design.

Eleven specific output indicators, each linked to component activities were defined in the annex
of the PAD (see ICR Annex 10). These indicators appear to be well thought out and could have
served as an excellent monitoring tool if incorporated systematically in supervision reports from
the beginning. They also represent the best indication of the project activities and outputs as
envisaged at project design.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised, and no formal changes were made to the Key Project Indicators (KPIs).




                                                 2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The main beneficiaries identified in the PAD are communities living close to cultural sites of
Axum and Gondar; school children; craftspeople, artisans, traditional builders, and urban and
regional planners. Other key stakeholders are: the Ethiopian Orthodox Church and its members;
Islamic Council and its members; national heritage NGOs and cultural organizations; tourism
private sector; and visitors to cultural sites.

The LIL delivered on its objective of developing new partnerships: GOE organizations such as
regional bureaus of tourism and culture and universities became involved. Artisan associations
and tourist guides were also beneficiaries. There was no formal revision of beneficiaries during
the project cycle.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project comprised four components: 1) Site planning and conservation; 2) Inventory and
documentation development; 3) Support for the development of artisanal crafts; and 4) Support
for project management. Central to the design of the project is the idea that these components are
closely related, and should be carried out in a way which brings together the conservation of
historic sites, support for handicrafts and living culture, and economic development through
assistance to the tourism and small enterprise sectors. The site planning and handicraft
components were the largest at US$2 million each, followed by the inventory and documentation
component at US$1.3 million. Project management was estimated at US$0.4 million

1.6 Revised Components

There were no changes in project components.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

Midway through project implementation, the Ministries of Culture and Tourism were merged into
one Ministry. This is a significant and positive institutional development. While this merger
cannot be attributed solely to this LIL, the experience of implementing this project was certainly
a catalyst that cemented this decision. Its influence commenced during project preparation when
the decision was made to pilot project implementation under the joint institutional leadership of
culture (via ARCCH) and tourism (via the Tourism Commission). The experience of working
together through the PCU, despite tensions between the two groups, served to establish some
rules of engagement and cooperation. The proposed Bank financed Tourism project now under
preparation is under the new combined Ministry and will benefit from the experience of this LIL.
There were no official changes in funding allocations although some activities were dropped and
others added during the project including some activities linked to the preparation of the proposed
Tourism Project. These small changes were approved through the work plans.




                                                 3

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Project preparation was thorough and was informed by a series of studies undertaken at project
preparation showing that the team drew adequately on international expertise in each of the sub-
areas of cultural management and used that to inform project design. The articulation of project
objectives was both thoughtful and strategic. Project design however, did not seem to draw on
Bank experience in similar projects.

Although using TA as the primary implementing partner is commonplace in Bank projects in the
Africa region, the design did not adequately consider the sustainability impacts of doing so.
Limited capacity in country made the use of TA almost a necessity. The project design, however,
could have incorporated some specific procedures to better plan and systematize the functional
relationships between local agencies (such as the PCU, Regional Bureaus, Municipalities,
University) and the TA teams. This would have contributed to more systematic and sustained
skills transfer to the appropriate bodies.

QAE remarked that the preparation procedures of the project were very participatory and "the
project team sought to listen and respond to a wide range of voices" (from head of government
through central and regional level government agencies, donors, religious groups and NGOs, to
affected community groups).

Project design identified ways to integrate poverty concerns into cultural heritage work and
acknowledged the importance of local communities and their livelihood and socio-cultural
concerns. QAE highlighted that the mooted Social Assessment was an important and well
planned activity. Nevertheless, achieving community involvement proved ambitious in the
context of Ethiopia where government-civil society relations are often strained.

An important aim of the LIL was to test institutional mechanisms to manage aspects of culture
that were under different jurisdictions. A decision was made to place the PCU under the Ministry
of Tourism rather than Culture although two of the three main components were the responsibility
of Culture. The rationale for this was that tourism had relatively more experience with project
management and agreed to provide a dedicated staffed office. Coordination and cooperation
between Culture and Tourism which were both represented within the PCU, and between the
regions and Federal agencies was recognized as a challenge. Hence a Steering Committee (SC)
was put in place to mediate but proved ineffective to address this bottleneck as described below
and in section 2.2.

Two risks were rated as high: 1) Tourism potential is developed and provides a market for craft
products; and 2) Mechanisms for collaboration and cooperation between implementing agencies
are clear. In the first instance the mitigation measure was to diversify markets for craft production,
and in the second the SC was to give priority to establishing these collaborative mechanisms.
Project implementation shows that while craft markets have widened, the SC was not successful
in mitigating risk, which contributed to delays in project decision making. The PAD also
underlines the continuing challenges of development in the post-conflict period, especially the
tourism industry which continues to be sensitive to regional conflict.




                                                  4

The PAD rated procurement risks as average which the QAE flagged as inappropriate given the
PCU has no prior experience with Bank funded projects and that the unit would coordinate
several executing agencies. They suggested a risk level of high, which in hindsight, would have
been appropriate.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Borrower Issues
The implementation schedule experienced severe delays. Because the project unit took 1 year
from effectiveness to set up (for the PCU to become functional) and a further one year 8 months
to contract the TAs (time taken to draft and approve Terms of Reference, shortlist firms, analyze
bids, contract negotiations, mobilize consultants) who were the main implementing partners there
was little impact on the ground until almost three years from project effectiveness. Nevertheless
the PCU implemented most of the planned activities and initiated additional activities.

The delay shortened implementation time, thereby reducing what project implementation could
have achieved, as the TAs had less time to deliver their outputs and a number of crucial final
activities were left unfinished or were completed without the technical support of the TA (e.g.,
museum displays, signage at sites, setting up of inventory and documentation centres). These
activities are a small sub-set of the total activities, but they are critical to the overall impact (e.g.,
the Gondar site was refurbished very well but there are is no signage and the quality of the signs
that were to be displayed following project closure were not to standard), thereby compromising
the central objective which is to improve visitor experience. Similarly the impact of the new
Archaeology Museum could have been significantly strengthened if it had benefitted from
international expertise on the visual and written displays.

The Steering Committee (SC) that had been put in place to address the continued tensions
between the two main implementing agencies of Tourism and Culture was not effective, in part
because the other agencies in the SC, aside from Culture and Tourism, did not take an active role,
and the pull of decentralization reduced the influence of national level organizations. The SC did
not meet regularly, and the PCU did not provide the SC with regular updates nor encourage it to
serve as a conflict resolution ground. There was clear scope for stronger intervention and action
in this area, by the PCU, the Bank team and Bank Management. Instead, supervision reports until
and including the MTR state that the SC is functioning well. The MTR urged a stronger role for
the SC to look at details of project management and budgeting that would normally be done by
PCU. Later during implementation, an Executive SC was established; the aim was to have a few
members who could meet more often and take quick decisions. While this did improve the
processing time for decision making, it was not able to fully address the tensions as the Executive
SC comprised only representatives of Culture and Tourism.

A few activities were changed during implementation. The original project orientation involved
planning and development of approaches for sites, with minimal physical outputs; this was a
cautious approach appropriate to the political environment. As project activities evolved, more
emphasis was placed on implementing new visions of heritage management and working through
new partnerships. The new works included a new museum in Axum, civil works and site
conservation at the Gondar site, establishment of inventory center in Harar and visitor handbooks
for Axum and Gondar. A few activities were dropped (e.g., new combined museum for
archaeology and religious artifacts in Axum) and replaced by others (e.g., the Axum
archaeological museum). These are positive developments as they demonstrate the PCU and


                                                    5

Bank team's willingness to recognize roadblocks and make the most of opportunity. This was a
positive outcome which should have been reflected in revised KPIs (see 2.3). It also reflected
shifts in Government orientation, responses to expert advice from the TA consultancies, and
demonstrates the flexibility of the LIL as a learning instrument to test different management
approaches.


Bank Issues

Due to the timing of the MTR very soon after the TAs commenced, it was not effective as a
restructuring tool. No formal restructuring took place during the MTR but it did raise the issue
of giving more project ownership to regional level and establishing regional stakeholder
committees. These committees are playing an important coordinating role for the various
stakeholders in the fields of cultural heritage and tourism and are expected to continue post-
project.

Project life was justifiably extended for a total of one year and three months as it was in the
middle of delivering concrete outputs (a final extension request was not approved). By actual
project closure, it had achieved most of its activities and delivered more than was originally
anticipated in some areas (see section 3.2).

The Bank team did not always follow appropriate procedures with regard to changes in activities
(mentioned above) and new development (e.g., identification of involuntary resettlement).
Further, these changes were not systematically reflected in project reports and monitoring tools
such as tables.

Procurement, disbursement, implementation progress, and safeguard issues merited unsatisfactory
ratings at various periods, for example during the three first years when the project activities
experienced low levels of disbursement and activities lagged. Yet the ISRs continued to be
marked Satisfactory both for Development Objective and Implementation Progress until 2007,
aside from one risk flag for disbursement in June 2005. Beginning in 2007, ratings and Aide
Memoirs appear to have been more candid and analytical. While delays were recorded in
supervision reports, and some issues mentioned in the Management letters, no other formal
actions appear to have been taken by Bank Management. This is partly because the Task Team
did not adequately highlight the gaps in the overall achievements of the project, to warrant extra
Management attention or supervision budget.

Procurement delays affected big contracts like the TAs as well as purchase of small equipment.
Procurement support in the Bank team was not consistent (frequent changes in team members)
and there were cases where contradictory advice resulted in the PCU having to make unnecessary
compromises. The PCU also lacked procurement capacity but did make an effort to look for
alternative arrangements by opting to use the Government procurement agency when they could
not recruit a specialist. This arrangement unfortunately proved inappropriate for procuring
specialized goods needed in this project, which often had narrow technical specifications, and
were needed in small quantities.

Directly linked to procurement delays was the delay in disbursements. Again, no part of the loan
was cancelled but the project did channel some funds into financing new unplanned activities,
including the recruitment of the procurement staff to assist the preparation of the new Tourism
project.



                                                6

The Resettlement Safeguard should have had a flag to highlight the issue of the relocation of the
printing press as detailed in section 2.4. This may have pushed to resolve the situation sooner.

Implementation would have also benefitted from more attention by the Bank to technical aspects
of the project. Cultural heritage expertise was not represented in the Bank supervision task team
with the exception of one mission and an end-of-project review. There appears to have been an
overreliance on the TAs who understandably focused on their sub-set of activities. This reduced
the extent to which the project impacts were able to influence sector wide changes and build
channels across the three components and across the three focus regions. For example, the PAD
recognizes school children as the second most important target group and highlights a
comprehensive vision for community involvement in cultural management. Project objectives fell
short here, and outreach was sporadic and limited to isolated events (such as staging of historic
scenes at the site and a visit of schools to the stellae in Axum). Neither the PCU nor the Bank
team did enough to promote these larger outcomes which required activities such as
publication of materials for schools and establishment of long-term outreach programs to be
designed and coordinated outside the scope of the individual consultancies and sub-component
activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The implementation and utilization of M&E was weak despite quite strong foundations laid at
project preparation. The CPPR review of 2006 for Ethiopia identified "weak monitoring and
evaluation and results framework" as a portfolio wide issue but this did not boost project
performance in this regard. Appointment of the first M&E officer took place late in project
implementation and the position was left empty for lengthy periods. Borrower monitoring reports
were not consistent as per the agreement.

As mentioned in section 1.3, during project supervision, the Task Team made changes in
indicators that point to confusion about the difference between outcome/impact indicators, output
indicators, and intermediate outcomes. At the fifth ISR, the original four outcome/impact
indicators (listed in section 1.2) were changed to numerical ones, at the behest of sector
management, as below.
    1) Number of plans developed and implemented on a pilot basis for site conservation,
         management and visitor interpretation in Axum and Gondar;
    2) Number of conservation action plans formulated by regional governments in Amhara and
         Tigray regions;
    3) Number of partners (i.e., the private sector, NGOs) involved in cultural heritage
         conservation; and
    4) Model artisanal craft centers for innovation and development of crafts and artisanal
         design established in Axum, Harar and Addis Ababa.

These new numerical indicators (Annex 10) are not suitable for the project and flawed for several
reasons. Indicator 1 is meaningless as it focuses on the "number of plans": project design
envisaged two plans, one for Axum and one for Gondar. The important issues, inter alia, are
whether appropriate partners were involved in the plan, and the innovative consideration given to
local community use of the space (e.g., at Gondar circulation and access to the site changed, the
site now houses a public documentation center for researchers, a restored building is ready to be
used as a restaurant). The indicator for inventory and documentation was eliminated, thereby
ignoring an entire project component. Thus the revised indicators neither meaningfully capture



                                                   7

the outputs of the project, nor do they adequately reflect the strong learning aspect of this LIL.
Further, considering the strong qualitative nature of outputs and outcomes in this project, the
indicators even if framed in quantitative terms, should have been weighted and benchmarked
against relevant qualitative outputs.

Further, all end of project output indicators (listed in section 1.2 above) were transformed into
intermediate project outcomes (at the ninth ISR).

Project implementation and impact would have benefited by improving on the M&E tools it used
to track implementation progress. A start was made in 2005 in preparing a table to trace all
activities (completed, ongoing, and planned) and their progress in supervision reports. The tables
were reviewed during video or audio conferences with the whole task team in the later years of
the project supervision. However, the activities in the tables were not linked to the outcome or
output indicators, and each table is not consistent with the previous one. For instance, for some
activities a percentage assessment of work completed is given, in others not. The failing of these
tables is that they do not adequately portray some of the creative achievements of this LIL such as
the partnering of the Regional Bureaus with the University which underlie its future sustainability.
Too much adherence to numerical outputs and a tendency to see activities independently at
the cost of cross-cutting outputs and outcomes (e.g., impact on children as target beneficiary
group) has resulted in missing out opportunities as well as some significant unexpected outcomes
and learning.

While poor M&E may not have had significant impacts on overall project outputs and outcomes,
it is significant in two ways. First, better M & E would have identified the gap in cross-cutting
outcomes across project components that were missed. Had this been recognized cross-cutting
activities (e.g., inclusion of school visits during site restorations) could have been organized.
Second, it would have contributed to better informed data on which to build the new projects
(such as the proposed Tourism Project), and helped identify new groups of beneficiaries.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
Rating: Marginally Unsatisfactory

Safeguards:
The procedures used for addressing safeguards were not always consistent with the Bank's
requirement, resulting in poor reporting and some misinformation.

Project preparation rated the project as a C and did not trigger any safeguards, which was
incorrect. The project team was proactive in triggering involuntary resettlement during the first
supervision mission when it was discovered that a printing press had to be relocated out of the
palace complex in Gondar, and some houses needed to be relocated from the proposed craft
center in Axum. At that point the project rating should have been revised to B. Despite this early
identification, these resettlement issues were not satisfactorily addressed (see below).

The PCU and Bank team are to be credited with the efforts made to raise the awareness of
local authorities that incompatible activities, such as the printing press, should not be permitted
to operate within a cultural site. The relocation of the press appears to have been viewed by the
Bank and PCU as a responsibility of the Gondar Municipality and the project team's role appears
to have been limited to discussion with the authorities to get their agreement. This has had a
positive impact in that the Municipality of Gondar has taken on the responsibility and entire



                                                 8

financing of the relocation of the press. At the time of project closure the press still remained in
the palace complex, although an MOU had been signed, a relocation site agreed and identified,
and preparations for relocation had been finalized. Thus strictly speaking, the World Bank OP
4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement has not been adequately implemented, as the press should have
been relocated prior to commencement of civil works. Currently, civil works are completed and
the press still remains to be physically moved. This is a clear breach of OP 4.12.

However, this is a LIL and the outcome of the Municipality understanding the rationale behind
the suggested relocation and financing it entirely, has a greater long term impact that contributes
more to the development objectives than a scenario where the PCU had financed such relocation
on time, and the Municipality's involvement had been negligible.

The ten households situated at the craft center in Axum were moved by local authorities without
consultation with the Bank or PCU, and without a resettlement plan. Upon advice of the World
Bank Africa Safeguards Unit, a resettlement audit was done, and the package was improved to
meet World Bank standards. Further monitoring assured that the families had benefitted and that
no one was worse off. In view of these circumstances, the Bank team was mistaken to mark the
safeguards as consistently satisfactory and not to raise any flags.

The PAD did not trigger the Cultural Property safeguard (OPN 11.03) due to the misguided
rationale that project activities aimed to improve cultural sites, and hence would not have
negative impacts. Also, initial project design did not envisage much civil works or
implementation of the site plans. This rationale was inappropriate as project activities clearly had
the potential for significant impact on cultural properties, both archaeological and historic.
Nevertheless, project outcomes delivered well on the spirit of OPN 11.03, building technical
capacities and raising awareness of potential impact on cultural assets. The project trained staff
from all regions to conduct impact assessments, with practical field experience: three sessions of
one month each examining environmental impacts on archaeological sites were delivered and a
manual was prepared. The Inventory and Documentation also trained national staff on aspects of
safeguarding cultural assets.

OP 4.01 on Environment Assessment should have been triggered during supervision, with
the introduction of civil works into the implementation activities. The construction of the
Axum Museum did not have a formal Environment Management Plan. However, supervision of
all the civil works in the project did ensure that basic issues of noise, dust, and damage to nearby
cultural monuments were adequately addressed. When the site for the new Archaeology Museum
in Axum was found to contain an archaeological site, practical training on rescue archaeology
was piloted at the site and financed by the PCU. The area was excavated and is exhibited
creatively within the Museum as a display of rescue excavation.

While Bank procedures on handling safeguards were consistently ignored, the rating of MU
rather than U is in recognition of the ultimate outcomes that did meet the spirit of the Bank
safeguards and delivered on their ultimate objectives.

Fiduciary Compliance:
The PCU was equipped with a good financial management manual that described the necessary
control measures for project implementation. All regions involved used this manual except for the
Gondar site which used the government's own control procedures and manuals. While overall
fiduciary compliance was satisfactory, the financial management systems were weak. The
PCU lacked a dedicated accountant and cashier, it did not have systematic and well functioning
petty cash systems, monthly bank reconciliations, and a primary register for the fund. No


                                                  9

budgetary control system was used by the PCU: the actual expenditures were not compared with
the budget and variances were not analyzed.

At the regional level, the project team faced a high turnover of finance staff. It also had to work
with staff that lacked technical knowledge and experience in the sector, which is a problem
throughout the country. In most of the regions, the account recording was not complete and
delays in getting the financial reports and SOEs from the regions were a challenge.

The PCU did not submit Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) within 45 days of each quarter,
nor did it formally submit them the Bank from July 2006 onwards. The informally submitted
FMRs during the various supervision missions lacked ending cash balance, variance analysis,
accompanying procurement reports, and progress reports of project activities. These deficiencies
were repeatedly pointed out in the Aide Memoires of the supervision missions as they represent
non-compliance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).

The audit reports of the PCU were submitted in a timely manner throughout project
implementation. The management letters issued by the auditors indicated some internal control
weaknesses, especially on the verification of fixed assets. While external audits were done, links
with the project's internal audit department were not made, and hence the team did not benefit
from this support.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The institutional focus of the LIL has delivered significant learning and increased
partnering on management of cultural heritage. Project activities successfully demonstrated
the advantages of managing cultural sites as both archaeological/historical and economic assets,
and in the case of Gondar and Harar, as arenas for local communities (craftspeople, students,
general public) to enjoy and economically benefit from them (e.g., use research center, sell their
crafts etc.). It provided a structure that pushed culture and tourism to work together. During
project implementation, GOE implemented a decision to merge Culture and Tourism under one
Ministry. While tensions between these units existed until project end, and continue, the
experience of implementing this LIL has ensured that the GOE and key stakeholders recognize
the advantages of a more holistic approach to cultural management, and future planned activities
in this sector involve both sub-sectors (e.g., the Tourism project in preparation). Promotion of
crafts is typically seen as the domain of Tourism. Activities in components 1 and 3
demonstrated the mutual benefit of using cultural sites (Rimbaud House in Harar, Fasil
Gibbe in Gondar, restored craft center in Addis) as economic spaces to promote
entrepreneurs who were trained by Tourism).

The experience of implementing the project has contributed to increased coordination and
clarity of roles between Federal technical units like ARCCH and the regional administration in
the management of cultural sites, inventory recording, and craft promotion. By using the TA
consultants to serve as a bridge between these two groups, the PCU provided the regional bureaus
with much needed technical guidance, but from a source that they saw as non-threatening and
allowed them to retain some management and decision making authority. As a result, the regional
bureaus are more open about their need for technical assistance (in all three sub-sectors of site
management, inventory and craft skills training), be it from the Federal agencies or private sector.
Federal agencies in turn are more willing to accept that their comparative advantage is at a


                                                10

technical level, and administrative decisions should be left to the regions. This clarity in
institutional roles signals a significant advance as it allows the economic and social potential
within the sector to be better exploited.

The cultural heritage project has served to demonstrate capacity and build confidence in the
area of cultural heritage management as valuable economic assets. The new Tourism and
Culture Ministry is building on the success of the project outcomes through its investment in a
new Tourism Project, financed through the World Bank. The new Tourism Project is building on
lessons and outputs of the CHP, directly in Axum (e.g., signage in stellae field) and indirectly in
Lalibela (application of Gondar approach). Other donors like the USAID Sustainable Tourism
Alliance have also come forward to invest in this sector and are building on tested aspects of this
LIL. The ongoing interest of ICCROM, WMF, and UNESCO in cultural management in Ethiopia
is a further positive sign. Significant developments are the decision in Axum to finance a large
study and plan for tourism in the area and the assignment of 30 million birr for tourism in
Lalibela. These decisions have been made at regional level, thereby ensuring that they will be
followed through to implementation.

Project capacity building activities have contributed significantly to increased capacity in
various aspects of cultural management through development of tools and training of personnel
in inventory and documentation, rescue archaeology, cultural site management, craft
entrepreneurship, and improved marketing of Ethiopian crafts. It demonstrated the value of
investing in technical training, and groups such as ARCCH are increasingly sending younger staff
for formal training in heritage management (two were sent to Ireland). The approach also showed
craft entrepreneurs the value of being creative and responding to markets and has left a clear mark
in terms of improved designs and new products in the Ethiopian marketplace. Being a LIL it was
limited in the numbers it could train, and high turnover of staff in Government organizations
compromised some of the long term impact.

Further, project implementation has left behind structures that will use this newly created
capacity to better manage the resources. For example, there is now a permanent site manager in
the Gondar palace complex, who was an active participant in the site plan development and
implementation of Gondar. He demonstrated ownership of the project activities and had clearly
benefitted from working with the TA to better understand the various aspects of site management
(from visitor circulation to craft sales around the site to aspects of signage and conservation of
civil works). Guides trained in Axum and Gondar contribute strongly to the enhanced visitor
experience as do the restored heritage structure, the walking trails, signage and improved
circulation in the sites. The Axum Museum however, needs a qualified museum director to ensure
that this investment is properly maintained and its concept implemented.

The inventory activities have achieved their objectives at the Federal level, with ARCCH being
the primary beneficiary. Ethiopia now has a tested computerized inventory and
documentation system, which has been piloted in three regions and is linked to a central data
system in Addis. However, the Inventory and Documentation Centers that have been equipped
and set up in the regions have some way to go before they can function as intended (equipment
lying in boxes or being used by other departments). Although the technical ability of trained
personnel exists, management of the centers is sorely lacking. Problems of delegation of authority
and control of equipment are hampering their functioning. This risks this capacity migrating into
other jobs and the momentum being lost. However, unless ARCCH pushes the regions to fully
set up and man the centers, and take a pro-active role in using them to their potential, there will
be no new inventory collection, and the training and equipment will fall to disuse.



                                                 11

Besides receiving training in new designs and market trends, many of the craftspeople have been
connected by the project implementing agencies beyond their local market through private sector
entrepreneurs and trade fairs. Project design was far sighted to ensure they were also linked to
regional tourism bureaus (through creation of new craft display and selling areas in the local
towns) which will continue with some training and promotion of skills. Connecting the regional
tourism bureaus to each other has opened up opportunities whereby craftspeople from one region
(e.g., Harar) are informed of and encouraged to participate in exhibitions held in another region
(e.g., Axum). Exposure to international trade fairs was useful to introduce them to international
markets but response and follow up orders were lower than expected and hence for many artisans
it is unlikely that they will have continued links into the international market (attendance at four
trade fairs was sponsored by project funds). The Ministry should consider continuing this.
However, almost all the trained craftspeople have access to wider markets now either through
continued demand for goods from the private sector entrepreneurs/middle men they were linked
to during project implementation, new venues to sell goods (four new craft centers financed under
the project), or increased sales due to new designs they learnt that respond to modern tastes.

Maintenance of renovated structures is now the responsibility of regions, which is consistent with
decentralization aims. Project experience demonstrates the need for the regions to increase
their budgets to keep newly renovated structures in good condition, and to recognize and
request technical support when needed (from Federal institutions like ARCCH, from regional
University departments they are now linked to, or to purchase it from the private sector). While
there is no concrete information on budgets, Axum (funding of a regional tourism business plan)
and Lalibela (30 million birr) have both received substantial money and support from their region
to promote tourism. The positive experience and deliverables of CHP have been a definite
catalyst (e.g., Lalibela is using the same consultant to draft a new plan for management of core
church sites in Gondar).

Important partnerships have been established between the regional bureaus and the
university departments of Archaeology and Tourism in Axum and Gondar, respectively.
This gives access to much needed technical expertise for the regional bureaus. At the same time,
students from the universities contribute ideas, time, and expertise towards the better management
of the assets in their town. These MOUs between the university departments and regional bureaus
of culture and tourism are enriching both sides by developing a cadre of younger professionals.

The city of Harar, Ethiopian's newest World Heritage Site, demonstrated weak capacity to fully
participate and benefit from this LIL. However, CHP activities in Harar helped the region
recognize these weaknesses and realize its potential. In 2006, during project implementation,
Harar was named a World Heritage Site. This has resulted in more national and international
attention to the site (French university planning activity in 2009).




                                                 12

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

At Appraisal the project's objectives and design were broadly in line with the previous CAS
objectives related to capacity building, increasing sources of growth, and poverty alleviation.
Project design envisaged integrating cultural site and asset management with local
development priorities and showcasing them as economic assets. This was to be achieved by
providing resources to build national, regional, and local capacity for site planning and
conservation, and to pilot such initiatives.

In regard to relevance at the country level, Government's more general strategy of developing
mechanisms for identifying and mitigating the potential negative impacts of development
activities on cultural sites and assets was to be strengthened by defining core standards for
inventory and documentation, and guidelines for managing sites (primarily urban sites under
considerable development pressure). Project activities included the development of capacity for
rescue archaeology which was strongly needed as investments in civil works (roads, urban
expansion etc.) became a priority in GOE's development agenda.

The three central cultural heritage issues in Ethiopia defined at Appraisal were addressed through
the design of the project. The large Technical Assistance input was instrumental in achieving
results:

    · To more fully integrate a cultural dimension into Ethiopia's economic and social
         development program and to incorporate this approach into local development efforts;

    · To build the capacity to prevent the loss of cultural heritage assets through conservation
         planning, protection and mitigation, and the development of better information about the
         extent, location and condition of these assets; and

    · To coordinate institutional efforts for cultural heritage management amongst multiple
         stakeholders: between central, regional and zonal authorities; within communities;
         between tourism and cultural interests; and with other institutions, namely the Supreme
         Islamic Council and the Orthodox Church.

At a time when handicrafts were in decline, project design aimed to promote the preservation and
revival of artisanal traditions, thereby reestablishing craft making as a vital part of community
and national economic life. The crafts component was directly linked to improving opportunities
and livelihoods of some of the most disadvantaged groups of craftsmen and re-kindling respect
and pride in Ethiopian craft by demonstrating its economic potential. The project was designed to
provide learning for artisans and craftsmen, through design guidance, business training, improved
technical skills, and market links to local, tourist, regional, and export markets.

The project's design and implementation reflect current international standards and practice of
heritage conservation and benefitted from international expertise in the form of TA.




                                                  13

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

This LIL, in a sector new to the Bank in Ethiopia, has marginally satisfactorily delivered its
PDO which was to test the effectiveness of approaches for managing Ethiopia's cultural
assets through partnerships in pilot sites.

The MS rating is justified on the following grounds. When measured against the original
indicators, the project activities have delivered results which have contributed towards the
intended objectives. However, project implementation was fraught with procurement and other
delays, particularly in the first three years. This meant that the TA was contracted only for two
years to complete the planned four year activities. Several end activities were left incomplete or
were poorly done, thereby compromising the overall impact.             Nevertheless, there has been
significant learning and the institutional and management systems piloted for all three
components have proven successful and sustainable.

Component 1 on site management delivered on this objective, as for the first time in
Ethiopia site management plans have been prepared and implemented at the World Heritage Sites
of Axum and Gondar, providing experience and models for the country's other heritage sites.
The plans are noteworthy as they are well integrated into the larger urban planning framework
(e.g., traffic circulation was taken into account, the entrance for Gondar site was changed, and a
full-time trained site manager was appointed). The approach developed at Axum and Gondar
demonstrates how cultural assets contribute to local and national economic and social
development. The Gondar site has become a civic amenity and public space for local residents
and tourists alike (information center, heritage restaurant); both Axum and Gondar have visitor
facilities that will bring income (museum café) and employment. Site plan implementation and
sustainability is assured through the development and formalization (through MOU) of technical
support from the University Departments of Archaeology and Tourism in these towns.

Component 2 on inventory and documentation has delivered a new computerized inventory
system which lays the foundation for the systematic management of cultural heritage and has
been piloted and capacity built in four sites. The attempt to partner the regional bureaus with the
central data management in ARCCH, while still encountering start up problems, is a significant
step in setting up a much needed national system.

Component 3 on artisanal development piloted two new approaches. The first gave responsibility
for craft development to local cultural and tourism bureaus and linked them to each other. This
resulted in the opening up of national markets within the country as craftspeople from one pilot
site participated in exhibitions and fairs held in the other pilot sites. The new craft designs were
boosted with sales in Addis Ababa and internationally by linking craftspeople to private sector
middlemen, links that in several cases have continued beyond project completion. Mutual benefit
from cooperation between components is seen in the new craft display centers in managed
cultural sites which stimulate sales for artisans. Artisans gained confidence and exposure to
innovation, and introduced new products, tried color schemes and forms attractive to tourist taste,
and attempted to reach new markets. There is evidence of increased income and artisans selling
beyond their original (local) market.

Component 4 on project management: The central institutional focus of this LIL has delivered
long-term results. Culture and tourism agencies have begun to work more cooperatively and



                                                 14

these agencies are now under one ministry. The regional bureaus (especially in Gondar) have
adopted a holistic approach to site management, realizing that it is the total visitor experience
(from signage to condition of the artifacts to the refreshment facilities) that must be the provided.
The links formed with the local universities (Gondar and Axum) will ensure that there is access to
technical expertise and support after the project funded TA has ended. The LIL has clarified
links between Federal and regional offices and provided a space for leading institutions such as
ARCCH, Tourism, and the Orthodox Church to realize the mutual benefits of cooperation around
cultural assets. New partnerships were developed with UNESCO, World Monuments Fund,
University Departments, and private businesses. It is critical that the Federal authorities and
regions ensure adequate maintenance funds.

With reference to the original PDO outcome indicators (which remain relevant), the
following specific achievements can be cited:1

     · Good practice for cultural heritage conservation activities were identified and the
         groundwork for future investment and support was laid.


Gondar, a World Heritage site, became the first in Ethiopia to appoint a full time site manager
and to institute a pro-active site management regime which responds to a long-term site plan.

First archaeological site museum in Ethiopia designed and established, with first steps toward
museum displays (Axum).

Computerized inventory of cultural places to manage and understand heritage designed and
initiated.

Information brochures prepared for visitors to Gondar and Axum.


     · Regional and local governments gained perspectives on how cultural heritage
         conservation can generate benefits.

Physical works within the cultural site (pathways, landscaping, benches) have created a much
needed urban amenity and green space for residents of Gondar and visitors.

Training of guides, site personnel, inventory staff, handicraft producers, and PCU staff increased
skill levels and awareness of value of cultural assets.

Recognition of development potential of cultural sites and industries by national and local
governments, including the State Ministries of Culture and Tourism (seen in willingness of
Municipality to finance relocation of printing press out of cultural site).




1The original KPIs are used here as they remain relevant and more reflective of actual outputs. The KPI
changes introduced were not substantive; however, using those would miss out much of the achievements.




                                                  15

    · Partners (i.e., the private sector, NGOs, regional governments) are taking a more active
        role in cultural heritage conservation.

Multi-stakeholder committees (MSC) established at the project sites after the Mid-Term Review
and gradually became more active.

New partnerships between tourism and archaeology departments of universities of Axum and
Gondar and regional cultural bureaus focused on training of tourist industry and heritage workers.

Participation of international organizations at the three sites, including UNESCO and ICCROM
and bilaterals such as NORAD in project activities.


    · Improved basis for innovation and development of crafts and artisanal design.

Training provided new impetus in handicraft design and more efficient production.

Increased understanding of markets and marketing resulted from training.

New working relationships between artisans and private sector entrepreneurs are leading to
expansion of market opportunities.

Linking bureaus of culture in different regions, and giving them responsibility for craft promotion
provides opportunities for artisans to be informed of and benefit from fairs and other venues
across the country.


Among the most important project outcomes are:

    · Improved information and access to sites through publications and signage highlight the
        importance of cultural assets to local residents and visitors;

    · Site management plans help define boundaries and buffer zones, promote conservation of
        the sites, and enhance visitor experience;

    · The benefits of Culture and Tourism working together both at national and regional level
        are demonstrated; and

    · New designs and markets demonstrate the economic viability of Ethiopian crafts.

The anticipated outcome, that the Ethiopian Tourism Commission and ARCCH establish a good
working relationship which recognizes and builds on their common objectives of managing
cultural heritage and capitalizes on the strengths of each, was partially achieved. The second
anticipated outcome that the artisan communities (crafts people) are organized to build on their
skills and social capital, and so reduce economic and social vulnerability, also did deliver some
results.

A significant number of project activities were incomplete or deficient at the time of the
ICR mission following project closure. These include visitor signage, distribution of brochures,
operation of the inventory centers, and craft centers. Most were lacking only final actions, and it



                                                 16

was expected that they would be completed within a month. Community outreach was weaker
than anticipated, despite considerable Bank team effort due mainly to the difficult country setting
and the lack of specific detail in the design of these activities which made it easier for them to slip
out of the tangible deliverables. In hindsight the limited success of community based activities
was a missed opportunity, but required a broader CAS level awareness and emphasis to make this
possible.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

As a social development project, the Cultural Heritage Project was not required to calculate NPV
or ERR. Physical works (most of which were not planned in the original design) that improve
access and circulation at Gondar have substantial positive impact as do the stone walls at Axum.
The PAD argued that because of the pilot nature of the project, only notional and qualitative
economic analyses were to be undertaken a priori. It also asserted that cost effectiveness was
carefully considered during project design but evidence is lacking.

Project outcomes were expected to generate a range of benefits associated with: experience
gained with various institutional partnership arrangements for cultural heritage conservation;
improved planning and site interpretation to accommodate conservation needs and tourism
interests; growth and poverty reduction through better access to markets for craft producers;
conservation of heritage at risk; community involvement in site conservation and management;
and improved institutional capacity for cultural asset management. As discussed in the preceding
sections these benefits were largely achieved.

As stated in the preceding section, not all project funds were used, due mainly to delays in
decision making at PCU level and difficulties in procurement. Overall, however, the project
shows good value for money in view of its strong institutional, sectoral, and training
impacts. There has been significant learning that has contributed to establishing better cultural
heritage management systems. These systems, along with the new institutional partnerships and
improved human capacity will ensure that new initiatives in this sector are founded on a stronger
base.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

On balance, and taking into account that it is a Learning and Innovation Loan, the overall
outcome rating is moderately satisfactory.

Project outputs and outcomes were highly relevant to heritage protection and management as well
as to developing new sources of economic growth. The previous section concluded that the PDO
was largely achieved and can be rated as Moderately Satisfactory. To summarize earlier analysis,
for the first time the site planning and management was introduced for cultural sites in Ethiopia
that heretofore had been neglected. It also invigorated the handicraft sector and initiated a
comprehensive inventory of historic places.

Efficiency however, was moderately unsatisfactory. As noted in previous sections, delays (on the
side of the Bank and PCU) in procurement, staffing, and decision making had negative impacts



                                                  17

on project disbursement and delivery of outputs. During the later years of the project, however,
the pace of implementation quickened. The Social Assessment was carried out too late in the
project cycle to guide adjustments in project activities or to monitor social or economic impact.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Overall, project design and implementation proved to be weak on the delivery of community
involvement. Operating in a country environment that was not encouraging to civil society
involvement, a factor beyond the control of the PCU, it would have been helpful to have stronger
expertise in community outreach within the PCU and to have identified clear deliverables in this
area for the TA.

Poverty impacts are traceable for some groups. Artisans and guides reported greater earnings
after receiving project financed training. Workers gained skills and were employed in restoration
works, landscaping, and site maintenance. Training for artisans was offered on practical topics
such as the use of equipment, design, business management, and assessing buyer markets to
different buyer groups. Indirect economic impacts for the surrounding communities are beginning
to be noticeable, as more visitors come to the rehabilitated sites and stay longer. Unfortunately
plans to carry out work in Axum in the historic residential areas adjacent to the World Heritage
Site were not achieved.

Project design ensured that both men and women artisans would be targeted, keeping in mind the
barriers for women. Approximately 40% of participants in handicraft and inventory training were
women. This is less evident in the training of guides which is a largely a male occupation. The
PCU did not record further details on any specific impacts on women beneficiaries. An important
outcome was the handicap access created at some of the cultural sites and Axum museum.

The PAD laid a strong framework and TOR for a social analysis which was to be carried out
within the first six months of implementation. The TOR for this study was evaluated as Highly
Satisfactory and the study was seen as crucial in the QAE report, both for M&E and improved
impacts on local communities (other than tourists). However, it was undertaken only well into
implementation in February 2006. It is unfortunate that the findings were not used in project
monitoring nor did they inform project implementation and targeting.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Project design concentrated on testing and piloting for the whole length of the project. It
prioritized testing institutional arrangements for the management of the range of cultural assets.
This focus assured that the project activities have contributed sustainable outcomes in the
areas of institutional partnerships and the division of responsibilities between Federal
agencies, technical institutes, communities and local government. Improved clarity in this area
is a crucial pillar to setting up a sound base for the growth of this sector. Among the
achievements are:

     o Greater clarity of roles between Federal (technical) and Regional (administrative)
         agencies in sub-sectors of cultural asset management;



                                                 18

     o Recognition of the need for technical assistance by Regional cultural bureaus and links
         established with universities, private consultants and Federal bodies (ARCCH) to
         provide this assistance;
     o Increased cooperation and mutual respect at Federal level between Culture and Tourism
         were merged into one Ministry during project implementation;
     o Role defined for private sector in area of technical expertise (site management, museum
         display, inventory system development) and craft marketing (middle men and
         entrepreneurs) which is seen as supportive to GOE objectives; and
     o Significant skills enhancement in all three sub-sectors of cultural heritage.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There were a number of positive unintended outcomes, both physical works and learning.
These include carrying out of civil works such as reorientation of the principal entrance to the
Gondar site to reduce traffic congestion and increase pedestrian safety, building and landscape
conservation and refurbishment at Gondar, design and building of a new Axum museum,
landscaping and pathways in sites, building of stonewalls to protect sites), inventory and
documentation center in Harar, and change in the venue of the new Addis craft center. This new
location in the convention center, though not in as aesthetically significant a structure, gives it
more access to potential buyers as it is on the road to the museums in Addis Ababa, and also
benefits from the large convention groups that visit the campus.

Project implementation exposed government staff first hand to the experience of applying
safeguard procedures at Gondar to re-site the printing press and of carrying out an archaeological
survey in advance of the Axum museum building. The building of the museum in Axum resulted
in an unexpected discovery of new archaeological finds.

The diffusion of experience with trade shows to cooperatives and the private sector as a result of
international exposure organized by the PCU was a further unexpected outcome.

Training activities covered a wide range of professions, pointing to the variety of skills needed for
successful heritage conservation and tourism. This included training of surveyors, site
maintenance staff, guides, and restaurant and hotel owners. The training included consideration of
the value of cultural assets and site management principles.

Importantly, the experience of implementing the project contributed to "creating more
openness in the broad business system" of Ethiopia (see ISR of 11/28/2007, Country
Director's comments). He notes that tourism is an area that can play an important role as it has to
meet high international standards and is constantly exposed to innovations from the outside.
Greater openness to external innovations and influences can make a major contribution to the
development of a country such as Ethiopia.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Since this is a Core ICR, no workshop was held. However, the PCU did hold a final stakeholder
workshop where it discussed the Borrower ICR. The main points are summarized in Annex 6.




                                                19

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Project design aimed at piloting arrangements for the management of culture in Ethiopia. It
created new working relationships between national and regional agencies and educational
institutions, brought in the private sector, and demonstrated the potential of community
involvement. The institutional experience gained from project implementation, namely bringing
Culture and Tourism together in one ministry, is the basis for the proposed Tourism project.
However, there is a risk that emphasis on growth of the tourism sector could overwhelm
prudent use and conservation of heritage assets.

The capacity building objectives of the project were largely achieved, although movement of staff
in the public sector can reduce the long-term impact on capacity.

Financial flows to the sector are not predictable, and where they exist they are small with
occasional injections of larger sums. Donor agencies and organizations such as UNESCO and
World Monument Fund continue to carry out activities, but at a small scale. Although tourism is
among the priorities for GOE, investment in cultural heritage is not viewed as a direct poverty
alleviation investment.

The social development outcomes are dependant on the future economic and political stability in
the region. As a result of project impacts in the sites of Gondar, Axum and to a lesser degree
Harar and Addis Ababa, these sites are in a better position to compete for visitors.

Risks and their mitigation measures were adequately defined at preparation. The PAD gave an
overall risk rating of modest, singling out two significant risks: working in a post-conflict period
and its influence on tourism returns; and the challenge of coordinating between the multiple
institutions involved. Only the second of these risks had a significant impact on project results,
particularly the national/regional interface, and in the end, it was largely mitigated by
demonstrating the benefits of collaboration. The PAD also cited the possible difficulty of
recruiting international experts in face of perceived country risk and the financial implications of
high bids, but this was not a major issue. As noted above, the procurement risk was underplayed
in the PAD, becoming one of the principle stumbling blocks for disbursement of project funds.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project preparation team was subject to a QAG at entry at which time the Quality at Entry
Assessment Panel (QAE) Report judged project preparation to be satisfactory overall, with some
highly satisfactory elements: "the project appears to be appropriate to a country with a rich
cultural heritage; it is responsive to the client's needs and requests; partnerships with credible
technical institutions are a strong feature; efforts to link cultural preservation with job creation
and income generation for poor people are commendable." The Task Team mobilized high


                                                 20

quality technical inputs and resources and produced insightful background documents. During
the QAE panel discussions, task team members showed a good understanding of institutional and
political minefields ­ in country and in the Bank. Quality at entry was highly satisfactory with a
set of indicators tailored to the project activities (see 2.1). The overall rating is S rather than HS
to reflect the late start up of activities following project effectiveness. This is largely attributed to
delays in decision due to non cooperation of Tourism and Culture and lack of pressure from the
Bank team, rather than being directly related to any flaw in project design.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

A number of implementation issues arose during implementation, and actions to resolve
them were not always successful or timely (see 2.2). The staffing of the Bank Task Team was
problematic. The Task Team leadership was moved to the field at a critical time in the life of the
project (2004-2006, and after the first supervision mission), and a TTL who was neither a sector
specialist nor experienced in operations was appointed (and not adequately mentored). Moreover,
the team lacked technical expertise on cultural heritage during implementation, although the QAE
at entry signaled the need for this. The project paid a price for these staffing decisions.

During the time the project was managed from the field when little project activity took place the
Bank team can be faulted for not being adequately proactive. Moreover it relied almost entirely
on the project financed TA for technical matters and quality control. Supervision, as reflected in
the Aide Memoires, focused on procurement and issues related to the PCU, and less on technical
supervision. The light supervision in the first two years and a high turnover of TTLs (five during
the life of the project), was not conducive to ensuring progress in project implementation. The
ISRs were marked as S three years into implementation although the disbursement was very low
and few activities had started. Coming from government service, the TTL seems to have been
reluctant to give less than satisfactory ratings to the project. With the Portfolio System Flags
marked satisfactory throughout (with one exception of disbursement in 2007), management was
not sufficiently alert to delays in the project start-up. Even in the later stages of implementation,
issues raised in the AMs were not always followed up or resolved in the next AM. Later
supervision (from 2006) was more intensive with monthly VCs and evidence of pro-active
actions and flexibility in activities to get results (new activities undertaken, location of craft
center changed, inclusion of Harar in inventory component etc.). The Tables on completed and
pending activities presented in the supervision reports did not produce a clear view of the status
of agreed outcomes and lacked consistency.

The Bank safeguard policies on resettlement, cultural heritage, and environmental assessment
were implemented in spirit although there were procedural issues (see 2.4). While overall
fiduciary compliance was satisfactory, the financial management systems were weak.

Bank procurement features as a systemic problem and was identified as a portfolio wide systemic
issue that adversely affected implementation progress and results (the Country Portfolio
Performance Review of 2006 identified procurement delays as a key issue). Weak procurement
support both in the Bank and PCU, and lack of flexibility for bidding and payment under National
Competitive Procedures had a negative impact on disbursements. The conservation of the
Banquet Hall at Gondar could not be financed by project funds due to contradictory advice given
by Bank procurement staff.




                                                   21

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Project preparation was thorough and took advantage of heritage expertise. Implementation was
not well done. Initial implementation support was weakened by an inexperienced Bank Task
Team without strong technical knowledge and Bank management that did not provide needed
oversight. In the later stage of the project implementation, weak procurement support and
inadequate focus on the outcomes and cross-cutting objectives compromised achievements to
some extent. The Bank mistakenly handled this LIL as a small investment project although the
intent of a LIL is different due to its learning emphasis. Hence a rating of MU is appropriate.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Check here if the Government and the Implementation Agency is the same or
indistinguishable

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government performance was colored by the tension between cultural heritage and tourism
interests and between national and regional agencies. During identification and preparation the
Government showed high commitment to project preparation and was fully involved in project
design. Government is to be commended for their investment in TA, which performed well.
Limited management capacity in the participating ministries, exacerbated by difficult
coordination issues between national and regional government, ongoing decentralization program,
and high turnover of staff, compromised efficiency and some achievements.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The PCU was headed by an experienced and respected former government staff member. The
efficiency and effectiveness of the project, however, were reduced as a result of: delays in filling
key posts, insufficient qualifications of staff, weak procurement capacity in the PCU, inconsistent
follow up by Assistant Project Coordinators, delays in appointing TA, and uneven reporting
(M&E). The quality, continuity, and discipline of regional counterpart staff were a particular
challenge for the TA experts, who at times did not have the support that they required. Lack of
regular site supervision by the PCU, especially close oversight of the Inventory component after
the departure of the TA, did not encourage the completion of activities, for example the setting up
and functioning of the inventory centers, and distribution of the publications. ICR site visits
revealed the current care of equipment and vehicles especially on inventory is poor and that the
regional Inventory Centers were not yet operational. Other activities were left incomplete, due in
part to lack of follow up by the PCU and shortened TA input.

The SC, as noted above, was ineffective in its role as a conflict mediator despite the substantial
effort of the PCU. The multi-stakeholder committees that were set up midway through project
implementation were considerably more active.

The PCU was not able to recruit a skilled procurement officer from the private sector, as the
Ministry did not authorize salaries aligned with the private sector; a first procurement specialist
resigned. As an alternative the PCU chose to use the Government procurement agency which


                                                  22

proved efficient for large contracts but inadequate for the procuring of specialized goods with
very narrow technical specifications that were essential to the completion of project activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The GOE was highly committed to project objectives during the identification and design
stage and made efforts to link the culture and tourism agencies to local government.
Implementation was more difficult with delays in filling posts and taking decisions and
inadequate monitoring of regional inventory centers and site works. While the PCU is recognized
as making efforts to be flexible, they were limited by high turnover of staff in the regions and
bottlenecks in decision making. Despite these limitations innovation and capacity building
happened, in large part due to the good quality of TA and the real demand from the regions. The
good delivery of the TA justifies the overall Borrower MS rating

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The learning expectations defined in the PAD have been generally met. The main lessons drawn
from this project are:

1.      Investment in physical works. To have the desired impact and serve as a sustainable
model, financing of cultural site management plans should include priority physical works
identified in the plan. The approach in Gondar versus Axum shows that this is essential if there is
to be a visible impact on improved visitor experience and if the site is to serve as a space used by
locals and contributing to local economy. Lags between development plan and financing plan
result in dilution of impact, create borrower fatigue, and seriously compromise the ability of the
investment to inject that feeling of ownership, pride, and economic growth that is evident in
Gondar.

2.    Site management plan framework. Site management plans that take into account the needs
and limitations of the urban surroundings, (e.g., change of entrance to minimize traffic disruption,
retaining two public spaces in site to assure continued visit by local residents to site) as in Gondar,
are an important urban planning tool to safeguard heritage assets and maximize the site's
amenities for local residents and visitors, while minimizing negative disturbances to local
residents.

3.      Mixed use.      Venues developed for cultural commercial activities (e.g., traditional
restaurants, spaced for craft development and sales) should be located at key cultural sites.
Experience in Harar and Gondar compared to Addis Ababa shows that tourists are unlikely to go
to a venue just for craft purchase from one outlet. Bringing together commercial activities and
cultural sites also increases turnover for investment and the frequenting of the cultural site by
local residents.

4.      Handicraft marketing. Exposure to international markets is necessary but demanding in
investment and time and currently has limited potential to reach a large number of crafts people.
However, exposure to national markets (i.e., beyond the local region), coupled with expansion
of products suited to modern taste has had positive and sustainable impacts on incomes of




                                                23

crafts people. Linking regional tourism bureaus in different regions and delegating authority to
authorize fairs has helped to expand markets within the country for handicraft producers.

5.       Capacity building. The regional bureaus of culture and tourism and city administration
need significant access to technical support in cultural management. Involving local university
departments of archaeology and tourism and financing of TA (which should ideally be hired by
and responsible to the region and not PCU as in CHP) are successful and acceptable ways of
providing such assistance that is not seen by the region as an imposition of Federal power. In
Axum and Gondar students from the University directly worked on implementing some project
activities (e.g., archaeology students from the local University participated in the rescue
excavation when cultural artifacts were discovered while building Axum museum). This also
results in a greater knowledge transfer to implementers who make the detailed decisions.

6.       Involvement of civil society. In view of the restrictive policy environment in regard to
civil society, activities involving participation of communities/civil society should be modest
and realistic. These activities should be clearly identified and implementation steps planned in
detail at the preparation stage. Local NGOs have limited capacity, especially in this sector, and
their positions are insecure and subject to GOE changing policy. Attention at the CAS level to
community engagement is necessary to create a space for civil society to operate.

7.       Marketing channels. Improving incomes for poorer artisans is not possible without the
involvement of business support. At this time, Ethiopia does not have communication systems
that would allow small artisans to tap directly into markets beyond the local one. CHP used two
effective channels: the first was established Addis Ababa middlemen (who opened up the Addis
Ababa and international market for artisans in Harar, Axum and Gondar) and second, the cultural
and tourism bureaus that focused on providing exposure to artisans in regions other than their
own or Addis Ababa.

8.       Regional commitment. When national inventory and information systems are developed,
such as the computerized inventory database, there should be a formalized commitment to
deliverables from the regions. Otherwise, as is the current case, there is a risk that the equipment
will be used for other purposes and the staff deployed elsewhere, thereby making the whole
system dysfunctional.

9.       Tourism planning. The impact of culture on tourism goes beyond physical restoration of
historical structures to include several elements: physical and intellectual access to the sites (e.g.,
pathways, explanatory signage, guidebooks); the presence of trained staff; and the provision of
visitor services such as hygienic catering, restrooms, and rest areas. This experience
demonstrates that unless sites are well presented, authentic, and provided with visitor
services, their attractiveness and competitiveness as destinations is unlikely to increase.

10.      Decentralized responsibility. Federal agencies should primarily focus on developing
policy and providing technical expertise to the Regional Bureaus of culture and focusing on cross
cutting issues across the sector. Administration of cultural assets should be the responsibility
of the Regional Bureaus who need to have adequate access to technical expertise (through local
Universities, Federal agencies and private consultants).

11.      Procurement. Procurement for this sector has different demands and national
procurement agencies and Bank guidance lacks the flexibility to take into account specific
demands. Procurement is often very specialized, suppliers are limited and quantities may be



                                                24

small. This should be incorporated by adapting procurement thresholds and methods in the
preparation of such projects.

12.      Bank Staff Mix. It is recommended that the Bank use a cultural resource specialist as a
core task team member so that it can maximize the sectoral impacts and engage with any TA at a
technical level.

13.      Steering Committee. Expectations for the mediating role of the SC were high and
possibly unrealistic: it was given primary responsibility for providing overall guidance to the
PCU. It is recommended that a Steering Committee has a good mix of government, private and
civil society and that there is the option of replacing inactive members. This will mitigate against
bottlenecks resulting from non-cooperation or inactivity.

14.      Crosscutting Outcomes. Focusing on the outputs, especially in a situation where most
project implementation is by TA, risks that crosscutting outcomes get forgotten. It is necessary
that monitoring systems and tables specify separately outcomes and linked activities that cut
across components. This is largely the responsibility of the Bank team and PCU rather than
regions.

15.      Safeguards. Bank safeguard procedures need to be followed when introducing new
activities to avoid negative impacts. In CHP, some procedures were flawed (e.g., civil works
were introduced without any formal approval), resulting in works such as a new museum going
ahead without a formal Environment Assessment.

16.      LIL flexibility and expectations. The flexibility of the design of this LIL allowed the
introduction of new activities that contributed significantly to project outcomes and Government
commitment to the sector. However, in such cases, the Bank team needs to adhere to the required
procedures to avoid situations where Bank procedures (e.g., safeguards) are not fully compliant.
The Bank should be careful to assess LILs as they are intended ­ as a means to foster learning
and innovation ­ and not as small investment projects. This understanding needs to be translated
into appropriate supervision budgets and flexible procurement arrangements.

Some specific lessons for new projects in related sectors are presented in Annex 12.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Generally, the implementing agency agreed on the issues raised in this document. The project
implementation would have been much better provided some unforeseen problems had not been
encountered. The followings are some of the problems the PCU encountered:

         The PCU was understaffed. It had only seven core staff throughout the project period:
         one Project Coordinator, three APCs (one for each component), one accountant, one
         M&E expert, and one administrative assistant.
         The high staff turn-over within the PCU and in the project sites seriously affected the
         smooth implementation of the project. During its implementation period, the project
         office replaced the APC for site planning and conservation component, the M&E
         specialist, the project accountant, the procurement specialist, and the APC for artisanal
         craft development component. The replacement of the APC for site planning took almost




                                                  25

       a year and the PCU was operating without the APC so that the Project Coordinator took
       on this role as well.
       The Bank changed five TTLs during the project period.
       The PCU worked with different implementation agencies in different geographical
       locations. These implementation agencies were not directly responsible to neither one
       ministry or to the PCU. Thus, it was difficult to manage the project activities in the
       absence of defined responsibility and accountability.
       Cooperation with implementing agencies and stakeholders was lacking.
       The highly bureaucratic and time consuming decision making process of the Bank,
       particularly in obtaining the Bank's No Objection, has also its own negative impact in the
       timely implementation of the project activities.
       The total amount of fund allocated for the project was USD 5.7 million or about 45
       million Birr of which 4.1 million SDR or about USD5 million (at the then currency
       conversion rate) was the Bank's contribution and the remaining USD 700,000 was
       government's contribution. The amount of unused funds shown in the financial statement
       reflects gains from currency exchange rate.
       The project was designed to accomplish its tasks by employing International TAs for a
       period of four years. However due to various problems TAs ran for only two years. The
       rest of the activities were performed by the PCU staff and by recruiting local individual
       consultants. Thus, the PCU filled this gap and implemented the project activities.

 (b) Cofinanciers
None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

                                              None




                                               26

                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest
          Components                                                          Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)        Estimate (USD
                                                             millions)          Appraisal

SITE PLANNING AND
CONSERVATION                                 1.73                 1.48            85.55%

INVENTORY AND
DOCUMENTATION                                1.07                 0.48            44.86%
DEVELOPMENT
ARTISANAL CRAFT
DEVELOPMENT                                  1.74                 1.44            82.76%

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           0.40                 0.54            135%

            Total Baseline Cost              4.94

Physical Contingencies                       0.32

Price Contingencies                          0.44
             Total Project Costs             5.70                 3.94             69%
      Total Financing Required               5.70                 3.94             69%



Exchange rate at Appraisal was 1 Ethiopian Birr = US$0.12, US$1.00 = 8.44 Ethiopian Birr

Actual amounts do not correspond exactly to Appraisal estimates because the grant was in SDR
and there has been substantial change in exchange rates between US$ and SDR


(b) Financing

                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds                 Type of       Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing       (USD          (USD        Appraisal
                                                        millions)     millions)
Borrower                                             0.70          0.16          22.85%
International Development
Association (IDA)                                    5.00          4.41          88%




                                               27


                                     Annex 2. Outputs by Component

NB This table was created by the authors of the ICR, taking the first two columns from Annex 1
of the PAD and inserting information in column 3 from existing documents and observations
during ICR field visits in December 2008.

Output from each                      Output key performance                  Actual outputs achieved
component                             indicators
Component 1 - Appropriate
system has been tested and is in       a) Model conservation plan             a) Model conservation plans
place for cost-effective development   developed and site conservation        developed for Axum and Gondar. In
of site plan for Gondar and Axum.      activities launched in Gondar, and     Gondar activities launched much
                                       in Axum. First phase of site           beyond just the first phase. Axum
                                       conservation activities is             first phase activities completed.
                                       launched.

                                                                              b) Excellent pamphlets and maps of
                                       b) Visitor interpretation              both sites, local guides trained,
                                       work completed.                        landscaping done to high standard,
                                                                              signage poor quality due to premature
                                                                              termination of TA.

                                                                              c) UNESCO nominates Harar as
                                       c)  Additional partners are            World Heritage site. Church
                                           involved in                        interested to invest in a museum in
                                           implementation of site             Axum. Limited success on this
                                           conservation plans;                indicator.

                                       d)  Community-based activities         d) Gondar site identifies public use
                                           are incorporated into              areas ­ restaurant, craft sales and
                                           implementation plans.              display area, center for
                                                                              documentation and research all
                                                                              within site. Axum has some public
                                                                              plays and museum with center for
                                                                              documentation and research on
                                                                              stellae site. Local guides trained.

                                       e)  Craft/cultural center              e) Gondar site has craft center within
                                           integrated into site               Fasil Ghebbe complex. In Axum
                                           planning and                       traditional Ras Mangesha house
                                           implementation, where              restored as a craft center.
                                           appropriate\
                                       f) Axum museum planned and             f) New archaeological museum
                                           designed                           designed and built in Axum (Church
                                                                              did not participate as planned).

                                       g) 12 regional and national staff
                                           trained in museum curation         g) Staff trained in museum curation


Component 2 - Databases of cultural    h) Methodology and pilot               h) Standardised and computerized
assets are developed in pilot regions      database of cultural heritage      methodology for inventory of cultural
and are functional and accessible to       assets developed through           heritage developed.
key stakeholders;                          integrated effort of national
                                           and regional institutions and
                                           communities. Includes
                                           priority setting process, critical
                                           assets and threats.




                                                       29

                                         i) Plans in preparation for steps to Federal and regional staff trained. 4
                                             conserve cultural heritages in   inventory and documentation centers
                                             specific areas.                  set up in Axum, Gondar, Harar and
                                                                              Addis. Pilot invetories done in all
                                                                              sites. However, all centers not
                                                                              functional at project closure due to
                                                                              misplacement of equipment and
                                                                              turnover of trained staff.

                                         j) Guidelines are prepared           j) Not done
                                             outlining how threatened site
                                             mitigation plans should be
                                             prepared


Component 3 - Functioning craft advisory  k) Functioning craft and cultural   k) New craft display and sale centers
servicesareprovidedthroughtwo regional       centers established in which     restored and set up in Addis, Axum,
craft centers which are established in       artisans and producersdesign,    Gondar and Harar. At ICR all
renovated architecturally significant        develop,display, and sell local  centers physically ready but artisans
structures, and integrated into local        products, and test. marketing    displaying only in Harar and Gondar.
cultural heritage conservation efforts.      approaches. Increased income of  Artisans trained in new designs
                                             craftspeople.                    which were tested on market and
                                                                              recorded increase in income of the
                                                                              artisans.
                                          l) mechanismsareinplacetoensure
                                             sustainability and quality       l) Cultural and tourism bureaus given
                                             standards are developed and      responsibility to promote crafts. This
                                             implementedthroughlocaland       has opened up markets in different
                                             export marketing efforts         regions through cooperation of the
                                                                              bureaus. However, no evidence of
                                                                              mechanisms for ensuring quality
                                                                              standards.
                                          m) evaluation system is in place
                                             which provides framework for     m) Harar and Gondar craft center
                                             decision-makingatcraftcenter     well organized and managed but no
                                             level                            evidence of evaluation system.
                                          n) increased site visitor           n) evidence of this in all 4 sites as
                                             satisfaction                     just having a pleasant structure to
                                                                              view crafts is an attraction. Plus new
                                                                              modern designs resulted in more
                                                                              purchases.




                                                         30

        Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Tafesse Freminatos Abrham Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Herbert Acquay            Program Coordinator                 AFTEN
Ian Leslie Campbell       Consultant                          AFTH3
Karen Moon                Consultant
Jean J. Delion            Sr. Operations Officer              AFTCS
Roxanne Hakim             Sr. Anthropologist                  AFTCS

June Taboroff             Sr. Cultural Resources Specialist
                          (Consultant)                        AFTCS

Joseph Ellong             Language Program Assistant          AFTCS
Selvi Isaac               Team Assistant                      AFTCS
Azeb Fissha               Consultant                           ARD
Samuel Haile Selassie     Senior Procurement Specialist       EAPCO
Richard Olowo             Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Mulat Negash Tegegn       Consultant                          AFTFM
Biftu Wordofa             Program Assistant                   AFCE3
Eshetu Yimer              Sr. Financial Management Specialist AFTFM

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                   12.81
  FY99                                                                  108.95
  FY00                                         4                         18.82
  FY01                                         8                         26.92
  FY02                                         7                         50.58
  FY03                                         5                          7.60
                         Total:              24                         225.68
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                       12                          22.50
  FY04                                       28                          56.62
  FY05                                       32                          39.37
  FY06                                       31                          47.07
  FY07                                       25                          63.82
  FY08                                       21                          74.40
  FY09                                       11                          20.00
                         Total:             160                         329.92


                                          31

                     Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results



                  THE ETHIOPIAN CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT
    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT PRESENTATION WORKSHOP

The Workshop took place at the Ras Hotel in Addis on October 14, 2008, in the presence of their
Excellencies, Ambassador Mohamoud Dirir, Minister of Culture and Tourism, H.E. Ato
Mahamouda Ahmed Gaaz and H.E. W/ro Tadelech Dalacho, the State Ministers of Culture and
Tourism.

       Other invited guests and representatives included:

          List of participants                                              Number in
                                                                            attendance
          Ministry of Culture and Tourism                                        3
          Ministry of Finance and Economy                                        1
          Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage           1
          Ethiopian Information Center                                           1
          Ethiopian Orthodox Church                                              1
          Ethiopian Islamic Affairs Supreme Council                              -
          Consultants and staff who had served the Project                      10
          Regional Representatives                                               8
          World Bank                                                             1
          UNESCO                                                                 1
          Procurement Service Enterprise                                         2
          Others, the press, tourism organizations. and consulting firms         8
          Addis Ababa University                                                 1
          Project Coordinating Unit                                              8
          Total                                                                 47


The Workshop Program started with the opening key note address of H.E. Ambassador
Mohamoud Dirir, the Minister of Culture and Tourism. In his speech he had stated that on the
agenda of the day while discussion is made on the various issues it will be better, that instead of
blaming the past experiences of the project, to appreciate where positive contributions are made,
understand why certain limitations occurred during the period of implementation and forward
constructive comments or proposals. He further noted that the lessons learnt from this project are
of paramount importance for proper implementation of the upcoming Ethiopian Sustainable
Tourism Development Project.

The focus of discussion was on:
   · Looking on the evaluation of the ICR that will help the future efforts of project planning
       and implementation at all levels of administration including enhancing the capacity of
       experts who are involved at federal and regional offices.
   · The pilot exercise on the Cultural Heritages Project can be taken as a learning curve
       whereby one can draw lessons learnt from the institution involved with the support of the
       various stake holders. He had again welcomed the participants and wished them a fruitful
       workshop.




                                                32

After giving his keynote address to the participants, he invited the National Project Coordinator,
Dr. Theodros Atlabachew to present the ICR. Using a power point presentation the Project
Coordinator/presenter told the participants of the workshop that the ICR was prepared by an
independent local consultant. He also added that the ICR was distributed to all concerned more
than a month ago. In his presentation the highlights shown were the followings:

    · Background and objectives of the projects
    · Institutional arrangements
    · Key performance indicators
    · Implementation status as reported in the ICR
    · Performances after the preparation of the ICR and conclusion

The copies of the report were distributed to the participants.

After the presentation and the coffee break time the chair was assumed by H.E. Mahamouda
Ahmed Gaaz, the Minister of state of Culture and Tourism, since the Minister was not able to
attend the whole session due to other urgent meeting.

During this session the chair person mentioned and highlighted that the project was a learning and
innovation by its nature. The various ups and downs during the operation of the project and the
experiences shared are the bases for lessons to be learnt. And hence, the participants are
addressed by the chair, to focus on issues that can help the program to bring experiences and
knowledge for future implementation of Culture and Tourism projects.

He also stated that since the workshop was attended by relevant authorities and stakeholders both
at federal and regional levels there is a need to assess and evaluate the ICR properly. With this
statement he asked the presenter to elaborate on major issues (problems) and on lessons learnt
during the operation of the project to the audience.

The project coordinator has then elaborated on the problems encountered and on the lessons
learnt as follows:
    · This project was the first of its kind in Ethiopia to be financed by the World Bank. The
        project idea was initiated some ten years ago followed by the preparation and approval of
        the project document. However, due to various reasons, the project implementation
        started very late in July, 2002.
    · The project was designed for implementation with the involvements of various
        stakeholders both at Federal and Regional levels in a newly established Federal State,
        where there was lack of professionals and skilled manpower. Coordination of the project,
        which involves multi-stakeholders interests, was not an easy task at the beginning.
    · The project office spent much of its time and resources to train stake holders and orient
        them to project objectives and implementation schedules. However, the high mobility of
        regional project representatives and some of key staffs had a negative impact in the
        smooth coordination and implementation of the project activities. The project
        coordinating unit (PCU) has also faced the same problems where a project accountant
        was recruited for the third time, the procurement specialist for the second time, the
        monitoring and evaluation specialist for the second time, assistant project coordinators of
        site planning and artisanal craft each for the second time.
    · The nature of the project, which is a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), was not clearly
        understood by many of the stakeholders and there were high expectations.




                                                 33

   · In spite of the above instances a number of useful lessons were learnt. The followings are
        the major achievements and lessons learnt:
   · The two sectors (tourism and culture) both at federal and regional levels used to perform
        their activities separately in their own islands. As a result there was no sufficient
        exchange of information and duplication of efforts was often observed. At present with
        the help of this project these sectors started to work in a coordinated and integrated
        manner.
   · For the first time a common development platform was created, where people from the
        tourism, culture and private sectors were able to jointly plan and implement activities
        related to tourism and culture,
   · A clear awareness was created amongst stakeholders that this project is serving as a show
        case for capacity building, employment generation and poverty alleviation in line with
        the country's Millennium Development Goals,
   · The project has created greater awareness, amongst concerned, about the role of tourism
        in realizing sustainable utilization of cultural assets. This is also believed to have an
        impact on the decisions of policy makers, since the Government of Ethiopia has recently
        acknowledged that tourism, if properly developed, will play an important role in the
        buildup of the country's economy and thereby the achievement of the Millennium
        Development Goals,
   · The project has contributed its part to the government decision to develop tourism as one
        of the most important economic sectors, in which tourism development was included in
        the PASDEP,
   · It complements the on going tourism project ideas "The Ethiopian Tourism Paradigm"
        and the up-coming World Bank financed project "The Ethiopian Sustainable Tourism
        Development Project" since the project activities are essential components of these new
        initiatives, which are planned to develop sustainable tourism and make the country as a
        model for tourism development in Africa.
   · The tourism industry of Ethiopia is highly dependant on cultural heritages and that the
        present decision of the government to give due attention to the development of tourism is
        an important step. Hence, investing on this project is of paramount importance and great
        worth,
   · The project coordination office was under-staffed, with a core staff of only seven people.
        However, they were capable of performing their duties and responsibilities independently
        without the usual supporting staff such as secretaries, copy typists, archive officers, etc.
        The good team spirit has also created a favorable working climate. Hence, this project
        has learnt that with proper remuneration, good management and strong team spirit
        satisfactory results can be registered with few people, and the realization of high sense of
        belongingness and responsibility amongst all employees.
   · Throughout the project life the procurement of goods and services was an acute problem.
   · Time is one of the most important factors in project management. Initially the project
        office used to procure goods and services though its own procurement specialist and then
        through a public business enterprise called Procurement Service Enterprise. However, in
        both ways it was impossible to procure goods and services on time as planned. Most
        suppliers of goods and services were also not honest and not efficient in their deliveries.
        The procurement problem is also well noted in all the World Bank meetings. Hence, one
        of the lessons learnt is to carefully prepare the procurement plans and systematize
        implementation modalities in order to effectively implement planned activities.

After this response from the presenter, then the chair opened the floor and asked the participants
to make their opinions, suggestions and even questions on the delivered ICR.



                                                34

Representatives from MOFED, the Harari regional state of Cultural and Tourism bureau Ato.
Abdulnasir Edris, Dr. Hailu, a consultant from Addis Ababa University, Ato Abey from the
World Bank, Ato Mulugeta Ali from the Amhara Regional State, and Ato kebede from Tigray
Regional State and Ato Fasill Giorgis from A.A University, a consultant, have forwarded their
views, opinions, suggestions and have asked various questions.

The main points they raised were:
   · Delays during start-up and during the process of implementation can cause the country to
        suffer a lot, although the project achievement is considered as good. The capacity
        problem can be considered as learning for the next project which needs maximum effort,
        so that finical agencies can allocate funds, based on the performance of the project and
        hence, the ministry of Culture and Tourism has to look on the errors committed not to be
        repeated again.
   · Policy makers have to play their part of leadership.
   · During design stages, any new future project has to involve the regions in the plan that
        has to come from the lower part - to upper level, not again from top to bottom.
   · More emphasis should be given to increase the involvement of regions in the
        implementation processes of any future project,
   · The Steering Committee Members meetings were not regular and functional. There were
        no regular meetings during the last two years. This should be corrected and regular
        meetings be performed to conduct and monitor planning, budgeting and implementation,
        budget adjustments for urgent corrective measures use to problems occurring.
   · The pilot sites of the project were limited to four regions only. It should have covered the
        rest of the Regions. The regional staffs should have been empowered to do the job, rather
        looking for directives from the upper level. Devolution of power is necessary.
   · Local consultants should be encouraged to participate in project planning and
        implementation processes.
   · The World Bank involvement in the implementation of the project was observed as
        bureaucratic, especially on procurement issues. There is a need to find ways in shortening
        the bureaucratic processes.
   · Ato Abiy, the World Bank representation has asked if Dr. Theodros was given the
        opportunity to make the design of the new project. What changes he can make and
        recommendation he can give as an adviser? Twenty five percent of the project money
        was not utilized, was it intended as cost saving? And what can be done to improve the
        absorptive capacity in implementing the project?

  On the above mentioned issues Dr. Theodros tried to address issues related to the questions and
  comments raised by participants. He further explained about the project agreement, the
  procurement guideline, and the institutional arrangement, performances of the project, the
  problems encountered and the implementation status. He also explained about the nature and
  objective of the project and about the accomplishment of the task as per the eleven key
  performance indicators stipulated in the project document.

  After this, the Chairman has again opened the floor for another round of questions, suggestions
  or comments.
        In this part of the discussion, Ato Fassil, a local consultant who has been working with
        the international consulting firm, mentioned that during his involvement he has learnt
        about the guidelines and the system of operation of the World Bank. He mentioned that
        the project objectives were mainly based of capacity building on a pilot basis. His



                                                35

observation during this time includes that a great deal of knowledge was transferred to
build the capacities of local counterparts. Because of the intangible nature of knowledge
achievements registered in this area of activity can not be reported visibly. It is therefore,
important to properly value the outcomes of the project in this regard. He further noted
that cultural heritage is a complicated area of activity so also the people evolved in it. As
to him in Ethiopian it is better to have learning through practice, especially on site
planning and conservation, people who had been involved in the practice have learnt a lot
through the knowledge transferred by international consultants. However, this can not be
easily visualized and evaluated. Finally he concluded his comments with the following
two proposals,
· The need for a better collaboration between different organizations and people and
    the need for a good will of all people as important factors for smooth implementation
    of any future project.
· Selecting partners, artists and creative people can not be easy using the procurement
    guideline, which is not clear to make evaluation in selecting such people. The Bank's
    procurement guideline is found to be time consuming and its results mostly
    ineffective. Some innovation is necessary on the guideline in taking the Ethiopian
    situation which is in practice.
· Ato Gebrewold Ashengo, a local consultant on craft development, noted the
    adaptation made in meeting the international market, in the transformation of new
    ideas to Artisanal & crafts men and women, the training facilities and the
    introduction of some machinery had been useful in the development of technical
    skills.
· He also raised the coordination of Culture and Tourism, which was not in practice at
    the start of the project, as a positive step forward. He suggested the involvement of
    the Micro and Small Scale Enterprises for credit facility at the planning and design
    stage.
· Ato Mulugeta Ali, head of Culture and Tourism bureau of the Amhara Regional State
    mentioned that in the Inventory and Documentation component for preservation and
    promotion of Heritages part, there is a missing element and in his suggestion he
    stated that after the hand over of the Broad Band, website system the Ministry of
    Culture and Tourism and ARCCH has to do their part to coordinate the activities so
    that the system will be operational without interruption.

The chair person in response to some of the questions and suggestion raised has said that
working in collaboration with many institutions is difficult and this can be considered as
learning for the up- coming project.

He then asked the audience if there are any additional suggestions, recommendations
especially on the procurement procedure of the World Bank and of that of the Ethiopian
government.
· In response, representative of MEDAC, Dr. Tesfaye suggested that MOFED can
    make the necessary support to problems encountered between World Bank and of the
    project office.
· On this issue Ato Abiy from the World Bank, had also responded by stating that the
    Bank's responsibly is to assure the money to be spent is for the purpose intended.
    The threshold for prior review is up to 30,000 USD. To overcome the problems of
    procurement he also said that one has to make a careful plan at the beginning, in
    making prioritization, organizing procumbent into lots and then the problems




                                         36

    encountered can be solved easily. This is the working procedure in place, and unless
    it is changed we all have to abide with it.
· Ato Fasil Giorgis suggested the idea of sub-contracting a procurement agent will
    solve the current procurement problem.

H.E. Ato Mahamouda Ahmed Gaaz, the chair person, after making a summary on the
issues, suggestions and opinions raised, has thanked the participants for their fruitful
comments, suggestions and recommendations. He also assured the participants to
consider all their constructive suggestions, comments and recommendations since they
are helpful in future activities.

Finally, the Chairman thanked the Project Office and its stuff for the successful
accomplishment of their tasks with all the problems they have encountered. He also
reiterated that lessons learnt from this project will be taken seriously by the Ministry as
they are useful for any future project management and implementation.

H.E. Ato Mohammuda Ahemed Geaz, the Minister of State of Culture and Tourism
declared the workshop closed at 6.00 p.m.




                                         37

       Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Ethiopian Cultural Heritage Project was
prepared and submitted to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The focus of the borrower's ICR
was on achievement of objectives and outcomes, and important lessons learnt from experiences
gained during the implementation of the project. The core strategy of the project is to combine
conservation of historical and archeological sites with economic development through supporting
tourism and small scale business activities, as well as to create a learning platform for cooperation
among multiple institutions and stakeholders in the implementation of cultural heritage
conservation and tourism development projects.

Overall Objectives and Outcomes:

       To provide a learning platform, through piloting different means, for integrating the
       conservation and management of the country's cultural heritage assets into the
       development of the local and national economy.
       The project would realize its overall objectives through the implementation of four
       components, (1) planning and conservation of archeological sites and historical buildings;
       (2) developing cultural heritage inventory and documentation system; (3) preserving and
       developing ancient artisanal crafts, and (4) project management.
       As a LIL project, it also created learning opportunities for fostering partnership
       arrangements between different stakeholders such as federal and regional government
       agencies, private sector, local communities and NGOs in the management and
       conservation of cultural heritage assets.

Achievement of Project Objectives
       The project enhanced the stature of the cultural heritage sector in the overall social and
       economic development paradigm of the country by including the sector in the socio-
       economic development agenda and through building the capacities of the federal and
       regional governments in conserving and managing cultural heritage sites for the
       promotion of tourism activities
       The contribution of the project in the development of information management system
       and rapid assessment capability is significant, as well. It has created a capacity in taking
       systematic inventory and documentation of important cultural items, including
       networking system for information sharing between the federal and local governments.
       The construction of a museum at Axum, contributed to the safe keeping of archeological
       objects while at the same time making them accessible to visitors. The Churches in Axum
       and Gondar have opened up their cultural treasures for inventory and documentation.
       The contribution of the craft development component to project objective has been
       satisfactory as the activities implemented have brought about attitudinal changes on
       beneficiary artisans. Skills in improved product design and production were created
       through technical skill development training programs offered to artisans engaged in
       weaving and embroidery, jewelry, wood and stone curving, pottery, parchment and
       traditional leather and basketry and bamboo works.
       The project has created learning opportunities for culture related project management and
       monitoring, as the local staff, both at the PCU, ARCCH and the counterpart culture and
       tourism departments have gained valuable experiences. Overall the project has laid down
       the necessary ground for achieving its core objectives.



                                                38

Achievement of Project Outcomes
The realization of project outcomes has been assessed in terms of planned targets and unplanned
achievements. Since it has not been possible to quantitatively compare realized outcomes against
baseline data due to lack of such information, the ICR is restricted to qualitative assessments only.
It was found that the project has successfully met the desired planned outcomes.

Achievements of non-planned outcomes:
The following major outcomes not foreseen in the project design have been recorded:

         In addition to the improvements in the skill base for site conservation, important
         experiences in structural survey on historical buildings were gained in Gondar
         The creation of partnership arrangements with tertiary education institutions
         A new archeological site was discovered and excavated in Axum, also there was
         construction of shades for the stone inscriptions and fencing of the site
         A new archeological museum was built instead of an Ethiopian Orthodox Church
         The underground tombs at the stela field of Axum were conserved, consolidated and
         properly presented for visitors
         Some artisans have made encouraging efforts to expand their business in Harar
         Women craft operators benefited from the artisan development components.


Beneficiary Impact Assessment
Two societal groups have directly benefited from the project. The first group is associated with
institutional beneficiaries, particularly ARCCH and local cultural and tourism departments at the
pilot sites. The other primary beneficiaries are craft people who were supported by the project
through training and development of market links. A total of 428 artisans, engaged in weaving &
embroidery, jewelry, wood & stone curving, pottery, parchment & traditional leather and basketry
activities were trained.

Lessons Learnt
         Experiences and knowledge in modern conservation and management of cultural
         heritages assets is one of the most important lessons gained from the project.
         As a LIL project, the project also offers a number of lessons in project management
         The project has enhanced synergy benefits arising from inter-institutional collaboration in
         project implementation
         The project has brought to the fore the issue of staff turnover in the implementation of
         LIL projects. High staff turnover not only affects the process of implementation but it
         also wastes what has been built.

Final Activities Completed between May to October 15, 2008 and continued by GOE
         Lighting System procured and installed in Axum and Gondar
         Interpretation panels for Axum and Gondar: Not completed due to suppliers frailer.
         Museum security systems procured and installed in Axum and Gondar
         Most of the conservation of the Bakafa Horse Stable in Gondar is completed.
         Agreement is reached that the roof lime concrete casting works will be completed by the
         local culture and tourism office.
         Restoration and refurbishing of Craft centers in Addis and Axum completed
         Procurement of weaving tool and equipment completed
         Small hotels and restaurant owners & employees and tourist guides in Axum, Gondar and
         Harar trained. A total number of 180 people were trained.


                                                 39

        Publication of Leaf-let for Axum, book-lets for Axum and Gondar and archaeological
        excavation book are partially completed due to delay of delivery by publishers and the
        lack of finance in part of the PCU due to full recovery of the remaining fund by the Bank.
        Procurement of wood and stone carving tools not completed. This is due to the inability
        of the supplier to deliver the requested items.

Activities not included in the ICR
        Procurement of goods and equipment for the EOC's Museum is being processed.
        An amount of USD 270,800 was allocated for the procurement of 20 computers, scanners,
        printers and audio visual equipment; Museum security system; Display cases; and
        standby electric generator. Almost all are procured except the generator, metallic
        cupboard and wooden cupboard due to Supplies' inability to deliver.
        Construction of the Harar Handicraft Training Center. The Contractor's offer exceeded
        the allocated budget. Hence, it was not completed.
        Procurement of consultants for the up-coming ESTDP (partial activity). The bid process
        completed, selection done by MoCT.




                                                 40

                          Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document                       March 2002

Development Credit Agreement                     April 2002

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            June 18 to July 3, 2002

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            July 7 to July 18, 2003

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            January 26 to 31, 2004

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            July 25 - August 7, 2004

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            February 7-March 4, 2005

World Bank Mid-term Mission Report                July 8 ­ 22, 2005

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            February 14, to 21, 2006

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            July 25-August 7, 2004

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            January 31-February 9, 2007

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            October 28 to November 7, 2007

World Bank Supervision Mission Report            May 20 to 30, 2008

Fumiko Ohinata, Assessment Report on the World Bank's Ethiopian Cultural Heritage Project. (2003-
2008) - UNESCO Addis Ababa Office.               25 June 2007

HYDEA, Site Planning and conservation Activities in Gondar and Axum: Final report. October 2007

HYDEA, Site Planning and Conservation Activities in Gondar and Axum: Final report. July 2007

HYDEA, Inventory and Documentation of Ethiopian Cultural Assets: Rapid Assessment & Mitigation
Measures. December 2006

HYDEA, Inventory and Documentation of Ethiopian Cultural Assets: Bi-monthly Progress Report.
January 2007

HYDEA, Inventory and Documentation of Ethiopian Cultural Assets: Design of the Information
System. July 2005

Design SA Consortium, Artisanal Crafts Development: Revised Final Report. April 2007

Finnet Consult, A Social Assessment of the Ethiopian Cultural Heritage in Four Selected Sites:
Gondar, Axum, Harar and Addis Ababa. February 2006




                                                41

                       Annex 7: Output Indicators Defined in the PAD


1. Comprehensive site conservation and interpretation plans are completed for Axum and Gondar
and first phase of site conservation and interpretation activities is launched taking into account
municipal planning efforts.

2. Local community living within old Axum and in Gondar, municipal authorities, and the church
in Axum and Gondar are involved in preparation of their respective site plans, have participated
in meetings and decisions during plan development, and see themselves as beneficiaries of the
proposed plan.

3. A plan for museum development, including site identification, architectural designs and a
proposed budget, is completed for a museum in Axum; 12 national and regional staff are trained
in museum curation.

4. The community in Gondar has clearly defined access to and use of structure/s within the Fasil
Ghebbi complex, and perceives an increase in benefits (as individuals or as a community) as a
result of their proximity to this World Heritage site. An information and documentation center is
established in Gondar and linkages are developed with local schools curriculum.

5. Site interpretation work is completed in Gondar and Axum.

6. Core national standards and guidelines are established for inventory and documentation of
cultural assets through an iterative process with key national, regional and local stakeholders.

7. Pilot inventories are completed in Tigray, Amhara and Oromiya regions, prepared jointly by
ARCCH and regional staff. Capacity at the national, regional, and local levels is increased to
carry out inventories.

8. Guidelines are prepared outlining how threats to important cultural sites (from development
activities) can be assessed and mitigated. Capacity is strengthened for site assessment and
mitigation, on the basis of pilot activities in a region.

9. Three artisanal craft centers are established in Harar, Addis Ababa, and in Axum where
artisans execute, display and sell craft products.

10. Income to craftspeople from the sale of crafts is increased by the development of local,
national, and export markets. Capacity for business planning and marketing amongst craftspeople
is increased.

11. Ethiopian craft products are marketed at four major international venues. Marketing and
business plans are developed for each craft center.




                                                   42

      Annex 8: Learning Expectations (per the PAD) and Results

      This Annex details the learning expectations from the PAD as compared with actual results.



Technical
Strengthened technical capacity at the national, regional, and local levels in the area of site
conservation, planning, and interpretation; for museum curation; for inventory and
documentation; and for artisanal crafts development. Practice in identifying and mitigating the
potential negative impacts of development activities on cultural sites and assets.

Site management deriving from detailed documentation and analysis, was introduced for the first
time in (two) critical World Heritage sites in Ethiopia. This is a crucial development for the sector
as these sites risk being removed from the list if they fail to implement an adequate management
plan), An archaeological site museum was built in Axum which is a testing ground for museum
display and object conservation (not yet in evidence). A computerized inventory was established
and regional teams were trained. Environmental assessment procedures were utilized at Axum in
verifying the location for the new museum.

Institutional
New collaborations for cultural site and heritage management between Federal culture and
tourism agencies, clarity of roles between Federal and Regional bureaus, partnerships with
Universities, national and international NGOs, and focusing on communities as beneficiaries.

At the project sites, municipal government worked alongside the TA to develop site management
and multi-stakeholder committees were set up. UNESCO, Norad, and the World Monument
Fund contributed to activities at Gondar, Axum, and Harar. Community outreach was sporadic at
best, although some public and childrens' programs took place. Partnerships with local university
departments of archaeology and tourism in Axum and Gondar, respectively, provide a valuable
resource on technical expertise for the Regional bureaus.

Social
Involvement of communities in site planning and conservation, and greater integration of
communities into the life of important historic sites. Preserving and reviving artisanal traditions
to reestablish craft making as a vital part of community and national economic life. Artisans and
craftsmen provided with design guidance, business training, improved technical skills, and
market links to local, tourist, regional, and export markets.

Community involvement at sites was less than expected. In Gondar the site was refurbished and
has become an urban amenity. Artisans received training and exposure to new design and
business practices. Crafts centers established to showcase their products. Linking artisans to
national markets beyond their region through regular participation in regional fairs.




                                                 43

               Annex 9: Lessons for New Bank Projects in Related Sectors

1.       Investment in physical works.       The proposed Tourism Project should ensure that
investment in the core zone of the Lalibela site includes the comprehensive financing of several
aspects including change of entrance, parking lot, signage, walkways, guide and manager training,
re-use of traditional house for religious demonstrations and some building conservation. Failing
this, the investments will deliver isolated outputs but risk achieving meaningful outcomes.

2.      Site management plan framework. The proposed Tourism Project should utilize a site
management plan framework to guide investments in historic sites in order to assure good
conservation, appropriate infrastructure, and community benefits.

3.       Mixed use. The proposed Tourism Project proposal in Lalibela is to remove all existing
commercial activity such as art galleries and tourist shops. While there are reasons for this it is
advisable that the core site is equipped with directional signs that point to the areas where quality
handcrafts are sold. The Axum craft center restored and financed under CHP is not yet in
operation. As a priority the proposed Tourism Project should ensure that is becomes active and is
well advertised at all the main cultural sites in Axum. There is a risk that delay will result in the
building deteriorating and put to alternative uses.

4.       Capacity building. In the proposed Tourism Project support to training programs in
Departments of Tourism in four local universities should ensure that the appropriate regional staff
benefits and that the course has hands on, in situ training at the cultural sites.

5.       Involvement of civil society. The proposed Tourism Project is strongly advised to clearly
identify and detail any community involvement activities at preparation stage.

6.       Tourism planning. In the proposed Tourism Project a holistic approach must be applied
to the financing of the Lalibela core site. Investing in this will do far more for tourism than the
current proposal to invest substantially in building access roads.

7.       Decentralized responsibility. In the proposed Tourism Project activities in Axum and
Lalibela should clearly view the city administration and local culture and tourism bureaus as the
primary client and decision maker rather than the Federal Agency. It is imperative for the Bank
team to discuss directly with them and not assume that discussions with the Federal Ministry will
trickle down to the local level.

8.       Procurement. The proposed Tourism Project should think through the procurement for
Axum and Lalibela and factor it into the procurement thresholds and plans.

9.       Bank Staff Mix. Because the proposed Tourism Project will be working at sites of high
cultural heritage importance, the project should ensure appropriate cultural resource technical
expertise to maximize their wider economic and community benefit and protect the assets. The
Bank faces a reputational risk if actions are taken without proper expertise.

10       Steering Committee. The proposed Tourism Project needs to be cognizant of the inherent
tension between (Culture) ARCCH and Tourism at the Federal level. It is advised that where
possible direct discussion happens with the regions and city administration rather than expecting
every agreement to be finalized at the Federal level.




                                                  44

11.     Crosscutting Outcomes. The proposed Tourism Project needs to clearly identify specific
outcomes and deliverables that cut across the components and link activities in Lalibela, Axum,
matching grant etc. There must be regular technical supervision of these broader outcomes along
with the component specific outcomes.




                                              45

