Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T7557-MAI
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 22 MILLION (US$29 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND GRANT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION (US$21 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
September 30, 2002
Rural Development Operations
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective August 13, 2002)
Currency Unit              =      Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1                       M MK 75.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT MCAL YEAR
July Ist to June 30th
ABBREVIATIO)NS AND ACRONYMS
ADMARC        =     Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AG                  Auditor General
CONGOMA       =     Council for Non-Govemment Organizational in Malawi
DDLGA         =      Departnent of District and Local Governent Administration
DFID          =     Department for International Development
DHS           =     Demographic and Healthy Survey
FAO           =     Food and Agriculture Organization
FHH           =     Female-Headed Households
FRDP          =     Fiscal Restructuring & Deregulation Project
IDA           =     International Development Association
IEC           =     Information, Education and Communication
IHSP          =     Integrated Household Survey on Poverty
MASAF         =     Malawi Social Action Fund
MOHP          =     Ministry of Health and Population
MTPW          =     Ministry of Transport & Public Works
NEC           =     National Economic Council
NFRA          =     National Food Reserve Agency
NGO           =     Non-Government Organization
OPC                 Office of the President and Cabinet
PAP           =     Poverty Alleviation Program
UNDP          =     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF        =     United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         =     United States Agency for International Development
VAMS          =     Vulnerability Assessment Monitoring System
WFP           =     World Food Programn
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo
County Director:           Darius Mans
Sector Manager:            Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Task Team Leaders:         Ousmane Sissoko
Stanley lHiwa



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY CREDIT
TECIMCAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
1. BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ..............                                    1
:B ackground                1.................................................... 
The Current Crisis in National, Regional & Historic Context             .........   2
2.   BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY .................................                       6
Donors' and Government's Response to the Crisis .......................             6
Bank Response and Strategy .................................................        6
Lessons Learned ....................................................                8
3.   THE PROPOSED EMERGENCY                    DROUGHT              ......................  8
RECOVERY PROJECT
Objectives ....................................................                     8
Components .....................................................                    8
Project Cost and Financing ..................................................      10
Grant Funding in Combination with IDA Credit                 ........................  10
Retroactive Financing ....................................................         10
4. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................                 11
Implementation .............................1.......................                1
Financial Management ....................................................           11
Funds Flow     .................         ...................................        11
Accounting and Financial Reporting ...................        ....................  12
External Audit .......................          .............................      13
Reporting and Monitoring ...................................................       13
Action Plan to be carried out for Project Financial Management             ......   14
Procurem   ent                ....................................................  14
Retroactive Financing ....................................................         14
Procurement Capacity ....................................................          15
Procurement Plans ....................................................              16
Manual for Procurement Procedures ................. .....................          17
Procurement Methods .          .............................................       17
Procurement Monitoring.: .................................................          19
Environmental and Social Aspects .         .........................................  20
5. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROPOSED OPERATION                                             20
6.   ACTION      PLAN ....................................................              21



Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Policy Letter .................................................  22
Annex 2: Cost Summary .................................................   29
Annex 3: Allocation of Credit and Grant to Categonres ..................  30
Annex 4: Positive List Items .................................................  31
Annex 5: Supporting Community Responses to the Food Crisis .......     32
Annex 6: Addendum on Nutrition Strategy & Distribution
of Humanitarian Assistance .        ......................................  43
Annex 7: A Summary of Malawi Emergency Drought
Recovery Project -Transport Issues                   ...     45



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY CREDIT
TECENICAL ANNEX
1.    BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Background
1.1   Malawi is currently facing a severe food crisis. Production of the key food staple,
maize during the 2001/2002 growing season estimated at 1.6 million metric tons,
approximately 600,000 tons short of estimated domestic disposition. The economic cost
of the crop failure to the economy in aggregate is between US$150 million and US$180
million when the grain is valued at landed replacement cost. The incidence of the shock
falls in most concentrated measure on Malawi's small-holder farmers, who are among the
country's poorest citizens. The impact of the shortage on human health and nutrition is
expected to increase in severity during the coming eight months prior to the next harvest.
1.2   Early this year it was estimated that 78 percent of farm families (a total of 2.2
million households) were without sufficient food. This year's shortage follows the prior
year's reduced harvest. As a result of two successive years of reduced incomes and poor
access to food, coping mechanisms, including casual labor and distress sales of household
assets have been eroded. Deaths from hunger-related diseases are increasing. Children
who are generally vulnerable to malnutrition - Malawi's chronic malnutrition rate is 49
percent - are particularly at risk of long-term consequences. In addition, women, the
elderly, and adolescent-headed households are particularly food insecure.  Other
vulnerable groups include those affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, smallholder
farmers, tenants, and pregnant and lactating mothers.
1.3   Overall, it is estimated that about 3.9 million people will require humanitarian
assistance for varying periods of time until June 2003. Maize prices are expected to rise
substantially as shortages increase. To avert famine, the Government and other donors are
taking immediate action to ensure adequate supplies of grain to the country and timely
delivery of food aid and/or income support to' the most vulnerable Malawians.
Approximately 30% of the most vulnerable will receive humanitarian assistance from the
208,000 tons of donations in cash and kind anticipated from the donor community.
Approximately 150,000 tons of the shortfall is expected to be met by the private sector
and by increased winter production. Hence donations and private sales will cover almost
US$100 million of the cost of the shock, and will address the needs of 60% of the
population (those at the higher end of the income distribution through private sales, and at
the lower end through humanitarian relief). The Government is importing 250,000 tons at
an estimated cost of US$75 million to augment available supply and to address the needs
primarily of the 40%/o of the population who will require some assistance but will not



receive humanitarian aid. Additional support is needed for recovery of crop production,
prevention of resort to coping strategies that undermine recovery and longer term growth,
and maintenance and rebuilding of productive assets.  The Government's costs of
addressing the emergency are estimated at approximately US$82 million, including an
estimated US$23 million in price subsidy, US$16 million in public works programs,
US$15 million in additional programs of targeted assistance, such as school feeding and
nutritional intervention through the health system, US$18 million for distribution of
agricultural inputs to poor small-holders, US$5 million for transport and logistics,
including emergency repairs to the Nacala corridor of the rail line, and US$5 million for
technical assistance, expansion of the extension activities, and other preparations for the
coming agricultural year. The Government of Malawi has requested assistance of the
World Bank to address costs related to management of the emergency and recovery.
The Current Crisis in National, Regional, and Historic Context
1.4   The immediate causes of the current crisis in Malawi are several. Contributing
factors include:
Erratic weather. Malawi experienced drought and floods in 2001 and 2002 which,
although not as severe as those of the early 1990s, resulted in significant drops in
maize output. In the 2001/2002 growing season, rains started late but when they
finally came, they were severe in some places, causing water logging and floods. The
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation carried out an assessment of the flood damage.
A total of 14 districts with about 29,769 farming families were affected by the
damage. In some parts of the country the rains were also intermittent, with dry spells
that coincided with sensitive growth stages of crops. The dry spells affected a larger
number of farm households than did the floods. Maize production was especially
sensitive to the deviation in the timing of rains.
* Failure of the early warning systems that form an integral part of the Government's
food security apparatus. While available data predicted a maize shortfall in 2001, they
also indicated that the increase in other crop harvests (particularly roots and pulses)
would adequately compensate for the maize shortfall. As late as June 2001 the data
still indicated that Malawi would experience a food surplus that year. The inadequacy
of the statistical data only became apparent in September 2001, when Malawi began
to import food in anticipation of a shortfall. President Muluzi declared a food
emergency in late February. This failure in the agricultural data delayed decision
making and the implementation of remedial action to contain the emergency. Once
the shortfall became apparent, actions to address the problem were not urgently
undertaken until the pending crisis was clearly evident.
* Transportation bottlenecks that impeded the timely arrival of imported maize in early
2002. To deal with the 2002 maize shortage, the Government raised a $30 million line
of credit to import 134,000 tons of maize for delivery by December 2001, mostly from
South Africa, but the maize arrived late because of logistical problems.  To
promote optimal use of existing transport facilities and cost effective means of
2



delivery of emergency goods to beneficiaries, emergency line repairs on the railways
of the Nacala corridor will be carried out by Government from its resources for US$2
million, over the next four months.
. Poor Marketing System and Poor Management of the SGR. The NFRA has statutory
obligation to manage the strategic grain reserve and to hold a minimum of 60,000 mt.
The grain is physically held in facilities managed by ADMARC. In late 2000 NFRA
sold its stocks in excess of 60,000 mt and therefore depleted all its reserves. Due to
improper management and, as found by the report of the Anti-Corruption Bureau,
possible criminal negligence, the entire reserve was sold under non-transparent
procedures and with insufficient accounting for the proceeds. This action reduced the
ability of the NFRA to rebuild sufficient reserves, and undermined confidence of the
donor community regarding management of a key instrument for food security. Had
reserves been properly managed, they would nonetheless not have been sufficient to
cover the full shortfall of the present crisis.
*  Over-reliance on maize. Most farmers depend on a limited number of food and cash
crops for their livelihoods. Maize is considered as the major food crop while tobacco
is the major cash crop. In case of crop failure, therefore, farmers have few alternative
sources of food and income. Moreover, most common varieties of maize are not
drought-resistant, and require careful management to avoid  exhaustion of soil
nutrients. Reliance on maize thus entails a high risk strategy for food security in
Malawi. The country has made some progress in diversification to other food staples,
such as cassava and sweet potatoes, but consumers till prefer maize, and small-holders
still choose to produce it despite the risks. The longer term strategy thus entails
introduction of higher yielding and more resilient varieties that will allow preferences
for maize to be accommodated through contraction of area devoted to maize, leaving
more land for other products.
* Low adoption of Improved Technologies. The country has weak capacity in the
development and dissemination of technologies, and adoption has therefore remained
low. The gap in crop yields between research fields and farmers is still very wide,
indicating that farmers are still using unimproved technologies. On the other hand,
some of the technologies developed are not compatible and specific to the ecological
zones.
* Increased pressure on land without concomitant improvement in productivity. The
rising population has increased pressure on limited land resources leading to reduced
lEnd to labor ratios without corresponding increase in yields. Lagging growth in
productivity has led to a secular decline in food security, and increased vulnerability to
periodic climatic and other shocks.
1.5   The crisis that Malawi faces is generalized to the Southern African region. The
Regional Early Warning Unit of SADC estimates that supply of maize during the current
2002/2003 marketing year (April-March) will fall short of requirements by 3.2 million
metric tons.
3



1.6   The decline in production is due to a number of factors. Drought, flood, and
erratic weather patterns have played a role. The severe political and economic disruption
in Zimbabwe's agricultural sector has transformed one of the region's traditional strong
suppliers of grain into a net recipient of humanitarian assistance. The shortfall hits at a
time when stocks throughout the region are depleted. Govemments drew down stocks last
year in response to poor harvests, and did not restock adequately for a number of reasons:
e.g., budget problems resulting from the drop in global commodity prices, preoccupation
with elections, mismanagement of strategic stocks. As a consequence, countries hardest
hit by this year's shortfall (Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) enter the coming year with
no opening stocks. Approximately two thirds of the stocks are held in South Africa, the
one country with significant projected increase in production.
1.7   Throughout the region, an estimated 12 million people are affected by the
shortfall. The number is large relative to the aggregate regional deficit because
distribution of available supply is highly skewed. South Africa has larger than average
supply, and Malawi and Zambia much less than usual. Without special measures,
consumers in Malawi and Zambia (many of whom are small-scale producers) will not
have the purchasing power to access supplies available elsewhere in the region or the
world. Zimbabwe has been in the past a net exporter, but this year is expected to meet
only about one third of domestic needs. Chronic hunger increases the human cost of this
year's deficit, since poor households have few assets or reserves with which to cushion the
shock.
1.8   The present food crisis in southern Africa has historical precedent, most recently
ten years ago. The management of the last severe and regionalized drought offers lessons
for present interventions by the Governments, and World Bank, and other donors. During
1991/92 the countries of Southern Africa suffered from their most severe drought of the
century, and an estimated 20 million people were believed to be at serious risk. The
problem was addressed in part by importing about 12 million tons of grains estimated to
cost about US$4 billion. The overall response to the drought was considered reasonably
successful in funding imports and sparing human lives. Still, many problems were
encountered in customs procedures, procurement, bunching of food aid, congestion in
ports, food quality, and timeliness of shipments. Logistical costs including for non-food
items exceeded import costs by a ratio of 2:1.
1.9   The Bank provided policy advice and helped alleviate the crisis through specific
emergency operations in Malawi and Zimbabwe. In Malawi the Bank provided a credit in
1992 simultaneously to increase imports while also supporting reforms to support private
sector development. The Zimbabwe Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Credit,
also provided in 1992, supported importation and also the agricultural recovery, drought-
related transportation, emergency water supply rehabilitation, expansion of the food-for-
work and child feeding programs; and institutional strengthening. In Zambia, almost 1
million tons of food was imported by activating the country's program with the IMF and
obtaining unprecedented extemal assistance in the amount of US$1.5 billion.
4



1.10 Both the Malawi and Zimbabwe operations were successful in providing timely
support for importation of foodstuffs. They were less successful in institutional and other
development to reduce future vulnerability and risks. The analytic work on Zambia
produced solid recommendation for both the Government and the Bank. These, however,
have only partially been implemented.
1.11  ]Lessons of the prior interventions to facilitate recovery include the following:
(i)   Food supply must be enhanced along with establishment of distribution
channels that reach the vulnerable, through provision of food, free of charge to
the poorest, as wage in cash or food-for-work programs, and for sale so as to
reduce excessive market prices (short-term actions);
(ii)  Productive capacity for the next and subsequent production seasons must be
enhanced (short- to medium-term actions); and
(iii)  Investments and institutional structures, etc. to reduce long-term vulnerability
should be identified even if they cannot be put in place during the period of
immediate crisis (long-term actions).
1.12  In both the Malawi and the Zimbabwe operations, the Bank's intervention largely
achieved the first objective, but was less successful in helping governments to achieve the
second and third objectives. In Zimbabwe the agricultural recovery component (objective
ii) did not achieve its targets and the emergency water program was delayed. In both
countries, institutional development (objective iii) was unsatisfactory.
1.13  An assessment of these programs showed that an emergency operation should
assist the government to maintain critical non-food imports needed for maintenance of
long term growth while the government shoulders the unanticipated budgetary burden of
the direct food imports. Without this assistance, the government's appropriate efforts to
avert famine will come at the expense of needed investments in schools, clinics,
infrastructure, and public services needed for growth and poverty reduction.  The
assistance in maintaining critical imports should be augmented by additional short term
investments to assist production in the next crop year, to build or rebuild infrastructure
that reduces immediate vulnerability, and by commitments to address the longer term
issues once the crisis is resolved. For those purposes, quick-disbursing loans with a short
project period are used and most appropriate. Although it is not surprising that medium
and longer-term actions tend to receive less attention once the crisis abates, the present
recurrent food emergency is a reminder that longer term actions at the sectoral, national,
and regional levels are imperative.
5



2.    RESPO'NSE AND STRATEGY
Donors' and Government's Response to the Crisis
2.1   In early 2002, the World Bank received a request for assistance in assessing what
was feared to be a worsening food situation in the SADC region. In response, resources
from the FAO/WB Cooperative Program were made available to send teams of experts
from FAO to undertake the assessments, including one for Malawi. FAO and WFP
estimated a maize import requirement of 585,000 mt. for August 2002 to March 2003. The
Government's current estimate of the shortfall is 600,000 mt. Of this amount, 208,000 mt.
is expected in pledges from the WFP and other donors, 250,000 mt will be imported by
the Government on its own account, and 142,000 mt is hoped for through activities of
private traders and as additional production under a winter production program supported
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation this year. Of the 208,000 mt expected in
pledged relief, about 68,000 mt remain to be filled, perhaps with assistance from Japan
and/or Italy following consultations currently under way.  The IMF has approved
emergency support of SDR 17 million (US$22 million), and DFID is likely to provide up
to US$10 million of assistance for provision of inputs.
Bank Response and Strategy
2.2   The World Bank has contributed toward assessment of the situation, and is
contributing to recovery, protection of the vulnerable during the crisis, and to measures to
reduce vulnerability to food crises in the future. The contribution to assessment of the
situation has been covered above. The design of the proposed support for economic
recovery is presented below. The medium and longer term strategy of assistance is
reflected in the discussions of the CAS' presently under way. In the medium-term, the
Bank will assist Malawi in five areas relevant to the present emergency: (a) improving the
statistical basis for crop estimates; (b) addressing issues relating to access to land,
agricultural services, and better agricultural technology in order to promote improvement
in agricultural productivity; (c) providing technical assistance for review of the
Government's food security policy); (d) improving transportation along the Nacala
corridor (the Bank has supported railway and port reform along the corridor in both
Malawi and Mozambique, and will support additional improvements); and (e) scaling-up
of safety net programs through MASAF (including MASAF 3, which is now under
preparation), and orienting the public works components toward activities that improve
access to rural areas and reduce vulnerability to drought and flood. With the assistance of
the Bank, the Government is presently enhancing the public works component of the
second Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF 2), which is by far the largest public works/
social safety net scheme in Malawi.
2.3   On July 26, 2002, Minister Friday Jumbe, Minister of Finance and Economic
Planning, requested that the Bank provide a $45 million credit for an emergency drought
' The 1998 CAS was updated and a CAS Progress Report (#21419-MAI of November 28, 2000) was
discussed at the meeting of the Executive Directors held on December 21, 2000. The full new CAS which is
being prepared is due by December 31, 2002.
6



recovery assistance to finance critical imports to help alleviate the effects of the drought
and to mitigate its impact on the country's efforts to reduce poverty and promote growth.
A request for an increased assistance was subsequently made on September 6, 2002. At
an emergency meeting of the Regional Operations Committee, the Vice President
authorized a mission simultaneously to prepare and appraise an Emergency Drought
Recovery Credit (EDRC). Donors have been particularly supportive of the work of the
mission, and have concurred with the objectives of the proposed operation The Bank staff
participate in regular meetings, and activities of the joint task force established to
coordinate emergency efforts of the Govemment and the intemational community.
2.4   The Bank's strategy in the sector is in line with the Government's views and
expected response to the crisis. The strategy focuses simultaneously on short-term
measures to tackle the current disaster and on medium- and long-term measures to prevent
the recurrence of the problem and ensure agriculture production and the provision of
social protection through scaling up public works and social programs to benefit the poor
and vulnerable groups. The Government's approach to the immediate crisis is presented in
the Letter of Sectoral Policy. To oversee the overall management and coordination of the
response  to   the   crisis,  the  Govemment   has   established  a  Joint
Govemment/Donor/UN/NGO Task Force. Donors and NGOs will handle all distribution
of humanitarian aid. While the scaling up of the public works programs will make
resources available for the communities to buy food, limited targeting policies will be
pursued in favor of vulnerable groups including orphans, child-headed households,
FHV/AIDS affected, pregnant women, the elderly, etc. The Government intends to sell
maize that it imports at a fixed price of 17 MK per kilo, which entails a subsidy of about
one third of the landed price. The Govemment will use geographic targeting to increase
the likelihood that the subsidized maize will be available in areas most affected by the
crop failure, and where poverty is greatest. Enhancement of winter cropping, crop
diversification, seed multiplication and soil fertility improvement technologies are being
applied to further mitigate the effects of the drought and avert reoccurrence of crop
failure.
2.5   The Govemment's approach to the medium term agenda for agricultural growth
and improved productivity is expressed in the recently completed the design of a
proposed agricultural sector investment program (MASIP). The program is framed
within the context of the PRSP and focuses on the critical role that agriculture must play
in pro-poor growth. Bank support to the sector will implement medium and long-term
measures to increase access to inputs, improve market infrastructure and information,
improve access to land and efficiency of its use, enhance technology generation and
dissemination, and build capacity for the effective delivery of key services in rural areas..
Initiatives to promote improved management of water by small-holders, the conservation
of soil and water, improvement of soil fertility through the expanded use of organic
manure, and adoption of improved technologies  will be pursued to facilitate the
achievement of increased incomes and food security especially among poor smallholder
farmers. The most appropriate mechanisms and instruments for delivering support will be
determined in the context of the CAS process. Although key elements of the program
7



have been identified in the protracted process of formulating the MASIP program, the
modalities for implementation and support by the Bank have not yet been decided.
Lessons Learned
2.6   Lessons learned from previous similar operations have been taken into account in
the design of the project. The project preparation/appraisal team also drew on advice from
staff involved in responding to similar emergencies in other countries. Key lessons noted
may be summarized as follows: (a) commitment and ownership of the Borrower are
critical for the successful implementation of emergency recovery operations; (b) speed in
preparation, appraisal and implementation are also critical elements for success; (c)
emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable and not burdened with
conditionality; (d) disaster management and mitigation measures should be included; (e)
community involvement and participation are critical to the success of the delivery of
social investments and protection; (f) the operation should focus on the sector
immediately affected, and not undertake too broad an agenda of cross-cutting issues; and
(g) the longer term agenda to reduce the likelihood of recurrence cannot be neglected.
3.    TEE PROPOSED EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
Objectives
3.1   The objectives of the proposed Emergency Drought Recovery Project are: (a) to
allow the Government to maintain key commitments to economic priorities and
investments consistent with the PRSP process while at the same time fulfilling its
immediate obligations to avert famine; (b) to help restore the productive capability in the
country; and (c) to support longer term disaster management by the Government.
Components
3.2   The proposed operation will provide quick-disbursing assistance to support critical
imports through a positive list of import requirements linked to the drought and assist the
Govemment in drought recovery efforts. The Government has assessed the need for
additional imports of grain (i.e., those not likely to be covered by the humanitarian
programs) and has already undertaken to order much of the needed quantity. Thus the
Govemment has on its own initiative sourced the food needed for the relief effort. The
Govemment's program for distributing the food relief (in conjunction with NGO's and
civil society) is outlined in the Letter of Development Policy. The Government seeks the
emergency credit to help rebuild productive capacity, and to avoid a situation whereby the
additional cost of the drought undermines developmental goals, particularly for health and
education. The positive list is constructed with these objectives in mind, and each element
of the list is linked to recovery and/or to maintaining critical services in health and
education. The agreed positive list of imports includes: (a) petroleum and fuel products;
(b) agricultural inputs; (c) agricultural equipment; (d) construction equipment; (e) spare
8



parts; (f) livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies; (g) school supplies; and (h)
medical supplies and equipment. An amount of US$40 million would be available under
this component. The role that each of these elements of the list will play in the recovery is
briefly noted below:
3.3   Agricultural equipment and inputs: This will be largely improved seeds and
fertilizer for farmers and some equipment and inputs for the public research and
extension services.
3.4   Petroleum andfuel products: Additional fuel will be needed for distribution of the
relief food and for distribution of the starter packs.
3.5   Construction equipment:  Additional investments in infrastructure, especially
roads and bridges, to facilitate improved access to remote areas will have to be
undertaken. This will require construction equipment and materials, in addition to the
labor supplied largely through the public works program.
3.6   Spare parts: The burden of transporting large quantities of food and inputs over
rough roads will necessitate additional vehicle spare parts.
3.7   Livestock, animal products, and veterinary supplies: Livestock numbers have
been drawn down, and the public sector will assist with restocking improved breeds.
Veterinary supplies will be needed to maintain animal health under stressed conditions of
reduced forage.
3.8   School supplies: Schools are undertaking some public feeding for vulnerable
children, and will need additional supplies to undertake these efforts. More generally,
investments in school supplies and equipment must be maintained despite the additional
costs of the drought.
3.9   Medical supplies and equipment: Medical services must be maintained despite the
costs of the drought. Under-nutrition is likely to lead to additional health complications,
necessitating availability of medical supplies and equipment.
3.10 The Government intends to augment the purchasing power of those whose
incomes are reduced by expanding the public works component of the MASAF program,
among other means. The Government's relief efforts will thus work simultaneously on the
supply and demand sides of food markets.
3.11  The operation will also provide support for essential social investments and
services to vulnerable groups through MASAF, which has developed substantial expertise
in the field. Detailed activities to be carried out by MASAF and implementation
modalities are presented in [Annex 5]. An amount of US$8 million would be available
for such activities.
9



3.12  In addition to the two components presented above, the project will include
support for implementation, technical assistance, and studies. The technical assistance
and studies will have the following objectives: (i) to support full public discussion and
consideration of the causes of the present crisis and measure to prevent recurrence,
including the work of the technical sub-committees of the Inter-Ministerial Task Force;
(ii) to support Malawi's participation in the SADC-wide efforts to craft a regional
approach to prevention and management of crises; (iii) to diagnose the key problems with
agricultural statistics and how to fix them; (iv) to finance regular meetings of a technical
steering committee to monitor implementation of the present program; (v) to put in place a
mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the crisis and mitigation
efforts; and (vi) to provide short term support to strengthen the agricultural advisory
services available to small farmers as they rebuild following the present catastrophe, and
to focus on ways of improving water and soil managemen.., mitigating the impact of
future disasters and upgrading disaster preparedness and management will be provided. A
total amount of US$2.0 miflion would be available for such services.
Project Cost and Financing
3.13  The proposed operation would be funded from IDA resources totaling SDR 37.9
million, or US$50 million equivalent including the equivalent of US$21 million as grant
and US$29 million on standard IDA credit. The size of the credit is based on the
estimated cost of the response to the crisis, the Government's request for emergency
drought assistance, and the assistance and pledges received by the Government from other
donors including multilateral organizations and bilateral agencies (UK, DFID, CIDA) and
other specialized humanitarian organizations including CARE and Save The Children.
3.14  Under the proposed operation, 100 percent of the cost of eligible imports on the
positive list would be financed. The cost of social investments and services, and the
execution of the public work programs would be also financed. In addition, all audits
required would be funded under the emergency operation.
Grant Funding in Combination wit' l IDA Credit
3.15  In view of the emergency situation imposed by the drought in Malawi and because
the country is eligible - as a debt-vulnerable IDA only country - a grant funding under the
IDA 13 Replenishment Agreement, is being proposed for the equivalent of US$21
million. The grant would be used for securing critical imports required under the
emergency and including petroleum and fuel products, agricultural inputs and equipment,
construction equipment, spare parts, livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies,
school supplies, medical supplies and equipment.  The use of the grant would be further
discussed in the upcoming full new CAS.
Retroactive Financing
3.16  Because of the nature of the operation, it is expected that payments made by the
borrower out of its own resources before signing of the Development Credit
10



Agreement (DCA) an-i the Development Grant Agreement (DGA) but no earlier
than four months before signing, will be eligible for retroactive financing.
Payments made by the Government of Malawi not exceeding 20 percent may be
eligible for reimbursement to the Government of Malawi under retroactive
financing.
4. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation
4.1   The operation will be implemented by two entities - a small and temporary Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) and MASAF. The PCU will be staffed with experienced and
qualified professionals, including a national coordinator, a financial professional, a
procurement specialist, and support staff.  It will be responsible for the overall
coordination of all activities of the project and will work very closely with the Reserve
Bank of Malawi in managing the quick-disbursing component of the operation. The
coordinator will be responsible, inter alia, for the day-to-day management of the
operation, dialogue with government agencies, development partners and other
stakeholders, securing procurement, collecting information and monitoring activities in
the field, and establishing quarterly progress and financial reports. He or she will report to
the Principal Secretary of MOAI. MASAF will be responsible for the public works
prograrns (PWP) and social investments component, for which it developed extensive
ability over the past several years of implementation of IDA-financed projects.
4.2   The operation will be implemented over a period of two years, from November
2002 to' November 2004.
Financial Management
4.3   The capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation to manage the main
Special Account for the project and to provide accounting and financial management was
assessed and found to be inadequate, essentially because of human resource shortage. As
a result, an experienced financial specialist will be engaged under the project to design a
simple financial management system that is able to produce complete, accurate and timely
information from it for all activities of the project. MASAF will manage a separate
special account for the Public Works Programs. Though no formal capacity assessments
were done on MASAF, an update of the previous assessments of MASAF management
unit, which has implemented two phases of a Bank financed project, through review of
annual and semi-annual audits, management letters, quality and timely assessments of
their quarterly reports, shows that the institution has enough capacity to handle the Public
Works Programs to be financed under this operation.



Funds Flow
4.4   The Project will use a quick disbursement mechanism where government will have
to submit expenditures incurred on imports for procurement review, and be refunded a
total sum consisting of disbursements in foreign exchange for purchases based on a
positive list. Special Accounts would be opened for the PCU to be used for all payments
other than the PWP and another for the MASAF unit to be used for PWP. The Special
Accounts will be opened through the Reserve Bank of Malawi with a reputed international
bank in New York under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Funds from the credit
and grant accounts will be transferred into three special accounts. Payments of imports
from the agreed positive list will be made either directly by IDA or from the special
accounts. Local currency account will be used to finance payments under the Public
Works Program.
4.5   IDA will deposit an initial amount of $8,300,000 representing about four months
of disbursements under the project into the Special Accounts to be opened out of which,
funds will be transferred into the Reserve Bank of Malawi. On transfer of funds to the
Reserve Bank, the Accountant General's Department will issue a separate Credit Ceiling
Authority to the local commercial bank of each account with copies to the PCU and
MASAF. In absence of any new receipts of funds from the credit accounts into the
respective special accounts and finally into the Reserve Bank holding account, the project
would have to spend funds up to maximum limit of the credit ceiling given for payments
out of the local accounts. IDA replenishments will be made on summary documentation
submitted in Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for expenditures for: (i) eligible imports of
petroleum and fuel products under contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent; (ii)
eligible imports of agricultural inputs and equipment, construction equipment, spare parts,
livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies, school supplies, medical supplies and
equipment under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent; (iii) goods under
contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent; (iv) services from consultant firms under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (v) services from individual consultants
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (vi) subprojects, all training and
operating costs. Full documentation submitted will be submitted for contracts above these
thresholds. IDA would be informed of the accounts opened by the Reserve Bank of
Malawi.
4.6   Disbursement requests will originate from the PCU which reports to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Irrigation, and from the MASAF management unit endorsed by
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning - Claims Unit, prior to a withdrawal being
made from the Special Account for payments to suppliers and local bank accounts. All
documentation will have to be kept by the PCU and MASAF management unit for review
by the Bank missions. Semi-annual audits will be carried out by the National audit office
or a private audit firm to be engaged. Replenishments of the special accounts would
follow Bank procedures.
12



Accounting and financial reporting
4.7   The financial specialist will be responsible for maintaining records and accounts to
reflect. in accordance with sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures of
the project. He/she will set up a simple project accounting and financial management
system adequate to provide complete, accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures. He/she will also submit financial and other related reports
relating to the project on a quarterly basis.
4.8   The Financial specialist will be responsible for preparing overall Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on a quarterly basis and their consolidation with FMiRs from
MASAF. Such reports will provide information on whether funds disbursed to the project
are being used for purposes intended, project implementation is on track and that project
budget costs will not be exceeded. Such FMRs will include financial, physical progress
and procurement reports.
4.9   Financial reports in the FMRs will include a statement showing for the period and
cumulatively (project life cycle or year to date) cash receipts by sources and expenditures
by main expenditure classifications, beginning and ending cash balances of the project;
and supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. It will also include
uses of funds by project activities.
4.10  In as far as line reporting is concerned in such FMRs, the project will ensure that
the FMRs follow the projects chart of accounts as far as possible, provided that is
separately records all significant discrete activities.
4.11  He/she will also submit FMRs not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter
and other related reports relating to the project to the Bank and the Principal Secretary
with copies to the Project's steering Committee. These FMRs will form the basis for the
preparation of quarterly, semi-annual or annual financial statements.
External Audit
4.12  The entire project will be subjected to external audits. The accounts will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after year end of each fiscal year for
review. There will also be semi-annual audits conducted by an appointed auditor to
check on the following issues among other things: internal controls in the project,
compliance with financial covenants, compliance with eligibility criteria of expenditures
incurred in the project is accordance with the 'DCA, that special accounts is operated
accordingly, there is adequate maintenance of documentation of transactions in the project
and that budgets are strictly adhered to. Such an audit will be submitted to the Bank and
the Government two months after every semi-annual period for which the audits are
supposed to be carried out. Where possible government's new internal audit function will
be effectively used to conduct internal audit reviews of all documentation and
compliance with the legal agreements relating to expenditures pertaining to the project
when requested to do so.
13



Reporting and Monitoring
4.13  The financial transactions for the project will be recorded and monitored using a
simple project specific computerized financial management and accounting system. The
financial specialist will determine chart of accounts for the project as well as format and
content of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and annual financial
statements. He/she will also determine the selection and adoption of accounting policies
and accounting standards as well as making a choice on supplementary notes to the
project financial statements in order to enhance the presentation of a true and fair view. It
is anticipated that these reports will include financial statements such as sources and
application of funds, expenditure classified by project components, disbursement
categories, expenditure types and comparison with budgets.
Action Plan to be carried out for Project IFinnciaD lManagement
1. Recruit a Financial Specialist and a Procurement Specialist for the project for the
project coordination unit.
2. Establish a simple financial management and accounting system inclusive of a
chart of accounts for the project.
3. Develop formats and content of various periodic reports that will be generated for
the project
4. Development of terms of reference for audit of the project.
Procurement
4.14 Procurement of the Goods and Commodities in the positive list provided in Section
C of this document will be governed by the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and
Standard Bid Evaluation Forms will be used. However, for the quick disbursement
component, the currency provisions in the SBDs will be suitably amended to make them
more responsive and consistent with standard practice in international trade.
4.15  Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Conisultants by World Bank
Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999
and May 2002. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will be used for Quality
and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Standard Forms of Contract as needed (lump-sum,
time-based, and/or simplified contracts for short-term assignments and individual
consultants) and also the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the Selection of
Consultants.
14



Retroactive Financing
4.16 From documents provided by Petroleum Importers Ltd (PIL) and Smallholder
Farmers' Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi (SFFFRFM), IDA is satisfied that these two
companies have used acceptable commercial practices to procure petroleum and fertilizers
respectively. The two companies have each imported more than US$5.0 million of
commodities since June 2002. The commodities imported by these two companies are
therefore eligible for retroactive financing. The US$10.0 million allocated for retroactive
financing will be split between petroleum products and fertilizers imported by PIL and
SFFFRFM, i.e.
* Petroleum Products - US$4.2 million
* Fertilizers - US$5.8 million
4.17  Two other companies interviewed to verify eligibility for retroactive financing of
items imported by them were Farmers World Ltd and Central Medical Stores. Although
they appeared to have used acceptable procurement procedures they could not proviae
documentary evidence to that effect.
Procurement Capacity
4.18  A Country Procurement Assessment Report has not been done for Malawi (it is
planned for FY03) but the procurement system was reviewed in 1996 with the assistance of
consultants under the aegis of the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation T.A. Credit. A
number of recommendation were made to reform the procurement system including: (a)
revising the existing procurement regulations to make them more transparent, efficient and
economic; (b) Developing and implementing a procurement training program for
govermnent staff; (c) preparing standard bidding documents and manuals; and (d)
promulgating a procurement law based on the UNCITRAL model.
4.19  Except for the last one, all the above recommendations are under implementation
although progress has been slow. New Procurement Regulations were prepared and came to
effect in 2000. These Regulations are acceptable to the Bank. A draft procurement bill has
been drafted and presented to Cabinet. The Cabinet has just rejected two major reform
provisions in the bill; that of establishing a regulatory'body to oversee public procurement
in Malawi and that of decentralizing the procurement function to procuring entities.
Instead, the Cabinet has decided that contracts above a certain threshold will be approved by
the Government Contracting Unit in the President's office. This decision raises a number of
issues which will be discussed with the GOM.
4.20  There are two main executing agencies for this Credit: the Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation (MoAI)and Malawi Social Fund (MASAF). A procurement capacity
assessment of each executing agency was carried out in accordance with OPCPR
Instructions of July 15, 2002. The capacity of the MoAI to plan, implement, monitor and
evaluate development programs has gradually been declining for the past ten years due to
15



high staff turnover and limited resources to fill vacant posts. The MoAI has therefore got no
capacity to implement the EDRP. The procurement risk is considered High.
4.21   The EDRP will be implemented by a Project Coordination  Unit (PCU) to be
specifically established for the project. The PCU will be composed of four key personnel: a
program coordinator to manage and administer the whole project; a procurement specialist,
who will be highly experienced in IDA projects, to organize all the procurement under
MoAI; a financial controller to take care of the accounting and disbursement aspects of the
project and a logistics expert for ensuring that supplies are delivered to their destinations in
a timely manner. Individuals with qualifications acceptable to the Bank will be recruited to
fill these positions. Due to the importance of this project, the prograrn coordinator will
report directly to the Secretary of the MoAI. The terms of reference for all the positions
have been prepared and the MoAI will commence the recruitment process immediately.
Normally all the positions would be advertised in a national paper of wide circulation in
Malawi but owing to the urgency to establish the PCU, the MoAI, with the agreement of the
Bank, may recruit the program coordinator through comparing the qualifications of three
known reputable individuals without having to advertise. The program coordinator needs to
be in place as soon as possible so as to set up the PCU and recruit the other staff.
4.22  MASAF has been implementing two social funds operations and is at the end of the
second operation. A third operation (MASAF III) is at the design stage. MASAF will
execute the public works component of the project using procedures contained in its
Operational Manual which has been approved by the Bank. MASAF has a proven track
record in social funds procurement. MASAF's organization and management appears
capable to take up the additional procurement of US$8.0 million demanded by the EDRP.
MASAF has been disbursing about this level of funds annually but the funds now available
in MASAF II are well below this level and therefore there appears to be adequate available
capacity until MASAF IH is effective. The procurement risk of MASAF is considered as
Low. However, there are two areas that need strengthening: procurement capacity at
MASAF Zonal level; and supervision of works at the District Assembly level. Zonal
managers do not have the necessary procurement knowledge to advise on procurement
matters. Most of the works will be carried out through Force account where the supervision
of laborers is done by foremen employed by districts. Poor quality of works has been
identified as one for the weaknesses of social funds sub-projects. To mitigate the risks
posed by the two weaknesses, targeted procurement training will be given to MASAF zonal
managers and independent supervisors will be recruited and posted to all the districts. The
process of screening independent supervisors has already started.
4.23  The private sector appears to have much more procurement capacity than the
Government. By and large the private sector is driven by profit and procurement is a very
critical element of the business. The private companies interviewed with respect to
retroactive financing had the capacity for international competitive bidding except it was
only PIL and SFFFRFM that shared their procurement documentation with the mission.
While the interviewing process will continue with other private sector companies and
parastatals, the mission is fairly confident that the procurement practices for most of the
private companies are likely to be acceptable. The mission's confidence is enhanced by the
16



fact that all imports are subject to pre-shipment inspection, by SGS, of quantity, quality and
price.
Procurement Plans
4.24 The MoAI will procure some of the items contained in the positive list; some goods
(computers and vehicles); and consultancy services. The MoAI is in the process of
preparing a procurement plans for these items. The procurement plan is at an advanced
stage of preparation. As far as the MASAF component is concerned, sub-projects compiled
from Districts' 3-year rolling plans are available and a procurement plan is also under
preparation. Another component under MASAF is the procurement of 30 computers for
strengthening monitoring and auditing. MASAF's procurement plan will also be reviewed
and finalized during negotiations. The procurement plans from MoAI and MASAF will be
part of the Project Implementation Plan. The procurement plans will show the step-by-step
procedures and processing times for procurement including: contract packages for goods,
works, consultant services and training; estimated cost; procurement/selection method;
bidding, evaluation and contract award; the activities which follow contract signature such
as manufacture, shipment, delivery and installation of goods; mobilization, construction and
completion of works. Considering the short duration of the project, the procurement plans
will be reviewed quarterly.
A. Manual of Procurement Procedures
4.25 The Operational Manual (OM), the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the
Procurement Procedures Manual (MPP) will be systematically drafted by the MoAI and
completed by Credit Effectiveness. In preparing these manuals, MoAI should solicit
participation of all stakeholders, set out the procurement plans, assess local counterpart fund
requirements, specify responsibilities for commitment and implementation, and the risks
that need to be controlled.
Procurement Metlhods
4.26 The procurement methods to be used are presented in Table A below.
Ouick Disbursement Component The quick disbursing component is composed of
US$10.0 million for retroactive financing and the remaining US$30.0 million is made of
future procurements. Both private and public sectors will benefit from the quick
disbursement component but for eligibility the procurement arrangements will be slightly
different. For the private sector, except petroleum products, procurements for contracts
estimated to cost US$500,000 or more per contract will be procured through modified
international competitive bidding with all contracts subject to Bank's prior review.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000 per contract will be procured using
commercial practices acceptable to the Bank For petroleum products, the threshold for ICB
will be US$3.0 million or more. Any contract below US$3.0 million for petroleum products
may be procured using commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. For procurement by
the public sector, modified ICB procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost
17



US$150,000 or more while international shopping will be employed for contracts estimated
to cost less than US$150,000.
MASAF Component. The procurement arrangements defined in MASAF's Operational
Manual will be used for the EDRP. These arrangements have been agreed with the Bank.
MOAM Comnponent. For goods (vehicles and computers) all contracts estimated to cost
more than US$150,000 per contract will be procured through ICB. Contracts estimated to
cost less than US$150,000 will be procured through NCB using bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 may be procured
through national shopping. All the ICB contracts will be subject to Bank's prior review. For
consultancy services, all contracts for firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be
procured through the QCBS selection method. Consultancy contracts for firms estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 will be procured through the Consultants Qualifications method.
Consultancy services for financial audits and external evaluations will be procured through
least-cost selection method. Consultancy services that meet the requirements of paragraphs
3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured through single-source selection
method with the prior approval of IDA. Individual consultants will be selected on the basis
of their qualifications in accordance with Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Cstegory             Procurement Method1              Total
Cost
IlCB         Modirn ned     NCB  Other2
11CB/Commercial
Practice     ___
1. Quick Disbursement     0.00           40.0        0.00   0.00     40.0
(40.0)                      (40.0)
2. Public Works           0.00           0.00        0.00   6.84     6.84
(6.5)   (6.5)
3. Goods                  0.00           0.00        0.57   0.57     1.14
(0.53)  (0.54)  (1.07)
4. Consultancy            0.00           0.00        0.00   2.33     2.33
Services and                                             (1.97)  (1.97)
Training
5. Operating Costs       0.00            0.00        0.00   0.55     0.55
(0.46)  (0.46)
Total                                 40.0         0.57  10.26    50.86
(40.0)      (0.53)  (9.47)  (50.00)
18



1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit. All costs include
contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the
project
Prior ireview thresholds
4.27 Prior review thresholds are presented in Table B below. Contracts for petroleum and
fuel products estimated to cost US$ 3,000,000 or more under the quick disbursement
component will be subject to prior review by IDA. The threshold for prior review for all the
other items under the quick disbursement component will be US$500,000 or more.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$150,000 or more under the MOAI component will
be subject to prior review.
4.28  Contracts for consultant services estimated to cost US$100,000 or more for firms
and US$50,000 or more for individual consultants will be subject to prior review by IDA.
Terms of Reference and Single Source Selection for all consultant services will require prior
review- by IDA regardless of the contract value.
4.29  These prior review thresholds may be updated after the first year of the project based
on satisfactory project performance.
Procuirement monitoring
4.30 During project implementation, the PCU will provide quarterly reports on progress
of procurement highlighting difficulties encountered in the past, and how they would be
addressed in the future to ensure timely project completion. There will be procurement
supervision every six months which will include special procurement supervision for post-
revieNv/audits. During these missions, IDA will review one in five randomly selected
contracts which are below the prior review thresholds specified above.
19



Tlable 1B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
EExpenditure Category    Contract Value Procurement    Contract subject
Thresholds    Method           To Prior Review
(US$)                          (US$)
Quick lDlisbursement
Component
(a) Imports of petroleum and > 3,000,000  Modified ICB  3,000,000
Fuel products (Private   < 3,000,000  Commercial       None - Post
companies)                            Practice         Review
(b) Other imports under the  > 500,000  Modified ICB   500,000
positive list            < 500,000    Commercial       None - Post
(Private companies)                   Practice         Review
(c) Imports by Public    > 150,000    ICB               150,000
Sector                   < 150,000    Intemational     None - Post
Shopping         Review
Public Works-MAISAIF     All          According to     According to
Component                             MASAF's          MASAF's
Operational      Operational
Manual           Manual
M(DAO Component
(a) Goods                2 150,00     ICB               150,000
< 150,000     NCB              None - Post
< 50,000      National Shopping Review
None - Post
(b) Consultant services by  100,000  QCBS             Review
firms                    < 100,000    Consultants
Qualifications   100,000
None - Post
Consultant services by   2 50,000     Individual       Review
Individuals              < 50,000     Qualifications
Individual       50,000
Qualifications   None - Post
Review
EnvironmentaD and SocisD Aspects
4.31  The operation is not expected to have any major environmental impact as it is
largely a quick-disbursing instrument to provide financing on the basis of a positive list of
20



import requirements. A limited portion of about 16 percent will support public work
activities through MASAF project which is classified under environmental category B.
None of the project activities is expected to lead to or involve involuntary resettlement.
However, a Resettlement Policy Framework will be prepared, approved and submitted
during project implementation to guide any potential resettlement/compensation issues.
Safeguard measures including environmental and social screening, assessment and
mitigation will be applied during project implementation through MASAF's
environmental and social management mechanism.  The operation is classified as
Category B.
5.    JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROPOSED OPERATION
5.1   Several important benefits justify the proposed operation. Expected major benefits
include the following: (a) increased likelihood that the Government will succeed in
preventing excess deaths and morbidity associated with the present food crisis, and will
also be able to maintain investments in education and health critical to longer term
poverty reduction; (b) poverty reduction and enhanced capacity of the vulnerable to buy
food by stimulating production and providing employment and resources through public
works to a large number of unemployed Malawian youth and women; (c) complementing
the assistance provided by other multilateral organizations and bilateral agencies, as an
immediate response to the Government's drought recovery efforts and being a catalyst for
additional assistance; and (d) reduced likelihood of recurrence of food crises, due to
assessment of policy and institutional failures that contributed to the present one and
identification of appropriate remedial measures.
5.2   The operation carries  risks. Delays may occur in delivery of the pledged
humanitarian assistance by other donors, and the residual gap may not be fully pledged.
The relief efforts undertaken by the Malawian Government may not be fully successful,
given the magnitude of the effort and logistical challenges. In the previous year, publicly
procured grain was released from a limited number of urban depots, and incentives to
transport these supplies to rural areas with great need were poor. To prevent recurrence of
this eventuality, the Govemment will prepare and make public a schedule of release of
publicly procured grain, assuring that geographic areas and critical time periods are
covered by the subsidized product. More generally, there is a risk that despite best efforts
at relief by all parties engaged in the effort, some Malawians may still experience hunger
this year. If the relief effort is less than fully successful, the process of recovery will also
be more challenging. To mitigate this, donors have set a joint task force to coordinate,
monitor and report on pledges, shipments and disbursements. In the past, lack of
transparency and mismanagement has been a problem with regard to flows of grain for the
food reserve. If this situation were to recur, it would undermine the efforts of recovery
that the Bank seeks to support. Risk of mismanagement of project funds will be
minirnized by establishing effective mechanisms for auditing and reporting, consultation
and involvement of communities in the operation, and regular public information. In
addition, the Government has committed to fully transparent accounting for all grain that
it purchases for the present crisis, and to monitoring of the impact of the relief effort. A
21



further risk relates to fragmentation and insufficient coordination of efforts by the various
actors at the national level, and limited capacity at the local level. Improved coordination
at the national level can be achieved by designating one focal point at the PS level to
coordinate technical inputs from the various ministries. A final risk relates to the danger
of reversion to "business as usual" after the crisis abates, without putting in place
sustained capacity to prevent and/or manage future crises. This risk can be addressed by
securing commitment of the Government to contribute to a SADC-wide effort to improve
crisis management, fulfilling the commitments, and addressing the domestic agricultural
agenda outlined above.
6.    ACTG'N PLAN
6.1  The Government's Action Plan is presented in the Emergency Drought Recovery
Credit Policy Letter presented in [Annex 1].
22



ANNEX I
Telegrams: Finance. Lilongwe                         Ministry of Finance
Telephone: (265) 789 355                             P  Bx  0
Telex: 4402Ml                                        P.O. Box30049
Fax: (265) 789 173                                  Lilongwe 3
E-mnail:fiiarnce~nin-f,nance.sd.gmw                  MALAWI
Ref. No. 19/1/9                        20th September, 2002
Dr Dunstan Wai
Country Manager
The World Bank
Malawi Office
P 0 Box 30557
Lilongwe 3
Dear Sir,
MALAWI EMERGENCY RELIEF CREDIT:
LETTER OF POLICY
We are pleased to submit to you the Letter of Policy on the
Emergency Relief Credit and attachments. The Letter of Policy and
attachments are being sent to you to complete the documentation
required to process the Emergency Credit.
Please do not hesitate to contact us in case you should need any
additional information.
Yours faithfully,
Dr Maxwell M Mkwezalamba
Principal Secretary (Economics)
For SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY
Attd.
-23-



ANNEX 1I
Tclesraiw: Finance, Lilongwe                                 MINISTER OF FINANCE
Tclkphone: Lilongwe 782 199                                    P.O. BOX 30049
Telex: 44402                                                     LILONGWE 3
Fax: 781 679                                                       MALAWI
Ref. No. 19/1/9                                26'h August, 2002
The Vice President,
Africa Region,
The World Bank,
Washington, D.C. 20043,
United States of America.
Dear Mr. Vice President,
POLICY LMTER: MALAWI EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT
I would like to express my appreciation for your prompt response to my
requests for emergency assistance of $45 million and $20 million and your
approval for a credit facility of $50 million to implement a recovery
program to deal with the current severe food shortage facing Malawi.
2.   As I indicated in my letter referred to above, Malawi has over the
last two years experienced food shortages due to severe floods and
drought which have resulted in poor harvests. The maize shortage is
estimated to be approximately 600,000 metric tonnes (mt). The food
shortage has necessitated large-scale importation of maize. The country
is expected to experience another food shortage in 2002/03 owing to the
continued effects of drought, - flooding in some parts of the country,
inadequate uptake of inputs, consumption of green maize or "corn on the
cob" prior to the usual period of harvest, and lack of grain reserves.
3.   To avoid further humanitarian distress, the Government declared a
state of disaster on 27th February, 2002, indicating that Malawi is
experiencing a catastrophic food shortage with a large number of the
24



farm families facing starvation. Following this, the Government appealed
to the international community for intervention on humanitarian grounds
(see Annex I and 11 for details). The donors have responded by so for
pledging about 140,000 mt out of the required 208,000 metric tonnes of
maize for relief. The relief programme is being co-ordinated by the World
Food Programme. Another 75,000 mt is expected from the Winter Input
Programme. Private sector sources are expected to provide a similar
quantity. Given that the maize to be brought by the cooperating partners
and the private sector is likely to fall short of the country's requirements,
the import of 250,000 mt of maize for commercial purposes is necessary at
a total cost of around US$75 million. However, the private sector's ability
to import this additional maize is hampered by the high cost of borrowing.
4.   The government intends to use the foreign exchange reserves at its
disposal to contract the purchase. This will deplete foreign exchange
reserves and expand the domestic debt stock, exposing the economy to
the risk of macroeconomic instability.
5.   The Government in this regard plans to use the IDA resources of
US$45 million from the World Bank to augment its foreign exchange
position and to support the recovery programme. The proceeds of the
IDA support will be allocated through the budget to support the recovery
programmes and to maintain economic and social priorities during this
period of crisis. The Government's revised budget will include allocations
for the Public Works Program (PWP) and other mechanisms of assistance
to the vulnerable now under consideration, repairs to the Nacala railway
line, the targeted inputs program, and studies to avert future food supply
crises - including the review and updating of the country's Food Security
Policy.
Pricing Policy
6.   A large part of the population is unable to afford the maize at
import cost and we will therefore sell the 250,000 metric tonnes of maize at
a subsidised price of MK1 7 per kilogram. The ability of our people to cope
with the impending shortage has been seriously eroded by the crisis earlier
this year, when the poor sold their assets to purchase food. Thus, in
addition to the one-third of the population receiving humanitarian aid, we
believe that another one-third of the remainder, of those classified as
poor, will need assistance as they will not have the purchasing power to
afford the maize at import cost. Our preferred option would have been to
provide a targeted subsidy. However, we have insufficient time to design
and implement a nationwide program through cash transfers or coupons.
25



7.   We have elected to combine a price subsidy with additional
measures of targeting to direct the maize to those in need but unable to
pay the full price. The price subsidy will be reflected in the budget. Due to
our shared concerns about possible diversion of subsidized maize to
neighbouring countries and/or to income groups not in need of
assistance, we intend to ration and monitor distribution through the Joint
Government/Donor/United Nations (UN) /Non-Governmental Organisation
(NGO) Task Force which will oversee operations at national, district and
community levels.
8.   I wish to confirm that Malawi remains committed to economic
reform programmes including liberalisation. It is therefore our intention to
discontinue the subsidy after the food crisis.
9.   I have taken this opportunity to provide some details on the actions
that the Government is taking to address the immediate food crisis and to
reduce the recurrence of future food crisis.
The Government's Actions to Address Ohe Immediate Crisis of Food
Shorlage
Distribution to Reach the Vulnerable
10. Two parallel modes of maize distribution are envisaged to mitigate
the prevailing food crisis, one for the commercial maize and the other for
the humanitarian food aid. Government is committed to ensuring
transparency in the management and control of both commercial maize
and the humanitarian food aid. In order to achieve this, Government will
ensure that control and management of the two types of stocks will be
done separately. Management and distribution of the humanitarian food
aid will be handled in collaboration with World Food Program (WFP).
Importation of commercial maize will be entrusted to the National Food
Reserve Agency (NFRA). The maize imports will be financed through the
Reserve bank of Malawi (RBM). NFRA will then sell the maize to the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), or a
credible trader who may be contracted after review and approval by the
Joint Task Force, and proceeds from the sale of the maize will be
deposited by the NFRA in an account at the RBM. ADMARC, or the
contracted trader, will retail the maize to recipients. To ensure
transparency and accountability, the Joint task Force will oversee the flow
of payment of sales proceeds from maize by ADMARC and/or trader to
26



NFRA, and eventually into the RBM account. Reconciliation of the
account will be done within 30 days of transactions.
11.  The Joint Government/Donor/UN/NGO Task Force will oversee the
overall coordination of the national response to the crisis. District and
Village Level Civil Protection Committees have been formed to support
implementation at the community level. A lead NGO has already been
selected for each district to coordinate relief operations. Vulnerable
groups to benefit from the humanitarian food aid will include the elderly:
female headed households; the orphans; families having adopted
orphans, particularly those affected by HIV/AIDS; the chronically ill; small
land holders who experienced severe crop failures; and the landless.
Logistical Bottlenecks and Distribulion Plan
12.  Learning  from   2001-2002  maize  importation  exercise,
implementation of the emergency food crisis program may be subject to
major constraints. These include poor operational procedures and
congestion at the ports and off-loading points, inadequacy of haulage
capacity for domestic food distributions, and the poor condition for most
rural roads. The Government has taken particular note of the importance
of improving operations on the Nacala corridor, including repairing the
line between Cuamba and Entra Lagos to facilitate quick and efficient
flow of stock from the ports into the country.  Trucks' for internal
transportation are being imported, for example, through the WFP/NGO
consortium. In addition, Government plans to improve internal logistics
and networks in order to further improve distribution of stocks, for example,
through paying attention to road infrastructure improvement by
expansion of public works and provision of equipment.
13.  Geographical targeting in the distribution of commercial maize will
be based on the district food requirement assessment as provided in
Annex Ill, while temporal targeting will be based on national average
maize consumption, estimated at 30,000mt/month.  ADMARC will
prepare distribution plans based on this information.
14.  The vulnerability assessment will be used to arrive at monthly
allocation per district. The assessment will be updated in Qctober and
January. The existing Vulnerability Assessment Committee composed of
representatives of the National Economic Council (NEC), Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation, the Donor Community, Department of Relief
and Disaster Preparedness and NGOs, will undertake the monitoring of the
maize delivery and distribution.
27



Institutional Arrangement In the MaAze Distribufilon
15.  A Program Implementation Unit (PIU) is to be established under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation to manage the maize import and
distribution processes. A Logistics Officer will be assigned within the PIU,
specifically to oversee and monitor the operations of ADMARC and NFRA
in the maize marketing and distribution. The PIU will be reporting to the
Joint Task Force on the Management of the Food Crisis.
16.  Government will ensure that there is no conflict in the operations of
ADMARC and NFRA in so far as local purchoses and distributions and
management of the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR) is concerned.
Procedures are being developed by a specific working group under the
Joint Task Force. Specific attention will be given to measures to prevent
recycling of subsidized maize into the SGR and elite capture of subsidized
maize, for example, through restriction in the quantities permitted per
sales transaction. These measures will be publicized widely.
Informafion Education and Communicafton (IEC) in Maize Distribution
17.  A structured IEC effort will be implemented during the whole
program to convey information on the geographical distribution of the
maize and prices at which it will be sold. This will be coordinated by the
Information Systems Working Group under the Joint Task Force. Specific
personnel will be allocated on a full time basis to implement the IEC.
Channels of mass communication including TV, radio and pri,nt media will
be used to inform the public. In addition, the agricultural extension
network will include information on distribution plans and prices in its
leaflets and posters. NGOs and faith communities will form part of the
information network.
Government Action to Assist Preparation for the Next Harvest and MAitigate
Future Crises.
18.  To avoid the resurgence of the problem for the next season and in
the foreseeable future, the Government has initiated a number of
programs inter-linking short, medium and long term measures as follows:
* Providing free inputs through the Targeted Inputs Programme (TIP)
to smallholder farmers who have land but lack basic inputs like
fertilizer and improved seed.
o Promoting public works program (cash, inputs or food for work).
28



* Establishing employees inputs credit schemes.
* Promoting irrigation (use of simple technologies such as treadle
pumps and canals) and crop diversification (root and tuber and
other drought resistant crops).
* Facilitating provision of input credit by financial institutions.
. Encouraging and promoting the use of manure to complement
inorganic fertilizers.
* Promoting natural resource management, to contain and reverse
environmental degradation (in liaison with other administrative
structures and stakeholders);
* Medium and long-term improvements to infrastructure, logistics and
transport, including  international  transport links  through
Mozambique (Nacala, Beira and Quelimane).
* Continuing, where appropriate, with policy reforms.
* Developing a comprehensive national food security policy.
A number of these programs are already being implemented. For
instance, the Extended TIP, Public Works Program, and encouragement
and promotion of manure to complement inorganic fertilizers are already
in place. In addition, Government is currently developing a
comprehensive food security policy.
19.  1 am  satisfied that the actions and programs outlined above
contribute to an adequate and satisfactory set of interventions to
manage the current emergency effectively. I further hope that this will
maintain the long term policy and development thrust of the
Government, and that the actions will avert or reduce the impact of
similar crises in the future.
Yours sincerely,
Frdy A. Jumbe
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND
ECONOMIC PLANNING
29



Annex 2
COST SUMMARY- MALAWI EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
(US$ MILLUONS)
Govt.
Counterpart.
Component (category)  Total   Foreign             Local               Funding
A. Quick Disbursing
Component
100%
Imports             40.00   40.00   financing   0.00                 0.00
Consultant Services                    100%                80%
(including audits)     1.30    1.00    financing  0.30    financing    0.06
B Pub. Works Prog.(w/
subitems)
95%
1. SSPs                0.72    0.00               0.72    financing    0.04
80%
2. Equipment-Task Force  0.13  0.00               0.13    financing    0.03
100%
3. Multi Sectoral Training  0.62  0.00            0.62    financing    0.00
85%
4. Extra Operating Costs  0.16  0.00              0.16    financing     0.02
95%
5. PWP Sub-projects    6.37    0.00               6.37    financing    0.32
100%                80%
C. Equipment and Veh.  0.20    0.10    financing  0.10    financing    0.02
D. Project Management
100%                80%
Operating            0.30     0.20   financing   0.10    financing    0.02
E. Unallocated         0.20    0.20               0.00
GRAND TOTAL           50.00    41.50              8.50                  0.50
30



Annex 3
Allocation of Credit and Grant to Categories
_______________         ~in  USD
Category         Total      Grant             Credit
1  Eligible imports     40,000,000
(a) petroleum                        7,000,000                        0
(b) other than petroleum            14,000,000                 19,000,000
2  Goods                                  _
(   part C                 200,000          0                    200,000
(b) part B.3               130,000          0                    130,000
Cons. services,
3  including audit
for Part C            1,300,000         0                   1,300,000
4  Training for part B.3  620,000          0                    620,000
5  Sub-projects
(a) Part B.1              6,370,000         0                  6,370,000
(b) Part B.2               720,000          0                    720,000
6  Operating Costs
(a) part C                 300,000          0                    300,000
(b) part B.3 of the Project  160,000        0                    160,000
7  Unallocated            200,000          0                    200,000
50,000,000  21,000,000                29,000,000
31



Annex 4
Positive List Items
Items                       Quick-Disbursing Component of
USD 40 miHion
Retroactive
Financing 20% of
USD 50 million    Other
Under    Under    Payments
Grant    Credit
Petroleum & Fuel Products   4.2      0        2.8
Agricultural Inputs         0        5.8      1.2
Ag. Equipment                                 6.0
Construction Equipment                        4.0
Spare Parts                                   5.0
Livestock, Animal Prod. & Vet.                2.0
Supplies
School Supplies                      _        4.0
Medical Supplies & Equipment                  5.0
Total (USD millions)        4.2      5.8      30.0
32



Annex 5
Supporting community responses to the food crisis
1.    Bank support
Background
1.1   The 2001 Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (MPRSP), a successor to the
1995 Poverty Alleviation Policy Framework Document, has four basic pillars within
which the Government intends to achieve poverty reduction. There is a recognition in all
the pillars that community action is a necessary pre-condition for achieving the goals of
the strategy - be it pro-poor economic growth, improving the lives of vulnerable persons,
improving governance, or achieving human capacity development. Similarly, the cross-
cutting issues of HlV/AlDS, gender, and the environment all require community
participation if the goal of self-reliance is to be achieved. The emergency crisis facing
Malawi is to a large extent a consequence of past shortfalls in achieving success in the
four pillars and three cross-cutting issues outlined in the MPRSP. Strengthening the work
of agencies which support community development in Malawi during this crisis should
make a useful contribution to the foundation being laid to implement the MPRSP. It is for
this reason that the EDRP will support several agencies with responsibilities for
promoting community participation for empowerment: District Assemblies, Traditional
Authority, MASAF, NGOs, CBOs, Community Support Organizations, Ministry of
Community Development, Department of Local Government, Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation, as well as community elected committees.
1.2   The newly-elected Government of Malawi in 1995 established the Malawi Social
Action Fund (MASAF) in the same year as part of its strategy to strengthen community
participation in the implementation of the Poverty Alleviation Policy Framework
Document. The Project design, structure and procedures have evolved during this time in
order to respond effectively to the demands of communities. High demands from
communities and early full commitment of available funds led the Bank to finance a
second phase (MASAF H) in 1998. MASAF II was fully committed by 2001, but there
were unfunded community requests worth over US$300 million. The Government of
Malawi set up a Programme Preparation team for a third Phase of MASAF, and the Bank
responded positively - with the design of an operation which will be appraised and made
effective during this financial year.
1.3   in the context of the current emergency, it is proposed to scale up certain
community interventions at the community, NGO/CBO, and District Assembly levels
within ithe framework of MASAF working with the Ministries of Agriculture, Local
Government, and Community Development. The cash-transfer Public Works Program
(PWP), implemented in areas identified by District Administration as suffering from
severe food shortages, provides the first opportunity to scale up community response to
the crisis created by food shortages. The PWP allows District Assemblies (DAs)to
mobilize able-bodied vulnerable community members like widows, female-heads of
33



households, and the landless to construct assets (community roads, bridges, water
reservoirs, and environment rehabilitation) though self-targeting wage set just below the
minimum market wage. Although Community Development Assistants (CDAs) have
been active in community mobilization for Community Sub-Projects (like schools and
clinics), they have been less active in the PWP.  In the context of developing a
comprehensive PWP intervention in response to the crisis, it will be necessary to develop
a comprehensive program to equip CDA with improved skills.
1.4   A Sponsored Sub-Projects (SSP) component was piloted under MASAF II in
response to the needs of vulnerable persons who could not participate in PWP (orphans,
street children, people with disabilities, the aged, and those infected and affected with
HIV/AIDS). The SSP provides financial grants and technical support for programs
targeted at the marginalized persons by NGOs, CBOs, and CSOs. The main activities
supported under SSP are skills training, capacity building, income generating activities,
construction of skills centers, day care centers, food security initiatives, and home based
care management and advocacy. The Ministry of Health and Population (MPHP) has also
been involved in mobilizing communities to feed children (therapeutically at hospital-
based Rehabilitation Units and at health center-bases Supplementation Sites), but there is
little scope for expanding these because the MOHP is greatly constrained by a staff
shortage - estimated at 50% staff vacancy rates. Thus, the main strategy for expanding
support for vulnerable groups is through the work of NGOs, CBOs, and CSOs; some
supported by MASAF, but many working with little extemal support. The many
community members who have come together to look after vulnerable persons at the
household level have limited opportunity to access extra resources, and the emergency
offers us an opportunity to respond to this need.
Lessons learnt
1.5   In promoting Community Demand-Driven development, MASAF has learnt
lessons from its interactions with communities, NGOs, CBOs, CSOs, District Assemblies,
and central line Ministries. Some of these lessons are relevant to the design of the ERC,
the main ones being:-
o  Communities can develop the capacity to manage sub-projects to increase service
access, but there are few suitable mechanisms for direct transfers to individuals.
Most success has been in the building of community assets to increase access to
services, with a total of 1,392 CSPs completed under MASAF I and a similar
number is expected under MASAF II.
o  A self-targeting wage is an effective mechanism to reach the able-bodied
vulnerable persons, but there are major management deficiencies in the District
Administrative structures - especially accounting for funds and provision of
technical supervision. Under MASAF I, a total of 13.6 million person days of
employment were created, transferring a total of MK 165 million and building a
total of 5,036 miles of community roads. More is expected under MASAF II due
to extra resources provided by the DfID to this component, but there is need to
34



unleash the potential capacity of DAs to respond to community needs and increase
public assets in the districts.
*  In addition to the existence of formal NGOs/CBO, communities have been able to
form their own Community Support Organization (CSOs) to facilitate the transfer
of resources to those who are vulnerable and unable to take advantage of the PWP
wage. There are nevertheless some capacity constraints in these organizations,
especially in remote areas where training and learning opportunities are limited. A
pilot under MASAF II is so far supporting close to 100 CBO/NGO/CSO projects
at a total cost of US$1.5 million, it has been difficult to expand this support due to
resource and capacity constraints.
* Weak extension systems by Government agencies have impacted negatively on the
ability of communities to transform social capital from MASAF to economic
capital; especially in agriculture-related investments. The CDAs have found
themselves very short of resources although they are a critical resource in
community mobilization.  Similarly, the reported decline in numbers of
agricultural extension workers, as well as inadequacy of resources for effective
agricultural extension, has constrained the conversion of social capital into
economic capital as a basis for poverty alleviation.
*  Shortages in recurrent costs, especially that related to human resources, on the part
of central ministries has hindered the full use of assets created by communities
under both the PWP and CSP. Inadequate Government funding for a number of
ministries such as Community Development, Agriculture and Irrigation, and others
has negatively impacted on the empowerment of communities so that they can
become better partners in the delivery of services. It is for this reason that the
MOHP has for instance been unable to expand the Community Drug Revolving
Fund, which is necessary for increasing access for communities in remote areas.
*  The private financial sector has not been fully mobilized in the current MASAF
operations, affecting the ability of communities to take advantage of market-
created opportunities. The micro-finance sub-sector has limited outreach, there are
few outlets for agricultural inputs on account of low cash availability in the rural
areas, and rural markets for agricultural produce have been severely constrained.
*  When communities are under stress from drought and seasonal demand for
agricultural labour at the household level, MASAF activities are affected. There is
often increased demand for PWP and SSP during drought, while communities tend
to pull back from CSP. Increased household labour demands tend to affect all
MASAF activities negatively. During this emergency, it is expected that the
completion of CSPs supported by MASAF will be slowed down while there will
be increased demand for PWPs.
* Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) have proved the most potent
tool for promoting transparency and accountability; backed by community-based
35



accounting for funds channeled to communities. The lack of an adequate district-
level Management Information System (MIS) and Monitoring and Evaluation
structures have nevertheless put constraints on the development of a community-
based IEC capacity of intensifying accountability at the lower levels.
MASAF safety operations under PWP have stopped at the cash transfer stage. For
increased socio-economic impact, there is need to gain a deeper understanding of
intra-household decision making processes and work with participating households
so that they can engage in income generating activities as well as promote savings.
1.6   These and other lessons have been influential in the design of MASAF 3, and will
inform the design of the EDRP component to be implemented through MASAF and its
partners (several national line ministries, District Assemblies, NGOs/CBOs/CSOs, and
Project Management Committees) supported by national sector ministries.
2.    Proposed Actions
2.1   While the crisis affecting Malawi today has many causes which need to be tackled
in the medium and longer-term, the EDRP will, in addition to responding to the immediate
crisis, begin to lay a foundation for these issues to be addressed once the crisis has
stabilized. Thus, the policy and institutional changes needed in a number of areas cannot
be tackled now, but some initiatives can be started now to provide a suitable entry point
for longer-term interventions. The EDRP will support social investments, public works,
and vulnerable groups through MASAF using mechanisms established under the current
project (MASAF I). The main activities proposed are:-
2.2   (a) Increase PWP funded through Cash For Relief Work in all District Assemblies.
During this drought, the Government of Malawi channeled MK1 13 million
through MASAF to start a Cash for Relief Work (CFRW), which allowed District
Assemblies to incorporate small Public Works Projects with quick approval processes and
with a set maximum of MKO.5 million per project. The District Assemblies have
indicated that they can scale this up substantially if clear guidelines and procedures for
district-level approval and accounting are available. With DflD financing, MASAF is
deploying an Accounts Assistant in every DA (both rural and urban) for this purpose and
simplified approval procedures (to be adopted under MASAF 3) are being formulated for
use under the ERC. The DflD has also allocated US$1.7 million to MASAF to finance
CFRW within the PWP starting September 2002.
2.3   The PWP will be paying each beneficiary MK30 per day and an additional cash
adjustment based on the need to bring the wage to the price of 2 kilograms of maize at
market prices. MASAF will put the cash adjustments over and above the PWP wage into
accounts held by the Malawi Savings Bank, or it will pay lumpsums at the end of the
month.
36



2.4   As part of gearing towards MASAF 3, the PWP will be fully decentralized to
District Assemblies with a new implementation mechanism characterized by the
following: -
* DAs will be allocated funds, based on a formulae developed by the Local
Govermnent Finance Committee, only as these become available, and not on
promises of finds.
* Every DA will open a PWP account, get an Accounts Assistant with a computer
from MASAF, and ensure that the Accounts Assistant is among the signatories.
* Funds allocated to the DA will finance, among other things, sub-projects in: roads
rehabilitation, some new road works, water conservation, soil conservation,
community compost heaps, community food banks, seedlings nurseries, small
earth dams, hyacinth clearance, flood control, and others.
* All sub-project worth less than US$10,000 will be approved by the District
Executive Committee (DEC) and endorsed by the full DA; and sub-projects above
this US$10,000 threshold will be forwarded to MASAF MU for review and
approval.
*  Sub-project costs will aim for a minimum of 60% of the costs going towards
unskilled labor; and any sub-project without this minimum will be subject to
review by MASAF MU before implementation can commence.
* MASAF will disburse funds to DAs in three trances of 40%, 30% and 30%; with
requests for the second tranche being made when 70% of the first tranche is
utilized and accounted for.
* The DAs will utilize a MASAF supplied computer and software to maintain
project records, and to produce specified reports for comrnmunity leaders,
councilors, Zone Offices, District Assembly, and MASAF MU. On a monthly
basis, MASAF MU will prepare a summary performance report by DAs and
publish it in the local press for public accountability.
* MASAF MU will strengthen its financial management system at three Zone
Offices (central, southem, and northern) so that DAs can receive technical support
with their accounting for funds. The IEC, MIS, and M&E systems of MASAF
will also be strengthened in support of this decentralized implementation of PWP.
* Resources will be made available for the training of Community Development
Assistants and Officers so that they can strengthen the implementation of PWP in
the districts.
*  MASAF will enter into an MOU with the Local Government Finance Committee
spelling out the provisions to be followed by the DAs, and the Finance Committee
37



will be supported with resources to undertake limited monitoring of how the DAs
are implementing the MOU.
2.5   (b) Extend Sponsored Sub-Projects (SSP) for the vulnerable
Many of the SSPs involved in income-generating projects are facing hardships as
their projects have also been affected by drought. The NGOs/CBOs managing these SSPs
will be supported so that they can receive food from the humanitarian assistance
distributed under the WFP, failing which they will get a limited grant to supplement their
incomes and undertake feeding. Furthermore, many of them have expressed a desire to
run hammer mills as revenue-generating activities, but these will also contribute to a
reduction of labor demands on women by brining grain milling capacity closer to the
homes. Tnus, there will be a limited number of hammer mills distributed to these
NGOs/CBOs working with Incapacitated Vulnerable Persons (IVPs).
2.6   (c) Support Community Food Banks
As a bridge to post-drought recovery methods, the PWP wage will be extended to
community groups involved in establishing Community Food Banks (CFBs) which can be
used to feed the IVPs in normal times and extend support to other vulnerable persons in
times of emergencies. Traditional Authorities, Village Headmen, and communities with
agriculture-based Income Generating Projects for IVPs can be supported to establish
Compost Heaps, prepare land for Community Food Banks (CFBs, receive agricultural
inputs, plant, weed, and harvest the crops for storage in the CFBs. These CFBs would be
under the control of a Traditional Leader supported by an Elected PMC - making up a
CFB Committee, which would ensure that the grain is distributed to the IVPs in normal
times and selected vulnerable persons in emergencies. In times of food crisis, such as the
present, communities could also designate the site of CFBs as suitable for supplementary
feeding (cooking to feed malnourished children and others in need of supplements). Thus,
the CFB Committees could become important permanent mechanisms in communities for
purposes of targeting assistance to the very vulnerable in a transparent and accountable
manner. These CFGs will be evaluated at the end of the emergency, and the lessons used
to improve the delivery of MASAF 3.
3     Studies and tecdhnical assistance
3.1   The expansion and scaling up envisaged here would require some selected
strengthening of delivery mechanisms at MASAF Management Unit and District
Assembly levels. In particular, the IEC, M&E, MIS, and Financial Management systems
would require strengthening with short-term staff and with resources to produce the
materials needed to ensure public accountability at community, district, and national
levels. For instance, MASAF plans to publish monthly status reports (in the press)
showing how every DA is performing, and a summary of the whole ERC component
under MASAF management.
3.2   MASAF has been given the responsibility to develop and implement an IEC
program for the emergency by the Joint Task Force, and staff for this activity will work
under MASAF - but with mandates supplied by the Joint Task Force. Thus, it is proposed
38



to attach a Relief IEC Officer in the Zones with strengthened accounting capacity so that
they can work together in preparing information to strengthen accountability.
3.3   At the end of the EDRP, it will be necessary to carry out an evaluation of how
communities, DAs and national level agencies worked together, with a view to using the
lessons in the improvement of MASAF operations in the areas of vulnerability and social
risk matnagement.
4.    Institutional arrangements
4.1   MASAF will designate an Officer at Management Unit for the EDRP to ensure
that there is integration and improved collaboration. The designate EDRP Officer will be
accountable to the Directors for SSP and PWP, and will ensure that EDRP activities do
not hinder the successful completion of MASAF II (set to close on May 31, 2003) and the
design of MASAF 3 (set to be delivered this financial year). Any strengthening of
systems (IEC, MIS, M&E, and finance) within MASAF in response to the EDRP will be
co-ordinated by the EDRP Officer, who will be the liaison person between MASAF and
all agencies working on the EDRP; but technical officers will work under the relevant
MASAF technical unit.
4.2   MASAF will send EDRP progress reports to the Secretariat set up to manage the
ERC under the MOAI, co-ordination focal point in MOF, and the Ministry of Poverty and
Disaster Management Affairs, for these activities. Information from community,
NGO/CBO/CSO and DA level work with MASAF will be made available to these
national focal points on a monthly basis, including accounts, beneficiaries being reached,
and performance by various implementing agencies. Suitable summaries of the same
information will be disseminated through the press for enhanced public accountability
under the EDRP.
4.3   MASAF will also work with the Ministry of Community Development, Ministry
of Local Government, and Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation to address capacity
constraints in the way extension staff in these ministries work with DAs so that the EDRP
can be a success. The main interventions will be training and some limited resources to
strengthen supervision and monitoring within the DAs. In the case of the DAs, it is
expected that there will be DA staff (at least one) made available to work with the
Accounts Assistant to ensure that information is entered into the computer so that
information for councillors, DA, communities, zones, and MASAF MU can be produced
on time.
5.    Justification
5.1   MASAF channels funds directly to communities, CSOs, CBOs, NGOs and District
Assemiblies. On the basis of past performance in transferring assistance to vulnerable
persons through PWP and IVPs through the SSP, MASAF has been identified as a
suitable partner to implement the EDRP. The transfer of cash minimizes the risks of loss
between the source and the beneficiaries, and allows communities to take advantage of
39



market channels in the distribution of inputs (food, building materials, agricultural inputs,
etc.).  The approach adopted by MASAF strengthens both the private sector and
Government structures working directly with communities. Over the last seven years,
MASAF has established a management and community infrastructure which can respond
to the EDRP and deliver flexibly, transparently, and speedily primarily using self-
targeting mechanisms.
5.2   It is estimated that close to 2 million beneficiaries will be reached with this
emergency PWP if the arrangements with DAs can be finalized and implemented. The
topping up of PWP wage with cash based on the need to meet a need for 2 kilograms of
maize, combined with a savings element, will not only give the able-bodied vulnerable
persons an opportunity to eam money for food purchases, but give them an opportunity to
save for some agricultural inputs.
6.       Action plan
- Agree on resources available to MASAF under the EDRP, and inform MASAF MU so
that it can prepare the DA allocation schedule for dissemination.
- Give MASAF authority to immediately finance EDRP activities using CSP resources
being held for next year's disbursement to communities (retroactive financing).
- Agree on format and date for first progress report.
- Develop an MOU government the new relationship between MASAF and DAs in the
implementation of the EDRP.
7.    Budget
3.1   This budget is based on the assessed capacity with respect to what the District
Assemblies might be able to absorb during this emergency. It is expected that MASAF
will get these resources from the DfID Emergency Relief contribution. IDA EDRP
contribution, and government contribution from local funds generated from the fast-
disbursing component of the EDRP .
7.2   The US$8 million set aside for use by MASAF under the EDRP would be used as
follows:-
US$
- SSPs                         0.72
- Equipment (task force work)  0.13
- Training                     0.62
- Extra operating costs        0.16
- PWP sub-projects             6.37
Total                         8.00
Costs for strengthening the IEC within the Joint Task Force framework would be taken
from the US$ 2 million set aside for studies and technical assistance.
40



7.3    The eventual size of the emergency PWP will depend on how many more resources
can be mobilized during this period.
COSTING SUMMARY: MAXIMUM ABSORPTION
Sub-component                           MK               US$
SUB-PROJECTS COST - PWP             1,618,814,340.00   21,160,971.76
SUB-PROJECTS COSTS - SSP              41,000,000.00      535,947.71
EQUIPMENT (Joint Task Force work)      6,120,000.00       80,000.00
TRAINING / WORKSHOPS                  34,807,500.00      455,000.00
IEC (Joint Task Force work)            4,207,500.00       55,000.00
INCRE.ASED OPERATINGS COSTS            9,206,300.00      120,343.79
TOTAL COSTS                         1,714,155,640.00   22,407,263.27
41



LOGFRAME
Indicators              Means of            Risks and
Verification        Assumptions
Goal: To assist with management of  Minimal levels of   M&E for drought     Logistical
the drought and recovery.       increased death and     effort, health      bottlenecks,
morbidity, adequate     indicators,        inadequate
preparation for         agricultural surveys  managerial capacitv
subsequent crop year
Objectives:
To contribute to a reduction in  Health indicators      Ministry of Health  Assumed that
hardships imposed by floods and  School attendance      reports.            current GOM-Donor
drought on Malawians, restoring the  Distribution of    Ministry of Agric.  collaboration will be
productive capability in the country  agricultural inputs and  reports.     maintained and even
and supporting longer-term      advice                                      improved.
Goverunent capacity in disaster                                             Adequate focus by
management.                                                                 Government on
logistical issues.
Outputs:
* successful procurement of     Performance of          Procurement         Assumed that
items from positive list        Disbursement and        records.Records kept  District Assemblies
Quantities of items     by Secretariat.     will quickly gain the
* expanded participation in public  Procured against positive  MASAF reports  experience and
works program                   list.                                       expertise to
* identified TA completed                                                   document progress
* M&E progress reports produced  Decline in number of   Reports kept by     and prepare reports
and shared.                      under-five malnutrition.  Secretariat, MOAI  on tine.
and MOF, joint task
*  accountability interventions  Number of participants  force.
disseminated.                    in Public Works
Programs increased.
Number of drought
mitigation studies
undertaken.
Increase in areas under
irrigation.
Detailed components:            Procurement under
A. Fast Disbursing Fund         positive list
B. Social Investment (MASAF)    Participants in public
works programs,
additional drought related
special projects
C. Studies and Technical Assistance  Reports, public
information,
dissemination
42



Estimating impact of various emergency interventions
Intervention      Activities                  No. of       Total      Cost $ per
beneficiaries  cost, US$  beneficiary
millions
Fast disbursing   Import of critical items    NA                40.0
component
Public Works      Scale up public works       About 11           8.0  Payments of
through District Assemblies  million               about $.5
person/days,            per day
distributed             (equivalent
among 70%               to 2 kilos
of poorest              maize)
Studies. public   Support work of task forces,                   2.0
education,        public dissemination,
agricultural advice  additional resources for
agricultural extension
43



Annex 6
Addendum
A. Addendum on Nutrition Strategy & Distribution of Hummanitarian Assistance
1.1   The Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy includes nutrition under two of its four
pillars - human capital development and improving the quality of life of the most
vulnerable - with the Ministries of Agriculture and Irrigation, the Ministry of Health and
Population and the Minister of State for Poverty Alleviation Programmes. The MPRSP
recognizes the need to coordinate the various programs that affect nutrition and to this end
suggests that a food and nutrition council be set up.
1.2   In the short term, protecting the nutrition of children will mainly be addressed
through the humanitarian relief efforts underway. In addition to the provision of free food
to vulnerable households under the WFP these include programs for supplementary
feeding as well as school feeding in selected sites (though the main objective of the latter
is more to achieve educational goals than to prevent malnutrition).2 UNICEF is taking a
lead in the provision of supplementary feeding. Children who are deemed malnourished
receive 10 kg. of supplementary feeding as take home rations every month. This serves as
a second tier of protection for vulnerable children in the sense that it reaches children who
have not benefited from relief for one reason or another. However they currently reach
only 48,00 children - maybe 10% of the number of young children who are acutely
malnourished, the criterion for eligibility (there is currently no surveillance system that
tracks acute malnutrition, although UNICEF and other NGOs are establishing one).
Despite this need, expansion of this program - which is clinic based - is hindered by the
lack of capacity in the Ministry of Health.
1.3   Even in years of excellent harvests levels of malnutrition in Malawi are high.
Global experience - as well as experience in Malawi over the last 20 years - indicates that
supplementary feeding programs without community based support to care givers leads to
little sustainable improvement in nutritional indicators. On the other hand, a number of
community based growth promotion projects have achieved measurable success with little
or no food transfers. Thus, while the focus on providing food to young children and
pregnant women during the emergency is fully justified, a sustainable strategy for
reducing the number of underweight children needs to shift the balance of services to
include community based activities that impact skills to care givers.
B. Distribution oT Humanitarian Assistance
2.1   The following existing procedures put in place by Government of Malawi in
partnership with development partners will continue during the ERDP implementation. A
National Disaster Preparedness and Relief Committee (NDPRC) has been established as
2 The WFP also supports take-home food distribution conditional on school attendance of
girls on a limited scale.
44



the highest institution to manage the emergency response under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation, and the Ministry of Poverty Alleviation and Disaster
Management Affairs. International agencies, under the leadership of the UNDP, have
been incorporated into a GOM Joint Task Force (under the NDPRC), with a Secretariat, to
manage relief activities through five Committees - one of which is the Humanitarian
Response Committee (HRC). The other four committees are Management of Strategic
Grain Reserve, Inputs and Logistics, Food Policy and Programs, and Information Systems
Development. At lower levels, the HRC works through District Assembly Task Forces
chaired by District Commissioners and implementing activities in Traditional Authority
Areas through Area Relief Committees, and in villages through Group Village and Village
Relief Committees. Thus, the HRC has four organizational structures below it to handle
the distribution of food to the vulnerable households identified using criteria administered
by the Village level Relief Committees.
2.2   Food channeled through these committees is procured externally and delivered to
the World Food Program (WFP) depots for storage, while district-level NGOs distribute
the food. These NGOs are reimbursed between US$18 and US$35 per metric ton for their
logistics. In this distribution system, Government has left its structures with management
oversig:ht responsibilities while food distribution has been given to the WFP and NGOs.
2.3   In accord with WFP standard procedures, targeting of the relief is based on a
prioritization of need with female or child headed households, households fostering
orphans, elderly, and landless deemed most vulnerable. A monthly ration of 50kg of grain
is provided to each household targeted regardless of the household size and composition.
Whenever possible the grain is delivered to a female household member. The WFP also
intends to include pulses, cooking oil, sugar and ground nuts in the distribution depending
on availability. At this time the WFP consolidated appeal (launched in late July, 2002) is
not filly funded; the WFP reports particular difficulty in obtaining pledges for
supplementary foods, such as pulses. The program expects to deliver 6,000 tons in
August and scale up to over 25,000 tons a month by the end of the year.
45



Annex 7
A Summary of Malawi Emergency Drought Recovery Project -Transport Issues
I. ASSUMPTIONS:
o There is a projected need of mainly maize but also other food imports of
approximately 600,000 tons within the next 7-9 months (between August /
September this year and March / April of next year);
o Imports of such needs as emergency have already (August 2002) started and will
continue to intensify for the next 4-6 months up until the next first harvests by
March 2003. Thereafter, if rains and consequently harvests are good, then food
imports may taper down and reduce;
o The most probable source for the imports are external to the region and therefore
that all shipments are coming into the region by sea;
o The options for receiving relief goods are, therefore, limited to the Northern
Corridor, the Nacala Corridor, the Beira Corridor and imports through the RSA;
o These corridors are the same ones used for all other imports and the exports of the
country;
o  The large quantities of agricultural inputs including fertilizer planned to be
imported within the next four months (an average of 3040,000 tons per month)
will have a competing impact on limited discharge, loading / off-loading, storage
capacities at the ports causing congestion;
o  There will be a transport constrain created by lack of capacity especially with
regard to the limited rail transport capacity.
These assumptions are made on the basis of existing data and information. They make a
clear case for closer examination into the logistic mechanisms as they currently operate,
for anticipation of possible bottleneck situations that may occur and for exploring the
potential improvements that can be suggested.
ML F1DINGS
a) The locations for the need
The need for transport services in the immediate future is a factor of the need for
emergency items requirements by the population. The distribution of such requirements
country-wise can be construed to be directly proportionate to the densities of population.
Geographically, therefore, the needs would be largest in the Southern Region, followed by
Central Region; and be lowest in the Northem Region. In respect of logistics, for
consideration and comparison of different alternatives, a central point of reference for the
country as a whole would clearly be Lilongwe.
b) The Transport System
The options for import routes for Malawi are limited to the four corridors: The Northern
Corridor, the Nacala Corridor, the Beira corridor, and the Southern Corridor (through
RSA). The cost estimates (as given by WFP and generally confirmed, albeit by slightly
lower figures, by other sources) in relation to each one these four corridors, as shown in
the table below, are very much in favor of the Nacala option, followed by Beira.
46



Table I: Transport and Handling Costs (in US$/ton)
(Southern)
DEST[NlATION    NORTHERN                 BEIRA   -   NACALA     RSA
VIA
MAJOR MALAWI    DIRECT    (MALAWI CARGO   DIRECT                 DIRECT
CENTRES       TRUCK   CENTRE) MBEYA     TRUCK       RAIL      TRUCK
To Lilongw      137       124 (115)      101 (87)    64         (125)
To BlarLtyre    144       137 (122)      80 (76)     60
To Liwonde       142      132 (120)      90 (76)     55
To Mziimba       118      100 (96)       111         84*
Transport Time  5 days    6 (5  _ys      2 days      3 days
Cost to Lilongwe
(as % ofNacala)  214 %    194 (180) %    159 (136) %  100 %
Source: WFP (figures in brackets are from other sources)
* by road ex Lilongwe
Malawi being a landlocked country is rather far from ports, is a highly formalized country
with cumbersome procedures for commercial operations, and is one where the informal
sector is not so well developed, and is a country with a slim and elongated geography
(more than 1200 Km. long from north to south); is not surprising that Malawi has a very
high cost of transport services (internal and external).
While the Nacala corridor provides the cheapest alternative route to the outside world, it
does have its restrictions of port capacity, storage capacities, railing capacity related to
motive power and wagon constraints, and problems of infrastructure on the 77 Km of un-
rehabilitated section of the railway, between Cuamba and Entre-Lagos. A recently
concluded CIDA funded study on the required investments to complete the rehabilitation
works on the railway has estimated that $ US 5.7 million would be required for
improvements of emergency nature (including 2.7 million for emergency repair of the rail,
and 3 million for the leasing of 8 locomotives and 40 wagons). The pay back for such
investments (believed to be about one million monthly) is about six months. In addition
the benefits of such an improvement will be accrued by the whole country through the
reduction of the transport time and the cost of transport on this corridor.
In the Beira Corridor there is only the trucking option. This inevitably makes it a more
expensive (150%) alternative than the Nacala option. The Beira Port is a much larger port
and has a higher level of facilities, but it is used by Mozambique itself and the
neighboring countries -Zimbabwe and Zambia. The competition means that the Beira
corridor has but limited capacity reserved for Malawi. This corridor provides the shortest
distance from any port to the major population masses of Malawi.
Both the Nacala and the Beira Corridors are said to have the potential for improvement
when it comes to efficiency and effectiveness. They operate only limited hours of the 24
hour day, some of their equipment lacks minor repair and is either not operating at all or
not at full capacity, the personnel are said to lack motivation to work harder and more
efficiently, etc. While there seems to exist room for performance improvements there is
47



has not been any specific investigation made into these operations with the aim of
effecting reform and better management practices. This emergency operation may provide
the opportunity to do just that.
Both the Northern Corridor -by train to Mbeya and trucking the rest of the way, or
trucking the whole way- and the RSA (Southern) route -trucking the whole way- cover
very long distances (to Lilongwe 1700 km. and 2600 km. respectively). They are
consequently very expensive (more than double the rates for the Nacala corridor) but they
are said to have the potential capacity and can both probably provide dependable freight
service to Malawi.
The fact that there is very limited export and that it is not synchronized with the imports is
probably a matter that affects the cost of transport. Exports in Malawi, especially tobacco,
are very seasonal. In terms of tonnage exports constitute hardly a third (25-30 %) of the
imports. It is also said that for some exporters the RSA route seems to be the preferred
one. In all cases, for a major part of the imports, the un-utilized return journey has to be
covered by the one way transport charges. This partially explains the very high transport
cost of imports. This, nevertheless, does not automatically translate into low costs of
transport for exports.
c) Assessment of alternative routes for food imports
Taking into consideration all logistical aspects that need to be factoring in including: -the
capacities of the ports, the transport systems and storage; the speed of loading and off-
loading, the turn-around time; the dependability of service, the potential for development
of bottleneck situations and associated risks; and the costs inherent in each of the above
mentioned options - the following picture of the four alternative routes emerges:
48



Table 2: Comparative advantage of using alternatives (to a central location of Lilongwe)
Means Dependability Cost    Problems/      Bottlenecks
/Risk               Constraints     situations
1. Northern        Rail &  High/Low    Very   Trans-shipments  Minimal
Corridor        Truck               High   Slower
2. Nacala          Rail   Moderate/    Low    Limited cap.    Port Congestion
Corridor               High                Sluggish        Loc.& wagon
shortage
Danger of
Derailment
3. Beira           Truck  Moderate/    Medium Limited Cap.    Port congestion
Corridor               Moderate             Slow off-take
Competing
freights
4. Southern (RSA)  Truck  High/        Very    Long distance  Unknown
Corridor               Low          High    Slow
Using criteria of direct costs, time and convenience for imports from (and exports to) the
outside world, therefore, the preferred option for Malawi is the Nacala Corridor followed
by the E3eira Corridor and followed by the Northem (Dar Es Salaam) and finally Southern
(RSA) Corridors.
d) The Nacala Corridor's current and potential capacity
Nacala Corridor being the most cost-effective means of channeling goods from the outside
world, special attention needs to be paid to it and assure optimum use through the highest
levels of achievable efficiency. In this regard there are an number of possible
improvements that can be suggested:
The current unloading of vessels is rated at maximum of 1000 tons per day for Malawi
destined goods. This can probably be doubled with better management and limited inputs.
The port loading of wagons by port staff is currently limited to one covered wagon per
hour which, on the basis of a thirteen hour day, adds up to only one train of 13 wagons per
day. This could probably also be increased to double or more by improving the loading
facilities, increasing staff improving the performance, offering incentives for overtime,
etc.
The curTent railing capacity, based on existing stock of motive power and wagons, is not
able to cater for the emergency needs. It is reckoned that the optimum quantities of 15,000
tons per month (one train of 13 closed wagons carrying 500 tons per day) can only be
achieved by increasing existing operational equipment. It is reckoned that the increase of
49



motive power by leasing 8 locomotives and leasing an additional 40 closed wagons will
alleviate the situation in the short run. An alternative to look at would be to rehabilitate
existing in-operational locomotives and wagons.
It is estimated that the current off loading and storage capacities of emergency goods at
different destinations within Malawi can be easily increased to double the current levels
(from about current 500 tons per day to about 1000 tons per day or more).
The aim of W'FP is to increase the currently planned quantities of 15,000 tons per month
to 30,000 or more. Two sets of activities need to be undertaken to achieve this:
improvements through inputs into the infrastructure of rails and running stock, and
operational improvements aimed at managing and enabling a more optimal use of the
whole logistic system. While one set is aimed at the reducing the risks related to the lack
of maintenance of the 77 km section between Cuamba and Entre-Lagos and the
availability of motive power and wagons in good operative condition; the other is aimed at
reducing the long turnaround times of the trains, including the timely unloading at port,
loading on wagons, selecting the destinations, cross-border arrangements on clearance and
crew, etc., and offloading from wagons at destinations. The latter has to do with
management of the operations in terms of planning, organization and monitoring of the
whole operations involving the port authorities, the railway operators and the customers.
Measures to address these are proposed under interventions below.
e) Internal Transport
Within the country transport of goods is to a great extent limited to trucking. As trans-
shipment facilities are limited and delays are common, railing is used primarily for direct
imports and exports.
As will be shown below, there is ample capacity for trucking goods within the country
(see table 3).
The average cost of internal transport (trucking) within Malawi is estimated at US cents
10-13 per ton km. This compares very unfavorably with figures (of US cents 3-4 per ton
km) that are quoted by international transporters and is probably higher than fares in
neighboring countries with similar or comparable conditions.
f) Trucking Capacity
According to assessments made by the Technical Sub-Committee, there are over a
thousand goods transport vehicles of different capacities in the country that can provide
dependable service (for details see the table below).
50



Table 3. The number of "legitimate" trucks available locally
Capacity      3T    5T    7T     IOT    12T   15T   20T   30T
Translp. Orgs.                                                   Total
NRTA           -    20    25     80     -     75    35     52    287
LTA            -    20    52     32     -     20    24    96     244
RTOA           12   8     34     265    8     56    16     168   567
TOTAL          12   48   1i1     377    8     151   75    316    1,098
Source: Technical Sub-Committee meeting of August 16, 2002.
This is not the total fleet in Malawi, but the trucks of three associations that meet the
stringent requirements of reliability and legality of the technical sub-committee. There are,
therefore, other additional trucks in the market that have not been considered or do not
satisfy such conditions. It is also expected that there will be a fleet of 50-60 Norwegian
Red Cross reconditioned 5 ton trucks for use in the emergency relief efforts. These trucks
are said. to be off-road 6 X 6 former Norwegian army vehicles and most suitable for use on
rural roads. It is hoped that they will be able to operate on many rural roads even during
the rainy season.
It is also the case that more trucks can be attracted from neighboring countries if the need
arises under the so called "third party agreements" where other countries' fleet are
allowed to operate within one country for a limited period of time (usually some months,
but extendable). In terms of capacity, rough calculations on basis of full utilization have
shown that the actual need for transport of relief goods can be satisfied by approximately
half of the available numbers of trucks. It is therefore not considered a risk to assume that
there is no constraint as far as trucking capacity is concerned within the country or even
within the region.
g) Road Infrastructure
While there seems to be no problem finding the required quality and quantity of trucks the
condition of the rural roads especially during the rainy season may be a major bottleneck
for movement of emergency goods and services. The major road network in Malawi
(primary and secondary roads) has improved remarkably as a result of recent road
reforms. The positive effect of such reforms has, nevertheless, not permeated the rural
sector yet. An effective maintenance system for. rural roads is not adequately established.
It is therefore possible that there will be remote areas in rural Malawi that may be difficult
or even impossible to access during the heavy rains in the period from November up to
March. As many of the vulnerable groups and populaitions are living in relatively remote
and isolated areas, the issue of accessing such areas by road becomes critical to the whole
emergency relief efforts and therefore requires special attention.
h) Water transport
There is a maximum transport capacity of 7,000 tons per month along Lake Malawi
between the ports of Chilumba and Chipoka (450 km.). There are a number of smaller
51



boats and vessels that can be used for local transport purposes along the lake and the
larger rivers. Taking into account the problems related to trans-shipment, the sailing time
and the possible delays, the savings in costs (estimated to $ US 5-10 per ton) may not be
attractive enough for time-sensitive emergency relief type of transport. It is therefore
considered that there is, on the whole, no significant capacity and possibility of using lake
or river transport for relief goods. (It may be possible to use the water transport for other
items that are not time-sensitive thereby offsetting other transport capacity for relief
transport).
i) Storage facilities
For stocking and distribution purposes there are adequate warehouses, stores and
buildings -be they private, parastatal or public- and they are spread out conveniently over
the whole country. The network of ADMARC stores is one such set up. There are a
number of other chain of marketing outlets that have stores throughout the countryside. In
cases of need it has been the case that public places including community centers, schools,
clinics have been used for such purposes. In remote and isolated areas the homes of chiefs
or prominent and credible private proprietor's properties could also be used to store
essential foodstuff. There seems to be, other than possibly localized ones, no serious
problem related to storing and safe-keeping of stocks of food.
j) DIellivery mechanisms
Humanitarian Free Food distribution
The humanitarian side of the implementation of delivery of food and other services seems
to have been well worked out by the WFP and consortium of NGOs and the CBOs in the
country. In terms of humanitarian food distribution WFP imports and delivers food up to
warehouses and stores that should not be further than 10 km. from households. At such
warehouses NGO take over and in collaboration with districts, local level organizations
and committees distributes to the targeted beneficiaries. For distribution purposes,
therefore, the whole country is completely covered by at least one Coordinating NGO and
possibly several Implementing Partner NGOs. (For details see Table 4 below)
Although there is need for clarity over the national level coordination of the whole
humanitarian operations, the roles of all the different partners in the whole process from
importation, to transport within the country, to storage and distribution, are well defined in
the guidelines for the operations -"Brief on Implementation Modalities". In broad terms,
the WFP has been mandated by government to be the overall responsible and as such it is
expected to solicit food and funds, import it into the country and deliver it to stores and
central distribution centers across the whole country. Such distribution centers are
expected to be no further than 10 km (2-3 hours walking distance) from the remotest
places up. The NGOs are expected to take over from such storage and distribution centers
and, in close collaboration with local government and communities, assure that the food is
distributed to the needy. This arrangement seems to have been well organized and
commands good confidence to deliver.
Commercial food sale distribution
The Government of Malawi has decided to entrust the commercial maize distribution to
the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) which in turn is expected to use Agricultural
52



Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) outlets throughout the country to
retail the maize at a prefixed price of 17 Kw/ Kg. In terms of capacity the ADMARC does
have the logistical, competence and infrastructure to handle the sale of maize throughout
the country. With poor performance. history in the recent past, though, there is some
skepticism about the particular arrangement for sale of food through ADMARC.
Table 4: List of NGOs (by district) covering the whole country
REGION   - DISIICT  Dtri     ImPementI;pleP  t Impkieait   Impkmeit Implem
Coord. -  Partner'  aner -- Partner;  Partner   Partner
NGO      NGO      NGO       NGO       NGO       NGO
NORTHERN CHIT'IPA   MRC       WVI
NORTHERN KARONGA    MRC       WVI      CADECOM Livingst. Syn
NORTHERN RUMIvPHI   MRC       WVI      CADECOM Livingst. Syn Concern U.
NORTHERN MZIMBA     Africare  CCF      Action Aid  SCUS
NORTHERN NKHATAB. Africare   CADECOM
CENTRAL   NKHOTAK. MRC       WVI      Action Aid
CENTRAL   KASUNGU   CRS      WVI       Concem U. SCUS
CENTRAL   NTCHISI   MRC      WVI      CADECOM Livingst. Syn Proj. Hope Maleza
CENTRAL   DOWA      CARE     WVI
CENTRAL   MCI{INJI  SCUK     WVI      Action Aid
CENTIRAL  SALIMA    SCUK     CARD      CARD
SOUTIHERN MANGOCHI SCUS               CADECOM Action Aid   SCUS     CSC
CENIRAL   LILONGWE CARE      Concern U.
CENTRAL   DEDZA     Concem U. CADECOM Plan      CPAR
CENTRAL   NTCHEU    Africare  CADECOM
SOUTHERN ZOMBA      CRS      WVI
SOUTHERN MWANZA     WVI      Action Aid CADECOM CSC        ELDP
SOUTHERN BLANTYRE Goal       WVI      Concern U.
SOU1THERN CIfRADZUL Goal     Salv.Army Kean Youth
SOUTHERN CHIKWAWA WVI        CADECOM CARD       CSC        SHDP
SOUTHFERN THYOLO    WVI      Concem U. CARD     ELDP
SOUTHERN NSANJE     WVI      CADECOM            Oxfam
SOUTHERN MULANJE    WVI      CSC      Oxfam
SOUTHERN PHALOMBE Salv. Anny WVI      CADECOM
SOUTHERN BALAKA     SCUS     Evang. Bapt.       Action Aid  CSC     ELDP
SOUTHERN MACHINGA Emmanuel 1. WVI     Concern U.
NORTHERN LIKOMA     Africare
53



M11. RECOMMNDATIONS
a) On the corridors
The project, as an emergency response mechanism should, in terms of transport, focus on
the current and potential bottleneck situations. As identified above current congestions
and future bottleneck situations are likely to develop in the Nacala and Beira corridors.
The Northern and Southern Corridors seem to have no capacity constraints, nor are they
likely to develop bottlenecks in the future for Malawi imports of food. It is therefore
recommended that the government support the improvement of the Nacala and Beira
corridors.
Intervention 1.
Nacala Corridor being the cheapest alternative route for imports (and exports) for the
whole country the rail improvement has a very positive impact on the whole corridor
operation and should be given priority for improvement / investment. While there are
other partners who are keen to assist with the more operational components of the
proposed improvement (leasing and management costs), there is no taker for the actual
rail improvement works. It is therefore proposed that the government rinance the
immediate emergencv remedial repairs estimated to cost US $ 2.7 mnfllion. This
would secure continuous operations of the cheapest alternative route for relief imports;
would contribute to reduction of the cost of transport through this route for both imports
and exports; would be a good prelude to complete rehabilitation of the remaining (un-
rehabilitated) 77 Km. of the track at a later stage; and would be a very obvious and visible
contribution that caters for the "missing link" in this chain of necessary improvements.
Intervention 2.
It is not evident that both of the Nacala and Beira corridors are being utilized to their
optimum capacities. On the contrary, it seems from the reports, that they lack some
equipment and facilities that renders their operations less efficient. It is therefore
recommended that a quick comprehensive study (costed at $ UTS 50,000) be conducted
on both Nacala and Beira corridors within the month of September and look at the
possible improvements that can be suggested and followed by an operational and
management regime impnrovement that can be put in place (tentatively costed at $ US
500,000) with the aim of making them more efficient and cost-effective. This, it is
believed, will assist Malawi reduce the cost of transport of especially food in the short run.
b) On Rural Roads
It has been repeatedly pointed out that heavy rains will render access to remote localities
in Malawi very difficult if not impossible between December and March. There is
therefore great need to address the access and accessibility hinders of rural populations,
especially during the rainy season. Such measures have to be planned and implemented
before the inset of the rains in November December.
Intervention 3.
As a preventive transport measure, potential bottleneck locations along rural roads leading
to isolated communities including wash-outs and potholes, bad spots, river crossings and
other obstacles should be identified for immediate intervention under the Cash-for-work
54



Program. This to be implemented both as a means of employment creation (cash income
transfers) as well as addressine on a spot-improvement-basis (costing $ US 2 million)
identified bottleneck locations along rural roads that would otherwise make access by
even lighter off-road trucks impossible. This component is to be implemented by District
Assemblies through the support of MASAF and Department of Local Government.
c) On Strategic Planning
While the three above mentioned recommendations are specific activities the Credit will
nipport in an effort to address current or potential transport bottleneck concerns, there are
a number of strategy and planning related recommendations that need to be agreed upon
and practiced within the whole transport / logistics system if the crisis is to optimally
benefit from it:
a) There should be a Coordination Mechanism put in place specifically for the
logistics and transport system, important as that is for the whole operations. This
means that there must be very close and tight coordination of all components of
the transport and logistics system; and that there is a unified information system
and effective means of communication between all involved parties. In an
emergency situation of this magnitude and severity, this can be done effectively
only if there is an identifiable and fully committed Unit with a Head and actual
qualified full time Staff, who have been mandated by government to access
pertinent information and to deal with all parties in the supply chain including the
suppliers, the ports, the customs, the railway and trucking companies, the store
operators, the NGOs, etc.
b) The emergency relief goods transport operation should not apriority limit itself to
any one of the alternative routes for importation of emergency goods. While it
should strive to use the Nacala corridor (as a rational decision to pick the cheapest
route) as its first and preferred option, it should be open to the use of the Beira
corridor as a second alternative and still have the possibility to opt for the Northern
Corridor or the even the SRA (southern) route should any of the preferred channels
fail to deliver. The tentative planned imports of the 600,000 tons should therefore
be imported through the four corridors should be spread out in the a manner that
minimizes the risks. In this regard, a rational proposed apportioning could be:
through Nacala 40 %, Beira 30 %, Northern 15 % and Southern 15 % of the total
imports.
c) The delivery mechanisms including the whole planning, importation, receiving,
transporting to different locations including the distribution points, up to stocking
and distribution (be it free humanitarian food or commercial for sale food) needs to
be spelt out in a clear and transparent manner. This would go a long way to
restoring confidence and allow better participation, cooperation and collaboration
from all stakeholders.
55



d) All emergency related items should be given priority in respect of logistic
facilities including offloading at port of importation, loading on trains or trucks,
transporting by any means, and storing.
e) The shipment of goods, especially the large quantities of expected shipments of
maize, should be programmed to arrive at the time and in quantities that can be
adequately prioritized, fully handled and discharged by existing port facilities
within reasonable time. This means that there should be a scheduling and limits of
quantities to arrive, be given first priority by the whole system, but also have
flexibility to divert vessels to other ports, should congestion at port or any other
bottleneck arise in the whole transport and delivery pipeline within a corridor.
f) Measures should be taken to assure that preparatory and planning works are
underway and immediate specific actions taken in recognition of the lead time
needed for transport and related interventions to be effective. This means that the
planning of the emergency repairs must be initiated and placed on a "fast track"
basis; that the storage and distribution systems be already put in place; that the
bottleneck situations that can potentially develop in the system be identified and
measures to address them be proposed.
g) In respect of rural areas with access difficulties, it is recommended that measures
be taken to assunre that infrastructure repairs are undertaken as much as
possible prior to the inset of heavy rains and that appropriate means of transport
are identified and booked for the emergency purposes. This means that the
district councils and MSAF urgently identify trouble spots, propose solutions and
cost remedies to potential bottlenecks that may eventually develop as a result of
the rains and block passage. This also means that the special off-road trucks
donated by the Norwegian Red Cross specifically for the relief efforts be expressly
dedicated to delivery of relief goods, specially foodstuff, to remote and isolated
areas with poor roads in the districts and also that mechanisms for monitoring their
use be put in place.
That public servants and public buildings in local areas be mobilized to make their
services available to assist in the emergency efforts. Also that, for very vulnerable
locations and situations, a food buffer be pre-positioned and stocked at convenient and
suitable locations in quantities that can assure supplies for reasonable time.
56



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31130
V   32'  toDo~esS>t.             T A N Z A N I A
T. D., ew  S.I. ~5n9^
0 20 40 e0 80 100
KILOME'TERS
-)  ..    *KRON NGA 0R-
MALAWI
Liingstonio
X    ti t t (8khotoC i ang
ChknOt        t uutn NKH__ PRINCIPAL ROADS
Z A M B I A                          Mzim6a ,  BAY
-12                                                                            - - -- I  Chisumulu (MALAWII  SELECTED UNPAVED ROADS  12-
;5CtOO  5          / ~L~'     /J\. r/iikomo  RIVERS
0   TOWNS
0   DISTRICT CAPITALS
I/       p,7* -/ -      Malawi          *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
1- (1 (  (~'\ / t  |   ~~~~ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/ 1   ? <4  KASUNQi0-<>37 khotakoto         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
f'i.        '--f <, t8  5x1 ,MOZAMBIQUE
I  t..\  Dowo L.~~~  engot11:~ Mkcjl
To L-ka       Mchinii                              "\nko                 /
X ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~~~~K          ?O   LIOGWE         '-     SA    WonlIMA
- t~-                                           (I                           M n Bay                            I A'-
e,_za                  T. Nocee
*, Q~~~.  ~    *%,~~~*  Lake'  \ ~~Loke
_-~~   /      J2>                          '0~~ 2--e\               e- C~\|       2   hiuta
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa                               M ENAe!z) HINGA,7~
DEMOCRATIC   R AD.r                                                          Bol*MOoPoMBIQ  MAI  /
REPUBLIC OF     BUR\INDI
CONGO                                                                                      'Aiu'
rTANZANIA                                        M   o  ' .             'PHALOM6E
NGOgI-t>/<~~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~     ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ *' i  C=iisds)j QI. Muloj
ToTelo  '~~t~  '~!Yr  RADZULLS'-.~.  Mutan
ANGOLA  I~~~~~.                                        -.---  - *     MULAN3E j~~~~~~. W
ANGOLA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~NChikw.'wn'                 cenza*  -
ZAMBIABIOE~                                                   .        /,JO
4._)                    i' fHW !~t                                         T boundaries, colors, denominations
j  \,  ZIMBABWR /  zY   '          5        \              \, ) \>h,ronMo    ond anyother informotion shown on
ZIMBABE                                                                    this map do not imply, on the part of
~~ '~~4'  The World Bank Group, any judgment 
Zr' BOTSWANA  ~~~~~~~~~MAAGon the legal status of any territory, or
rZ.           SOUTH ^    )        MADAG AR   X BOTSWANA                            Nsanje ony endorsement or occeptance of
SOUT                                                              (such boundaries.
[N      J     AFRICA                                       34'                                 361
October 2000









IMAGING
Report No.: T        7557   MAI
Type:      TAN



