Report No. PID11479
Project Name             MALAWI-EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY CREDIT
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   General agriculture; fishing and forestry
sector (50%); Other social services (50%)
Project ID               P080368
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Implementing Agency
GOVERNMENT
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
Address: P.O. Box 30134, Capital City,
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Contact Person:
Tel: 784299
Fax: 784656
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        October 21, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      August 5, 2002
Bank Approval Date       November 5, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Malawi is currently facing a severe food crisis. Production of the key
food staple, maize during the 2001/2002 growing season estimated at 1.6
million metric tons, approximately 600,000 tons short of estimated
domestic disposition. The economic cost of the crop failure to the
economy in aggregate is between US$150 million and US$180 million when the
grain is valued at landed replacement cost. The incidence of the shock
falls in most concentrated measure on Malawi's small-holder farmers, who
are among the country's poorest citizens. The impact of the shortage on
human health and nutrition is expected to increase in severity during the
coming eight months prior to the next harvest.
2. This year's shortage follows the prior year's reduced harvest. As a
result of two successive years of reduced incomes and poor access to
food, coping mechanisms, including casual labor and distress sales of
household assets have been eroded. Deaths from hunger-related diseases are
increasing. Children who are generally vulnerable to malnutrition -
Malawi's chronic malnutrition rate is 49 percent - are particularly at
risk of long-term consequences. In addition, women, the elderly, and
adolescent-headed households are particularly food insecure. Other
vulnerable groups include those affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic,
smallholder farmers, tenants, and pregnant and lactating mothers.
3. Overall, it is estimated that about 3.9 million people will require
humanitarian assistance for varying periods of time until June 2003. Maize



prices are expected to rise substantially as shortages increase. To avert
famine, the Government and other donors are taking immediate action to
ensure adequate supplies of grain to the country and timely delivery of
food aid and/or income support to the most vulnerable Malawians.
Approximately 3Ot of the most vulnerable will receive humanitarian
assistance from the 208,000 tons of donations in cash and kind anticipated
from the donor community. Approximately 150,000 tons of the shortfall is
expected to be met by the private sector and by increased winter
production. Hence donations and private sales will cover almost US$100
million of the cost of the shock, and will address the needs of 60t of the
population (those at the higher end of the income distribution through
private sales, and at the lower end through humanitarian relief). The
Government is importing 250,000 tons at an estimated cost of US$75 million
to augment available supply and to address the needs primarily of the 40;
of the population who will require some assistance but will not receive
humanitarian aid. Additional support is needed for recovery of crop
production, prevention of resort to coping strategies that undermine
recovery and longer term growth, and maintenance and rebuilding of
productive assets.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the proposed Emergency Drought Recovery Project are: (a)
to allow the Government to maintain key commitments to economic priorities
and investments consistent with the PRSP process while at the same time
fulfilling its immediate obligations to avert famine; (b) to help restore
the productive capability of the populations; and (c) to support longer
term disaster management by the Government. The operation does not
directly finance food for purposes of relief, because the Government and
other donors are undertaking this effort. In line with the Bank's
guidelines for emergency operations, activities financed under the project
will complement relief efforts, contribute to recovery, facilitate
continued progress on key economic priorities and investments consistent
with longer term reduction of poverty, and address the needs of vulnerable
groups during this difficult period of crisis.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has contributed toward assessment of the situation, and
is contributing to recovery, protection of the vulnerable during the
crisis, and to measures to reduce vulnerability to food crises in the
future. The medium and longer term strategy of assistance is reflected in
the discussions of the CAS presently under way. In the medium-term, the
Bank will assist Malawi in five areas relevant to the present emergency:
(a) improving the statistical basis for crop estimates; (b) addressing
issues relating to access to land, agricultural services, and better
agricultural technology in order to promote improvement in agricultural
productivity; (c) providing technical assistance for review of the
Government's food security policy); (d) possibly improving transportation
along the Nacala corridor (the Bank has supported railway and port reform
along the corridor in both Malawi and Mozambique, and may support
additional improvements); and (e) scaling-up of safety net programs
through MASAF (including MASAF 3, which is now under preparation), and
orienting the public works components toward activities that improve
access to rural areas and reduce vulnerability to drought and flood.
4. Description
-2-



The proposed operation will include the following components: (a) a
quick-disbursing assistance to support critical imports through a positive
list of import requirements linked to the drought and assist the
Government in drought recovery efforts. The Government seeks the
emergency credit to help rebuild productive capacity, and to avoid a
situation whereby the additional cost of the drought undermines
developmental goals, particularly for health and education. An amount of
US$40 million would be available under this component;     (b) support for
expansion of public works programs and essential social investments and
services to vulnerable groups through MASAF, which has developed
substantial expertise in the field, for an amount of US$8.0 million; and
(c) support for implementation, technical assistance, and studies for a
total amount of US$2.0 million.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $10.00
IBRD
IDA $50.00
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND $22.00
Total Project Cost $82.00
6. Implementation
The operation will be implemented by two entities - a small and temporary
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and MASAF. The PCU will be staffed with
experienced and qualified professionals, including a national coordinator,
a financial professional, a procurement specialist, a logistics officer
and support staff. It will be responsible for the overall coordination of
all activities of the project and will work very closely with the Reserve
Bank of Malawi in managing the quick-disbursing component of the
operation. The coordinator will be responsible, inter alia, for the
day-to-day management of the operation, dialogue with government agencies,
development partners and other stakeholders, securing procurement,
collecting information and monitoring activities in the field, and
establishing quarterly progress and financial reports. He or she will
report to the Principal Secretary of MOAI. MASAF will be responsible for
the public works programs (PWP) and social investments component, for
which it developed extensive ability over the past several years of
implementation of IDA-financed projects. The operation will be
implemented over a period of two years, from November 2002 to November
2004.    It will be processed under OP 8.50.
7. Sustainability
The project focuses simultaneously on short-term measures to tackle the
current disaster and on medium- and long-term measures to prevent the
recurrence and to facilitate improved agricultural performance. In both
the short and longer run, the project approach supports provision of
social protection through scaling up of public works and social programs
to benefit the poor and vulnerable groups.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from previous emergency operations have been taken into
account in the design of the project. The project preparation/appraisal
team also drew on advice from staff involved in responding to similar
emergencies in other countries. Key lessons noted may be summarized as
- 3 -



follows: (a) commitment and ownership of the Borrower are critical for the
successful implementation of emergency recovery operations; (b) speed in
preparation, appraisal and implementation are also critical elements for
success; (c) emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable and
not burdened with conditionality; (d) disaster management and mitigation
measures should be included; (e) community involvement and participation
are critical to the success of the delivery of social investments and
protection; (f) the operation should focus on the sector immediately
affected, and not undertake too broad an agenda of cross-cutting issues;
and (g) the longer term agenda to reduce the likelihood of recurrence
cannot be neglected.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The operation is not expected to have any major
environmental impact as it is largely a quick-disbursing instrument to
provide financing on the basis of a positive list of import requirements.
A limited portion of about 16 percent will support public work activities
through MASAF project which is classified under environmental category B.
None of the project activities is expected to lead to or involve
involuntary resettlement. However, a Resettlement Policy Framework will
be prepared, approved and submitted during project implementation to guide
any potential resettlement/compensation issues. Safeguard measures
including environmental and social screening, assessment and mitigation
will be applied during project implementation through MASAF's
environmental and social management mechanism. The operation will prepare
its own EA. The operation is classified as Category B.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ousmane Sissoko
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 1, 2002.
-4-



