Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H011 MAI 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Drought Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 19, 2002 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H011 MAI 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient 
and the Assoc
iation (the “Development Credit Agreement”), the Association is agreeing 
to provide a development credit to the Recipient in the amount of twenty two million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,000,000) (the “Credit”) towards the financing of a 
project (the “Project”) as described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
 
(B) 
the Recipient has also requested the Association to provide non-
reimbursable assistance towards the financing of the Project;  
 
(C) 
the Association was authorized, under Resolution No. 549 adopted on 
September 29, 2002, by the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”), to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants as well as loans, and the Executive Directors of the Association have 
determined that the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this agreement  
(the “Grant”) is consistent with such policies; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of the foregoing, 
to make the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit  Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) (i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), 
(13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.05; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) 
Article X;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) Article 
XII. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the terms “Borrower”, “Credit”, “Credit Account” and 
“Development Credit Agreement”, wherever they appear in the 
General Conditions, are replaced by “the Recipient”, “the 
Grant”, “the Grant Account” and “the Development Grant 
Agreement”, respectively; and 
 
(ii) 
the terms “Development Credit Agreement” and “development 
credit”, where used in Article I of the General Conditions, mean 
“Development Grant Agreement” and “development grant”, 
respectively. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development 
Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional term has the following meaning, namely, “Special Grant Account” means the 
account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.  
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to grant to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand 
 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of eligible imports required for Part A of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts A the Project open and 
maintain in Dollars one separate special deposit account (Special Grant Account)
 
in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of the Special Grant Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end  
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project;
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out Parts A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain for Part A of the 
Project a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the respective part of  Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the  
Special Grant Account for each Fiscal Year semiannually 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant  Account was made, all records (contracts, 
Page  6
-
5
-
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
semiannual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations  the Recipient shall prepare for Parts A of the Project and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation ; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
that the Development Credit Agreement shall have failed to become 
effective by the date of the effectiveness of this Development Grant Agreement, or such 
later date as the Association may agree;  
 
(b) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
 
(c) 
(i) 
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Development Credit 
Agreement made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the Development Credit 
Agreement; or (B) the Development Credit Agreement shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof; and 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-maturing is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Development Credit Agreement has been 
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the 
Development Grant Agreement, have been fulfilled.  
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P.O. Box 30049 
 
Capital City 
 
Lilongwe 3 
 
Malawi 
 
Cable address:                 
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINANCE              
 
44407 MI 
 
(265) 1 789173 
 
Lilongwe 
 
For the Association: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ 
Tony 
Kandiero 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Yaw Ansu 
(Acting) Regional Vice President 
Africa 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Eligible imports  
 
 
 
 
 
   100% of foreign 
 
required for Part A     
 
 
 
 
   expenditures 
of the Project  
as specified in Schedule 6  
to the Development  
Credit Agreement 
 
(a) Petroleum and fuel 
 
5,310,000  
 
 
(b) Agricultural inputs 
 
 
10,590,000 
 
 
and equipment, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
construction equipment,  
 
spare parts, livestock, 
 
animal products and 
 
veterinary supplies,  
 
school supplies, 
 
medical supplies and  
 
equipment 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 15,900,000 
 
 
 
==========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
Page  11
-
10 - 
3,200,000 may be made on account of payments made under Category 1 for expenditures 
before that date but after May 31, 2002. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) eligible imports of 
petroleum and fuel products under contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent; and 
(ii) all other eligible imports under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,500,000 in respect of  Parts A of the Project to be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
and deposited into the Special Grant Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Grant Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Grant Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Grant Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Grant Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Grant 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Grant Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Grant Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify; and 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Grant Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
Page  13
-
12 - 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Grant Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Grant Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Grant Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Grant Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Grant Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant   allocated to the eligible 
Category for the Special Grant Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Grant Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Grant Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
Page  14
-
13 - 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Grant Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Grant Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Grant Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Grant Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
