Page  1
CONFOMRED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3715 MAI 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Emergency Drought Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 19, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3715 MAI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2002, between 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated August 26, 2002,                          
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to 
redefine and strengthen its emergency response management system; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;  
(C) 
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide non-
refundable assistance towards the financing of Part A of the Project, and by an agreement 
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association  (the Development 
Grant Agreement), the Association is making a grant to the Borrower in the amount of 
fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000) 
(the IDA Grant) in response to said request; and 
 WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“DEC” means a District Executive Committee consisting of the district 
development officer, district heads of department, relevant NGOs and heads of 
Government projects; 
(b) 
“District” means a district as defined in the Regional and Districts 
Boundaries and Place Names Act, Cap. 18:04 of the Laws of Malawi;  
(c) 
“the Emergency” means the emergency created by the drought situation 
which started in the Borrower’s territory in February 2002, in accordance with the 
Borrower’s declaration dated February 27, 2002; 
(d) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment and Resettlement Policy 
Framework” or “EIA/RPF” means the environmental impact assessment framework and 
resettlement policy framework, acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared and submitted to 
the Association by the Borrower, for the eligible PWP Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
and SSP (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(f) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on the following June 30; 
(g) 
“MASAF” means Malawi Social Action Fund, an autonomous unit 
established as of July 1, 1995 within the National Economic Council (as hereinafter 
defined)  and designated to carry out Part B of  the Project;  
 
(h) 
“MASAF Board” means the Malawi Social Action Fund Board 
established in September 11, 1998 under OPC (as hereinafter defined) to provide policy 
oversight over the MASAF MU (as hereinafter defined) and referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(i) 
“MASAF MU” means the management unit of MASAF referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“MK” means Malawi Kwacha, the Borrower's currency;  
(k) 
“MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(l) 
“OPC” means the Borrower’s Office of the President and 
Cabinet; 
(m) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, to be established for the 
purpose of overall implementation and monitoring of the Project; 
(n) 
“Project Account” means either or both of the accounts referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;   
 
 
 
(o) 
 
“Project Implementation Manuals” or “PIMs” means the 
Implementation, Administration and Accounting Manuals for the implementation of all 
the components of the Project referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; 
(p) 
“PWP Subproject” means specific construction, rehabilitation, or 
maintenance works identified by the DEC and to be financed under Part B of the Project; 
(q) 
“PWP Subproject Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be 
entered into between MASAF MU and a DEC for the purpose of carrying out a PWP 
Subproject and referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(r) 
“Special Accounts” means either or both of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Sponsoring Agency” means any NGO, Project Support Committee, or 
other institution responsible for the identification and implementation of activities under 
Part B.2 of the Project;  
 
(t) 
“Sponsored Subproject” or “SSP” means a specific activity identified by 
a
Sponsoring Agency (as hereinafter defined) to be financed through a Sponsored 
Subproject Grant extended under Part B.2 of the Project;  
 
(u) 
“SSP Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
MASAF MU to finance a SSP under Part B.2 of the Project; and 
 
(v) 
“SSP Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
MASAF MU and a Sponsoring Agency for the purposes of carrying out a SSP and 
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty two million Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 22,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and C of the Project and 
Part B of the Project, respectively, open and maintain in Dollars one separate special 
deposit account for Parts A and C of the Project and one separate special deposit account 
for Part B of the Project (hereinafter referred to as Special Account 1 and 2) 
,
both
 
in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2013 and ending October 1, 2042. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2022 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out 
Parts A and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental practices, 
and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause MASAF MU to carry out Part B of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
technical, administrative, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide 
promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources to enable 
MASAF MU to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause MASAF MU to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
project account for Part B of the Project (the Project Account A), and a project account 
for Part C (the Project Account B), in MK and in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association;  
(b) 
promptly thereafter make an initial deposit in MK of an amount 
equivalent to $75,000 into the Project Account A and an amount equivalent to $50,000  
into the Project Account B to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;   
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account A and Project Account B, 
respectively, by the first day of each quarter each year during Project implementation, 
such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon with the Association to timely 
replenish Project Account A and Project Account B, respectively; and  
(d) 
use the funds in the Project Accounts exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project.
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain for Parts A and C of 
the Project, and shall cause MASAF MU to establish and maintain for Part B of the 
Project, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to their respective parts of  Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall
:
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for 
their respective Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year 
semiannually audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  10
-
9
-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
semiannual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations, the Borrower shall prepare for Parts A and C of the Project, and cause 
MASAF MU to prepare for Part B of the Project, and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Page  11
-
10 - 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants
 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause MASAF MU, for the purposes of Part B 
of the Project: 
(a) 
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
(b) 
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and 
(c) 
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial, technical, 
administrative, engineering and environmental practices. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
MASAF MU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
this Agreement; 
(b) 
the IDA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by the 
date of the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement, or such later date as the 
Association may agree; 
(c) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
(d) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the IDA Grant, has been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the Development Grant Agreement; and 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that  
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
the Development Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i)  of this Agreement have 
been appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the Borrower has adopted the PIMs, in form and substance satisfactory  
to the Association; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower has established a financial management system, in form 
and substance acceptable to the Association, including the development of a financial 
procedures manual, the appointment of financial management staff and a procurement 
specialist  for the PCU with experience acceptable to the Association and in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
the Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that 
FMRs can be produced. 
 Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P.O. Box 30049 
 
Capital City 
 
Lilongwe 3 
 
Malawi 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANCE              
  
44407 MI 
 
(265) 1 789173 
 
Lilongwe 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street NW  
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ 
Tony 
Kandiero 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Yaw Ansu 
(Acting) Regional Vice President 
Africa 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Eligible imports  
 
 
 
14,410,000 
100% of  
 
required for Part A 
 
 
 
 
 
       
foreign  
  of the Project as specified in  
 
 
 
expenditures
 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
 
for 
agricultural 
inputs 
   
  
 
and equipment, construction   
 
 
 
 equipment, 
spare 
parts, 
 
livestock, animal products and 
 
veterinary supplies, school supplies, 
 
medical supplies and equipment 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
    
 
(a) including  
 
 
 
150,000  
100% of foreign  
 
vehicles 
and 
     
expenditures 
and 
 
equipment, 
for 
    
80% 
of 
local 
 
Part 
C 
of 
the 
Project 
    
expenditures 
 
(b) Part B. 3  
 
 
 
100,000 
80%  
 
of
the Project 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
(3) 
Consultant’s Service 
990,000  
100% of foreign  
 
 
including audits for Part C 
 
 
 
expenditures and 
 
of
the Project 
 
 
 
 
80% of local  
 
expenditures  
 
(4) 
 
Training 
for 
 
    470,000  100% 
 
Part B. 3 of  
 
the Project  
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(5)  
Subprojects 
 
(a) Part B.1   
 
 
 
4,830,000 
95%  
 
of
the 
Project     
   
 
(b) Part B.2   
 
 
 
550,000 
95%  
 of 
the 
Project     
   
 
(6) 
 Operating 
Costs 
   
 
 
(a) Part C of the Project 
 
230,000 
80%  
 
(b) Part B.3   
 
 
120,000 
85%  
 
of 
the 
Project 
     
  
 
(7)      Unallocated 
150,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 22,000,000 
 
 
 
=========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  and 
 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
the Borrower on account of the Project implementation for (i) Part C of the Project, the 
establishment and maintenance of the PCU, including information systems, office 
supplies and maintenance, and (ii) for Part B of the Project, including incremental 
recurrent expenditures incurred on account of the Project for MASAF MU contract staff 
remuneration, per diem, benefits, office supplies, maintenance of equipment, telephone, 
and other communication charges, office rent, office equipment and furniture, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower. 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 4,400,000 may be made on account of payments made under Category 
1
for expenditures before that date but after May 31, 2002; (b) payments made under 
Categories (2) (a), (3) and (6) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above until the PCU 
is established in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) payments made under Categories (5) (a) and (5) (b)  of the table set forth in paragraph 
1
above unless the Borrower shall have submitted to the Association an EIA/RPF, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; (d) payments made under Category 
(5) (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above for each PWP Subproject unless:  
(i) 
it’s respective PWP Subproject Financing Agreement, with terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, has been executed on behalf of the MASAF MU and each 
DEC, respectively, and (ii) the financing for PWP Subprojects have been made in 
accordance with the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (e) payments made under Category (5) (b)  of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 above for each SSP unless (i) it’s respective SSP Grant 
Agreement, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, has been executed 
on behalf of the MASAF MU and each Sponsoring Agency, respectively, and (ii) the 
financing for SSPs have been made in accordance with the criteria, procedures and terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) eligible imports of 
agricultural inputs and equipment, construction equipment, spare parts, livestock, animal 
products and veterinary supplies, school supplies, medical supplies and equipment under 
contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts costing less 
than $150,000 equivalent; (iii) services from consultant firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv)  services from individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; Subprojects, all training and operating costs,  under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to 
improve the Borrower’s emergency response 
management and assist in recovery from drought through: (i) financing of import costs 
associated with rebuilding physical assets, social and economic infrastructure; 
 
(ii) re-establishing agricultural production levels and enhancement of  food  security in 
response to the damage caused by the Emergency; (iii)   rehabilitation  of  critical  
infrastructure; and (iv)  strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to formulate, 
implement, and manage medium and long-term disaster management programs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Imports
Financing of emergency imports as specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives. 
 
Part B:
MASAF
1. 
Public Works Program: carrying out PWP Subprojects consisting of labor-
intensive works as a safety-net scheme in targeted poor rural and urban areas, including 
road rehabilitation and maintenance, land husbandry and forestation, water supply and 
sanitation, drainage schemes and rainwater collection, compost manure making, removal 
of hyacinth, catchments conservation and provision of financing for such subprojects.  
 
2. 
SSPs: 
provision of SSP Grants for SSPs identified by Sponsoring Agencies for 
street children, orphans, persons with disabilities, the aged and HIV/AIDS affected 
persons, for the construction and physical rehabilitation of facilities to be used by such 
persons and for the provision of services.   
 
3. 
Strengthening of the delivery mechanisms and the information, education and 
communication activities of the MASAF MU, including the development and 
implementation of an information, education and communication emergency program to 
assist MASAF MU with the management and implementation of the PWP Subprojects 
and SSPs, through the provision of training, equipment and financing for operating costs. 
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
Part C:
Project Management
1. 
Establishment and maintenance of the PCU through the provision of technical 
advisory services, including audits, goods including vehicles and office equipment, and 
operating costs. 
 
2. 
Supporting the management of the Project through the provision of technical 
advisory services and the establishment of a monitoring system to assess progress in 
implementation, quality of financial management and impact of activities. 
 
3. 
Strengthening of agricultural services and the improvement of water and soil 
management through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
4. 
Strengthening of the Borrower’s disaster preparedness and management through 
the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
5. 
Supporting activities to be carried out under Part A and C of the Project 
concerning: (a) Project administration, coordination, monitoring, and supervision; 
(b) evaluation of Project activities; (c) carrying out of audits of: (i) accounts and financial 
management systems, (ii) procurement activities, and (iii) physical implementation; and 
(d) the carrying out of environmental and social assessments, including the acquisition of 
equipment, provision of technical assistance services and training for selected national 
staff. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2004. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of  
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Modified ICB for imports by private sector
(a) 
Eligible imports of petroleum and fuel products estimated to cost  the 
equivalent of $ 3,000,000 or more per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
under paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
All other eligible imports estimated to cost  the equivalent of $ 500,000 
or more per contract may be procured under contracts awarded under paragraphs 2.63 and 
2.64 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
      Commodities imported by the private sector
Commonly traded commodities selected from Schedule 6 to this Agreement may be 
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. International 
Shopping
Eligible imports selected from Schedule 6 to this Agreement estimated to cost 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
Page  21
-
20 - 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
 
4. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for eligible imports by private sector for 
petroleum and fuel products estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for all other eligible imports by private 
sector estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for Goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C o
f
this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial audits and external evaluations may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants selected based on the provisions of 5.2 of the Consultants Guidelines 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
Page  23
-
22 - 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  24
-
23 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2002, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and th
e
Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Part B of the Project:
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the MASAF MU which shall be 
responsible for the implementation of Part B of the Project; and (ii) at all times maintain 
within MASAF MU staff, with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, including an executive director, directors of the PWP, directors of the 
finance and administration divisions, as well as heads of PWP Subprojects, 
communications, internal audit, information technology and technical services units. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall maintain the MASAF Board to oversee the work of 
MU. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the MASAF Board shall (i) be chaired 
by the principal secretary (finance), OPC, and (ii) comprise the following members: 
Principal Secretaries of MOF, Ministry of Justice, National Economic Commission, 
Secretary for the Poverty Alleviation Program, and the Executive Secretary of the 
Council for Non Governmental Organizations in Malawi, representatives of the 
traditional authorities, the Director for the Center for Social Research, Secretary for 
District and Local Government Administration, and two members with expertise in urban 
planning and management and the private sector, respectively. 
 
(c) 
The MASAF Board shall, on behalf of the Borrower: (i) provide overall 
policy guidance on the management of Part B of the Project, (ii) give the MASAF MU 
Page  25
-
24 - 
direct
ives and guidance on the interpretation of the Borrower’s policies pertaining to 
those sectors affected by Part B of the Project, (iii) approve MASAF MU’s annual work 
plans, (iv) review quarterly and annual reports and semi-annual and annual audits for Part 
B
of the Project; and (v) review as part of the impact and sustainability assessments of 
Part B of the Project, whether adequate budgetary allocations have been made to the 
various ministries of the Borrower involved in the implementation of the various 
components of Part B of the Project to cover the anticipated recurrent expenditures 
required for the carrying out activities of Part B of the Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that MASAF MU shall: (a) (i) maintain the Project 
Implementation Manuals for the implementation of Part B of the Project, (ii) take all 
measures necessary to ensure that Part B of the Project is carried out in conformity with 
the PIMs, and (iii) not amend or waive any provision thereof, if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver will materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of Part B of the Project; and (b) prepare the annual workplans for 
approval by the MASAF Board.  
 
4. 
Eligibility Criteria for PWP Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no PWP Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Executive 
Director of the MASAF MU shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIMs, that the PWP 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in more detail in the PIMs, which 
shall include the following: (a)  the nature and size of the PWP Subproject is such that it 
cannot be carried out by the relevant community on a self-help basis; (b) the unskilled 
labor content of the PWP Subproject is not less than 40% of the total cost thereof; and  
(c) implementation of the PWP Subproject will not require highly specialized technical 
inputs and procedures and can be started expeditiously.   
 
5. 
Terms and conditions of financing for PWP Subprojects
For the purposes of each PWP Subproject to be finance out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, MASAF MU shall enter into a PWP Subproject Financing Agreement with a 
DEC, under terms and conditions which shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 per PWP Subproject; 
 
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the PWP Subproject in accordance with the 
PIMs, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the PWP Subproject; 
 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
(c) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods works, and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the PWP Subproject; 
 
(d) 
the right of MASAF MU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites and construction 
included in PWP Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;  
 
(e) 
the right of MASAF MU to obtain all information as MASAF MU or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
conditions of the PWP Subproject; and  
 
(f) 
the right of MASAF MU to suspend or terminate the right of a DEC to 
use the proceeds of the Credit for the PWP Subproject upon the failure by the DEC to 
perform any of its obligations under the PWP Subproject Financing Agreement.  
 
6. 
Eligibility Criteria for SSPs
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no SSP shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Executive Director of 
MASAF MU shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance 
with the guidelines set forth in the PIMs, that the SSP satisfies the eligibility criteria 
specified in more detail in the PIMs, which shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
the SSP shall be for activities to improve the quality of life of street 
children, orphans, persons with disabilities, the aged and HIV/AIDS affected persons; 
 
(b) 
the SSP shall be initiated by a Sponsoring Agency; 
 
(c) 
the SSP shall be economically, financially and technically viable in 
accordance with the standards specified in the PIMs; 
 
(d) 
the Sponsoring Agency shall provide no less than 20% of the estimated 
costs of the SSP in the form of cash, materials, labor or other services in the case of 
infrastructure activities; and 
 
(e) 
the SSP shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection.  
Page  27
-
26 - 
7. 
Terms and Conditions of SSPs Grants
For each SSP to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, MASAF MU shall 
enter into a SSP Grant Agreement with the Sponsoring Agency, under terms and 
conditions which shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $10,000 per SSP Grant; 
 
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the SSP in accordance with the PIMs, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental 
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
SSP; 
 
(c) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the SSP; 
 
(d) 
the right of MASAF MU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the SSP, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
 
(e) 
the right of MASAF MU to obtain all information as MASAF MU or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
conditions of the SSP; and 
 
(f) 
the right of MASAF MU to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Sponsoring Agency to use the proceeds of the Credit for the SSP upon the failure by the 
Sponsoring Agency to perform any of its obligations under the SSP Grant Agreement.  
 
Part C of the Project
8. 
The Borrower shall establish an MIS system, satisfactory to the Association, to 
monitor and report on a quarterly basis both the physical progress and financial status of 
Project. 
Page  28
-
27 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and 
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,800,000 in respect of the Special Account 1 for Parts A and C of the Project and an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account 2 for Part B thereof, to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.  
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Accounts shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Accounts 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Accounts, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Accounts at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify; and 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Page  29
-
28 - 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Accounts for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Accounts, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Accounts for the Project, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Accounts as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  30
-
29 - 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Eligible Imports to be Financed Under the Credit 
 
1. 
Petroleum and fuel products. 
2. 
Agricultural inputs and equipment. 
3. Construction 
equipment. 
4. Spare 
parts. 
5. 
Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies. 
6. School 
supplies. 
7. 
Medical supplies and equipment. 
Page  32
-
31 - 
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
1. 
Performance of Disbursement and Quantities of items Procured against 
positive list 
 
2. 
Decline in number of under-five malnutrition 
 
3. 
Number of participants in Public Works Programs increased 
 
4. 
Number of drought mitigation studies undertaken 
 
5. 
Increase in areas under irrigation 
 
