                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32298

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-37150 GRTD-H0110)

                                                  ON A

                                         LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                                MALAWI

                                                 FOR A

                           EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT




                                              June 20, 2005




Environment and Social Development Unit - AFTS1
Country Department 3
Africa Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective August 13, 2002)

                  Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
                          MK 1 = US$ 0.013
                         US$ 1 = MK75.7

                        FISCAL YEAR
                      July 1 -  June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Gobind Nankan
              Country Director     Hartwig Schafer
               Sector Manager      Richard G. Scobey
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Stanley Hiwa

                                           MALAWI
                   EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. List of Persons Met                                                     29
Annex 9. Borrower's ICR                                                          30
Annex 10. Additional Information on PWP                                          68
Annex 11. Support for Implementation Technical Assistance and Studies            70
Annex 12. Lessons Learned                                                        72

Project ID: P080368                                                  Project Name: EMERGENCY DROUGHT
                                                                     RECOVERY PROJECT
Team Leader: Stanley Hiwa                                            TL Unit: AFTS1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-37150;
                            PROJECT                                                                  GRTD-H0110
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%); General
                            education sector (15%); Health (15%); Other social services (15%);
                            Central government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Nutrition and food security (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (S); Improving labor markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/01/2002                                     Effective: 01/13/2003                01/13/2003
     Appraisal: 08/05/2002                                         MTR: 11/30/2003                  12/18/2003
      Approval: 11/05/2002                                      Closing: 11/30/2004                 11/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF MALAWI/GOVERNMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Hartwig Schafer
Sector Manager:                 Richard Scobey                                 Karen Brooks
Team Leader at ICR:             Stanley Hiwa                                   Ousmanne Sissoko
ICR Primary Author:             Stanley Hiwa


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

         3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

         3.1 Original Objective:


         The main development objectives of the project were to: a) allow the Government to maintain key
commitments to its economic and investment priorities consistent with the PRSP process while at the same time
fulfilling its immediate obligations to avert famine; b) help restore the productive capability of the country; and c)
to support longer term disaster management in the country.

          The project was in response to Malawi's severe food crisis in 2002. The food crisis was caused by the
drought and floods in 2001 and 2002 which resulted in a significant drop in maize output, the country's main
staple. This food crisis was worsened by a suboptimal harvest in the prior year. In addition, the Early Warning
System (EWS) failed by predicting a food surplus when in fact a major food deficit was looming. The created false
sense of security delayed Government action until a crisis was clearly evident. Transportation bottlenecks also
impeded the timely arrival of imported maize. Poor management of the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR) and
over-reliance on maize in the diet were additional factors which compounded the crisis. Moreover, with the usual
low crop yields of smallholder agriculture, because of poor technology, the drought pushed an already fragile status
into a crisis situation.

         The project's objectives were realistic, clear, and achievable, except for objective (c), which, although
important for the long-term, was not easily achievable in the context of a quick disbursing, short-term emergency
operation.     The project's overall design was relatively simple and practical.        It had clear implementation
arrangements and well defined implementation responsibilities. The PDO supported Government's PRSP
(completed in April 2002) and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (dated May 2003) and was in accordance
with the Bank's Operational Directive on Emergency Operations (OP 8.50). The OP requires the Bank not to
finance food, although that was central to the Government's request for assistance. In line with this OP, the project
provided support by way of quick disbursing financing of imports; i.e., against a positive list of goods and services
required in agriculture, education and health. Some of the central issues of the PRSP and CAS: i.e., i) establishing
a platform for long-term sustainable growth, focussing on improving agricultural markets, particularly in fertilizers
and maize; improving critical infrastructure, etc; and ii) improving service delivery and expanding the safety net,
were taken up by the project. A major part of the PDO was addressed through this provision.

         In terms of Quality at Entry, the project design was highly satisfactory because it addressed the right
activities which freed government resources to import food. A PCU was established to complement competences
existing in the government and the private sector. It also facilitated flexibility and expediency in implementing the
operation. In addition, a technical steering committee was established to safeguard accountability, ensure timely
decision making and to provide sound management for the project.

         3.2 Revised Objective:
 Not applicable. Project objectives were not revised.

         3.3 Original Components:

         The original components of the project were:

           a) Quick-disbursing assistance to support critical imports through a positive list of import
         requirements linked to the drought and recovery efforts (US$40 million). The agreed positive list of
         imports included: i) agricultural equipment and inputs; ii) petroleum and fuel products; iii) construction
         equipment; iv) spare parts; v) livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies; vi) school supplies; and



                                                            - 2 -

vii) medical supplies and equipment. The importation and purchase of goods and services on the positive
list was designed to help rebuild the productive capacity of the country. This helped to protect the economy
from being in a continual decline.

 b) To augment the purchasing power of families whose incomes were reduced as a result of the crisis
(US$8 million). This was done by expanding the District Managed Programs of the Malawi Social Action
Fund (MASAF) and included: i) supporting Public Works Programs (PWP) consisting of labor intensive
works as a safety net scheme for targeted poor rural and urban areas, and ii) Support for Sponsored
Sub-projects (SSP) targeted at vulnerable groups; and iii) strengthening of the delivery mechanisms and the
information, education, and communication activities (IEC) of the MASAF Management Unit (MU); and

c) Support for project implementation, technical assistance and studies (US$2 million). This support
included: i) support for full public discussion and consideration of the causes of the crisis and develop
measures to prevent recurrence, including the work of the technical committees of the Inter-Ministerial
Task Force; (ii) support for Malawi's participation in SADC-wide efforts to craft a regional approach to
prevention and management of crises; (iii) to diagnose the key problems with agricultural statistics and how
to fix them; (iv) to finance regular meetings of a technical steering committee to monitor implementation
of the project; (v) to put in place a mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the crisis and
mitigation efforts; and (vi) to provide short term support to strengthen the agricultural advisory services
available to small farmers to improve soil and water management, mitigating the impact of future disasters
and upgrading disaster preparedness and management.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised. However,          a change was made in the execution of the MASAF
component to subcontract an NGO which implemented an Input-for-Assets program. This was done to
expand the capacity available to the project to implement PWP, hitherto a monopoly of MASAF, in order
to:

l Speed up and complete the PWP sub-component before Credit closure.
l To scale up and expand the PWP sub-component so as to provide additional transfer needs which
     resulted from the occurrence of yet another food insecurity problem in 2004 due to extended dry spells
     in 2003/2004.
l To generate lessons learned and knowledge sharing for the design of the Irrigation and Rural
     Livelihoods Development Project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         Quality at entry is rated as highly satisfactory, based on the assessment of various elements of
the project design and preparation. The project addressed the right issues at the right time. The project was
consistent with the objectives of the CAS and Government priorities. It included the appropriate Bank
safeguard policies (i.e. Environmental Assessment, Pest Management and Involuntary Resettlement)
although their compliance caused some initial project delays. The HS rating was confirmed by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG ) in July 2003. The QEA6 panel reaffirmed the soundness of the overall project
design and endorsed the handling of the policy (e.g the need to provide foreign exchange to the Central
Bank) and institutional aspects of the project. The panel stated that the project did not lend itself to
sustainability assessment as the intended useful life was less than 2 years. The panel observed, however,
that the public works to be constructed under the EDRP, through MASAF, would benefit from improved
procurement and supervision arrangements to be introduced under MASAF III. The MASAF III
procedures would result in the improvement of sustainability of these works. The panel also endorsed that


                                                    - 3 -

post-project activities should include: a) a regional approach to drought management, b) exploration of
innovations by way of weather and crop insurance, and c) improved drought and early warning systems
both at national and regional levels. According to the panel there were no major areas needing significant
improvement, but it stated that minor improvements could have been made by including: i) steps towards
future drought-mitigating innovations; e.g., promoting disease-free cuttings of sweet potato, and ii)
detailing arrangements for evaluating the project's impact on morbidity and mortality.

         With respect to i) the project in fact was successful in introducing disease-free cassava cuttings
and to set up a seed certification standard and a system of grower traceability for the crop. With respect to
ii) attempts were made by the project to monitor child mortality, morbidity and malnutrition over the
project period. In addition the project also financed the purchase of drugs to control cholera and diarrhea.
The panel endorsed the project's decision to support a generalized price subsidy scheme for maize and
fertilizers. This was initially strongly opposed by donor partners, but later there was agreement that a
general subsidy made sense. It was also agreed to use the retailing of the subsidized maize as a tool to
support market development. This was done but was abandoned when inflows of maize imports slowed and
Government resorted to rationing of supplies and distribution.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory. The project made significant contributions in
helping avert famine and related humanitarian disasters, and assisted in preventing the food crisis from
triggering a destabilization in macro-economic performance. Because of the project's support, gross official
reserves improved to around two months of import cover and also contributed to the stabilization of the
exchange rate and inflation in the economy.
l The quick-disbursing (QD) assistance was for US$40 million, of which US$10m was used for
    retroactive financing for imports of fertilizer and petroleum products.
l The remaining US$30m of QD financed imports of medical equipment and drugs, school supplies,
    veterinary drugs and livestock supplies, assorted spare parts, construction and agricultural equipment,
    agricultural inputs and fuel.
l This financing replaced government resources used for the importation of relief food meant for
    food-distressed households and enabled the Government to finance goods and services which helped
    restore productive capability for about 2 million low income Malawian households.
l Of the total critical imports, petroleum and fuel amounted to 16% and was mainly used for the
    distribution of relief food. This reduced mass hunger and the farm inputs which were imported
    facilitated the Government's Targeted Inputs Program (maize seed and fertilizer) which improved
    production capability and output. Of the total critical imports, fertilizer (accounting for 22% of it)
    helped improve fertilizer availability that was used for the 2002/3 and 2003/4 crop
l The imported petroleum and fuel also played a wider role in facilitating the transportation of imports
    and exports. Medical supplies and equipment and school supplies ( accounting for 22% of it) helped to
    maintain essential health services and the delivery of quality education and learning.
l The school feeding program, leveraged a WFP initiative by financing fuel costs, benefitted 210,000
    pupils (against an appraisal target of 200,000) with school feeding. An additional 115,098 pupils with
    take home rations.
l The gains from the SDR appreciation against the US dollar of an estimated US$3 million increase the
    resource envelope available to the project and enabled the project achievements to exceed anticipated
    targets.There was 1.4 million person days of PWP employment which transferred cash incomes in
    excess of MK300 million, 171 hammer mills were installed to directly benefit 4,000 orphans and low



                                                      - 4 -

             income families, but saving a wider catchment population in the 171 communities/villages in which
             they were installed.
       l There were rural income         multiplier effects from the wage payments from PWP (MK300 million),
             Inputs-for Assets and from the food and cash income accruing from winter crop production both in
             terms of food availability and rural cash incomes.

        4.2 Outputs by components:
Quick Disbursing Assistance to Support Critical Imports (US$40 million).
        The project exceeded the appraisal targets under this component as envisaged at appraisal.
l Disbursements amounted to US$43 million against an appraisal target of US40 million, because of the
    exchange rate gains of US$3 million, which arose from the appreciation of the SDR against the US$.
l The Staff Appraisal Report (Technical Annex) envisaged: quick-disbursing assistance of US$40 million
    equivalent to support critical imports through a positive list of import requirements linked to the drought and
    recovery efforts.
l The importation and purchase of goods and services on the positive list was designed to help rebuild the
    productive capacity of the country. This helped to prevent the additional costs of the drought from undermining
    development goals, particularly for critical services in agriculture, health and education. The US$40 million
    allocated for this component was effectively utilized to finance the planned imports, of which US$10m was
    used for retroactive financing of imports (fertilizer and petroleum products) and US$30 million for imports of
    medical, school supplies, veterinary drugs and livestock supplies, assorted spare parts, construction and
    agricultural equipment, agricultural inputs and fuel. Most of the disbursements against this component were
    for private sector imports. Of the total critical imports, petroleum and fuel amounted to 16%; fertilizer 22%;
    and medical, equipment and school supplies accounted for 22%.
l The remaining 40% on the quick disbursement financing covered import of spare parts, animal products and
    veterinary supplies, livestock, school supplies and vehicles and farm equipment. The imported petroleum and
    fuel was mostly used for the distribution of relief food to the needy and starter packs (maize seed and fertilizer)
    to restore productive capability. The importation of fertilizer helped improve fertilizer availability during the
    2002/3 and 2003/4 crop season and to enhance and sustain crop yields. The medical supplies and equipment
    and school supplies helped improve needed health services and the delivery of quality education and learning.
    Overall, the financing of imports of raw material, farm inputs and food supplements was crucial in supporting
    the resumption of growth in the economy and for providing the inputs required for the success of several
    humanitarian and social programs in the country.
l In addition, and consistent with the objectives for this operation, and supplemental           to averting famine,
    Government was enabled to maintain key commitments to economic and investment priorities in line with the
    PRSP and PSIP.
l The quick disbursing financing of critical imports contributed to stabilizing the Gross Official Reserves to
    around two months of import cover, and also to stabilizing the exchange rate and domestic inflation. In fact,
    project support increased Malawi's import cover from 1.9 to 3.4 months of imports during the project period,
    and, at its peak, 64% of total development assistance inflows into the economy were accounted for by foreign
    exchange resource inflows from EDRP disbursements. The Malawi Kwacha exchange rate, which varied
    between MK88 and MK108 to the US$, appreciated in real terms.

Augment Incomes of Affected Families through PWP and Social Investments for Vulnerable Groups (US$8
million).

        This component has been fully achieved, although with some initial implementation delays.The SAR
envisaged project support to be directed at augmenting the purchasing power of families whose incomes were
reduced as a result of the crisis and support essential social investments and services to vulnerable groups . This
was done by expanding the District Managed Programs of the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF) which


                                                             - 5 -

included:
 i) Supporting PWP consisting of labor intensive works as a safety net scheme for targeted poor rural and urban
areas.
 ii) Support for Sponsored Sub-projects (SSP) targeted at vulnerable groups. And
 iii) strengthening of the delivery mechanisms and theIEC of the MASAF Management Unit (MU).




Support for Implementation, Technical Assistance, and Studies (US$2 million)

This component was substantially achieved. The SAR envisaged the project to provide support for project
implementation, technical assistance and studies with an allocation of US$2 million equivalent. This support
included: i) support for full public discussion of the causes of the crisis and to propose and develop measures to
prevent recurrence. The consultations also specified the work of the technical committees of the Inter-Ministerial
Task Force; (ii) support for Malawi's participation in SADC-wide efforts to craft a regional approach to prevention
and management of crises; (iii) to diagnose the key problems with agricultural statistics and how to fix them; (iv)
to finance regular meetings of a technical steering committee to monitor implementation of the project; (v) to put in
place a mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the crisis and mitigation efforts; and (vi) to
provide short term support to strengthen the agricultural advisory services available to small farmers to improve
soil and water management, mitigating the impact of future disasters and upgrading disaster preparedness and
management (see annex).

  Additional achievements and useful studies and pilot programs which were undertaken and delivered within the
project period, under this component, include the following:
.
l A study was produced on livestock management. As a result of this livestock study, campaigns are being
     conducted to reduce the slaughter and sale of immature cattle stock. The impact on the livestock sector was
     further enhanced through the project intervention to directly control foot and mouth disease and to support a
     restocking effort aimed at rebuilding the population of cattle in the Shire valley.
l Equally, and as a result of a study and pilot program, the Government now has strategies and a sustained
     program on cassava cultivation and expansion.
l Large grain borer control to reduce grain storage losses benefitted from the completion of a research program,
     started eight years earlier, which stalled due to lack of resources.
l Informal irrigation and water harvesting has expanded the stock of land under irrigation (1,400 ha) and
     publicized a drought coping mechanism for beneficiary smallholder farmers.
l Local treadle pump fabrication was supported to reduce the cost of procuring the technology.
l Winter maize cropping and cultivation of dambos were piloted to result in sustainable use of fragile wetlands
     for maize and vegetable cultivation.
l The country now has a blueprint for village grain banks which were piloted in Nkhata Bay, albeit for non-maize
     crops.
l Towards the end of the project the project financed the market price information system with computer
     technology and training to set-up telecenters for data processing and transmission in all the ADDs. These have
     developed into telecenters that in addition to processing the requirements for the weekly price information
     system for agriculture now play a wider price and market information system. It is active in 16 centers across
     the whole country.
With the exception of the tobacco sector study, whose final report was submitted in time but needs to be
synthesized and disseminated, the rest of the studies and pilot initiatives were finalized.

Relevant lessons from previous emergency operations in the country and from the sub-region were taken into


                                                                - 6 -

account in the design of the project components. The lessons highlighted the need for project interventions in five
areas: a) ensure adequacy of foreign exchange resources to guard against inflationary pressures stemming from a
weakening of the exchange rate and supply shortages in imported goods and services; b) to enhance food supply; c)
ensure productive capacity for the next and subsequent seasons; (d) provide safety nets and opportunities for rapid
and broad based employment in rural areas; and, e) making investments and strengthening institutions to reduce
long-term vulnerability. In addition, the design of the project components was complemented by other donor
programs, including the IMF (emergency support), WFP (school feeding and targeted feeding to vulnerable
groups), FAO (cassava multiplication and agricultural statistics) , DFID (targeted feeding and inputs for assets),
EU (farm inputs and SGR/NFRI ), GTZ (policy and agricultural extension) and USAID -targeted relief through
NGOs (see annex 11 for further details).

         4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

As common with these types of operations, no economic or financial analysis was carried out at the time
of appraisal of the project, which could be used as a comparative baseline; hence no such analyses was
attempted in this ICR.

         4.4 Financial rate of return:
         Not applicable

         4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was substantial. The project contributed to the strengthening of the two main
implementing agencies, MOA and MASAF and increased capacity at the National Statistics Office, the Department
of Meteorology, and in district assemblies.       The project also provided short-term support to strengthen the
agricultural advisory service and financed the training of 357 prospective agricultural extension workers.In general
it raised the level of awareness and understanding on disaster management and mitigation interventions among
government agencies, especially in the Department of Poverty and Disaster Management, among politicians and the
private sector. It also increased the skills of the Reserve Bank staff in processing withdrawal applications. Staff
from the RBM, together with PCU staff, were trained on the management of off-shore special accounts through
technical assistance and training and through workshops. The IEC activity was very effective in disseminating
information on drought occurrences, their causes and on the management and mitigation of food crises. The IEC
activity at MASAF, in collaboration with MOA, developed messages mainly targeting communities prone to
drought occurrences and flooding, but also including District Assemblies, to equip them with knowledge and skills
for responding to and managing extreme weather shock. IEC was also instrumental in specifying the opportunities
available to drought affected communities to identify and propose works that had a drought mitigation impact for
possible MASAF support. The latter, awareness creation, has now been mainstreamed into the operations of
MASAF III.

         5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

         5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Malawi is a small economy, predominantly rural, semi-literate and dependent on smallholder rain-fed agriculture
for both food and exports. The performance of the economy and its food security is very highly dependent on
rainfall patterns. The drought in 2001/2 disrupted the country's food security and the country seems to exist within
an aura of permanent food crises of varying magnitudes. Apart from being highly susceptible to weather-based
shock, the country remains vulnerable to external negative developments in international exchange relationships, in
commodity trade, donor aid inflows, the kwacha exchange rate and the prices for its imports petrochemical products
and fertilizers.




                                                              - 7 -

The full resolution of a medium and long-term disaster management strategy and plan requires agreement to be
reached especially with all stakeholders in the country. Important partners to this plan are the private sector and
donors who have separate and differing interests that need to be reconciled into national and regional drought
management strategies. In a situation where government's leadership of the disaster management process is already
weak, caused mainly by lack of capacity, the project had a difficult time to get full cooperation and agreement from
the donors on how to move this process further. The private sector and civil society were never effectively involved
due to a continuing lack of confidence and trust by Government of their capability and motive. The Government's
also lacks the mechanisms for effectively engaging and consulting with the private sector and civil society in an
emergency. In a regional context SADC and NEPAD agreed on an approach to drought mitigation which revolved
around the concept of regional grain reserves. This has not been resolved and agreed with the donors who feel that
given the problem of managing national grain reserves, a regional SGR is unlikely to be successful.

         5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was positively affected by the evolving decentralized governance. This enabled a variety of district
based committees to be enacted to support project monitoring and the implementation of humanitarian interventions
and programs which were either being supported by the EDRP or by other donors but which were nonetheless
supportive of the project.

The project was affected by a very high turnover of staff especially at key strategic and very senior positions. Over
its 2-year life-span there have been 5 changes of Principal Secretaries in MOA and 4 changes in the Controller for
the Planning Department. This is common to most of the positions and departments in the Ministry. These changes
particularly set back efforts to conceive and finalize the strategic plan for nutrition and food security. The support
that was required of the Ministry on the formulation of policies on land and drought mitigation was disjointed and
weak due to the same reason. For this reason the Government was not able to sustain a decision regarding the
institutional home for the crop estimate exercise as this went back and forth between NSO and MOAI. The
interface between national politics and the project was not always constructive and took a lot of effort on the part of
PCU and the Bank to manage the demands which were conveyed to the project.

         5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The first year of the project was affected by weak technical supervision. The role and responsibilities of the TSC
were not clearly spelled out nor were those for the Ministry. This was later resolved through two separate
developments. The first was decision for the TSC, together with MASAF, to undertake supervision missions on the
project to advise on implementation and PCU operations. The second was the transition from MASAF II to
MASAF III which created an implementation delay of about 6 months as new procedures had to be developed and
at the same time dedicated staff for MASAF had to be recruited. This resulted in an effective project life for the
2nd component of only 18 months, resolved through the decision to subcontract Emmanuel International, the NGO
which implemented the Input-for Assets Program.

         5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was US$50.5 million of which IDA credit was US$29 million equivalent, IDA grant US$21
million equivalent and Government's contribution US$0.5 million. The actual project cost was US$54.7 million
and the actual Government `s contribution was US$1.0 million. The increase in project cost was financed by the
foreign exchange gains accrued to the project, because of the depreciation of the Credit and Grant dollar amount .
Additional US$0.5 million from Government's counterpart contribution was spent through Government
prefinancing of the MASAF program during the period that IDA flows were held pending compliance with
Environment and Resettlement Safeguards requirements. Despite this delay, all of the grant and credit in relation to
the project was disbursed in time thereby providing macro-economic stabilization and critical balance of payment



                                                              - 8 -

support during the emergency crisis. By the end of the second year of the project the total grant and credit amount
was fully disbursed.


        6. Sustainability

        6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
        The ICR assesses sustainability as likely. The project was declared effective on January 13,
        2003 and closed on November 30, 2004. With such a very short life span for the project (two years),
        the project would not customarirly lend itself well to sustainability assessment as many of its activities are
        designed to go beyond a period of two years. For sustainability to happen, and it is the ICR's assessment
        that this will selectively happen for some interventions under this, at least two conditions have to be made
        at the same time. The first is prior identification at appraisal of activities that have to be sustained after the
        2 year period. The second is that there must be existing or new projects into which these activities can be
        mainstreamed. Both conditions were present for the EDRP. The policy, agricultural statistics, drought
        proofing, and informal irrigation etc. were meant to be sustained. MASAF and the new IRLDP have or
        will mainstream some of the activities that EDRP either piloted or mainstreamed within the limits of its
        scope.    For MASAF they have already mainstreamed the IEC, M&E, and drought coping farm
        interventions and environmental protection. The PWPs and SSPs of both EDRP and IRLDP are likely to
        be better sustained now that the new MASAF guidelines are in place. IRLDP is considering to mainstream
        and up scale informal irrigation, input for assets and will continue to improve agricultural support services
        based on the human resource which was trained under the EDRP. IRLDP will also use the same transfer
        mechanism for funds as EDRP, i.e. using MASAF to handle and manage all aspects of cash transfers and
        expedite disbursements.

        Lastly, the important issues related to long-term disaster management such as completing a Food and
        Nutrition strategy, improved early warning systems and agricultural statistics etc. are likely to pick up
        speed as donors and the Bank have put it as a priority on their agenda and their subsequent programs e.g.
        IRLDP.
        .

        6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
        Since this project was an emergency project with an emphasis on short term outputs, the original design of
        the project did not lay out arrangements for transition of project activities with the exception of activities
        undertaken by MASAF and the possible exception of those to be undertaken by the IRLDP. As a result, it
        is significant that MOA indeed live by its assurance to sustain and upscale many of the activities that fall
        outside the scope of MASAF and IRLDP.




                                                              - 9 -

The Reserve Bank is now more aware of the requirements and procedures to put operations on a high speed
disbursements track. Regarding the future monitoring of project indicators MASAF will monitor on
PWPs and SSPs and on community participation. MOAI has the more permanent and cross cutting
responsibility in monitoring the implementation of the long term food and nutrition sector policy, disaster
management strategy, agricultural statistics and early warning system and crop marketing prices. The
concern however, is that they may not do this well, hence the recommendation to include these under the
IRLDP. This project was prepared in parallel with an identical operation in Zambia and a similar
operation in the Angola. While there may be good practice lessons to be learned from this project, the ICR
recommends that this be done by OED after the closure of the comparable Zambia and Ethiopia operations.
Within a regional context, this would enable a more meaningful synthesis of key lessons learned from
emergency drought operations by capturing the regional/SADC dimensions.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The quality of Bank lending is rated as highly satisfactory. All operations were executed expeditiously,
it took just three months from the issues paper to Board approval. Because of the urgency of the situation
the Regional Operations Committee instructed that the project should be simultaneously prepared and
appraised. The project was consistent with Government's development agenda, the CAS and complemented
other operations undertaken by donors in the relief of Malawi's emergency situation. The project design
was simple, with clear objectives and was fully appropriate considering the short time frame in which the
project had to be prepared and other alternatives which were available. The lessons learned from previous
emergency operations in the region were taken into account. The policy and institutional aspects of the
project were well designed and put into appropriate perspective and balance the short and long term
interventions necessary for managing the crisis. The involvement of the IMF ensured that the project fitted
within the overall Government expenditures ceiling agreed between the Government and the Fund. The
Fund also advised on the management of Kwacha counterpart funds generated by the IDA credit/grant
which were spent to offset Government domestic debt to minimize the risk of a negative impact on the
exchange rate and inflation. Given the positive performance during the EDRP period, where inflation
stabilized and the exchange rate gained in real terms, it can be assumed that the size of the financing
package was appropriate.

Within the context of the country, project effectiveness is usually declared within 3-6 months. Parliament
convened a special session to pass the loan Authorization Bill for the EDRP credit. This resulted in the
project being declared effective in just over 2 months. Apart from reflecting high borrower commitment
and ownership, the speed of declaration of effectiveness meant that emergency assistance could flow
rapidly as demanded by the situation. While the technical requirements for designing, appraising and
declaring the project effective, were met expeditiously, this also created a major weakness which became
clear very early in the implementation cycle. Given the rush to meet appraisal and project processing The
preparation/appraisal understated the value of an IEC strategy as a result of which stakeholders that were
critical for implementation, notably the private sector, the donor community and the Government, were
not fully familiar with how the project would operate when launched.




                                                   - 10 -

The appropriate safeguards were reviewed during appraisal and concluded that the project would not have
a major environmental impact. Only the MASAF component, which had interventions of PWPs and SSPs
could possibly trigger the need for a resettlement policy framework to guide                      potential
compensation/resettlement issues.     Safeguard measures including environmental and social screening,
assessment and mitigation would be applied during implementation through MASAF's II environmental
and social management mechanism. However, during implementation it became apparent that a separate
environmental and social screening assessments had to be filed for the EDRP. The realization and the
remedy of this oversight caused a delay of 6 months in the start-up and implementation of the MASAF
component.


7.2 Supervision:
The rating of the supervision, given its flexibility and realism is considered satisfactory. The project
was well supervised despite the fact that the project had 3 task managers, which led to concern about the
continuity of supervision and institutional memory of the project. However, there always was overlap
between TTL/co-TTLship, decisions were timely, contacts with stakeholders were cordial and constructive
and   Bank staff reporting was accurately reflected in the PSRs and captured in the ratings.          Bank
supervision throughout the project period was carried out from the Bank field office and was timely and
conveyed relevant implementation advice. This was facilitated by two factors. The first was the strong
collegial support from HQs and the Country Manager. The second, was that the task team had a very
close and constructive engagement with the PCU.

This arrangement enabled the project to overcome 3 major problems encountered during the
implementation. Firstly, was the request from Government for the Bank to declare Loan Effectiveness
before a Loan Authorization Bill was passed. This was resolved when the Government decided to have a
special session of parliament. The second followed a cabinet reshuffle in Government which resulted in the
need to brief the new Minister and Principal Secretary on project implementation modalities against a
background of totally different expectations. The new administration's request was for project funds to be
used exclusively for the Ministry's development programs. The third has been an enduring demand by the
ministry to spend the Kwacha counterpart funds on the ministry's own budget. This was obviously not
possible given the amount in question, about MK 5 billion, as this would have undermined the agreed
expenditures ceiling with the IMF.

Project supervision did not encounter any major problems with the enforcement of loan covenants nor did it
have to deviate from Bank policies and procedures during implementation.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performed well at appraisal. It has to be taken into account that this was the worst crisis in
living memory. The calamity was made worse by underlying poverty which made planning targeting very
difficult. Against this background the Government provided useful working documents and data which not
only facilitated the appraisal process but objectively explored options that may have been difficult for the
Government to conceive e.g. targeting as it meant choosing between the very poor and the destitute. The
Government was able to take a prominent role by redirecting its efforts and resources away from planning a



                                                    - 11 -

sector investment program, which was at an advanced stage of preparation, towards the preparation and
appraisal of the EDRP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government performed very well during the implementation of this project. The Reserve Bank,
MASAF and the Technical Steering Committee managed the project in such a way that there was minimum
requirement for reverting back to central Government. Given that the Government was crisis driven for
most of the project period, due to the combined pressures of the crisis and electioneering, the policy
environment was prone to frequent nuance changes, a reality that did not slow down the implementation as
there was no direct way of translating these nuances into action. However, there were occasions when the
technical ministry would intervene directly with the PCU or with the World Bank on behalf of the project.
The PCU handled these requests by redirecting them to the TSC who would provide the formal response to
the technical ministry, while the Bank would refer them to the ministry of Finance, such that again these
interventions did not slow down the implementation. In effect this provided a system of internal checks and
balances which facilitated smooth project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PCU played the major project coordinating role and carried out some direct implementation
responsibilities, was very efficient, innovative and effective in implementing the project. It also performed
well with respect to the project's reporting, financial management and procurement requirements. In
addition, the PCU also effectively used the IEC to complement the ministry's extension service. The pilot
programs and studies generated new technologies with a potentially high pay-off on drought mitigation and
food security to completion and dissemination.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above performance the borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1) A technically sound emergency operation can only be designed on the basis of sound statistics and
credible policy. Although the project accorded priority to a sound data base, progress on putting them in
place was slow. At the time of the emergency, critical economic and agricultural data to enable assessment
of the crisis and to provide the basis for the design of this project was either lacking or, if available, poor in
quality and inconsistent. Moreover, what was available was widely dispersed among Government and
nongovernmental institutions. This situation distracted from optimal planning, and it needs to be speedily
resolved to avoid a repeat in the event of another emergency. Valuable time was also lost at appraisal, and
goodwill among donors eroded because of the absence of clear policy direction and leadership from
Government on nutrition and food security.

(2) For emergency recovery loans to be successful, there should be no impediments in the institutional
arrangements that could slow down disbursements as this would defeat the purpose of the loan. In the
EDRP this was achieved by having a PCU which was given full authority to coordinate and execute project
operations but accountable to the TSC. The TSC also shielded the PCU from major interference by the
technical line ministry. While acknowledging that the PCU should have a strong technical linkage with a
technical, line ministry depending on the nature of the emergency operation, in future, it may be more
appropriate to attach the PCU to a central ministry, such as the Ministry of Finance, since the Ministry of
Finance is unlikely to want to micro manage a project of this nature.




                                                     - 12 -

(3) To make the fullest impact, emergency projects have to demonstrate quick wins in the shortest
possible time. This entails starting with income transfer programs, quick disbursements, etc. that gain
momentum rapidly and reach their peak in the first year. For this to happen, it is essential that two
conditions should be met: i) detailed implementation plans should be           developed at appraisal and
communicated to all stakeholders, preferably before the start of the project or latest at the project launch
workshops. The project was able to achieve this through, to a large extent, and after appraisal because of
the PCU which accomplished this task rapidly. The use of IEC, which developed materials and conducted
mass communication campaigns to educate and sensitize stakeholders, also assisted by developing a
demand for the services and products that the project would offer. Delays are likely to occur if planning of
the IEC and the operationalization of the PCU are done in sequence as opposed to be done in parallel; and
ii) only components which have a high potential to peak rapidly in the implementation should be given
priority. The project was able to peak rapidly through the QD component and the use of MASAF, with an
established reputation and track record for speedy implementation, as an implementing agency.

(4) Since the emergency operation should focus on impacting the affected target group immediately, it
is important that safety nets be given a high priority and be appropriately costed. In essence, safety nets
should transfer incomes and save life within a very short period without having to go through a lengthy
approval process or gestation period (e.g PWPs, SSPs). This would favor programs such as food/inputs
for assets. To achieve the required balance in addressing the developmental aspects, the ERLs should be
conceived through pilot programs and studies that can deliver on enhanced food security in the short term.
While selecting MASAF as an implementing agency for safety nets was correct, their administrative
processes leading to the commencement of sub-projects are lengthy and slow and may therefore not be
ideally suited to a crisis situation. Hence, the subsequent introduction of the inputs for assets into the
EDRP. The EDRP greatly benefited from the inclusion of specific studies and pilots associated with
finding the appropriate solutions and introductions of new technologies to improve farm production in
Malawi (e.g, large grain borer control, village grain banks, informal irrigation, treadle pump fabrication,
and virus free cassava planting material).

(5) To be readily responsive to Government in an emergency setting, it is essential that the supervision
task team is country office based. The main advantage of this is that it allows speedy Bank decisions
without prolonged referrals to HQ. In addition, it increases the chances in developing a strong and
constructive relationship with the various stakeholders. This developed under this project between the
Bank's supervision team, the PCU, MASAF and the RBM.

(6) To avoid being in a response mode all the time, Government needs to look at ways of developing
ex-ante instruments for responding to and managing extreme weather-based shocks to the system.
Malawi is highly prone to such shocks and seemingly becoming increasingly so. Designing and getting the
EDRP operational within three months was an excellent achievement, acceptable and highly commendable,
within the design parameters and operational guidelines which are set for these operations. But then acts of
nature are not always in consonant with such guidelines. In the present case, the 3 month processing period
to effectiveness has to be extended by another four months to allow for MASF processing and approvals,
employment and actual job engagement before the first wages could be paid. This is far too long for people
who have lost their livelihoods as their overall food entitlements are decimated. To be proactive, in a
manner which is both efficient and effective, would need workable risk and disaster management
instruments to be developed. This would essentially be market based products for managing weather, price
and supply shock be developed either for the country or the region (to include weather insurance and the
use of commodity futures and options). Complimentary investments in drought proofing technologies is
also feasible through precision farming and improved crop management., among other possible alternatives.


                                                    - 13 -

In addition, the country, through donor assistance, should think of developing an "ex-ante EDRP". Cash
based safety nets are likely to be more effective at this and should be studied for their viability in the
Malawi situation.

7. Especially for Emergency Relief Operations, an efficient monitoring and evaluation system needs to
be developed and implemented in a very short time. In the case of the EDRP an effective on-going
monitoring and evaluation system was developed by combining elements of a simple tracking system and
Bank-type supervision missions by the TSC which reviewed reports generated by the PCU tracking reports.
The TSC would decide and recommend remedial actions on the basis of these reports. This was important
in order to catch up with the implementation and disbursement lag experienced in the first year. The PWP
was changed to include an NGO for the specific reason of expanding implementation capacity to meet
project targets for PWP and to achieve target income transfer outcomes which were both surpassed based
on the M&E outputs from this system. Developing a blueprint for a simple and standardized system is
recommended for ERLs as do not have the lead time needed to develop a workable system from first
principles after the project gets underway.

8. Disbursements based on prior claims and the submission of detailed supporting documents and
original receipts is not ideal for ERLs, nor for speedy disbursements and certainly not suited for an
environment where foreign exchange transactions are liberalized. The documentation required the
transfer of EX9 receipts which commercial banks maintain for their own records as they have to be
presented during Reserve Bank supervision of banking transactions. The ardor involved in fulfilling the
documentation for withdrawal applications detracted from the stated intention for rapid disbursements
under Component 1. This is recommended for review in order to identify ways to satisfy documentation
requirements for withdrawal applications that are rigorous but not arduous.

9. Critical Role of IEC in the Project. IEC made this project. It was the key that broke down the
opposition from the donors on the issues of subsidies and the need for this project. It also facilitated
appreciation of how a national multisectoral project would operate for all local communities, ministries, the
private sector and banking institutions and other stakeholders. Most of the lessons leaned were incorporated
into the design of MASAF III and that of the IRLDP.

10. Conflict between ERL concept and incorporation of medium/long-term objectives. The need for
ERLs to incorporate long term concerns is a selling point in getting approval for these projects. It is
important to establish that the man-made elements of any crisis are not only resolvable, but are resolved, so
that the country avoids a repeat for intervening to remedy and manage a situation which would have been
avoided with careful planning. However, a lot of such outputs relating to sector policies for instance, fall
outside the time-frame provided for ERLs and should best be taken up by the CAS.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                    - 14 -

- 15 -

The overall Project Development Objective was to improve Malawi's emergency
response management in the short (2001/2002 season drought) and medium
term. Specifically, (a) to allow the Government maintain key commitments to
economic priorities and investments consistent with the PRSP process while at
the same time fulfilling its immediate obligations to avert famine; (b) to help
restore the productive capability in the country; and (c) to support longer term
disaster management by the Government.

Although the objectives are the same as in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) drawn up in September 2002, the project was implemented in a
highly demanding environment. Government had to handle the food crisis and
at the same time strive to maintain economic stability to ensure that the
recovery process and the economic growth were sustained. On top of all this,
the project had to be implemented in a rather short period. The effective
implementation period, for MASAF, is 21 months, due to some delays met.
Despite the delays, it has managed to achieve all its set objectives.

Despite the project being a multi-sectoral as it involved several players, both in
the public and private sector, it has been successful. The Quick Disbursing
component (QD) that was financing imports of agricultural inputs, petroleum,
veterinary products and other items on the positive list, significantly enabled
Government to maintain a level of economic stability while addressing the food
crisis. Under normal circumstances the required import cover per month is
about US$60.0 million while EDRP only provided US$40.0 million under the
QD. Thus under normal circumstances, the impact of this facility on the
country's foreign reserves can be very minimal. However, it should be noted
that Government had spent over US$80.0 million on maize imports within a
short period. This created a big dent on our foreign exchange reserve as
evidenced by a drop in import cover from 2.29 in January 2003 to 1.98 in
March 2003. Thus the gains from sell of forex maintained the import cover at
an average rate of 1.83 per month from March to December 2003, the period
during which most of the funds were disbursed as indicated in Annex 4.

Although project objectives were realistic and significant in achieving the
outputs, they were not clear to the stakeholders. The QD component was
initially not well understood. This contributed to initial delays in the
implementation of the project.      The establishment of the PCU early in the
project's life significantly contributed to the success of the project. Despite
initial delays, disbursements of funds to the components were timely. However,
institutional arrangements at the Accountant General's Department delayed
opening up of operating accounts for EDRP activities, which affected project
implementation. Notwithstanding this, the able and dedicated staff at the PCU
and the existence of the Project Steering Committee added strength and a clear
direction on project operations.

                                       - 16 -

The project has three components namely:                             (a) Quick-disbursing (QD)
component comprising of retroactive financing (US$10 million) and financing of
importation of items on the positive list linked to drought (US$30 million) such
as petroleum and fuel products, agricultural inputs, agricultural equipment,
construction equipment, spare parts, livestock, animal products and veterinary
supplies, school supplies and medical supplies; (b) The Malawi Social Action
Fund (MASAF) component supporting the Public Works Projects (PWPs) and
Sponsored sub Projects (SSPs); and (c) the Project Management component,
including PCU, Technical assistance and Studies.

The QD component significantly enabled Government to achieve a reasonable
economic stability during the emergency period. The gains from sell of forex
improved import cover from 1.7 months to 1.8 months early in the
implementation of the project. The availability of foreign reserves somehow
stabilized the Kwacha and hence the market prices. The income gains from the
MASAF's PWPs and SSPs safety net programmes provided a recovery from the
shocks of the food shortage for the beneficiary groups. While components of the
project were related to achievement of objectives, the capacity of Local
Assemblies was inadequate. The Assemblies were initially constrained due to
unavailability of resources for monitoring project activities under the
EDRP-MASAF PWPs and SSPs. The absence of the Information Education and
Communication (IEC) unit in the early stages of the MASAF component
contributed to the disparity in the selection of PWPs projects resulting into
more road projects than other social projects. At the time the ICR was being
undertaken a total of 335 PWP projects had been approved, 267 involved road
rehabilitation and only 1 was for soil and water conservation.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
WFP suggested textual corrections to the circulated draft which have been incorprated. This related to the
coverage of the school feeding program.

10. Additional Information

Post-procurement assessment

This project closed on November 30, 2004.The EDRP was among the four projects under Malawi
portfolio of which the Bank carried out the IPR. The IPR was carried out using Global
Procurement Consultants Ltd. (GPCL), the Consultant from India. The overall objectives of the
IPR were to seek conclusion on: (i) the procurement and contracting procedures and process
followed for the project; (ii) in the case of those contracts, which were subject to prior review, the
Bank's procurement supervision of the project; (iii) in the case of those contracts, which were



                                                  - 17 -

subject to post review, the Bank's procurement supervision of the project; (iv) compliance with
the Bank's general guiding principles of economy, efficiency, equal opportunity, transparency, and
quality including but not limited to, and to the extent possible, technical, physical completion, and
price competitiveness aspects of contracts; and (v) possible improvements.

Findings: The procurement specialist reviewed 10 post review contracts. In all the contracts
reviewed, the procurement process followed was acceptable. However, it was noted that the
project has poor record keeping of key documentation related to procurement.




                                                 - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Resumption of overall growth                   above 6%                                       GDP Growth:-
                                                                                              2001 : -4.1%; 2002:1.8%; 2003:3.9%;         2004
                                                                                              : 4.6%
Stablize inflation                             NS                                             2001 : 27.5%; 2002:14.8%%; 2003:9.6%%;
                                                                                              2004 : 11.5%
Improve Gross Official Reserves                3 months import cover                          EDRP forex inflows as % of total donor
                                                                                              inflows:
                                                                                              27% in 2002,
                                                                                              27% in 2003 ;
                                                                                              and 69% in 2004.
                                                                                              Import cover:
                                                                                              1.9 months in 2001
                                                                                              3.5 months in 2003/4.
Stakeholder endorsed Food Security and         Within Year 1 of Project                       Delivered after project closure
Nutrition Startegy Statement
Disaster Management System installed           Year 1 of Project                              Done.
                                                                                              - Act on Disaster Management and Relief
                                                                                              Operations approved by parliament.
                                                                                              - ex-ante action plan developed and
                                                                                              institutionalized in 11 districts;
                                                                                              - 11.9 km of irrigation canals from rivers and
                                                                                              the lake constructed, 1407ha of irrigated land
                                                                                              rehabilitated, 50 tanks harvesting roof water
                                                                                              and runoff constructed,28 water storage
                                                                                              dams and tanks constructed.
                                                                                              - the project piloted Larger Grain Borer
                                                                                              control, trained local artisans in fabricating
                                                                                              treadle pumps and reviewed and developed
                                                                                              a model for Community Grain Banks.
Resume agricultural Sector Output              postive sector growth                          Agricultural Sector Growth:
                                                                                              2001 : 6.2%;
                                                                                              2002 : 2.7%;
                                                                                              2003 : 5.9%
                                                                                              2004 : 4.7%


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Performance of disbursement and                $50 m.                                         $53 m
procurement of items against the positive list.
Management of public debt                      MK counterpart funds proceeds used to retire Over MK5 billion generated by project and
                                               public debt                                    creditted to Gov't
Improve availability of farm supplies          finance farm inputs(fert, agrochemmicals,      - about $10 m used to import farm inputs
                                               etc.) 2002, 2003.                              and machinery.
                                                                                              - rapid disbursements for petrochemical
                                                                                              products used to faciliate transportation of
                                                                                              inputs and farm produce (US$3 m)


drought proofing of farming systems            cassava clean planting distribution, small     water harvesting/informal irrigation, winter
                                               scale irrigation and winter cropping upscaled. cropping upscaled, treadle pump fabrication,
                                                                                              cassava clean planting material and sweet
                                                                                              potato vines distributed.
Input for assets program started targeting low 70,000 farmers, in selected areas of the       - 1,500 km of road constructed
income farmers with inputs for work and        country, get paid in farm inputs after working 300 tonnes of fertilizer and 117 tonnes of
orphans to be given input grants to start      on PWP; 200,000 child-headed households        seed distributed over two seasons
vegetable gardens.                             are given extension training and inputs for    - intergrated package of construction, trade,
                                               kitchen gardens.                               extension developed through rural retailers.
Smooth and timely closure of project.          Closing down activities to be initiated, QD    All complied or agreed for November 29.




                                                                  - 19 -

                                         allocations, Power Point presentation,     Except Final Audit, Jan, 2005; PPR, Feb
                                         production of video clip, QD allocations,  2005; Analysis of QD imports for December
                                         hand-over schedule of project assets, PPR, 2004.
                                         ICR, Final Audit.
Price and market Information System      NS                                          16 telecenters established throughout the
established                                                                         country
Precision farming introduced along with  NS                                         Precision Farming
Weather Insurance                                                                   - Awareness and capacity created in
                                                                                    stakeholder institutions (MOA, Met, Lands
                                                                                    and NASFAM)
                                                                                    - Equipment and Computer bought and
                                                                                    installed at Bunda
                                                                                    Weather Insurance
                                                                                    - Awareness and strong buy-in develped in
                                                                                    private sector and Gov't.
Food loss management                     Post harvest crop storage improved.        Biological control of large grain borer
                                                                                    implemented and blueprints for village grain
                                                                                    banks developed based on a single pilot for
                                                                                    rice/cassava in Nkhata Bay.
Income transfers                         PWPs, SSP and FFW/IFW implemented.         - 335 PPW employing 134,000 laborers
                                                                                    - MK300,000,000 of direct income transfers
                                                                                    to achieved through MASAF
                                                                                     - the cassava program resulted in additional
                                                                                    transfers
                                                                                    - 171 hammer mills installed to benefit about
                                                                                    5,000 orphans throughout the country

1End of project




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                         US$ million  US$ million
Quick Disbursing Imports                                  40.00         43.56            109
MASAF (PWP and SSP)                                        8.41           9.24           116
Project Coordinating Unit                                  2.10           1.59            76

Total Baseline Cost                                       50.51         54.39
                        Total Project Costs               50.51         54.39
                  Total Financing Required                50.51         54.39




                                                - 21 -

EXPENSE CATEGORY                                                        FINANCING
                                                   Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Actual/Latest  %age of      %age of
                                                     Estimate   Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal  Appraisal
                                                      Bank      Bank         Government      Bank      Government

Quick Disbursement                                     USD                         USD
Imports-Retroactive                                     000                        000

                    Petroleum and fuel products       4,217        4,294             0        102%

                            Agricultural inputs       5,823        5,864             0        191%
                            Total Retroactive        10,040       10,158             0        101%
Inports-Postive List

                    Petroleum and fuel products       2,811
                                                                   2,643             0          94%

                            Agricultural Inputs       1,205        3,582             -        297%


                        Agricultural Equipment        6,024        6,048             0        100%


                        Construction equipment
                                                      4,016        4,177             0        104%

                                    Spare parts       5,020        5,152             0        103%

                          Livestock & supplies
                                                      2,008        2,100             0        105%

                                School supplies
                                                                   3,795             0          94%
                 Medical Supplies & equipment         4,016


                                                      5,020        5,907             0        118%

                            Total Positive List      30,120       33,404             0        111&
              TOTAL QUICK DISBURSING                 40,161       43,562             0        108%




             Public Works Program-MASAF
                            Strengthening SSPs           723       1,081          697         150%         1742%
                        Equipment Task force            131          66            17          51%          55%
                        Multi- sectoral training         622         132             -          21%           0%
                           Extra operating costs         161          95            17          59%          84%
                             PWP Sub Projects         6,396        6,777          357         106%          111%

             TOTAL MASAF COMPONENT                    8,032        8,152         1,087        101%          265%


PIU

                      Equipment and Vehicles             201          98            24          49%         122%

                Project Management Operations            310         289          196           96%         980%

                Consultancies (including audits)      1,305          784          196           60%         327%
                                   Unallocated             -                         -                        0%
                                  TOTAL PIU           1,807        1,171          416          65%          416%
                    TOTAL PROJECT COST               50,000       52,885         1,503        106%          295%




                                                   - 22 -

  1/       Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant and the Credit. All costs
           include contingencies.
   2/      Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
  contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistances services, and incremental
  operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending projects funds to local government




  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2            N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                                Other
  1. Works                                 0.00                0.00              0.00               7.86           7.86
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)             (7.86)         (7.86)
  2. Goods                                 4.10                0.00              0.00               0.00           4.10
                                          (1.14)              (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)         (1.14)
  3. Services                              0.00                0.00              0.00               0.92           0.92
                                          (0.00)              (0.53)            (0.00)             (0.92)         (1.45)
  4. Quick Disbursement                    43.56               0.00              0.00               0.00          43.56
                                          (43.56)             (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)         (43.56)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00              0.00               0.39           0.39
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.39)         (0.39)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00              0.00               0.00           0.00
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)
      Total                                47.66               0.00              0.00               9.17          56.83
                                          (44.70)             (0.53)            (0.00)             (9.17)         (54.39)



    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA        Govt.        CoF.          IDA          Govt.       CoF.      IDA     Govt.     CoF.
Quick Dibsbursment             40.00                                  43.56                              108.9
Imports
MASAF (PWP and SSP)             8.00        0.41                      8.15         1.09                  101.9   265.9
Project Coordination Unit       2.00        0.10                      1.17         0.42                  58.5    420.0




                                                          - 23 -

                                                                               FINANCING
                                                       Appraisal  Actual/Latest  Actual/Latest    %age of       %age of
                                                       Estimate       Estimate       Estimate     Appraisal   Appraisal
                                                          Bank            Bank  Government           Bank   Government
EXPENSE CATEGORY
                                                         USD                            USD
Quick Disbursement                                         000                           000
Imports - Retroactive
                       Petroleum and fuel products      4,217          4,294                0       102%
                                Agricultural inputs     5,823          5,864                0       101%
                                Total Retroactive      10,040         10,158                0       101%
Imports - Positive List
                       Petroleum and fuel products      2,811          2,643                0        94%
                                Agricultural inputs     1,205          3,582             -          297%
                            Agriculture equipment       6,024          6,048                0       100%
                          Construction equipment        4,016          4,177                0       104%
                                      Spare parts       5,020          5,152                0       103%
                             Livestock & supplies       2,008          2,100                0       105%
                                  School supplies       4,016          3,795                0        94%
                     Medical supplies & equipment       5,020          5,907                0       118%
                               Total Positive List     30,120         33,404                0       111%
                     TOTAL QUICK DISBURSING            40,161         43,562                0       108%

Public Works Program - MASAF
Strengthening SSPs                                        723          1,081             697        150%        1742%
Equipment - Task force                                    131              66             17         51%          55%
Multi sectoral training                                   622             132            -           21%           0%
Extra operating costs                                     161              95             17         59%          84%
PWP Sub Projects                                        6,396          6,777             357        106%         111%
                    TOTAL MASAF COMPONENT               8,032          8,152          1,087         101%         265%

PIU
Equipment and Vehicles                                    201              98             24         49%         122%
Project Management Operations                             301             289            196         96%         980%
Consultancies (including audits)                        1,305             784            196         60%         327%
Unallocated                                                -                             -                         0%
                                      TOTAL PIU         1,807          1,171             416         65%         416%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     50,000         52,885          1,503         106%         295%


2. Public Works                               0.00         0.00                        0.00           1,054.00               1,054.00

                                            (0.00)         (0.00)                      (0.00)         (7,858.00)
                                                                                                                            (7,858.00)
3. Goods                                    0.00           0.00                        0.00           41.00                     41.00

                                            (0.00)         (0.00)                      (50.00)        (114.00)               (164.00)
4. Consultancy Services &                   0.00           0.00                        0.00           196.00            196.00
   Training
                                            (0.00)         (0.00)                      (0.00)         (916.00)         (916.00)
5. Operating Costs                          0.00           0.00                        0.00           212.00            212.00

                                            (0.00)         (0.00)                      (0.00)         (385.00)         (385.00)
Total                                                                                                                        1,503.00
                                                                                                                          (52,885.00)




                                                                - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The decision to use MASAF on PWPs and SSPs was justified not only
because the institution is there, reaches out to rural communities
and is IDA funded. Almost for all infrastructure and across all
funding agencies, donor and Government, MASF turns out to be a more
cost-efficient vehicle for communal asset building.



Ref.:   January   2003,    "Review   of     cost effectiveness and Design
Standards." EMC Jatula Associates Malawi




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               8/1/2001                 10     Sector Manager, Lead Operations       HS             HS
                                               Adviser, Economist, Engineer,
                                               Food/Nutrition Expert, Safety
                                               Nets Expert (2), Ag.
                                               Research/Extension, Lawyer,
                                                                                     HS             HS

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               9/30/02                   8     Sector Manager, TTL,                  HS             HS
                                               Economists, Social Scientist,
                                               Transport Expert
                                                                                     HS             HS

 Supervision

               5/06/2003                  2    2 Economists, 1 FMS                   S               S
               12/18/2003                 2    TTL (1); Team Member/Co TTL           S              HS
                                               (1)
               6/29/2004                  4    1 Economist, 1 Services Spec., 1      S               S
                                               Proc. Specialist, 1 FMS,
               12/15/2004                 5    1 Economist, 1 Services Spec., 1      S              HS
                                               Proc. Specialist, 1 FMS, 1 Lead
                                               Adviser,

 ICR

               05/28/2004                5     Task Team Leader (1); S/Fin           S               S
                                               Mgt. Specialist (1); S/Ag.
                                               Specialist (1); Procurement
                                               Specialist, 1 Consultant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   5                              45
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       30                             270
  Supervision                                 26                             217
  ICR                                         15                              60
  Total                                       71                             592




                                               - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
    Macro policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
    Sector Policies                     H        SU    M       N    NA
    Physical                            H        SU    M       N    NA
    Financial                           H        SU    M       N    NA
    Institutional Development           H        SU    M       N    NA
    Environmental                       H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
             Poverty Reduction          H        SU    M       N    NA
             Gender                     H        SU    M       N    NA
             Other (Please specify)     H        SU    M       N    NA
          Vulnerability (SSPs)
    Private sector development          H        SU    M       N    NA
    Public sector management            H        SU    M       N    NA
    Other (Please specify)              H        SU    M       N    NA
macro outcomes. On physical achievements the project constructed sustainable road, flood control, and
irrigation and water harvesting structures




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Malawi: Country Asssitance Strategy Progress Report, November 2000
2. Malawi: HIPC Initiative, December 2000
3. Technical Annex for the Emergency Drought Recovery Project, 30th September 2002.
   World Bank Report No. T7557-MAI.
4. IDA Implementation Review Report, August 13-27, 2004.
5. Development Credit Agreement, December 2002.
6. Minutes of the Project Steering Committee. 13th March, 11th July, 28th August, 23rd October 2003 and 3rd
   February, 2nd March, 22nd April 2004.
Quarterly Project Reports. January  March, April  June, July  September, October December 2003, and
January  March, April  June 2004.




                                                      - 29 -

 Additional Annex 8. LIST OF PEOPLE CONSULTED



1. Mr. D. Kampani, Project Coordinator, EDRP.
2. Mr. G. Mulima, Project Financial Manager, EDRP.
3. Ms. C. Bobe, Project Accountant, EDRP.
4. Ms. Chisomo Gunda, Project Coordinator, EDRP  MASAF.
5. Mr. Maxwell Moyo, Assistant Project Coordinator, EDRP  MASAF.
6. Mrs. Charity Kaunda, IEC Officer, EDRP  MASAF.
7. Mr. James Mphande, IEC Officer, EDRP  MASAF.
8. Mr. C. Mwalabu, Principal Irrigation Officer, MOA  Irrigation Department
9. Mr. F. Malunga, Senior Irrigation officer, MOA  Irrigation Officer
10. Mr. W.G. Lipita, Director, MOA  Department of Animal Health and Livestock
    Development
11. Dr. D. Chinombo, Deputy Director, MOA  Department of Animal Health and Livestock
    Development
12. Mrs. Khonje, Ministry of Education
13. Ms. Florence N. Kasiya, DSF Coordinator, Kasungu District - Ministry of Education
14. Patricia Saukila, Programme Officer, WFP
15. Gerard Van Dijk, Country Representative, WFP
16. Mr. Mphatso Mtendere, FAO
17. Lola Castro, Deputy Country Director/Head of Programme, WFP
18. B.J. Sizilande, Programme Manager, Kasungu Agricultural Development Division (KADD)
19. T. Msimuko Mpezeni, Principal Irrigation Officer, KADD
20. R.P. Makungwa, DADO, KADD
21. H.K. Chimbalanga, Irrigation Officer, KADD
22. J.J. Kanyangalazi, Land Resources Conservation Officer, KADD
23. Mr. I. Mpando, Chief Statistician, NSO
24. Mr. M.J.T. Khwepeya, Statistician, NSO
25. Alan Bush, Project Advisor, Emmanuel International
26. Paul Jones Country Director, Emmanuel International
27. Charles Mukiwa, Project manager, Emmanuel International
28. S. Srinivasan, General Manager, First Merchant Bank
29. Thomas J. Kadantot, Head  International Banking, First Merchant Bank
30. Mr. Gidala, Coordinator for Disaster Preparedness, Relief and Rehabilitation
31. Mr. J.M.K. Chiusiwa, Deputy coordinator, for Disaster Relief and Rehabilitation
32. Mr. E. Chayamba, Ministry of Finance
33. Mr. D. Yona, Chief Agricultural Communications Officer- Extension Department
34. Mrs. Tchowa, Assistant Chief Agricultural Communications Officer- Department of
    Extension
35. Mr. C. Khonje, Programme Manager, Mzuzu ADD
36. Mr. Nkhonde, DADO, Rumphi RDP
37. Mr. L. Mpando, Chief Statistics Officer, NSO




                                              - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's ICR




                                 Malawi Government


                             MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE




                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT


              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.0 MILLION (US$ 29 MILLION)


                                      AND A

                                      GRANT

              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION (US$21MILLION)


                                        TO

                             THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI



                                       - 31 -

                                       FOR THE


                 EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAMME


                                    JANUARY 2005




                              TABLE OF CONTENTS
  LIST OF ACRONYMS                                                          iii
  1.0    Project Data                                                        1
  2.0    Principal Performance Ratings                                       2
3.0   Assessment of Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry

  3.1   Original Objectives                                                  2
  3.2   Revised Objectives                                                   4
  3.3   Original Components                                                  4
  3.4   Revised Components                                                   4
  4.0    Achievement of Development Objectives, and Output
  4.1   Outcome/Achievement of Objective                                     5
  4.2   Outputs by Component                                                 5
    4.2.1   The Quick Disbursing Component of import items linked to the drought.
            5
    4.2.2   The MASAF Public Works Projects (PWPs) and the Social Support Projects
    (SSP) component. (Also called District Management Programs (DMPs)
    6
    4.2.3   The Project Management Component, including PCU, Technical Assistance
    and Studies.
  5.0    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
  5.1   Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing
  Agency
  5.2   Factors generally subject to Government Control                      8
  5.3   Costs and Financing                                                  9
  6.0    Sustainability                                                      9
  6.1   Rationale for Sustainability                                         9
  7.0    Bank's and Borrower Performance                                   10
  7.1   Lending                                                             10
  7.2   Supervision                                                         10
  7.3   Overall Bank Performance                                            10
  7.4   Preparation                                                         11


                                           - 32 -

 7.5       Implementing Agencies                                                                                                        11
 7.6       Overall Borrower's Performance                                                                                               12
  8.0        Lessons Learnt                                                                                                            13
  ANNEX 1: PROJECT COST AS OF JUNE 2004 (US$ 48,845,495)
  ANNEX 2: LIST OF PEOPLE CONSULTED                                                                                                    15
  ANNEX 3: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS                                                                                                16
ANNEX 4: MONTHLY (OFFICIAL) IMPORT COVER AND EXCHANGE
RATE................................................................................................................................
ANNEX 5: STATUS OF EDRP QD RESOURCES BY CATEGORY: SEPTEMBER
                                                                           2004
  ANNEX 6: BENEFICIARIES ON SCHOOL FEEDING PROGRAMMES




                                                                             - 33 -

LIST OF ACRONYMS

    ADD            Agricultural Development Division
    AEDOs          Agriculture Extension Development Officers
    CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
   DADO           District Agriculture Development Officer
    DMPs           District Management Projects
    EDRP           Emergency Drought Recovery Project
    FAO            Food and Agriculture Organisation
    ICR            Implementation Completion Report
    IDA            International Development Association
    IEC            Information, Education and Communication
    LAMPs          Local Assembly Managed Projects
    M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
    MASAF          Malawi Social Action Fund
   MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
    MTR            Med-Term Review
    NSO            National Statistics Office
    PCD            Project Concept Document
    PCU            Project Coordination Unit
    PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    PWPs           Public Works Projects
    QAG            Quality Assurance Group
    QD             Quick Disbursing
    SDR            Special Drawing Rights
   SPLIFA         Sustaining Productive Livelihoods through Inputs For Assets
    SSPs           Sponsored Sub-Projects
    WFP            World Food Programme

1.0    Project Data

             EMERGENCY DROUGHT           Credit Number: 3715 MAI
Name         RECOVERY PROGRAMME
                                           Loan Number:   H011 MAI
Country       MALAWI                       Region         AFRICA REGIONAL
                                                          OFFICE
Sector/Sub    AGRICULTURE
sector

   KEY DATES
                                                   Original     Revised/Actual
  PCD                                                             Effectiveness
                                                                  13/01/2003
  Appraisal                                                     MTR
  Approval                                         05/11/2002 Closing
                                                                30/11/0430/11/0
                                                                4


  Borrower/Implementing        The Republic of Malawi: Ministry of Agriculture



                                            - 34 -

  Agency
  Other Partners                The Private Sector

  STAFF                      Current                        At Appraisal
  Vice President             Callisto Madavo                Callisto Madavo
  Country Manager            Dustan Wai                     Dustan Wai
 Task Manager               Stanley Hiwa                    Stanley Hiwa
  ICR Author                 Malawi Government
  ICR Team                   Mr. E.E. Lodzeni (Ministry of
                             Agriculture, Team Leader),
                             Mr. M. Sibande (Ministry of
                             Finance, Team Member) Mr.
                             I.D. Mwabumba (Ministry of
                             Economic Planning and
                             Development, Team
                             Member), Mr. B. Chingoli
                             (Reserve Bank of Malawi,
                             Team Member), Mr. B.B.
                             Yassin (Environmental
                             Affairs Department, Team
                             Member), Miss. F.E. Nkana
                             (Ministry of Agriculture,
                             Team Member) Mr. A.
                             Nyirenda (Ministry of
                             Agriculture, Team Member)
                             and Mrs. Banda (Secretary).




2.0    Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly likely,
L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly unlikely, HU=Highly unsatisfactory, H=High,
SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


  Outcome:                                    HS
  Sustainability:                             S
 Institutional Development Impact:          HS
 Bank Performance:                          HS
  Borrower Performance:                       HS

                                              QAG (If available)         ICR
  Quality at Entry:                                                      HS
  Project at Risk Any Time:                                              N



3.0    Assessment of Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry

3.1    Original Objectives



                                            - 35 -

The overall Project Development Objective was to improve Malawi's emergency response
management in the short (2001/2002 season drought) and medium term. Specifically, (a) to allow
the Government maintain key commitments to economic priorities and investments consistent
with the PRSP process while at the same time fulfilling its immediate obligations to avert famine;
(b) to help restore the productive capability in the country; and (c) to support longer term disaster
management by the Government.

Although the objectives are the same as in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) drawn
up in September 2002, the project was implemented in a highly demanding environment.
Government had to handle the food crisis and at the same time strive to maintain economic
stability to ensure that the recovery process and the economic growth were sustained. On top of
all this, the project had to be implemented in a rather short period. The effective implementation
period, for MASAF, is 21 months, due to some delays met. Despite the delays, it has managed to
achieve all its set objectives.

Despite the project being a multi-sectoral as it involved several players, both in the public and
private sector, it has been successful. The Quick Disbursing component (QD) that was financing
imports of agricultural inputs, petroleum, veterinary products and other items on the positive list,
significantly enabled Government to maintain a level of economic stability while addressing the
food crisis. Under normal circumstances the required import cover per month is about US$60.0
million while EDRP only provided US$40.0 million under the QD. Thus under normal
circumstances, the impact of this facility on the country's foreign reserves can be very minimal.
However, it should be noted that Government had spent over US$80.0 million on maize imports
within a short period. This created a big dent on our foreign exchange reserve as evidenced by a
drop in import cover from 2.29 in January 2003 to 1.98 in March 2003. Thus the gains from sell
of forex maintained the import cover at an average rate of 1.83 per month from March to
December 2003, the period during which most of the funds were disbursed as indicated in Annex
4.

Although project objectives were realistic and significant in achieving the outputs, they were not
clear to the stakeholders. The QD component was initially not well understood. This contributed
to initial delays in the implementation of the project. The establishment of the PCU early in the
project's life significantly contributed to the success of the project. Despite initial delays,
disbursements of funds to the components were timely. However, institutional arrangements at
the Accountant General's Department delayed opening up of operating accounts for EDRP
activities, which affected project implementation. Notwithstanding this, the able and dedicated
staff at the PCU and the existence of the Project Steering Committee added strength and a clear
direction on project operations.

3.2      Revised Objectives

N/A

3.3      Original Components

The project has three components namely: (a) Quick-disbursing (QD) component comprising of


                                                  - 36 -

retroactive financing (US$10 million) and financing of importation of items on the positive list
linked to drought (US$30 million) such as petroleum and fuel products, agricultural inputs,
agricultural equipment, construction equipment, spare parts, livestock, animal products and
veterinary supplies, school supplies and medical supplies; (b) The Malawi Social Action Fund
(MASAF) component supporting the Public Works Projects (PWPs) and Sponsored sub Projects
(SSPs); and (c) the Project Management component, including PCU, Technical assistance and
Studies.

The QD component significantly enabled Government to achieve a reasonable economic stability
during the emergency period. The gains from sell of forex improved import cover from 1.7
months to 1.8 months early in the implementation of the project. The availability of foreign
reserves somehow stabilized the Kwacha and hence the market prices. The income gains from the
MASAF's PWPs and SSPs safety net programmes provided a recovery from the shocks of the
food shortage for the beneficiary groups. While components of the project were related to
achievement of objectives, the capacity of Local Assemblies was inadequate. The Assemblies
were initially constrained due to unavailability of resources for monitoring project activities under
the EDRP-MASAF PWPs and SSPs. The absence of the Information Education and
Communication (IEC) unit in the early stages of the MASAF component contributed to the
disparity in the selection of PWPs projects resulting into more road projects than other social
projects. At the time the ICR was being undertaken a total of 335 PWP projects had been
approved, 267 involved road rehabilitation and only 1 was for soil and water conservation.

3.4     Revised Components

The components of the Project have not been revised but an additional implementing agency,
Emanuel International, was included on the MASAF component to undertake implementation of
the Targeted Input Programmes. The revision did not affect the design of the project components
but strengthened the implementation of project activities.




3.5     Quality at Entry

The Project design at entry was highly satisfactory but the only design shortfall was the
superimposition of EDRP activities on the MASAF Project. This arrangement meant that EDRP
adopted implementation modalities of a project that was itself not an emergency.

4.0     Achievement of Development Objectives, and Output

4.1     Outcome/Achievement of Objective

The main objectives of the EDRP have significantly been achieved. The Quick Disbursing (QD)
component enabled Government to sustain economic stability while at the same time keeping
Government within the agreed fiscal limits. For example, the import cover rose from 1.7 months
of cover to 1.8 months. The restoration of productive capability of the economy has to a large
extent been met. A total of 335 projects under LAMPS have been implemented from a target of



                                                - 37 -

223 and 173 SSPs subprojects have been implemented out of a target of 83 projects. Under the
Department of Irrigation, the project has excavated 7.8 kilometers length of canals and
rehabilitated 40.1 kilometers length of canals. Some water-harvesting tanks have been constructed
under the project as well. The EDRP facilitated the procurement of strategic inputs required by
the key productive sectors of agriculture and transport. The establishment of the PCU facilitated
the smooth coordination and implementation of the project.

4.2     Outputs by Component

4.2.1 The Quick Disbursing Component of import items linked to the drought.

This component provided foreign exchange for the importation of items on the positive lists which
included: (a) petroleum and fuel products; (b) agricultural inputs; (c) agricultural equipment; (d)
construction equipment; (e) spare parts; (f) livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies; (g)
school supplies; and (h) medical supplies and equipment. The component has progressed
satisfactorily with the private sector dominating the use of the facility in the importation of items
on the positive list. About 99.7% allocated under the facility has been utilized for the purpose it
was intended. It has been projected that 100% of the allocation will be utilized by 30th March 2005.


4.2.2 The MASAF Public Works Projects (PWPs) and the Social Support Projects (SSP)
        component. (Also called District Management Programs (DMPs)

Under the MASAF component, PWPs and SSPs were implemented throughout the country
following MASAF II Project structures and this was done at an estimated cost of MK 252 million.
Implementation of the PWPs included road rehabilitation, afforestation, and construction of dams,
compost manure making, removal of water hyacinth, flood control, sewer-line rehabilitation, soil
and water conservation, and water canalization while the SSPs implementation involved
installation of maize mills in selected communities. A total of 335 PWPs have been implemented
out of 330 initially targeted, reaching 134,000 beneficiaries against 132,000 originally planned. Of
the 75 targeted, 173 SSPs were implemented, with a total of 171,000 beneficiaries out of a target
of 60,000. The increase in the number of PWPs and SSPs could have been due to increased
awareness on the project following the sensitizations conducted after recruitment of IEC staff.


School Feeding Program

The school-feeding program was implemented in 10 districts throughout Malawi, targeting
145 primary schools (Annex 6). The program targeted the girl-child and the double orphans
who were given take home rations after attending classes for at least 18 school days in a
month. Under the weighted school feeding program, pupils of both sex from standards I
through to 6 were provided with porridge before classes and at the end of classes. The
Programme has been a very big success as it has managed to retain huge numbers of pupils
in class. Enrolment increased significantly in the target districts during the school feeding
exercise. It was not however possible to access the impact of the school feeding exercise on
nutrition status of pupils at the time the report was being compiled.




                                                    - 38 -

4.2.3 The Project Management Component, including PCU, Technical Assistance and
         Studies

Capacity building in extension services

The project through technical assistance has supported a special Diploma in Agriculture course at
Natural Resource College. The project has trained 357 trainee Agriculture Extension
Development Officers (AEDOs) on a 28-class week programme instead of normal 52-class week
programme. The trainees have so far done 10 weeks on-campus training and are now doing their
practicals.


Capacity building in disaster management and Food Security Policy

The Department of Poverty and Disaster Management Affairs (DPDMA) executed the disaster
management through a series of training courses aimed at providing skills to front line staff in
district assemblies to assist in cases of floods and to ably use water for food production. The
trainings were conducted through the Department of Engineering at Bunda College of
Agriculture. The project also enabled the DPDMA to finalise a National Disaster Management
Plan.

With regard to the food security policy, consultants with support from EDRP have finalized
working on the policy which is still in draft form. The task was however handed over to a task
force headed by MOA which is now at an action plan formulation stage. The task force has also
managed to sensitize members of the parliamentary Agricultural Committee who seem to be in
support of the policy.

Information Education and Communication

The project produced the IEC material through the Department of Agricultural Extension
Services. The Department developed 32 drought mitigation technical messages and
communicated these to farmers through radio programs, jingles and puppet plays.

Cassava production and multiplication program

The cassava production and multiplication program was implemented through FAO. The
program involved the establishment of cassava seed multiplication nurseries in 34 sites, crop
survey estimation, training of farmers on cassava seed nursery establishment and
management. MOA supported the program through the formulation of cassava planting
material certification standards and the formulation of cassava training kit for extension
workers and the field guide.

Rainwater harvesting

The program was implemented through the department of Land Resources of Ministry of
Agriculture. The project involved construction of 50 water tanks across the ADDs in Malawi. At
the moment, most beneficiaries have started using water from the tanks. The project should



                                                 - 39 -

however, have considered other forms of rainwater harvesting such as dam construction in order
for the project to benefit more people.

Agricultural statistics and information

The project supported the 2003/04 and 2004/05 agricultural statistics survey exercises. This
was done through the provision of transport facilities and computers in order to enhance the
capacity of NSO which coordinated the former while support was given to the same through
training to AEDOs and Assistant Veterinary Officers; and purchase of computers and its
accessories in order to build capacity of the front line staff under MOA which coordinated the
2004/05 exercise.

5.0     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1     Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency

During the implementation of the project, a number of factors outside the control of Government
affected its implementation negatively as outlined below:

       The PCU became fully operational three months after the project had already started, this
affected the initial coordination and implementation of project activities.
       Implementation of project studies was some how delayed because World Bank wanted to
get them re-rationalized in order to take into account changes in priorities as the project evolved.
For example, out of the planned 8, studies only 5 were undertaken.
       Inflexibility of the Bank's procedures in issuing "no objection" despite the project being an
emergency one, delayed its implementation.
       Understaffing of the MASAF component. The project had no specific staff to implement
EDRP activities in the zone areas.
       Lower wage rates for the PWP relative to other donor-funded projects (e.g. EU micro
projects) affected the progress of the EDRP's PWPs.


5.2     Factors generally subject to Government Control

The other factors that affected implementation of project activities subject to Government control
were as follows:

       The superimposition of EDRP activities into an already existing MASAF program;
despite MASAF being the best implementer of PWPs and SSPs in the country, it was very
challenging for the staff under MASAF-EDRP to deliver within this framework.
       Initial delays in conducting awareness campaigns to the general public and relevant
institutions on the project affected access of the quick disbursing component.
       Delayed recruitment of IEC staff affected project implementation. Potential beneficiaries
learnt about the project when it was in its completion period. This meant people benefiting less
than they could if they were aware of the project's existence in goodtime.
       Low levels of government funding. This affected operations of the QD component.
Government departments factored into their budgets items on the positive list but they were never



                                                 - 40 -

allocated funds in the approved budget. As a result, departments failed to participate in the
activities under this component.
       Lack of systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The Planning Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture did not conduct any M&E on the project despite being requested by the
PCU to do so.
       Delays in the opening up of bank accounts.

5.3     Costs and Financing

IDA financed the project. Its total cost was about SDR 37.9 million (equivalent to US$50 million)
which later translated into US$53.4 million. This includes a credit of SDR 22 million (equivalent
to US$ 29) on standard IDA terms with a 40-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period and
SDR 15.9 million (equivalent to US$21 million) on IDA grant. US$ 40 million was allocated for
QD; US$8.0 million was allocated for MASAF component while US$ 2.0 was allocated for the
third component of the project. Instead of 24 months, the funds were disbursed within a period of
21 months. As a result of exchange rate gains amounting to US$2.357 million through the QD
component, the balance, US$649 has already been committed and awaits disbursement.

6.0     Sustainability

6.1     Rationale for Sustainability

Satisfactory. The overall project design is a one-off initiative to address an emergency situation.
However, most of its activities render themselves to long-term impact. This includes informal
irrigation, treadle pump fabrication, training of extension staff at NRC; and nutrition and food
security policy. These will be included as distinct activities in the Irrigation, Rural Livelihoods
Project. In addition to this, the government made sure that most of the activities that were
implemented under the EDRP should be factored into the national budget in order to ensure their
sustainability.


7.0     Bank's and Borrower Performance

Bank

7.1     Lending

 Highly Satisfactory. The Banks' performance in terms of evaluation of the EDRP has been
highly satisfactory. It has supported several agencies with responsibilities for the promotion of
community participation for empowerment recognized under the four pillars of the MPRS as a
necessary precondition for achieving the goals of the strategy, which aim at addressing problems
of poverty. This is also well reflected in the World Bank's CAS for Malawi. The World Bank has
contributed towards the assessment of drought relief recovery in Malawi, protection of the
vulnerable during the crisis, and in the reduction to vulnerability to food crises in future with its
resources. The Bank`s staff has participated in regular meetings and activities of a joint task force
established to coordinate emergency efforts of the Government. The Bank had generally good
working relations with the borrower during the preparation and appraisal stages. During appraisal,


                                                 - 41 -

the Bank assessed the project's risks and lessons learnt from previous similar operations in the
design of the project such as the fact that emergency operations need to be simple, rapidly
executable and not burdened with conditionalities.

7.2     Supervision

Highly Satisfactory. Over the two years of implementation, the Bank fielded quarterly project
supervision missions to monitor project implementation progress. The Quarterly Project Reports
highlighted amongst other things project implementation problems. An implementation,
procurement and monitoring plan was used to guide implementation and project supervision. Two
reviews were carried out with key implementation stakeholders in August and May 2004.
However, due to logistical misunderstandings between the Bank and the Borrower there were
some delays in disbursement of funds, which resulted in delaying or slowing down implementation
of project activities.

7.3     Overall Bank Performance

Highly Satisfactory. Overall, the Banks' performance has been highly satisfactory during
preparation, appraisal and implementation. However due to delays in recruitment of staff,
communication of project conditions as a result of the Bank's delays in granting no objection,
implementation of the project was delayed.

Borrower

7.4     Preparation

Highly Satisfactory. During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed adequate level of
commitment to the objectives of the project, particularly that the objectives of the project had a
direct impact on the national development agenda of poverty alleviation. Government declared a
state of disaster on 27 February 2002, indicating that Malawi is experiencing a catastrophic food
shortage with a large number of farm families facing starvation, hence the governments' appeal
for international community to intervene on humanitarian grounds. Government had further taken
steps to put initiatives in place such as the Disaster Relief and Management Policy in order to
support longer-term disaster management in the country.

Government Implementing Performance

7.5     Implementing Agencies

Highly Satisfactory. The implementation performance of most agencies was extremely
satisfactory. Agreed targets and planned outputs have to a large extent been achieved. Most
EDRP activities carried out by implementing agencies were merely an extension of their already
existing lines of duty. However, the experience was somewhat different with MASAF. There was
need to realign EDRP activities within MASAF's mainstream activities. And because there was no
specific staff for the EDRP component to MASAF, the amount of workload became
overwhelming hence the need to subcontract some activities to Emmanuel International. Most



                                                 - 42 -

implementing agencies experienced delays in getting project activities started. The delays were
largely experienced in opening up of separate operating accounts for EDRP activities. This was
due to institutional arrangement delays at the Accountant general's Department. Delays, which
affected implementation progress, were also experienced in processing for "no objections" from
the World Bank. Negotiation of contracts with the NGO consortium, also contributed significant
delays in implementation of some activities. The actual implementation of food for asset activities
by Emmanuel International has only been carried out for 4 months out of the 24 months of project
life. Although seed distribution commenced on 1st November 2004, the NGOs had not received
the fertilizer for distribution by this date. The delays may both negatively affect crop production
and the confidence of beneficiaries in the NGOs working in the areas.


7.6     Overall Borrower's Performance

The overall borrower's performance has been highly satisfactory. Most of the project objectives
and outputs have been achieved. For instance, through the QD, Government was able to ensure
availability of forex for the purchase of agricultural inputs, fuel and spare parts. The project was
able to mitigate the effects of drought through income generation from PWPs and provision of
foodstuff through the School Feeding Programme.




                                                  - 43 -

8.0      Lessons Learnt

        Superimposition of emergency programme activities into existing non-emergency
programmes such as the case of the EDRP-MASAF component created operational difficulties.
This resulted in time wastage and implementation difficulties in synchronizing the two activities.
        Early sensitization of the public and the stakeholders on emergency programmes may
reduce time wastage that result from misunderstandings of the project activities and expected
outputs. Delayed sensitization of the EDRP activities created initial stakeholder misunderstanding
of the project activities and subsequent delays in their implementation.
        There is need for project accounting procedures to be communicated to all stakeholders
before accessing funds as well as conducting short-term training for appropriate personnel from
all implementing agencies.
        The PCU should comprise specialized technical personnel in all key focal/delivery areas.
        Implementation of project activities should involve beneficiaries' full participation and
transfer of knowledge and skills in order to enhance project ownership and sustainability.
        The roles and responsibilities of the Project Coordination Unit, the Steering Committee,
government and the World Bank, should clearly be clarified at the inception of the project,
documented and respected to avoid misunderstandings.
        M&E should be an integral part of the project from inception through to completion.
        Recommendations arising from studies supported by the project must be implemented
using project resources.
        Studies should be conducted in the early stage of the project's life to allow for
implementation of recommendations.
        Capacity building activities should be comprehensive and continue for sustainability.
        There should be full understanding of the terms and conditions of the contracts by all
concerned parties to avoid implementation delays.
        Communication within the institutions, including the bank, should be improved to avoid
inconsistent and conflicting decisions, instructions and information flow.
        Disbursement of funds should be done by the PCU directly to the implementers.


ANNEX 1: PROJECT COST AS OF JUNE 2004 (US$ 48,845,495)



COMPONENT                                        COST
Quick Disbursement:
Retroactive Financing                           10,157,593
Positive List Proceeds                          29,880,882
Sub-Total                                       40,038,475
MASAF                                           5,420,869
Sub-Total                                       5,420,869
Project management                              937,971
Bank                                            2,412,180
Sub-Total                                       3,350,151
Total capital Employed                           48,845,495



                                                 - 44 -

- 45 -

ANNEX 2: LIST OF PEOPLE CONSULTED

1.      Mr. D. Kampani, Project Coordinator, EDRP.
2.      Mr. G. Mulima, Project Financial Manager, EDRP.
3.      Ms. C. Bobe, Project Accountant, EDRP.
4.      Mr. Stanley Hiwa, Task Manager, World Bank
5.      Ms. Chisomo Gunda, Project Coordinator, EDRP  MASAF.
6.      Mr. Maxwell Moyo, Assistant Project Coordinator, EDRP  MASAF.
7.      Mrs. Charity Kaunda, IEC Officer, EDRP  MASAF.
8.      Mr. James Mphande, IEC Officer, EDRP  MASAF.
9.      Mr. C. Mwalabu, Principal Irrigation Officer, MOA  Irrigation Department
10.     Mr. F. Malunga, Senior Irrigation officer, MOA  Irrigation Officer
11.     Mr. W.G. Lipita, Director, MOA  Department of Animal Health and Livestock
Development

32.     Mr. J.M.K. Chiusiwa, Deputy coordinator, for Disaster Relief and Rehabilitation
33.     Mr. E. Chayamba, Ministry of Finance
34.     Mr. Yona, Chief Agricultural Communications Officer- Extension Department
35.     Mrs. Tchowa, Assistant Chief Agricultural Communications Officer- Department of
Extension
36.     Mr. C. Khonje, Programme Manager, Mzuzu ADD
37.     Mr. Nkhonde, DADO, Rumphi RDP




ANNEX 3: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


1.      Technical Annex for the Emergency Drought Recovery Project, 30th September 2002.
World Bank Report No. T7557-MAI.
2.      IDA Implementation Review Report, August 13-27, 2004.
3.      Development Credit Agreement, December 2002.
4.      Minutes of the Project Steering Committee. 13th March, 11th July, 28th August, 23rd October 2003 and
3rd February, 2nd March, 22nd April 2004.
5.      Quarterly Project Reports. January  March, April  June, July  September, October December 2003,
and January  March, April  June 2004.




                                                    - 46 -

     ANNEX 4: MONTHLY (OFFICIAL) IMPORT COVER AND EXCHANGE RATES

       FOR 2003 AND 2004




MONTH            IMPORT COVER                EXCHANGE RATE

                 2003                        2004
                                             2003
                                             2004

January          2.29                     1.42
                                          88.0398
                                          108.6162

February         2.06                     1.57
                                          89.9541
                                          108.8671

March            1.98                        1.76
                                             91.2036
                                             108.9072

April            1.98                        1.54
                                             90.7632
                                          108.9108

May              1.85                        1.32
                                          91.8812
                                          108.8904

June             1.76                     1.40
                                          90.9920
                                          108.8842

July             1.76                        1.42
                                             90.5982
                                             108.9279

August           1.89                        1.61
                                             103.2744
                                             108.9493

September        1.49                        2.19
                                             108.0784
                                             108.9654

October          1.70                        2.03
                                             108.3070
                                             108.9439

November         1.96                        N/A
                                - 47 -       107.3288
                                             N/A

December            1.93                                   N/A
                                                           108.2184
                                                           N/A



Source: Reserve Bank of Malawi

Note:   a)    Import cover is based on end month figures

       b)     Exchange rate figures are based on monthly official exchange rates




ANNEX 5: STATUS OF EDRP QD RESOURCES BY CATEGORY: SEPTEMBER 2004

AMOUNT IN USD'000

      CATEGORY              AMT         REVISED            AMT       BALANCE
                          ALLOCA      ALLOCATION        UTILISED
                            TED)

Petroleum and Fuel
Products                  7,000      7,000              6,937       63

Agricultural Inputs       7,000      9,450              9,244       206

Agricultural Equipment
                          6,000      6,204              6,013       191

Construction
Equipment                 4,000      4,000              3,960       40

Spare Parts             5,000        5,000              5,001       -1

Livestock and Animal
Supplies
                          2,000     2,100               1,999       101

School Supplies
                          4,000      3,600            3,471         129

Medical Supplies and
Equipment
                        5,000        5,103              5,103       0

TOTAL                     40,000     42,357             41,708      649



                                           - 48 -

SOURCE:    EDRP Reports

NOTE:      a)      The original allocation under QD (USD40.0 Million) was
                   Fully utilized. The remaining USD649, 000.00 is part of the exchange rate
                   gains (USD2.357 Million)
           b)      The USD649, 000.00 is already committed and
                   disbursement will follow soon
c)    The figures exclude USD8.0 million for MASAF and
                   USD2.0 million for the PCU and studies




21




                                    Malawi Government


                               MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE




                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT


             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.0 MILLION (US$ 29 MILLION)



                                            - 49 -

                                         AND A

                                         GRANT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION (US$21MILLION)


                                            TO

                             THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI


                                       FOR THE


                  EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAMME


                                    JANUARY 2005




                              TABLE OF CONTENTS
  LIST OF ACRONYMS                                                          iii
  1.0    Project Data                                                        1
  2.0    Principal Performance Ratings                                       2
3.0   Assessment of Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry
                                                                             2
  3.1   Original Objectives                                                  2
  3.2   Revised Objectives                                                   4
  3.3   Original Components                                                  4
  3.4   Revised Components                                                   4
  4.0    Achievement of Development Objectives, and Output                   5
  4.1   Outcome/Achievement of Objective                                     5
  4.2   Outputs by Component                                                 5
    4.2.1   The Quick Disbursing Component of import items linked to the drought.
            5
    4.2.2   The MASAF Public Works Projects (PWPs) and the Social Support Projects
    (SSP) component. (Also called District Management Programs (DMPs)
    6
    4.2.3   The Project Management Component, including PCU, Technical Assistance
    and Studies.                                                             6
  5.0    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                  8



                                           - 50 -

 5.1       Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing
 Agency                                                                                                                                   8
 5.2       Factors generally subject to Government Control                                                                                8
 5.3       Costs and Financing                                                                                                            9
  6.0        Sustainability                                                                                                              9
 6.1       Rationale for Sustainability                                                                                                   9
  7.0        Bank's and Borrower Performance                                                                                            10
 7.1       Lending                                                                                                                       10
 7.2       Supervision                                                                                                                   10
 7.3       Overall Bank Performance                                                                                                      10
 7.4       Preparation                                                                                                                   11
 7.5       Implementing Agencies                                                                                                         11
 7.6       Overall Borrower's Performance                                                                                                12
  8.0        Lessons Learnt                                                                                                             13
  ANNEX 1: PROJECT COST AS OF JUNE 2004 (US$ 48,845,495) 14
  ANNEX 2: LIST OF PEOPLE CONSULTED                                                                                                     15
  ANNEX 3: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS                                                                                                 16
ANNEX 4: MONTHLY (OFFICIAL) IMPORT COVER AND EXCHANGE
RATE................................................................................................................................17
ANNEX 5: STATUS OF EDRP QD RESOURCES BY CATEGORY: SEPTEMBER
                                                                        2004                                                            18
  ANNEX 6: BENEFICIARIES ON SCHOOL FEEDING PROGRAMMES19




                                                                             - 51 -

LIST OF ACRONYMS

    ADD            Agricultural Development Division
    AEDOs          Agriculture Extension Development Officers
    CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
   DADO           District Agriculture Development Officer
    DMPs           District Management Projects
    EDRP           Emergency Drought Recovery Project
    FAO            Food and Agriculture Organisation
    ICR            Implementation Completion Report
    IDA            International Development Association
    IEC            Information, Education and Communication
    LAMPs          Local Assembly Managed Projects
    M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
    MASAF          Malawi Social Action Fund
   MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
    MTR            Med-Term Review
    NSO            National Statistics Office
    PCD            Project Concept Document
    PCU            Project Coordination Unit
    PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    PWPs           Public Works Projects
    QAG            Quality Assurance Group
    QD             Quick Disbursing
    SDR            Special Drawing Rights
   SPLIFA         Sustaining Productive Livelihoods through Inputs For Assets
    SSPs           Sponsored Sub-Projects
    WFP            World Food Programme
1.0    Project Data

             EMERGENCY DROUGHT           Credit Number: 3715 MAI
Name         RECOVERY PROGRAMME
                                           Loan Number:   H011 MAI
Country       MALAWI                       Region         AFRICA REGIONAL
                                                          OFFICE
Sector/Sub    AGRICULTURE
sector

   KEY DATES
                                                   Original     Revised/Actual
  PCD                                                             Effectiveness
                                                                  13/01/2003
  Appraisal                                                     MTR
  Approval                                         05/11/2002 Closing
                                                                30/11/0430/11/0
                                                                4


  Borrower/Implementing        The Republic of Malawi: Ministry of Agriculture
  Agency



                                            - 52 -

  Other Partners                The Private Sector

  STAFF                      Current                        At Appraisal
  Vice President             Callisto Madavo                Callisto Madavo
  Country Manager            Dustan Wai                     Dustan Wai
 Task Manager               Stanley Hiwa                    Stanley Hiwa
  ICR Author                 Malawi Government
  ICR Team                   Mr. E.E. Lodzeni (Ministry of
                             Agriculture, Team Leader),
                             Mr. M. Sibande (Ministry of
                             Finance, Team Member) Mr.
                             I.D. Mwabumba (Ministry of
                             Economic Planning and
                             Development, Team
                             Member), Mr. B. Chingoli
                             (Reserve Bank of Malawi,
                             Team Member), Mr. B.B.
                             Yassin (Environmental
                             Affairs Department, Team
                             Member), Miss. F.E. Nkana
                             (Ministry of Agriculture,
                             Team Member) Mr. A.
                             Nyirenda (Ministry of
                             Agriculture, Team Member)
                             and Mrs. Banda (Secretary).




2.0    Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly likely,
L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly unlikely, HU=Highly unsatisfactory, H=High,
SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


  Outcome:                                    HS
  Sustainability:                             S
 Institutional Development Impact:          HS
 Bank Performance:                          HS
  Borrower Performance:                       HS

                                              QAG (If available)         ICR
  Quality at Entry:                                                      HS
  Project at Risk Any Time:                                              N



3.0    Assessment of Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry

3.1    Original Objectives

The overall Project Development Objective was to improve Malawi's emergency response


                                            - 53 -

management in the short (2001/2002 season drought) and medium term. Specifically, (a) to allow
the Government maintain key commitments to economic priorities and investments consistent
with the PRSP process while at the same time fulfilling its immediate obligations to avert famine;
(b) to help restore the productive capability in the country; and (c) to support longer term disaster
management by the Government.

Although the objectives are the same as in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) drawn
up in September 2002, the project was implemented in a highly demanding environment.
Government had to handle the food crisis and at the same time strive to maintain economic
stability to ensure that the recovery process and the economic growth were sustained. On top of
all this, the project had to be implemented in a rather short period. The effective implementation
period, for MASAF, is 21 months, due to some delays met. Despite the delays, it has managed to
achieve all its set objectives.

Despite the project being a multi-sectoral as it involved several players, both in the public and
private sector, it has been successful. The Quick Disbursing component (QD) that was financing
imports of agricultural inputs, petroleum, veterinary products and other items on the positive list,
significantly enabled Government to maintain a level of economic stability while addressing the
food crisis. Under normal circumstances the required import cover per month is about US$60.0
million while EDRP only provided US$40.0 million under the QD. Thus under normal
circumstances, the impact of this facility on the country's foreign reserves can be very minimal.
However, it should be noted that Government had spent over US$80.0 million on maize imports
within a short period. This created a big dent on our foreign exchange reserve as evidenced by a
drop in import cover from 2.29 in January 2003 to 1.98 in March 2003. Thus the gains from sell
of forex maintained the import cover at an average rate of 1.83 per month from March to
December 2003, the period during which most of the funds were disbursed as indicated in Annex
4.

Although project objectives were realistic and significant in achieving the outputs, they were not
clear to the stakeholders. The QD component was initially not well understood. This contributed
to initial delays in the implementation of the project. The establishment of the PCU early in the
project's life significantly contributed to the success of the project. Despite initial delays,
disbursements of funds to the components were timely. However, institutional arrangements at
the Accountant General's Department delayed opening up of operating accounts for EDRP
activities, which affected project implementation. Notwithstanding this, the able and dedicated
staff at the PCU and the existence of the Project Steering Committee added strength and a clear
direction on project operations.

3.2      Revised Objectives

N/A

3.3      Original Components

The project has three components namely: (a) Quick-disbursing (QD) component comprising of
retroactive financing (US$10 million) and financing of importation of items on the positive list


                                                  - 54 -

linked to drought (US$30 million) such as petroleum and fuel products, agricultural inputs,
agricultural equipment, construction equipment, spare parts, livestock, animal products and
veterinary supplies, school supplies and medical supplies; (b) The Malawi Social Action Fund
(MASAF) component supporting the Public Works Projects (PWPs) and Sponsored sub Projects
(SSPs); and (c) the Project Management component, including PCU, Technical assistance and
Studies.

The QD component significantly enabled Government to achieve a reasonable economic stability
during the emergency period. The gains from sell of forex improved import cover from 1.7
months to 1.8 months early in the implementation of the project. The availability of foreign
reserves somehow stabilized the Kwacha and hence the market prices. The income gains from the
MASAF's PWPs and SSPs safety net programmes provided a recovery from the shocks of the
food shortage for the beneficiary groups. While components of the project were related to
achievement of objectives, the capacity of Local Assemblies was inadequate. The Assemblies
were initially constrained due to unavailability of resources for monitoring project activities under
the EDRP-MASAF PWPs and SSPs. The absence of the Information Education and
Communication (IEC) unit in the early stages of the MASAF component contributed to the
disparity in the selection of PWPs projects resulting into more road projects than other social
projects. At the time the ICR was being undertaken a total of 335 PWP projects had been
approved, 267 involved road rehabilitation and only 1 was for soil and water conservation.

3.4     Revised Components

The components of the Project have not been revised but an additional implementing agency,
Emanuel International, was included on the MASAF component to undertake implementation of
the Targeted Input Programmes. The revision did not affect the design of the project components
but strengthened the implementation of project activities.




3.5     Quality at Entry

The Project design at entry was highly satisfactory but the only design shortfall was the
superimposition of EDRP activities on the MASAF Project. This arrangement meant that EDRP
adopted implementation modalities of a project that was itself not an emergency.

4.0     Achievement of Development Objectives, and Output

4.1     Outcome/Achievement of Objective

The main objectives of the EDRP have significantly been achieved. The Quick Disbursing
(QD) component enabled Government to sustain economic stability while at the same time
keeping Government within the agreed fiscal limits. For example, the import cover rose
from 1.7 months of cover to 1.8 months. The restoration of productive capability of the
economy has to a large extent been met. A total of 335 projects under LAMPS have been
implemented from a target of 223 and 173 SSPs subprojects have been implemented out of



                                                - 55 -

a target of 83 projects. Under the Department of Irrigation, the project has excavated 7.8
kilometers length of canals and rehabilitated 40.1 kilometers length of canals. Some
water-harvesting tanks have been constructed under the project as well. The EDRP
facilitated the procurement of strategic inputs required by the key productive sectors of
agriculture and transport. The establishment of the PCU facilitated the smooth
coordination and implementation of the project.

4.2     Outputs by Component

4.2.1 The Quick Disbursing Component of import items linked to the drought.

This component provided foreign exchange for the importation of items on the positive lists which
included: (a) petroleum and fuel products; (b) agricultural inputs; (c) agricultural equipment; (d)
construction equipment; (e) spare parts; (f) livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies; (g)
school supplies; and (h) medical supplies and equipment. The component has progressed
satisfactorily with the private sector dominating the use of the facility in the importation of items
on the positive list. About 99.7% allocated under the facility has been utilized for the purpose it
was intended. It has been projected that 100% of the allocation will be utilized by 30th March 2005.


4.2.2 The MASAF Public Works Projects (PWPs) and the Social Support Projects (SSP)
        component. (Also called District Management Programs (DMPs)

Under the MASAF component, PWPs and SSPs were implemented throughout the country
following MASAF II Project structures and this was done at an estimated cost of MK 252 million.
Implementation of the PWPs included road rehabilitation, afforestation, and construction of dams,
compost manure making, removal of water hyacinth, flood control, sewer-line rehabilitation, soil
and water conservation, and water canalization while the SSPs implementation involved
installation of maize mills in selected communities. A total of 335 PWPs have been implemented
out of 330 initially targeted, reaching 134,000 beneficiaries against 132,000 originally planned. Of
the 75 targeted, 173 SSPs were implemented, with a total of 171,000 beneficiaries out of a target
of 60,000. The increase in the number of PWPs and SSPs could have been due to increased
awareness on the project following the sensitizations conducted after recruitment of IEC staff.


School Feeding Program

The school-feeding program was implemented in 10 districts throughout Malawi, targeting
145 primary schools (Annex 6). The program targeted the girl-child and the double orphans
who were given take home rations after attending classes for at least 18 school days in a
month. Under the weighted school feeding program, pupils of both sex from standards I
through to 6 were provided with porridge before classes and at the end of classes. The
Programme has been a very big success as it has managed to retain huge numbers of pupils
in class. Enrolment increased significantly in the target districts during the school feeding
exercise. It was not however possible to access the impact of the school feeding exercise on
nutrition status of pupils at the time the report was being compiled.




                                                    - 56 -

4.2.3 The Project Management Component, including PCU, Technical Assistance and
         Studies

Capacity building in extension services

The project through technical assistance has supported a special Diploma in Agriculture course at
Natural Resource College. The project has trained 357 trainee Agriculture Extension
Development Officers (AEDOs) on a 28-class week programme instead of normal 52-class week
programme. The trainees have so far done 10 weeks on-campus training and are now doing their
practicals.


Capacity building in disaster management and Food Security Policy

The Department of Poverty and Disaster Management Affairs (DPDMA) executed the disaster
management through a series of training courses aimed at providing skills to front line staff in
district assemblies to assist in cases of floods and to ably use water for food production. The
trainings were conducted through the Department of Engineering at Bunda College of
Agriculture. The project also enabled the DPDMA to finalise a National Disaster Management
Plan.

With regard to the food security policy, consultants with support from EDRP have finalized
working on the policy which is still in draft form. The task was however handed over to a task
force headed by MOA which is now at an action plan formulation stage. The task force has also
managed to sensitize members of the parliamentary Agricultural Committee who seem to be in
support of the policy.

Information Education and Communication

The project produced the IEC material through the Department of Agricultural Extension
Services. The Department developed 32 drought mitigation technical messages and
communicated these to farmers through radio programs, jingles and puppet plays.

Cassava production and multiplication program

The cassava production and multiplication program was implemented through FAO. The
program involved the establishment of cassava seed multiplication nurseries in 34 sites, crop
survey estimation, training of farmers on cassava seed nursery establishment and
management. MOA supported the program through the formulation of cassava planting
material certification standards and the formulation of cassava training kit for extension
workers and the field guide.

Rainwater harvesting

The program was implemented through the department of Land Resources of Ministry of
Agriculture. The project involved construction of 50 water tanks across the ADDs in
Malawi. At the moment, most beneficiaries have started using water from the tanks. The



                                                 - 57 -

project should however, have considered other forms of rainwater harvesting such as dam
construction in order for the project to benefit more people.

Agricultural statistics and information

The project supported the 2003/04 and 2004/05 agricultural statistics survey exercises. This
was done through the provision of transport facilities and computers in order to enhance the
capacity of NSO which coordinated the former while support was given to the same through
training to AEDOs and Assistant Veterinary Officers; and purchase of computers and its
accessories in order to build capacity of the front line staff under MOA which coordinated the
2004/05 exercise.

5.0    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1    Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency

During the implementation of the project, a number of factors outside the
control of Government affected its implementation negatively as outlined below:

      The PCU became fully operational three months after the project had
already started, this affected the initial coordination and implementation of
project activities.
      Implementation of project studies was some how delayed because World
Bank wanted to get them re-rationalized in order to take into account changes
in priorities as the project evolved. For example, out of the planned 8, studies
only 5 were undertaken.
      Inflexibility of the Bank's procedures in issuing "no objection" despite the
project being an emergency one, delayed its implementation.
      Understaffing of the MASAF component. The project had no specific staff
to implement EDRP activities in the zone areas.
      Lower wage rates for the PWP relative to other donor-funded projects (e.g.
EU micro projects) affected the progress of the EDRP's PWPs.


5.2    Factors generally subject to Government Control

The other factors that affected implementation of project activities subject to
Government control were as follows:

      The superimposition of EDRP activities into an already existing MASAF
program; despite MASAF being the best implementer of PWPs and SSPs in the
country, it was very challenging for the staff under MASAF-EDRP to deliver
within this framework.
      Initial delays in conducting awareness campaigns to the general public
and relevant institutions on the project affected access of the quick disbursing
component.
      Delayed recruitment of IEC staff affected project implementation.


                                              - 58 -

Potential beneficiaries learnt about the project when it was in its completion
period. This meant people benefiting less than they could if they were aware of
the project's existence in goodtime.
       Low levels of government funding. This affected operations of the QD
component. Government departments factored into their budgets items on the
positive list but they were never allocated funds in the approved budget. As a
result, departments failed to participate in the activities under this component.
       Lack of systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The Planning
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture did not conduct any M&E on the project
despite being requested by the PCU to do so.
       Delays in the opening up of bank accounts.

5.3     Costs and Financing

IDA financed the project. Its total cost was about SDR 37.9 million (equivalent to US$50 million)
which later translated into US$53.4 million. This includes a credit of SDR 22 million (equivalent
to US$ 29) on standard IDA terms with a 40-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period and
SDR 15.9 million (equivalent to US$21 million) on IDA grant. US$ 40 million was allocated for
QD; US$8.0 million was allocated for MASAF component while US$ 2.0 was allocated for the
third component of the project. Instead of 24 months, the funds were disbursed within a period of
21 months. As a result of exchange rate gains amounting to US$2.357 million through the QD
component, the balance, US$649 has already been committed and awaits disbursement.

6.0     Sustainability

6.1     Rationale for Sustainability

Satisfactory. The overall project design is a one-off initiative to address an emergency situation.
However, most of its activities render themselves to long-term impact. This includes informal
irrigation, treadle pump fabrication, training of extension staff at NRC; and nutrition and food
security policy. These will be included as distinct activities in the Irrigation, Rural Livelihoods
Project. In addition to this, the government made sure that most of the activities that were
implemented under the EDRP should be factored into the national budget in order to ensure their
sustainability.




7.0     Bank's and Borrower Performance




                                                 - 59 -

Bank

7.1     Lending

Highly Satisfactory. The Banks' performance in terms of evaluation of the EDRP has been
highly satisfactory. It has supported several agencies with responsibilities for the promotion of
community participation for empowerment recognized under the four pillars of the MPRS as a
necessary precondition for achieving the goals of the strategy, which aim at addressing problems
of poverty. This is also well reflected in the World Bank's CAS for Malawi. The World Bank has
contributed towards the assessment of drought relief recovery in Malawi, protection of the
vulnerable during the crisis, and in the reduction to vulnerability to food crises in future with its
resources. The Bank`s staff has participated in regular meetings and activities of a joint task force
established to coordinate emergency efforts of the Government. The Bank had generally good
working relations with the borrower during the preparation and appraisal stages. During appraisal,
the Bank assessed the project's risks and lessons learnt from previous similar operations in the
design of the project such as the fact that emergency operations need to be simple, rapidly
executable and not burdened with conditionalities.

7.2     Supervision

Highly Satisfactory. Over the two years of implementation, the Bank fielded quarterly project
supervision missions to monitor project implementation progress. The Quarterly Project Reports
highlighted amongst other things project implementation problems. An implementation,
procurement and monitoring plan was used to guide implementation and project supervision. Two
reviews were carried out with key implementation stakeholders in August and May 2004.
However, due to logistical misunderstandings between the Bank and the Borrower there were
some delays in disbursement of funds, which resulted in delaying or slowing down implementation
of project activities.

7.3     Overall Bank Performance

Highly Satisfactory. Overall, the Banks' performance has been highly satisfactory during
preparation, appraisal and implementation. However due to delays in recruitment of staff,
communication of project conditions as a result of the Bank's delays in granting no objection,
implementation of the project was delayed.

Borrower

7.4     Preparation

Highly Satisfactory. During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed adequate level of
commitment to the objectives of the project, particularly that the objectives of the project had a
direct impact on the national development agenda of poverty alleviation. Government declared a



                                                - 60 -

state of disaster on 27 February 2002, indicating that Malawi is experiencing a catastrophic food
shortage with a large number of farm families facing starvation, hence the governments' appeal
for international community to intervene on humanitarian grounds. Government had further taken
steps to put initiatives in place such as the Disaster Relief and Management Policy in order to
support longer-term disaster management in the country.

Government Implementing Performance

7.5     Implementing Agencies

Highly Satisfactory. The implementation performance of most agencies was extremely
satisfactory. Agreed targets and planned outputs have to a large extent been achieved. Most
EDRP activities carried out by implementing agencies were merely an extension of their already
existing lines of duty. However, the experience was somewhat different with MASAF. There was
need to realign EDRP activities within MASAF's mainstream activities. And because there was no
specific staff for the EDRP component to MASAF, the amount of workload became
overwhelming hence the need to subcontract some activities to Emmanuel International. Most
implementing agencies experienced delays in getting project activities started. The delays were
largely experienced in opening up of separate operating accounts for EDRP activities. This was
due to institutional arrangement delays at the Accountant general's Department. Delays, which
affected implementation progress, were also experienced in processing for "no objections" from
the World Bank. Negotiation of contracts with the NGO consortium, also contributed significant
delays in implementation of some activities. The actual implementation of food for asset activities
by Emmanuel International has only been carried out for 4 months out of the 24 months of project
life. Although seed distribution commenced on 1st November 2004, the NGOs had not received
the fertilizer for distribution by this date. The delays may both negatively affect crop production
and the confidence of beneficiaries in the NGOs working in the areas.


7.6     Overall Borrower's Performance

The overall borrower's performance has been highly satisfactory. Most of the project objectives
and outputs have been achieved. For instance, through the QD, Government was able to ensure
availability of forex for the purchase of agricultural inputs, fuel and spare parts. The project was
able to mitigate the effects of drought through income generation from PWPs and provision of
foodstuff through the School Feeding Programme.




                                                  - 61 -

8.0     Lessons Learnt

       Superimposition of emergency programme activities into existing non-emergency
programmes such as the case of the EDRP-MASAF component created operational difficulties.
This resulted in time wastage and implementation difficulties in synchronizing the two activities.
       Early sensitization of the public and the stakeholders on emergency programmes may
reduce time wastage that result from misunderstandings of the project activities and expected
outputs. Delayed sensitization of the EDRP activities created initial stakeholder misunderstanding
of the project activities and subsequent delays in their implementation.
       There is need for project accounting procedures to be communicated to all stakeholders
before accessing funds as well as conducting short-term training for appropriate personnel from
all implementing agencies.
       The PCU should comprise specialized technical personnel in all key focal/delivery areas.
       Implementation of project activities should involve beneficiaries' full participation and
transfer of knowledge and skills in order to enhance project ownership and sustainability.
       The roles and responsibilities of the Project Coordination Unit, the Steering Committee,
government and the World Bank, should clearly be clarified at the inception of the project,
documented and respected to avoid misunderstandings.
       M&E should be an integral part of the project from inception through to completion.
       Recommendations arising from studies supported by the project must be implemented
using project resources.
       Studies should be conducted in the early stage of the project's life to allow for
implementation of recommendations.
       Capacity building activities should be comprehensive and continue for sustainability.
       There should be full understanding of the terms and conditions of the contracts by all
concerned parties to avoid implementation delays.
       Communication within the institutions, including the bank, should be improved to avoid
inconsistent and conflicting decisions, instructions and information flow.
       Disbursement of funds should be done by the PCU directly to the implementers.




ANNEX 1: PROJECT COST AS OF JUNE 2004 (US$ 48,845,495)



COMPONENT                                        COST



                                                 - 62 -

Quick Disbursement:
Retroactive Financing     10,157,593
Positive List Proceeds    29,880,882
Sub-Total                 40,038,475
MASAF                     5,420,869
Sub-Total                 5,420,869
Project management        937,971
Bank                      2,412,180
Sub-Total                 3,350,151
Total capital Employed    48,845,495




                           - 63 -

ANNEX 2: LIST OF PEOPLE CONSULTED

1.    Mr. D. Kampani, Project Coordinator, EDRP.
2.    Mr. G. Mulima, Project Financial Manager, EDRP.
3.    Ms. C. Bobe, Project Accountant, EDRP.
4.    Mr. Stanley Hiwa, Task Manager, World Bank
5.    Ms. Chisomo Gunda, Project Coordinator, EDRP  MASAF.
6.    Mr. Maxwell Moyo, Assistant Project Coordinator, EDRP  MASAF.
7.    Mrs. Charity Kaunda, IEC Officer, EDRP  MASAF.
8.    Mr. James Mphande, IEC Officer, EDRP  MASAF.
9.    Mr. C. Mwalabu, Principal Irrigation Officer, MOA  Irrigation Department
10.   Mr. F. Malunga, Senior Irrigation officer, MOA  Irrigation Officer
11.   Mr. W.G. Lipita, Director, MOA  Department of Animal Health and Livestock
Development
12.   Dr. D. Chinombo, Deputy Director, MOA  Department of Animal Health and Livestock
Development
13.   Mrs. Khonje, Ministry of Education
14.   Ms. Florence N. Kasiya, DSF Coordinator, Kasungu District - Ministry of Education
15.   Patricia Saukila, Programme Officer, WFP
16.   Gerard Van Dijk, Country Representative, WFP
17.   Mr. MPhatso Mtendere, FAO
18.   Lola Castro, Deputy Country Director/Head of Programme, WFP
19.   B.J. Sizilandi, Programme Manager, Kasungu Agricultural Development Division
(KADD)
20.   T. Msimuko Mpezeni, Principal Irrigation Officer, KADD
21.   R.P. Makungwa, DADO, KADD
22.   H.K. Chimbalanga, Irrigation Officer, KADD
23.   J.J. Kanyangalazi, Land Resources Conservation Officer, KADD
24.   Mr. I. Mpando, Chief Statistician, NSO
25.   Mr. M.J.T. Khwepeya, Statistician, NSO
26.   Alan Bush, Project Advisor, Emmanuel International
27.   Paul Jones Country Director, Emmanuel International
28.   Charles Mukiwa, Project manager, Emmanuel International
29.   S. Srinivasan, General Manager, First Merchant Bank
30.   Thomas J. Kadantot, Head  International Banking, First Merchant Bank
31.   Mr. Gidala, Coordinator for Disaster Preparedness, Relief and Rehabilitation
32.   Mr. J.M.K. Chiusiwa, Deputy coordinator, for Disaster Relief and Rehabilitation
33.   Mr. E. Chayamba, Ministry of Finance
34.   Mr. Yona, Chief Agricultural Communications Officer- Extension Department
35.   Mrs. Tchowa, Assistant Chief Agricultural Communications Officer- Department of
Extension
36.   Mr. C. Khonje, Programme Manager, Mzuzu ADD
37.   Mr. Nkhonde, DADO, Rumphi RDP




                                            - 64 -

ANNEX 3: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


1.      Technical Annex for the Emergency Drought Recovery Project, 30th September 2002.
World Bank Report No. T7557-MAI.
2.      IDA Implementation Review Report, August 13-27, 2004.
3.      Development Credit Agreement, December 2002.
4.      Minutes of the Project Steering Committee. 13th March, 11th July, 28th August, 23rd October 2003 and
3rd February, 2nd March, 22nd April 2004.
5.      Quarterly Project Reports. January  March, April  June, July  September, October December 2003,
and January  March, April  June 2004.




                                                    - 65 -

    ANNEX 4: MONTHLY (OFFICIAL) IMPORT COVER AND EXCHANGE RATES

      FOR 2003 AND 2004




MONTH           IMPORT COVER              EXCHANGE RATE

                2003                      2004
                                          2003
                                          2004

January         2.29                    1.42
                                        88.0398
                                        108.6162

February        2.06                    1.57
                                        89.9541
                                        108.8671

March           1.98                      1.76
                                          91.2036
                                          108.9072

April           1.98                      1.54
                                          90.7632
                                        108.9108

May             1.85                      1.32
                                        91.8812
                                        108.8904

June            1.76                    1.40
                                        90.9920
                                        108.8842

July            1.76                      1.42
                                          90.5982
                                          108.9279

August          1.89                      1.61
                                          103.2744
                                          108.9493

September       1.49                      2.19
                                          108.0784
                                        108.9654

October         1.70                      2.03
                                        108.3070
                                        108.9439

November        1.96                    N/a
                               - 66 -   107.3288
                                        N/a

December            1.93                                   N/a
                                                           108.2184
                                                           N/a



Source: Reserve Bank of Malawi

Note:   a)    Import cover is based on end month figures

       b)     Exchange rate figures are based on monthly official exchange rates




ANNEX 5: STATUS OF EDRP QD RESOURCES BY CATEGORY: SEPTEMBER 2004

AMOUNT IN USD'000

      CATEGORY              AMT         REVISED            AMT      BALANCE
                          ALLOCA      ALLOCATION        UTILISED
                            TED)

Petroleum and Fuel
Products                  7,000      7,000              6,937      63

Agricultural Inputs       7,000      9,450              9,244      206

Agricultural Equipment
                          6,000      6,204              6,013      191

Construction
Equipment                 4,000      4,000              3,960      40

Spare Parts             5,000        5,000              5,001      -1

Livestock and Animal
Supplies
                          2,000     2,100               1,999      101

School Supplies
                          4,000      3,600            3,471        129



                                           - 67 -

Medical Supplies and
Equipment
                          5,000        5,103               5,103           0

TOTAL                      40,000      42,357              41,708          649

SOURCE:       EDRP Reports

NOTE:         a)      The original allocation under QD (USD40.0 Million) was
                      Fully utilized. The remaining USD649, 000.00 is part of the exchange rate
                      gains (USD2.357 Million)
              b)      The USD649, 000.00 is already committed and
                      disbursement will follow soon
c)       The figures exclude USD8.0 million for MASAF and
                      USD2.0 million for the PCU and studies




ANNEX 6: BENEFICIARIES ON SCHOOL FEEDING PROGRAMMES


District    Take Home Rations-EMOP Schools           Take Home Rations-CP Schools
            Girls         Boys          Total        Girls       Boys           Total
Mangochi    14,782        2,678         17,460       -           -              -
Thyolo      -             -             -            6,730       525            7,255
Ntcheu      9,422         380           9,802        3,845       341            4,186
Dedza       -             -             -            14,251      0              14,251
Lilongwe    13,899        1,693         15,592       -           -              -
Kasungu     15,181        1,788         16,969       -           -              -
Salima      6,206         0             6,206        2,682       0              2,682
Nkhata-Bay  -             -             -            2,656       95             2,751
Nsanje      10,763        998           11,761       -           -              -
Chikwawa    5,662         516           6,178        -           -              -
TOTAL       75,919        8,053         83,968       30,164      961            31,125




                                               - 68 -

         Additional Annex 10. Additional Information on PWP

Under (i), the PWP, a MASAF managed cash transfer- for- work program targeted at able-bodied needy persons,
helped implement works aimed at post-drought recovery and future drought mitigation. At the same time, cash paid
to individuals helped their households to purchase food and farm inputs. The PWP sub-projects covered road
construction and rehabilitation, water supply and sanitation, irrigation and small dam construction, land husbandry
and afforestation, catchment conservation, compost/manure making and others.           Of the total US$8 million
allocated, 80% was spent on PWPs. The project achieved the 335 PWPs targets envisaged at appraisal, although
with some delays. For example, out of the 335 PWPs envisaged at appraisal, about 223 (66%) were committed
and partly implemented in the first year, slower than expected in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The
bulk of the PWPs were for roads, mainly rehabilitation of existing road networks. The slow implementation of the
PWPs in the first project year was caused by: i) time required to absorb new administrative and technical input
requirements which had to be incorporated in MASAF (e.g environmental assessment guidelines for PWPs with
EDRP funding, introduction of PWPs with drought mitigation objectives); ii) delays by MASAF in recruiting of
key staff for the project component; and iii) the transitional status of MASAF as it was phasing out of MASAF II
into MASAF III. For these reasons, the PWPs implemented in the first year missed the opportunity to provide
income to people at the time of peak food shortage which for Malawi is the first quarter of the year. However, the
following year also provided the same food insecurity challenges, especially in the Southern Region. In the second
year, the project overcame the challenge and caught up with implementation with the previous year's backlog and
completed the planned program. This catching up also made it possible for the EDRP to adjust to providing for two
successive droughts, since 2003/4 also turned out to be a suboptimal harvest year. This posed a second challenge
to cater for the newly emergent localized food insecurity needs, especially in the Southern Region. The Inputs for
Assets program was introduced as a measure to broaden the choice available to farmers to be paid either in cash or
in inputs or in food. The program was scaled up in the Southern region to accommodate more beneficiaries than
would have been possible with MASAF PWP at short notice. The Input for Assets was also necessary as a pilot for
the Bank to generate lessons for follow-on IDA funded projects. An NGO, Emmanuel International, was recruited
to help implement the program, and the implementation was done quite successfully, on time and exceeded
envisaged targets. About 134,000 unskilled laborers earning on average US$15 per beneficiary benefitted from the
PWPs, and many used income earned mostly for food and where possible, for the purchase of small quantities of
seed and fertilizers for winter cropping. The selection process of the PWPs and conditions for funding as specified
in the PIM were adhered to. However, the original limit per PWP sub-project, which was US$100,000, was
downsized to US$20,000 per sub-project, which increased the number of beneficiaries and their geographic spread.
It nonetheless compromised the need for adequate cost contingencies for road structures. While supervision of the
works was modest, because of weak capacity at the district level, the prospects for sustaining these works have
risen as the procedures for supervision of works and funding for O&M have been improved under MASAF III,
which became effective in November, 2003. With MASAF III, the constructed works are handed over to the
district assemblies who take over increasing responsibility for maintenance for over a 3 year period. Another
positive development is that MASAF III has started to mainstream some of the specific works introduced by the
EDRP designed to mitigate against drought and enhance food security, such as small dam construction, compost
manure making, informal irrigation, etc. In order to remedy observed weakness in the monitoring of the MASAF
executed component, MASAF instituted intensive field supervision and systematic reporting on a monthly basis.
This has additional benefits for other new MASAF implemented projects.

         Under (ii ), the Social Support Program supported vulnerable groups, including orphans, street children,
persons with disabilities, the aged and HIV/Aids affected persons who could not participate in the PWPs. The SSP
provided financial grants and technical support for programs targeted at the marginalized persons by NGOs and
CBOs.     The SSP undertaken under the project opted only for providing hammer maize mills to increase the
incomes of vulnerable groups and to improve their food security in the short and longer term, while at the same time



                                                            - 69 -

reducing labor demand on women by reducing the time required for maize pounding and milling and reducing long
distances to maize mills. Females participated on SSP committees in a 50:50 ratio with males. An amount of
US$0.72 million was originally allocated for the SSP. However, the amount was increased to US$1.8 million and
comprised the installation of 171 hammer maize mills and was fully disbursed before the closing date.       All 171
hammer mills are in operation. While the SSP projects were slated for the first project year, because of the
implementation delays, only 83 were committed for 2003 and the other 88 sub-projects were completed in 2004,
achieving fully the envisaged target. The sub-projects covered all 28 districts in the country. The selection and
eligibility criteria were carried out through NGOs/CBOs and were in line with MASAFs guidelines. About 171,000
people among vulnerable groups benefited from this intervention.

         Under (iii), strengthening the delivery mechanisms and IEC activities of the MASAF MU, this included,
under the project, the development and implementation of an IEC program to assist MASAF MU with the
management and implementation of the PWP subprojects and SSPs. The project financed the provision of training,
equipment and provided for operating costs. The project provided for the sensitization and training on these aspects
to district assemblies, and also reached out to members of parliament and NGOs through short workshops.
Messages targeting communities and areas prone to drought occurrences were developed in collaboration with the
Ministry of Agriculture. Accordingly capacity was also built at the district level to enhance these messages,
including preventive and response strategies. This sub-unit, which has a specialty in NRM messages, has been
maintained by MASAF and incorporated into its overall IEC program. When MASAF III came on board, as a
result of achievements made under the EDRP, MASAF III was able to move from the traditional works of the
PWPs to a greater emphasis of works which were drought mitigation in nature.




                                                          - 70 -

         Additional Annex 11. Support for Implementation, Technical Assistance and Studies

The project maintained and operated under a quasi-government entity, a Project Coordination Committee (PCU),
which was nominally under the Ministry of Agriculture but was supervised by an inter-governmental Technical
Steering Committee (TSC). The PCU coordinated project activities and assisted in the overall implementation of the
project. The PCU was set up in record time and the sparsely staffed unit became operational before project
effectiveness. The PCU played a key role in expediting the start-up of Component 1 and coordinated effectively
between the private sector, government agencies and the Reserve Bank of Malawi on funding matters. With respect
to Component 2, the PCU gave MASAF strategic support in getting the ERDP funded PWP &SSPs operational,
and was the go-between MASAF and MOA in IEC efforts to develop and disseminate drought mitigation measures,
including the sensitization and training of stakeholders, particularly at local level. Another key output from the PCU
which was not envisaged during appraisal was the need, in the initial project stages, for intensive and broad based
workshops with the private and public sector on how project funds would be accessed. The same strategy of broad
based consultations was also undertaken to manage stakeholder expectations to bring them in line with the project's
scope and objectives. Overall, key management, procurement and reporting tasks were done well, including the
auditing reports. From the outset the PCU was guided by approved plans for implementation, training and
procurement, endorsed by the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) which comprised of representatives of the main
stakeholders. The PCU reported to the TSC that acted as the ultimate decision point for managing the project and
approved all key decisions, monitored the project and sanctioned budgets. Given the sensitivity of the project, this
committee served as a buffer between the project and Government. The main institutional design of the project
turned out to be highly satisfactory and effective. However, it was unfortunate that the planning department in
MOAI never got to play the lead role in coordinating the studies as envisaged at appraisal. At implementation it
became clear that their capacity was limited and highly competed for among different donor agencies and projects.
As a result, the TSC again took up this role.

The project held public discussions on the crisis and preventive measures with, firstly, civil society groups, heads of
donor agencies and representatives of faith based organizations. This forum endorsed the EDRP concept and
approach and bought the Bank reputation capital as "now showing a human face". This initial meeting led to the
change in donors' initial opposition to the price subsidies and to the project. The other four panel discussions were
inter-ministerial and discussed measures to prevent a recurrence of weather shock driven crises. The main focus of
their recommendations centered on SGR management, diversification of cropping patterns and food habits and
drought proofing of farming systems through irrigation, water harvesting and planting of drought tolerant food
crops. All steering committee meetings were inter-ministerial and often included representatives from banking and
civil society. The project also financed Malawi's participation in all (three) SADC fora to review the crisis and to
recommend an action plan for managing future crises. It also financed Malawi's contribution to a SADC-wide
review of a proposal for sub-regional Strategic Grain Reserves. Under (iii), the project assisted in reviewing the
methodology for estimating agricultural GDP and suggested changes to improve accuracy of estimates by
suggesting ways of capturing livestock and horticultural output into the estimation for sector GDP and assessment
of food and livelihoods security. It, however, was unable to deliver on an efficient and effective system for
agricultural statistics and for generating crop estimates. Under (iv), the project held regular meetings of the
Technical Steering Committee, including field supervision. These meetings were not financed by the project to
avoid the possibility of    per-diems driving the agenda and the frequency of the meetings. Inter-ministerial
representation was assured because the sector ministries found these fora as relevant for lobbying for either direct
project interventions and procurement in favor of their ministries and also because the activities of the EDRP
complemented some of their own programs well; e.g., school feeding, drug procurement etc. Under (v), each PDO
was formally monitored through a tracking system. In addition, the supervision visits by the TSC supplemented and
cross-validated the formal reports submitted by third parties; e.g., MASAF, sector ministries, and the RBM. Under
(vi), three main deliverables were expected out of this intervention. The first is the Food and Nutrition Strategy



                                                             - 71 -

Statement. This was not delivered in time, but after the project closed. The second consists of strengthening of
agricultural advisory services. On this, 360 extension workers were trained to add to the existing pool of 3,000
Agricultural Extension and Development Officers. The Ministry had stopped training extension workers for more
than five years. The third deliverable under this is upgrading disaster preparedness and management. There are
eleven (11) districts in the country that are flood prone. The first task which was attained is an Act on Disaster
Preparedness and Management which was finalized under the project; and an action plan and implementation
manual for use in emergencies was produced. All 11 districts have a "core team" of disaster management
committees in place and have trainers of trainers on disaster management; and, all 11 districts have had basic flood
control structures constructed. In addition, water harvesting and informal irrigation was piloted and upscaled within
the life of the project. These are still in place and can now be interventions can be requested from MASAF to be
constructed as part of their regular PWP/SSP interventions i.e. informal irrigation, water harvesting and compost
making. Apart from the Food and Nutrition Strategy Statement, all other targets were met.




                                                            - 72 -

- 73 -

