Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7483- CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION
FOR
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
November 16, 2001
Colombia-Mexico-Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA-FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of 25 October 2001)
Currency Unit   =  Peso
2340.00 Pesos   =  US$1
1.12 Euros   =  US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
SELECTED ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFORE                Administradoras de Fondos para el      IMF                International Monetary Fund
Retiro                                 IPS               Instituciones Prestadoras de Salud
ARS                  Administradora del Regimen             ISA                Interconexi6n Electrica SA
Subsidiado                             ISAGEN            Interconexi6n Electrica SA
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy                               (Generadora)
CAS-PR               Country Assistance Strategy            ISS               Instituto del Seguro Social
Progress Report                        LDP               Letter of Development Policy
CMU                  Country Management Unit                NFPS              Non-Financial Public Sector
DANE                 Departamento Administrativo            PAYG               Pay-As-You-Go
Nacional de Estadistica                PBG               Policy Based Guarantee
DB                   Defined Benefit                        PFMP              Public Financial Management Project
DC                   Defined Compensation                   POS               Plan Obligatorio de Salud
DECPG                Development Prospects Group            PPP                Purchasing Power Parity
DNP                  Departamento Nacional de               QAG               Quality Assurance Group
Planeaci6n                             SDR               Special Drawing Right
EPS                  Empresa Promotora de Salud             SFAL               Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan
EUR                  Euros                                  SGP                Sistema General de Participaciones
FINDETER             Financiera de Desarrollo               SISBEN            Sistema de Identificaci6n de
Territorial                                              Beneficiarios
FOGAFfN              Fondo de Garantias Financieras         SNSSS             Sistema Nacional de Seguridad Social
FONPET               Fondo de Pensiones Territorials                           en Salud
FOPEP                Fondo de Pensiones Publicas            SOAT              Seguro Obligatorio de Accidentes de
FOSYGA               Fondo de Solidaridady Garantia                            Trdnsito
FSAL                 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan       SSAL               Social Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product                 TES               Colombia Treasury bonds
IBRD                 International Bank for                 UPC                Unidad per Capita de Capitacion
Reconstruction and Development         URC               Unified Registry of Contributors
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank        WBG               World Bank Group
IFI                  International Financial Institutions   WEO               World Economic Outlook
IBRD
Vice President                  David de Ferranti
Chief Economist:                Guillermo Perry
Director, LCSPR                 Ernesto May
Country Director:               Olivier Lafourcade
Lead Economist/Manager:         Marcelo Giugale
Task Managers:                  Vicente Fretes-Cibils
Marcelo Giugale
Team Production Support:        Michael Geller
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of Messrs/Mmes. Rojas (LCSPS); Webb (LCSPE); Giugale,
Chal]a, Fretes-Cibils, Velez Bustillo, Cuevas, Partow, Geller (LCC] C); Escobar, Uribe (LCHH); von Gersdorff (LSCFR);
Carvalhc, (LEGLA); del Valle, Zhang (FSD); de Henao, Lezaca (LCCCO); Fernandez, Gottret, and Panopoulou (consultants).
The tean was led by Messrs. Fretes-Cibils and Giugale (LCC 1C), and worked under the general guidance of Mr. Olivier
Lafourcade (Director, LCCIC).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM-STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND  PROGRAM  SUMMARY .............................................................i
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE ............................................................1
II.    THE STRUCTURAL CHALLENGES OF FISCAL STRENGTHENING ........................................                                 5
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations ..........................................................5
Education ............................................................6
Health .............................................................7
Pensions ............................................................9
Public Sector Reform  ............................................................                                      10
Public Sector Debt .............................................................11
III. THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM OF THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT    .. 11
A. Government Program  Policies ............................................................                            12
B.  The Program's Outcomes ...........................................................                                  17
IV. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SFAL)                                                        ..  20
A. Objectives ...........................................................                                               20
B.  Content ...........................................................                                                 21
C.  Risks ............................................................                                                  23
D. Poverty Impact ...........................................................                                           25
E. Loan Amount, Conditions, Financial Safeguards,
and Disbursements and Audits ...........................................................                          25
V. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED SFAL                                                            ..  28
VI.   BANK  STRATEGY ............................................................                                               28
A. The CAS  and The Proposed SFAL ............................................................                          28
B.  Complementarity with Other World Bank Operations and Activities ................... 30
C.  Complementarity with Other Institutions' Operations .......................................... 31
VII. RECOMMENDATION                                                              ..                                             31
TEXT TABLES
Table 1. Colombia-Public Sector Fiscal Balances Scenario with
Reforms (2000-05) ......                                                                                           18
Table 2. Colombia-Matrix of Policy Actions for
Tranche Releases of SFAL ......                                                                         21, 22, 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                               l



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TEXT FIGURES
Figure 1. Colombia: Public Sector Balance, Real GDP Growth, and
Poverty Rates (1978-99) ..........................................................3
Figure 2. Colombia: Public Sector Balances Under Alternative
Reforms Scenarios (1999-2005) .........................................................                        19
Figure 3 Colombia: Net Public Debt Under Alternative
Reforms Scenarios (1999-2005) .....................                       .................................... l 9
TEXT BoxEs
Box  1.   Key Social Impacts of the Policies Supported by the SFAL ................................. 20
Box 2.   The Colombian Constitutional Court .........................................................                      24
ANNEXES
A.    COUNTRY ASSISTANCE UPDATE NOTE .........................................................                              33
INDICATORS
Al.  Colombia at a Glance .........................................................                                    41,42
A2.  Key Economic and Program  Indicators-Change from  Last CAS ............................. 43
A3.  Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management ........................ 45
A4.  IBRD/IDA  Program  Summary .........................................................                                  47
A5.  IFC  and MIGA  Program  Summary .........................................................                             49
A6.  Summary of Nonlending Services .........................................................                              51
A7.   Colombia Social Indicators .........................................................                                  53
A8.  Key Economic Indicators .........................................................                                55-57
A9.  Key Exposure Indicators .........................................................                                      59
Al 0. Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA  and Grants) .........................................................   61
All. Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio ....................................................... 63
B. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK .65
C. FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY, ECONOMIC GROWTH, AND POVERTY .73
D.  PUBLIC SECTOR DEBT-STRUCTURE AND SUSTAINABILITY. .                                          X..............91
E. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY .97
F.    LETTER OF PRESIDENT PASTRANA .............................................................                    109, 110
G.  SPECIFICATIONS, DEFINITIONS, AND EVIDENCE FOR TRANCHE
RELEASE CONDITIONS .11
H.  MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCES ........................................                                                123
I.   MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM-STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SFAL)
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Republic of Colombia
Amount and Terms:              US$400 million fixed-spread loan, with automatic interest
rate fixing whenever disbursements reach an aggregate
amount of US$20 million; final repayment maturity of 13.5
years with level repayments of principal, each equivalent to
10 percent of the loan amount. Commitment charge: 0.85
percent p.a. for the first four years, and 0.75 percent p.a.
thereafter. Front-end fee: 1 percent of the Loan amount, to
be paid by the Government out of its own finances.
Implementing Agency:           Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Description:                   The SFAL is the Bank's response to the government's
demonstrated commitment to reaching an inflection point
in Colombia's fiscal accounts path, an essential first step
toward achieving full fiscal sustainability, economic
growth, and poverty reduction.  The program  to be
supported by the SFAL focuses on a core set of policies
that can strengthen the country's fiscal outlook.  This
policy package involves (a) rationalizing the system of
transfers to local governments, and imposing more market-
driven and more binding budget constraints on their
finances; (b) establishing mechanisms to arrest the
exploding cost of inefficiency in the provision of public
health services; (c) halting the accumulation of pension-
related  contingent  liabilities;  (d)  advancing  the
reorganization of public agencies and their current
expenditures; and (e) setting up a better system for
managing public debt.
The combination of measures to improve governmental
fiscal relations, rationalize public sector expenditures, and
improve financial management of the public sector's assets
and liabilities will lead to a more sustainable fiscal path and
to greater efficiency in allocation of public resources,
including those allocated to the social sectors. Both are
necessary to sustain economic growth and poverty-
reduction efforts, and to improve the provision of key
public services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
i



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Risks and Benefits:             The proceeds of the loan will help to implement fiscal
reforms,  provide  a  confidence-building  signal  to
international markets, reduce the cost of borrowing, and
lengthen debt maturity.  These will, in turn, grant the
government the fiscal space for protecting social sector
expenditures  and  implementing  difficult  structural
measures.  In addition to their fiscal implications, the
measures supported by the SFAL have social impacts that
have been identified and evaluated, and which will provide
the basis for additional policies to protect the most
vulnerable.
The SFAL carries both internal and external risks. The
main internal risks include (a) the fragility of the overall
political context.   Prolonged  social disruption  and
resistance from interest groups could derail the reform
agenda, and the internal conflict could further escalate.
The government is committed to continuing its dialogue
with the guerrillas, and is working to mitigate political and
social risks through building a consensus with a variety of
interest groups. (b) Blocking or substantial alteration by
the opposition-led Congress of the policy initiatives in the
program. This risk is mitigated because the bulk of the
reforms have already been discussed with Congress. The
SFAL has also sought to include reforms that require
Congressional approval up front in the program or in the
floating tranche, and has stressed measures to be carried out
by  the  Executive.    (c)  A   reversion  to  fiscal
mismanagement. The government's commitment to reform
militates against this, as do hard budget constraints faced
by subnational governments. The loan also requires a set
of nonreversible actions prior to tranche disbursement.
The most important external risk is that of a deeper
downturn in the world economy. This could be transmitted
to the Colombian economy through a further deterioration
in terms of trade and the closure of access to international
financial markets. In this regard, the government intends to
continue its flexible exchange rate policy and retains access
to IFI financing, particularly the IMF through continued
fulfillment of conditions and the right to draw upon
resources under its Extended Arrangement.
Schedule of Disbursements:      The loan is expected to be disbursed in three tranches, of
US$160 million in December 2001, US$180 million
expected in March 2002, and a US$60 million floating
tranche to be disbursed upon fulfillment of its specific
conditions.
Project ID Number:              CO-PE-P073572-LEN-BB
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
ii



REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SFAL)
President's Report
I. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.    Starting in the mid-1990s, Colombia entered an unsustainable path of overall fiscal
imbalance-by the end of the decade, central government expenditures had grown by about 8
percentage points of GDP, while revenues, despite no fewer than eight tax reforms, increased by
only about 2.5 points. As a result, the total gross stock of public sector debt as a percentage of
GDP almost doubled (to about 50 percent by 2000). Such a fragile fiscal position made
Colombia particularly vulnerable and ill prepared to respond to the economic recession that
would unfold in 1998. This was triggered by a combination of a sharp deterioration in the
country's terms of trade, the effect of the East Asia and Russia crises, and a weakening of
investor confidence due to stepped-up guerrilla and illegal drug activities. The downturn, the
first in 70 years, revealed critical structural weaknesses in the government accounts-notably,
the encroachment of entitlements in favor of politically powerful sectors, unbridled subnational
spending, the deterioration in quantity and quality of social services, and the substitution of
current for capital expenditures and weaknesses in the banking sector (its mortgage industry all
but collapsed, adding to the fiscal malaise). In the end, Colombia, a country previously reputed
for its sound macroeconomic management, lost its sovereign investment grade and saw its access
to international financing tightly restricted.
2.    To deal with the immediate effects of the recession, the then incoming Pastrana
Administration formulated a three-year stabilization program for the period through 2002 based
on exchange rate flexibility (the peso was floated in September 1999), fiscal stabilization, and
the implementation of structural reforms, including financial sector restructuring and
privatization. The international financial community mobilized to support that program, and the
IMF Board of Directors approved in December 1999 a three-year, SDR 1.96 billion Extended
Arrangement Facility-the first of its kind for Colombia. This arrangement was entered into
with a clear understanding on the part of the Colombian authorities that (a) it was precautionary
in nature, (b) it was meant to send a confidence-building signal to international markets, and (c)
it would not be drawn upon unless there was a pressing balance-of-payments need. The
authorities have proceeded along the precautionary path in not drawing upon the arrangement,
and despite the deteriorating external environment, to date this has proven to be the right policy
decision (the spread of the country's sovereign borrowing rate continues to decline and is
gradually converging to the level of investment-grade borrowers such as Mexico).'
3.    The World Bank joined the stabilization efforts. Its Board approved in November 1999
an EUR 482 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, the second tranche of which would be
1. However, should an international crisis occur and the financial markets further tighten access for all emerging
country borrowers-particularly following the tragic attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent events-
Colombia's drawing upon the IMF arrangement would not be perceived as a negative signal about the country's
economic management.
I



converted, in February 2001, to a Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) operation of up to about EUR
238 million, fiurther reinforcing credibility in intemational markets. Moreover, the government
requested last year that the World Bank take the lead in identifying and supporting the
implementation of key structural reforms to (a) complement the stabilization effort under the
IMF program; and (b) help bring Colombia's fiscal accounts onto a sustainable path in the
medium- and long-term. The operation proposed in this document is the Bank's response to suoh
request, and reflects our extensive dialogue with the authorities regarding fiscal structural
weaknesses.
4.     The implementation of the stabilization program  produced some positive results-key
indicators, such as growth, inflation, and the fiscal balance have improved; the extemal position
and financial system have been strengthened (see Annexes A and B); and compliance under the
above-mentioned IMF  and World Bank operations has been satisfactory.   The 1998--99
recession had a devastating social impact and provided a crucial policy lesson in this regard. In
Colombia, there has been a close positive correlation between growth and poverty reduction (see
Figure 1 and Annex C). During periods of positive growth (and fiscal balance), Colombia
enjoyed substantial declines in poverty (even though inequality increased). Specifically, fr2,m
1988 to 1995, as average GDP grew at about 3.5 percent per year, poverty rates declined frcm
about 65 to 60 percent of the population. This reduction, and the government's efforts that
helped achieved it, were completely wiped out by the 1998-99 recession. Poverty levels today
are not substantially different from  what they were in the late 1980s (and inequality has
increased). More immediately, unemployment climbed to and has since remained at, almost 20
percent of the labor force. Put differently, the evidence suggests that sustainable growth has
been Colombia's best social safety net.3'4
5.     That link between growth and poverty in effect dictates Colombia's economic policy
agenda over the next two years-the priority is to sustain first, and then consolidate, the
observed, albeit timid, recovery of growth, especially in light of the impacts of the events of
September 11. For several reasons, the key to sustaining and then consolidating econoiriic
recovery is the strengthening of the fiscal accounts. First, in spite of important progress, the
initial round of stabilization-related reforms did not attend to the structural, sector-specific
2. Since the approval of the IMF Extended Arrangement, two reviews were successfully completed in September
2000 and March 2001, and the third review is expected to be completed by January 2002. The borrowing
facilitated by the World Bank's PBG has been used to meet the country's financing needs for 2001. While it
provided market access at a critical time and contributed to the decline in Colombia's sovereign bond spread
over the U.S.'s sovereign bond, that borrowing has been relatively expensive (probably a reflection of investors'
concern over delayed structural reforms and potential contagion effects from other emerging markets in che
region).
3. As part of the authorities' efforts to deal with the immediate, recession-driven unemployment problem, the World
Bank approved a US$100 million Community Works Project (January 2000), and a US$150 million Huiran
Capital Protection Project (March 2001).  While these interventions mostly deal with recession-drixen
unemployment, it is recognized that there are structural rigidities in the formal labor market including high
payroll taxes, binding minimum wages, and inflexible contractual arrangements, causing structLiral
unemployment. The government will tackle these rigidities to make the labor market more flexible through
labor reforms supported by the forthcoming SSAL.
4. A recently completed draft World Bank report on the evaluation and causes of Colombia's poverty reconfirns
the formidable, dominant role that economic growth plays among the determinants of the country's poverty
levels.
2



imbalances that have weakened, and continue to weaken, the country's fiscal position. In the
timid economic recovery path, these weaknesses will further push down economic growth.
Second, the recovery has been smaller than previously anticipated and it will now take longer to
achieve significant positive economic growth; thus, tax revenues have not met expectations, and
will be lower than previously anticipated. Third, the period leading to next year's Congressional
and presidential elections will exacerbate political pressures toward spending. Fourth, an
intensification of the internal conflict, and the violence associated with illegal drug activities,
could dilute investor confidence in Colombia, from an already low point. Finally, further
deterioration in the external environment, contagion from financial crises in major markets
and/or a major emerging economy, terms of trade shock caused by a global recession (especially
the U.S. economic downturn, and the impact of oil and coffee price declines), or a combination
of the above, could restrict Colombia's access to international capital markets even more (as
explained later, the financing scenario for the rest of 2001 and for 2002 calls for significant
foreign funding).  In brief, in the absence of further structural fiscal strengthening, the
probability of a sharp, recession-driven rise in poverty is high-a probability that has been
heightened by the events since September 11.
Figure 1. Colombia: Public Sector Balance, Real GDP Growth, and Poverty Rates (1978-99)
85-                                                               6
; 75-  ;   >          ~~~~1990-1995                         5
e 0 -   19852002<
_5                                                                4
3
~ 5
1978   1988             ~~~~        ~     ~~1995   1999 
.70
,~65                                                               -
>                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2
o60
-3
55                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4
1978             1988              1995              1999
_ Average Real GDP Criowth Rate
-  Average NFPS Balne (Percentage of GDP)
- Poverty Rate
Source: National Accounts, IMF, and World Bank.
6.    The Colombian authorities understand the urgent need for policy action, and, as indicated
above, have requested the World Bank's technical and financial assistance in the design and
implementation of a wide-reaching fiscal strengthening program, to be supported by the
proposed US$400 million Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan (SFAL). This President's Report
(a) summarizes the diagnosis of the main sectoral imbalances that lie behind Colombia's fiscal
weaknesses; (b) describes the policy package that the SFAL will support; and (c) explains the
strategic fit, risks, and modalities of the operation.
3



7.    At the outset, it is crucial to notice that, on the one hand, the sociopolitical situation in the
country severely limits the government's space for reform (notably, through the dynamics of the
ongoing civil conflict and of the upcoming elections) and, on the other, many of the required
reforms are long-term undertakings that will take time to be fully implemented and show results.
There is, however, strong government commitment for reform, and ownership of the refonn
program is widespread-this is a coalition government and the program has been discussed with,
and has the support of, the main political parties, ensuring both viability and continuity. The
government should be able to fully implement its fiscal reform package within this
administration's term, and leave the fiscal accounts on a more sustainable path for the next
administration, smoothing both the political and, more important, the economic and social
transitions. The program to be supported by the SFAL is, nevertheless, not intended to deal
exhaustively and conclusively with all areas where action could improve Colombia's fiscal
outlook. Rather, it is conceived as a first-step package that focuses on a core set of critical
policies that can sufficiently strengthen and consolidate that outlook. In particular, the SFAL-
supported policy package involves (a) rationalizing the system of transfers to local governments
(especially education-related transfers), and imposing more market-driven and more binding
budget constraints on their finances; (b) establishing mechanisms to arrest the exploding cost of
inefficiency in the provision of public health services (particularly the cost of public hospitals
and the health arn of the Social Security Institute); (c) halting the accumulation of pension-
related contingent liabilities; (d) advancing the reorganization of public agencies and their
current expenditures; and (e) setting up a better system for managing public debt.
8.    The Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (CAS-PR), discussed by the Banlk's
Board in November 1999, recognized that the performance of the Colombian economy-most
notably, economic growth and fiscal stability-had deteriorated sharply during the two years
since the presentation of the last full CAS. As a result, restoring the fiscal balance Was
determined as being crucial for the success of Colombia's efforts to recover growth and reduce
poverty. The CAS-PR also recognized that the government had made reducing the fiscal deficit
one of its key macroeconomic objectives, and that the worsening economic situation, including
fiscal imbalances and financial instability, could lead to financing gaps and problems in
accessing external financial markets on reasonable terms that, in turn, would prevent the
achievement of the CAS objectives.  In light of the deteriorating external environment,
strengthening the fiscal account remains as crucial as before, if not more so, for sustaining and
consolidating economic recovery, and preventing the deterioration of social conditions. The
CAS-PR moved the assistance strategy to a high-case lending scenario, including adjustment
operations, and justified this movement due to (a) the need to cushion the adverse social impact
of the economic recession, financial instability and internal conflict on the poor and vulnerable
groups, and (b) the government's commitment to undertake fiscal adjustments and implement
structural reforms to be supported by an IMF program. As explained in the Country Assistance
Update Note (Annex A), the reasons and triggers to operate in a high-case scenario not only
remain current but have also been enhanced by recent developments-a deteriorating external
macroeconomic environment that threatens growth sustainability, the continuing govermnent
commitment to fiscal discipline, and the strength of the reform agenda.
9.    The SFAL is the Bank's response to the government's demonstrated commitment to
reaching an inflection point in the country's fiscal accounts path-an essential first step toward
achieving full fiscal sustainability.  The ambitious policy agenda that the operation will
4



support-as elaborated in the government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP), see Annex
E-has been discussed and designed over a series of technical missions starting in early 2001.5
Moreover, given the likelihood of social impacts from these policies (see paragraph 54), the
agenda envisions that the SFAL would be followed up and complemented by a Social Sector
Adjustment Loan (SSAL) that would enhance the social sustainability of the reforms.
II. THE STRUCTURAL CHALLENGES OF FISCAL STRENGTHENING
10.   The Colombian government has maintained its commitment to a program of fiscal
adjustment, despite the difficult economic, political, and security conditions. The authorities
have made advances in implementing a number of key reforms, including strengthening the
financial system and passage of legislation to (a) allocate funds for financing local government
pensions; (b) strengthen the fiscal position of local governments; and (c) increase core taxes,
including the presumptive income tax, the value added tax (from 15 percent to 16 percent), and
the financial transactions tax (from 0.2 percent to 0.3 percent). However, along with these
advances, there have been some setbacks, most notably (a) a court order in October 2000
requiring backward indexation of public sector wages; and (b) the failure to privatize two large
enterprises in the electricity sector (ISA and ISAGEN). To ensure sustainability in the medium
term, the government must urgently deepen the fiscal reforms by addressing some additional
fundamental structural weaknesses that are discussed below.
11.  INTERGOVERNMENTAL FISCAL RELATIONS. Colombia has been recognized as one of the
leaders in decentralization in Latin America, and has led the region in explicitly acknowledging
that subnational governments have different management capabilities. The constitutional reform
of 1991 and ensuing legislation transferred sizeable revenues and responsibilities to subnational
govermments.5  The transfers were established through formulas and include (a) general-purpose
transfers for municipalities; and (b) earmarked transfers for education and health, primarily to the
departments. In 1993, the central government began a gradual process to transfer education and
health resources and responsibilities to those subnational governments that demonstrated
sufficient capacity and received certification. In addition to promoting results orientation, the
decentralization included a market-like set of rules and monitoring mechanisms to regulate
subnational borrowing. The Ley de Semaforos (1996) introduced measures and market signals of
subnational indebtedness capacity, with the intention of transferring the cost of risky lending to
commercial credit institutions.
12.   By the end of the 1990s, however, transfers to subnational governments had become a
major source of the fiscal imbalances for the central government, primarily because the transfer
of resources preceded the transfer of full responsibility. The resulting lack of accountability led
to a decline in the quality of public services, notably education and health. In reality, the transfer
of responsibilities has been limited because many expenditure decisions, such as the teacher
payroll (including compensation and benefit levels) are still controlled by the central
government. Since the central government intervenes and is too weak politically to resist
demands of special interest groups (for example, teachers unions), local expenditures have
5. A collection of detailed policy notes underpinning the agenda was produced and is available on request.
6. The major revenue sources of the transfers are (a) the so-called Situado Fiscal, (b) the Participaciones
Municipales, and (c) part of oil and mining royalties.
5



continually increased. The problem has been compounded because the central government
carried out the certification process for decentralization of services under political pressure,
meaning that the standards for certification were largely ignored and the central government
approved the transfer of education resources and responsibilities to most departments, even to
those without adequate capacity. With the fiscal problems of the subnational governmenl.s
caused, to a large extent, by the interference of the central government, the latter has
consequently been forced to provide an implicit guarantee of subnational debt. This has created
perverse incentives and moral hazard behavior when commercial banks provide financing to the
subnational entities.
13.   The two major transfers (the Situado Fiscal and the Participaciones Municipales, which
absorb over 40 percent of central government current revenues) have not sufficed to cover
increases in the subnationals' current expenditures, particularly the growth of the teacher payroll.
The central government has come to the rescue with additional temporary transfers, which then
become permanent. However, these additional transfers have frequently been insufficient to pay
for expenditure increases, and most subnationals have inadequate tax bases to make significant
local revenue contributions. These elements have resulted in a soft budget constraint for the
subnationals and, as a consequence, several departments and municipalities have overspent and
are heavily indebted. Moreover, the national government has carried out significant "bailouts"
of subnational governments and their creditors, despite its limited capacity to effectively monitor
subnational fiscal efforts and the provision of services.
14.   In summary, when the central government kept control of human resource policy and
collective bargaining, it blurred the division of responsibilities (especially in education) and
created perverse incentives, leading to fiscal deficits, demands for additional transfers, increased
moral hazard, and bailouts. When resources were insufficient to guarantee coverage and national
quality standards, or national policies restricted mobility of input factors (particularly labor),
subnational governments had little choice but to spend funds beyond the allocations provided by
the central government (as they did for teacher salaries, for example) and to run deficits that
were financed by increased borrowing. This put pressure on the central government to bail out
the subnational governrments. Bailouts took many different forms, both hidden (as in the case of
Treasury credits in 1997-98 for a selected list of departments) and explicit (as in the case of Law
617 of 2000). At other times, the central government paid for subnational responsibilitics
directly with resources from the Treasury, resorted to the creation of special funds (the
compensation fund, and/or emergency funds), or transferred higher royalties.
15.   EDUCATION. Public expenditure in education has expanded rapidly during the last
decade-from about 3 percent of GDP in the early 1990s to about 6 percent by the end of the
decade. This expansion has been determined primarily by the supply of inputs, particularly
teachers, generating inefficiencies in the education system and neglecting significant parts of the
demand for education.
16.   Over the last decade, education expenditures increased at both the national, and more
important, subnational, levels. The expansion has mainly resulted from the implementation of
the 1991 Constitution and subsequent decentralization laws that mandated the decentralization of
education services. The decentralization was to be financed mainly through two sources (a) the
Situado Fiscal-transferring resources to departments, and (b) the Participaciones-transferring
6



resources to municipalities. Beginning in 1995, however, to help the transition toward a full
decentralization of education services, a compensation fund increased transfers from the central
to the subnational governments. This compensation fund has become permanent and has partly
financed the emerging fiscal imbalances at the subnational levels.
17.   As a result of the large allocation of resources to education and slow expansion of the
school population, the unit cost of providing public education has increased over the long term,
particularly in the last decade-the unit cost of public education doubled in real terms during the
1990s. Moreover, teacher salaries and wages represent about 80 percent of the total cost of
public education, and the share has increased continuously since the early 1990s. The total
supply of teachers-distributed unevenly geographically-and not the student educational needs,
has driven the growth in education expenditure, resulting in a suboptimal allocation of resources
per student.7
18.   Despite expenditure increases, educational coverage is not universal, and inequality, in
terms of access by the poor, remains an important issue. Improvements in educational
achievements have also been slow-Colombia took about 35 years to significantly raise the
average number of years of formal education for people over 18 years of age, from about 3 years
in the mid-1960s to about 7 years in late 1990s-and, the urban-rural formal education gap has
not changed over this period. The average level of education for adults is still below comparable
countries in the region-for example, average formal schooling for adults is 8 years in Mexico,
and 13 years in Argentina and Uruguay. Moreover, the public education system remains
internally inefficient-there are high repetition and dropout rates at all grade levels, particularly
in primary school-despite the improvements over the last decade.
19.   HEALTH. The Social Security Institute (ISS) and the public system of hospitals are
absorbing a ballooning amount of public resources and, unless tackled and reversed, that trend
threatens fiscal stability. As a result of the law reforming the provision of health services (Law
100 of 1993), together with the decentralization law (Law 60 of 1993), public resources allocated
to health have increased from about 1 percent of GDP in 1991 to about 4 percent in the late
1 990s. Health insurance coverage has increased from about 20 percent of the total population in
1992 to about 57 percent in 1997, while the quality of health services has improved. Despite
these improvements, emerging financing imbalances in the ISS health services, the high cost of
public hospitals, increasing evasion of contributions and supply subsidies-delaying the
transformation of fiscal transfers to demand subsidies-are threatening the stability of public
health services. They are, indeed, undermining both overall fiscal sustainability and the
objectives of the health system reforms-namely, universal coverage of health services through a
solidarity system, with managed competition of insurers and providers, and resulting
improvements in equity and efficiency.
20.   Health Reform. The health reform of 1993 (through Law 100) created a mandatory
universal health insurance system.  Individuals could choose and affiliate to any insurer
(Empresa Promotora de Salud, EPS) that receives the individual's contribution (4 percent of
7. To overcome these problems, the special district of Bogota, with legal attributes of both a department and a
municipality, has started to implement education reform using its own resources. This may become an example
for other fiscally strong municipalities to take over and reform basic and secondary education.
7



salary from employees and 8 percent from employers) as an insurance premium. Independent
workers would contribute 12 percent (over two minimum salaries), and the State would subsidize
the contribution of poor individuals. In turn, individuals and their families would have acce<;s to
a defined health benefits package (Plan Obligatorio de Salud, POS). A solidarity and guaraitee
fund (Fondo de Solidaridad y Garantia. FOSYGA) would monitor and administer the
contributions, paying each insurer the risk-adjusted premium for the affiliated individual (called
Unidad Per Capita de Capitacion, UPC); the fund would also function as a redistribution
mechanism, allocating one percentage point of the collected salary-based contributions to
subsidizing insurance premium for the poor. The insurers would contract, on a competitive
basis, with health care providers (Instituciones Prestadoras de Salud, IPS) to offer health care
services to beneficiaries.
21.   Users of the new system were divided into two groups (a) those with income capacity to
pay the contribution ("contributory regime"); and (b) those without income capacity to pay ihe
contribution (the poor), and who thus needed to be subsidized ("subsidized regime"). Under this
system, municipalities have to identify the poor for affiliation to the subsidized regime, using a
beneficiary identification system. Moreover, selected individuals can choose the insurer of the
subsidized regime (Administradora del Regimen Subsidiado, ARS), which receives from
municipalities a UPC per beneficiary with the corresponding cost for a basic health benefit
package plus an administration fee. The ARS could enter into contracts with public and priv ate
health care providers.
22.   The ISS-Health Problems. In the context of overall health system reform, Law 100 also
gave the ISS the legal form of a public industrial and commercial company. As such, it could
manage retirement pensions, workers' compensation, health insurance (ISS-EPS), and health
service delivery (ISS-IPS). In health, ISS-EPS and ISS-IPS business are in practice a simple
financing operation, which remains inefficient and unable to compete with the private seclor.
These problems arise primarily from (a) mixing the financing (EPS) and the delivery (IPS) of
services, with large hidden cross-subsidies; (b) difficult labor issues, including large pension
liabilities and labor rigidities; (c) high fixed costs relative to service provided, making both ISS-
EPS and ISS-IPS not profitable and noncompetitive in the market; and (d) poor management,
including inadequate planning and control, causing abrupt and costly decisions. In addition, poor
quality of services and noncompliance with minimum health and financial indicators led the
Superintendency of Health to prohibit registration of new affiliates by the ISS-Health (until, in
the Superintendency's assessment, those minimum standards were fulfilled), compounding its
financial and economic problems.
23.   ISS health is both illiquid and insolvent. The consolidated ISS-EPS and ISS-IPS incoirme
statement has registered losses over the last five years; cumulative losses over this period totaled
about US$440 million, and losses for fiscal year 2000 amounted to about US$70 million. lTo
cover these losses, in the past, the Treasury provided transfers or credits. Moreover, the
consolidated ISS-EPS and ISS-IPS balance sheet shows negative equity starting in 1994,
reaching a negative US$270 million as of 31 December 2000, and the accumulated overdue debt
with private and public hospitals surpassed US$250 million as of the end of 2000.
24.   The Public Hospital System's Problems. In the context of health reform, the public
network of hospitals, health centers, and other health facilities was supposed to (a) compete with
8



and complement the private network of health providers, and (b) sell services to the affiliated
population through the EPSs and ARSs. Simultaneously, since the National System of Social
Security in Health (Sistema Nacional de Seguridad Social en Salud, SNSSS) did not cover the
entire population, the public hospitals provided services to those not affiliated with an insurer.
The implementation of health system reform is an ongoing process, and during the transition
several problems have emerged. These include (a) public hospitals have not fully adjusted their
cost structures, thus becoming less competitive than private health providers and less attractive
for the EPSs and ARSs; (b) real labor costs have increased 40 percent since 1995 due to
centralized salary negotiations, distorting cost structures even more and requiring large transfers
from the Treasury; and (c) the transformation from supply subsidies to demand subsidies
mandated by the reform has moved slowly (to about 50 percent by mid-2001 for the main
sources of transfers), if not stalled, because of the pressure to continue financing public hospitals
through supply subsidies based on historic budgets independently of output.8
25.   Health Financing Problems. One of the key problems in the sources of health system
financing, affecting both the contributory and the subsidized regimes, is evasion in the
contributory regime-in 2000, total evasion was estimated to be about 36 percent of total
potential contributions, representing about US$900 million. Evasion results from two main
sources (a) under-declaration of income by individuals who already contribute in the system, and
(b) lack of contribution payments by individuals. In addition, the cumbersome transfer system
results in delays that translate into accumulation of cross debt at different levels-that is, from
subnational governments to insurers and from insurers to both public and private providers.
Moreover, subnational governments use most of their resources for payments to public hospitals,
neglecting the possibility of increasing affiliation in the subsidized regime. As a result, the
transformation from supply to demand subsidies (and hence to insurance affiliation) has also
been slow. Finally, the new health care and insurance system was intended to cover a limited
health benefit package. However, the Constitutional Court ruling of "right to life" expanded
health care benefits, creating additional pressure to finance unexpected benefits, including the
provision of health services abroad.
26.   PENSIONS. The current condition of Colombia's pension system constitutes a major risk
to fiscal sustainability over the medium and long term. The pension system is technically
insolvent and the annual imbalances in the public sector worker regimes are increasing. The
estimated net present value of the pension system liabilities amounted to about 200 percent of
GDP in 2000-up from an estimate of about 150 percent of GDP in 1997. Moreover, the
Treasury's transfers to finance the deficits for public sector worker regimes increased from about
0.8 percent of GDP in 1991 to 1.3 percent of GDP in 1995, and to 2.3 percent of GDP in 2000.
The causes of the current pension system insolvency and liquidity problems include generous
benefits, benefit guarantees, perverse incentives for reserve management, and recent
Constitutional Court rulings expanding pension benefits. These causes are rooted in the slow
reform transition (see below) and the large number of workers exempted from the reform. This
has resulted in pension expenditures still growing at a fast rate, particularly the pension
expenditures for public sector workers.
8. If public hospitals do not change their cost structures and continue to be financed through supply subsidies at the
same pace as in the last six years, the total accumulated operating cost of public hospitals over the next 10 years
could amount to about US$30 billion (about 35 percent of GDP in year 2000).
9



27.   To confront the problems of a financially bankrupt and fragmented defined benefit 1 lDB)
pension regime, Colombia undertook a first-generation of reforms of the Social Security System
(enacted by Law 100 of 1993). The main elements of the reform included (a) introduction of a
mixed DB and defined contribution (DC) pension system-workers could choose between the
DB regime run by ISS or the DC regime run by private pension fund managers (AFPs); (b)
increases in contribution rates paid by all active workers (that is, all public sector workers would
now contribute) and reduction of pension benefits for younger workers; (c) insolvent persion
funds for public sector workers at the national and regional level would be closed and pension
payments would be taken over by the Public Pensions Fund (FOPEP) and specialized regional
entities; (d) introduction of explicit redistribution through additional contributions to support
pension benefit programs for the poor; and (e) government recognition of pension rights accrued
until 1994 through "pension recognition bonds"-that is, the government would assume the
repayment of the corresponding implicit pension debt (IPD). The law, however, exempted the
pension funds for Ecopetrol (6,000 members), teachers (300,000 members), the armed and police
forces (200,000 members but only half with pension rights), and representatives of Congress.
Furthermore, the law allowed for an extended transition to the new system, scheduled to be
completed by 2014.
28.   PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM.  Colombia's current public sector structure and fiscal
imbalances still reflect practices of a welfare state and state interventionism, which are not
consistent with the market-oriented policies and decentralized framework adopted during the last
two decades. To correct these inconsistencies and tackle the growing central government fiscal
imbalances during the 1 990s, Colombia attempted to revamp the public sector structure through
three important reform initiatives. First, during 1992-94, the government adopted a public sector
modernization strategy that covered most central government agencies (and a few decentralized
ones). The main purpose of the reform was to set up an organizational structure more consistent
with the provision of decentralized public services. The reform, however, led only to a modest
expenditure rationalization at the central level. Second, in 1998-99, a proposed reform was
priniarily targeted to public sector rationalization through streamlining and downsizing of the
central government administration, including civil servants. The scope and impact of the reform
was significantly limited when the Constitutional Court ruled that some of the decrees enacting
the reform violated the Constitution. And finally, in 2000, the government introduced a refo-rm
package focusing mainly on fiscal rationalization.
29.   The inertia of the public sector structure and its functioning, combined with the numerous
attempts to adjust the provision of public services to new trends and country needs, seems to
account for the eclectic nature of Colombian's public sector today. For example, agencies and
civil servants provide services typically assumed by the private sector (including ancillary
services, data processing, accounting, and external auditing), and they coexist with modern
regulatory agencies, privatization processes, market-oriented organizations, and demand-drivmn
public services. The culture of state enlargement and political patronage competes with the
culture of streamlining and efficiency seeking in allocation and production of public services.
This bureaucratic dualism has been compounded by political fragmentation, internal conflict,
corrupt practices, and high crime indexes that seriously constrain good governance. In addition,
legitimate concerns for the protection of human and property rights have often led to misguided
state intervention, which has further restricted and complicated the design and implementation of
economic policy. Unfortunately, this has distorted market signals and incentives, creating
I 0



opportunities for moral hazard behavior, misallocation of public resources, and costly bailouts,
hampering the efforts to correct fiscal imbalances.
30.   PUBLIC SECTOR DEBT. The current level and structure of Colombia's public sector debt is
risky and makes the overall fiscal position vulnerable. Should current trends continue in the
absence of comprehensive fiscal reform, public sector debt is likely to become unsustainable.
Moreover, Colombia's debt portfolio is characterized by high interest rate and foreign exchange
exposures, and high refinancing risks significantly increase the vulnerability of government
finances. Management of these exposures is difficult due to the absence of comprehensive debt
portfolio and funding strategies.
31.   Over the last six years, to finance fiscal imbalances at different levels of government, the
authorities have issued large amounts of public debt. As a result, total gross public debt has been
rising steadily in absolute terms and as a proportion of GDP (see Annex D). The total gross
stock ofpublic debt increased from about 27 percent of GDP in 1994 to about 50 percent of GDP
in 2000. A sizeable portion of the change in the level of total debt occurred through an increase
in external debt, which reached about 26 percent of GDP in 2000.10 Most of the increase in
external debt has been driven by central government borrowing; other levels of government
currently face statutory and procedural restrictions on borrowing abroad. Public sector internal
debt also rose from the mid-1990s, reaching (in gross terms) 27 percent of GDP by 2000,
because both the central government and subnational entities sought financing domestically. As
a consequence of the increase in the stock of public sector debt, total public debt interest service
increased from about 2.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to about 4.4 percent of GDP in 2000. Interest
payments on internal debt increased more than proportionately-almost threefold-from 1
percent of GDP in 1994 to about 2.7 percent of GDP in 2000.
III. THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM OF THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT
32.    The Colombian government is well aware of the weaknesses in its fiscal accounts; the
shortcomings in its intergovernmental fiscal relations; the inefficiencies in the provision of key
public services, including education and health; the increasing fiscal pressure from the pension
system and public sector debt; and their negative effects on long-term real economic growth and
poverty reduction. The authorities therefore sought to design and implement, with support from
the World Bank, a fiscal strengthening agenda that would put the non-financial public sector
accounts on a more sustainable path while contributing to enhancing and improving the
provision of social services. This section summarizes the rationale behind the various policies in
that agenda and compares the projected evolution of Colombia's fiscal accounts under the reform
and no-reform scenarios.
9. In net terms, the total stock of public debt represented about 42 percent of GDP in 2000. Net debt is total gross
debt minus the stock of Treasury bonds (TES) held by all public sector entities. The evolution of debt
aggregates in the last decade is discussed with reference only to gross aggregates because estimates of net debt
are available only from 1999 onward.
10. The sources of external credit also changed considerably throughout the decade. Whereas in 1990 official debt
amounted to 66 percent of the total stock of public external debt, this had fallen to only 39 percent by 1999. The
share of commercial bank debt fell relative to the total stock of public external debt, from 32 percent in 1990 to
23 percent in 1999. In contrast, bonds gained considerable ground over this period, increasing from about 2
percent in 1990 to over 36 percent of the total external debt of the public sector by 1998.
11



(A) Government Program Policies
33.    The policies that make up Colombia's economic reform program, including its overall
strategic vision and the fiscal strengthening initiative, are described in the government's letter of
development policy (LDP, see Annex E). The authorities' ownership of the program is strong
and widespread, and so is their commitment to continue implementing reforms until the very end
of the current administration (see letter of President Pastrana, Annex F).1' The program has
also been discussed with, and has the support of, the main political parties, ensuring its viability
and continuity beyond this administration. Moreover, at the government's suggestion, through a
series of seminars the Bank has started a technical dialogue with the economic teams of the main
political candidates contending for the Presidency, something that is intended to smooth the
economic transition between administrations and facilitate the continuity of these reforms.
While supporting the full reform program of the government, the Bank will explicitly requiire
certain key commitments for the disbursement of tranches under the proposed SFAL operalion,
as elaborated later on.
34.    The specific targets of Colombia's fiscal strengthening effort are to (a) increase the
primary fiscal surplus of the Non-Financial Public Sector (NFPS)-from 0.8 percent of GDP in
2000 to at least 1.3 percent of GDP in 2002, and to at least 2.5 percent of GDP in 2005; and
simultaneously, (b) reduce the NFPS fiscal deficit-from about 3.6 percent of GDP in 2000 to
3.1 percent of GDP in 2002, and to 1.5 percent of GDP in 2005. This will prevent and reverse an
otherwise unsustainable debt and debt-service accumulation and will be achieved in a marmer
that protects social sector expenditures and vulnerable groups. To deliver those targets, a
combination of policies-described below-will enhance revenues and rationalize spending.' 2
35.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL FISCAL RELATIONS AND EDUCATION. The government program in
intergovernmental fiscal relations includes reforms to (a) make subnational governments filly
responsible for expenditures, (b) increase subnational tax revenues, (c) simplify and make more
transparent the transfer system, and (d) reduce moral hazard from subnational borrowing ard
reinstate hard budget constraints. Key components of the reforms are presented below-for
expenditures, the presentation covers both general expenditure policy and the education sector.
Given the magnitude of the problem and the characteristics of the health sector, while the general
expenditure policy applies, the specific sectoral reforns are discussed separately (see below).
36.    Expenditures.  The authorities seek to control the cost of general administration of
subnational levels and to allocate public resources more closely toward the original design of
decentralization in the Constitution-which foresaw an allocation according to service needs by
population, with adjustments for poverty, among other factors. To control general administration
costs, subnational governments are getting structural adjustment loans to finance downsizing of
11. A strong demonstration of this commitment was evidenced by the fact that in early October 2001, three key
Ministers of the Colombian government (Finance, Labor, and Planning) and their technical staffs had two fUll
days of meetings in Washington at Bank headquarters just to discuss technical issues on pensions (including
reform models and lessons in other parts of the world) in order to absorb and exchange information for
finalizing the design of the country's pension reform.
12. These policies also preserve the autonomy and accountability of the local authorities to implement
environmental policies, including the management and allocation of public resources resulting from the
transfers of oil and mining royalties from the national to subnational governments, particularly municipalities.
12



personnel (severance pay, etc.) under the terms of Law 617 of 2000. In addition, the central
government has recognized the need to amend Law 60 of 1993-which governs the sectoral
allocation of territorial transfers under the decentralization framework-to ensure consistency
with the Constitutional reform (Acto Legislativo). To achieve this, the government has recently
submitted to Congress an amendment to Law 60, which includes, inter alia, (a) the automatic
certification of municipalities (that are capitals of departments and/or have more than 100,000
inhabitants) to autonomously manage the provision of education services; and (b) specific
education performnance goals included in a performance matrix (matriz de desempeno).
Moreover, in the event that passage of the amendment to Law 60 is delayed, the government
intends to proceed with certification (via performance agreements) of key municipalities for
autonomous management of resources, particularly education-related resources. These new,
more efficient practices embedded in performance agreements are consistent with the ones that
are institutionalized in the proposed amendment to Law 60 of 1993.
37.   More specifically, the automatic certification or perfornance agreements will imply that
(a) the transfer of resources to municipalities will be calculated on the basis of the number of
students who attend class (not the number of teachers on the payroll); (b) minimum coverage
goals will be established with the objectives of increasing enrollment and reducing drop-out
ratios; (c) certified municipalities will be authorized to reallocate resources from teacher
vacancies-both existing and new-within the education sector and to eliminate teacher
positions; (d) the certified municipalities will be able to reallocate teachers within the local
jurisdiction; and (e) the Ministry of Education will provide technical assistance to certified
municipalities, if requested. The central government will publish and otherwise disseminate
quarterly performance monitoring and evaluation reports of the certified municipalities.
38.   Revenues-Taxes. The government intends to strengthen the subnational tax system-
which is in contrast to previous reforms focusing on the national tax system. In particular, it will
revise the tax system of territorial entities (Estatuto de Ingresos Territoriales) to rationalize
subnational tax power and strengthen enforcement. Specifically, the revision will include
measures to regulate (a) the basic principles and rules for all departmental, district, and
municipal revenues, including taxes, fees, and special contributions; (b) the distribution of tax
revenues by level of government; (c) the tax base and tax rates (or delegation to subnational
entities) for liquor, beer, and tobacco excises, vehicle taxation, property tax, and industry and
commerce tax, valorization contribution, and participation in surplus value of real estate; (d)
penalties for noncompliance by taxpayers or beneficiaries; and (e) tax procedures. In addition to
benefiting subnationals, the proposed reforms will also benefit the central government because
increases in subnational revenues would decrease pressure for more transfers and bailouts.
39.   Revenues-Transfers. The Constitutional reforn (Acto Legislativo) recently approved by
Congress, intends to de-link transfers from current revenues, and put the growth of transfers from
the central government to the territorial entities on a more sustainable path, thus limiting the
growth of central administration's operational expenditures (gastos generales).13  The reform
combines the current three major sources of transfers financing-Situado Fiscal,
13. The limits on the growth of the central administration's operational expenditures will be equal to (a) 1.5 percent
in real termns per year for 2002-08; and (b) thereafter, a rate of growth equal to the average growth of the
central administration's current revenues during the previous four years.
13



Participaciones, and FEC-into the Sistema General de Participaciones (SGP), and includes an
eight-year transition period (2002-08). Specifically, the reforms include that total transfers will
(a) grow by 2 percent in real terms during 2002-05, and 2.5 percent during 2006-08; and (b)
from 2009 increase at the average growth rate of the central administration's current revciiues
during the four preceding years. In addition, if real GDP growth exceeds 4 percent in any year of
the transition period, SGP resources would be increased proportionally, but only after adjusting
for the transfers made during years where real GDP growth was less than 2 percent (2002-05;) or
2.5 percent (2006-08). It is expected that after the Acto Legislativo is implemented, the annual
transfers would decline from about 5 percent of GDP in 2001 to about 4.0 percent of GDP in
2010, and would generate fiscal savings equivalent to a total accumulated amount of about 5
percent of GDP over the next 1 0-years.
40.   As indicated above, the Constitutional reform  of transfers is complemented by the
amendment of Law 60 of 1993, which specifies the mechanism for distribution of resources
among entities. Within this reform framework, the government seeks to (a) prohibit the
distribution of any cash transfers to subnational governments except where the distribution is
specified by formula or by law; (b) require that any national decision affecting subnational
government spending be accompanied by a transfer that is sufficient to cover the cost; and (c)
require the annual publishing of the subnational distribution of budgeted expenditures, along
with the regulations and matching grant ratios of each cofinancing program. These reforms, over
the long term, will help to (a) reduce earmarking of transfers so that they specify only the sector
allocation (for example, education and health), not the economic category (for example, wages
and investment); and (b) distribute all transfers either on a capitation basis to pay for social
services (as equalization grants to entities with lower than average per capita tax bases) or on a
matching fund basis (for functions with national externalities).
41.   Subnational Borrowing. The government's reform strategy stresses a series of actions to
correct perverse incentives to subnational governments and their lenders, and to begin to
eliminate discretion on the part of the national government. In accordance with Law 617 of
2000, since July 1, 2001, the central government has stopped providing territorial entities with
bailouts or guarantees on their debt.' It has also revised its regulations concerning debt and
borrowing of territorial entities in order to start halting unsustainable borrowing, limiting
bailouts with national budget resources, and eliminating discretionality in the treatment of debt.
To this end, the authorities have issued a decree whereby the debt of territorial entities contracted
after December 31, 2001 and held by commercial and development banks would be subject to a
differential capital-risk-weighting grid based on a current published credit ratings performed by
an internationally reputable credit-rating agency.
42.   In addition to making the capital-risk-weighting for the debt of territorial entities helc by
banks dependent on international credit ratings, new banking and securities regulations altow
pension funds, insurance companies, and other regulated investment firms to hold territorial
entity bonds only if they have been given investment-grade credit ratings by at least two
international agencies. Further, the government has revised the regulations of the Ley de
Sem6foros to (a) link the "color" of the Semtiforos (that is, the central government's
14. This law allowed for bailouts and national government guarantees of territorial debt up to June 30, 2001 under
strict conditions to enter, implement, and perform under fiscal adjustment programs at the local level.
14



authorization to borrow) more clearly to the ratings of the international credit agencies; and (b)
restrict commercial borrowing for all entities having loans subsidized under Law 617 of 2000,
until they have complied with their respective adjustment program for at least four years. In
addition, the government will continue with the practice that each request for subnational
government foreign borrowing has to be approved by the National Congress.
43.   HEALTH-The ISS-Health Service. The government's main objectives with respect to
ISS-Health are to (a) improve the quality of services to affiliates; (b) eliminate inefficient supply
subsidies to its ISS-IPS; and (c) limit fiscal costs to the national government. To achieve these
objectives, both ISS-Health "stock" and "flow" financial problems need to be addressed-that is,
the existing accumulated deficit and its underlying causes both need to be eliminated. To tackle
the "stock" problems, the program includes (a) transferring resources to the ISS only after the
renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement with its labor unions has been successfully
completed; (b) lifting the sanction applied by the Health Superintendency prohibiting new
affiliations to the ISS after the underlying causes of the sanction have been resolved; and (c)
withholding compensation transfers from FOSYGA to the ISS until more accurate information
on the number of its affiliates has been provided.
44.   To resolve the "flow" problem, the government has defined, approved, and initiated the
implementation of a restructuring plan for ISS-Health (that is, ISS-EPS and ISS-IPS). This plan
focuses on both reducing costs and increasing revenues. Measures for reducing costs include (a)
restructuring of accumulated debt; (b) renegotiating the collective bargaining agreement in what
refers to primas extralegales (related to vacations, seniority, and services), seniority-based
severance, and pension benefits; (c) rationalizing clinics and ambulatory health services; (d)
improving contracting mechanisms with own and external health care providers; and (e)
effectively verifying beneficiary rights to services, based on improvements in the enrollee
database. Measures for increasing revenues include (a) better collection of contributions from
affiliates through reforms to the current system of self-estimated contributions (autoliquidaci6n);
(b) increased collection of arrears from, among others, FOSYGA, SOAT, and the ISS-ARP; and
(c) enrolling more affiliates after the sanction imposed by the Superintendency of Health is
lifted.
45.   Public Hospitals. As part of its public hospital network reform, the government is
committed to (a) reducing the network's cost structure; (b) rationalizing the supply of health
services and adapting to actual demand; and (c) making the public network effectively
complementary of the private network, thus creating a consistent health system of both public
and private facilities. To achieve these objectives, the government is tackling both sides of the
equation-namely, supply and demand-simultaneously. On the supply side, last year the
government started a pilot program to restructure 27 public hospitals (out of a total of about 170
medium- and high-complexity public facilities). As a result of this program, hospital costs have
already been reduced by 5 percent in real terms in just one year. On the demand side, total
public resource for health allocation has been partially reformed from supply to demand
subsidies, and by mid-2001 about 50 percent of resources allocated to public hospitals were
demand-driven.
46.   Based on these results, the government will expand its public hospital network reform
and implement further measures to reduce costs, including (a) reforming the personnel structure
15



of public hospitals; (b) resolving accumulated debts (to public hospital employees and
providers); and, critically, (c) renegotiating collective bargaining agreements with hospital
unions, especially relating to seniority-based severance. It will also implement actions to
increase public hospital networks' productivity, such as (a) reaching agreements among na-ional,
departmental, and municipal governments, and hospital directors to advance the long-lasting
restructuring of public hospitals and to develop functional health service networks; and (b)
identifying and analyzing existing information regarding supply and demand of health services in
different regions in order to better define plans for managerial and technology improvements. In
addition, the transformation of resources from supply to demand will continue.
47.   Health Financing. To tackle health financing problems, and particularly evasion in the
contributory regime, the government's program includes (a) registration and periodic updates of
all affiliates of the system in the Health Superintendency's Internet database; and (b) creation of
a unified reporting system, with authorizations for entities different from EPSs to collect
contributions. In addition, the authorities intend to fully implement Decree 40 of 2000, which
allows for payments of subnational debt, including that for the health system, directly from
resources to be transferred from the Treasury to subnational governments (that is, departments
and municipalities). A study to redefine the content of the health benefit package and the
corresponding risk-adjusted premium (UPC) will be launched. Based on the study, the National
Council of Social Security in Health (Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social en Salud, CNSSS)
would establish the cost-benefit relationship in the health package, and the level of the risk-
adjusted premium. Coverage for health care services outside Colombia will be severely lirnited,
and at a later stage, the health benefits package will be redefined by law.
48.   PENSIONS. The major objective of the second-generation pension reform is to rmake
Colombia's pension system more equitable and sustainable. Thus, members of new cc horts
entering the pension system will all have the same rights and obligations and will not increase
the current implicit pension debt (IPD). While the proposed reform maintains the culTent
situation of concurrent defined benefit (DB) and defined contribution (DC) regimes, it deepens
the reform envisioned in Law 100 of 1993 and strengthens the pension system by reforming the
overall pension system and/or at least one of the exempted pension regimes. It also seeks to
harmonize or introduce a single set of unified pension rights and obligations for all new entrants,
while increasing coverage and improving services to all participants.
49.   The proposed reform-which includes the reform of the overall pension system thrz ugh
new legislation-also envisions, among other things, (a) a deadline for a final switch of current
members of the system between the DB and DC regimes; (b) increased eligibility requirenlonts
in terms of age and number of weeks of contribution for a pension; (c) centralizing the
administration and control of transfers of public pension regimes into a single agency; (d)
improving the data-bases required for the recognition and recertification of pensions, (e) pre-
funding new accrual of rights to extraordinary benefits; and (f) creating a unified registry of
contributors (URC). Moreover, the new legislation reforming the pension system would (a)
continue to transform the DB scheme through better individual work records, which wo'uld
constitute the basis for pensions at retirement in the ISS-managed scheme; (b) fund the minimum
pension guarantees through an insurance scheme; and (c) close entry into any pension fand
except for ISS and AFPs. Finally, the reform of the exempted regimes, if advanced---for
example, the teacher's pension fund-would contain features such as (a) individual pension
16



saving accounts; (b) a close link between contributions and benefits; and (c) the application of
the new regime to all new entrants.
50.   PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM. The government's public sector reform effort is framed within
the overall fiscal strengthening program described above. The authorities intend to (a) issue a
decree for the rationalization of central government current expenditures, notably personnel, and
procurement of goods and services, including temporary workers and ancillary services; (b) close
redundant national government agencies, and redundant and nonessential decentralized agencies;
and (c) build consensus with the Judiciary branch for reduction of the budget allocation to the
Superior Judicial Council (Consejo Superior de la Judicatura). The government is also
committed to additional public sector reforms with a view to strengthening governance,
including deepening the dialogue with the Constitutional Court to enhance the effectiveness of
economic policies.
51.   PUBLIC SECTOR DEBT. To improve debt management and debt portfolio structure, the
government is developing new portfolio and funding strategies, and corresponding benchmarks.
These strategies-that integrate fiscal projections with analysis of portfolio risk exposure-will
reflect the government' s assessment of an acceptable level of fiscal risk (that is, "budget-at-risk")
relative to the expected reduction in the cost of funding, and thus, include the maximum
amortization that the government can manage in any given year. The funding strategy will also
allow for the use of active debt management tools (for example, debt exchanges, swaps, and
buybacks) to enhance the structure of the portfolio.  However, significant institutional
strengthening will be required to carry out and implement these strategies.
52.   To reduce central government debt exposure, a debt portfolio restructuring strategy has
recently been defined. As part of this strategy and to tackle the bunching of domestic debt
amortizations, in June 2001, the authorities swapped domestic debt due in 2001-05 with debt
issues of longer maturities, extending the average maturity of domestic debt from 3.5 to 4.5 years
and minimizing the need for rollovers in the next few years. With regard to foreign exchange
exposure, the government continues to use the currency composition of international reserves to
hedge against net liability positions. In addition, to facilitate the management of the explicit
contingent liabilities of the public sector, the government's program includes the development
and implementation of a plan to improve the registration and quantification of these types of
liabilities.
(B) The Program's Outcomes
53.   The fiscal strengthening program described above puts the NFPS accounts on a more
sustainable path. Each of the proposed measures carries fiscal implications, and they are singled
out in the projections through 2005, shown in Table 1 and Figure 2. The combination of
measures to improve governmental fiscal relations, rationalize and reallocate public sector
expenditures, and improve financial management of assets and liabilities of the public sector
brings about both a more sustainable fiscal path-a necessary condition for sustaining economic
growth and poverty reduction-and greater efficiency in allocation of public resources in the
social sectors-a necessary condition for improving the provision of key public services, particu-
17



Table 1. Colombia: Public Sector Fiscal Balances Scenario with Reforms (2000-05)
Percent of GDP                                                              2000       2001p       2002p      2003p       2004p      2005p
Total Revenues                                                                   28.8       28.7       27.N        27.9        28.0       28.:
Tax Revenues                                                               179         10.8       19.3       19.5        197         1999
of which  Revenues from Territorial Tax Reform'                         00         0.0         0 2        0 2         0.2        0.:
of which: Savings due to Evasion Reduction2                             0.0        0.0         0 1        0 1         0.2       0o:
Non-tax Revenues                                                           10.9        9.9        8.5         8.4        8.3         h.'
Property Income                                                          1 7         1.5        1.3        1.1         1.1         I
Operational Surplus of public enterprises                               s5o         4.2         3.9         3 8        3.7        3.7
Other                                                                    63          42         33          35         36          31
Total Expenditure and Net Lending                                                32.4       32.0       30.9        30.4        29.9       29.,
Current Expenditures                                                         24 7        24.1       23.6        23.0       22A4        22
Wages and Salaries                                                         7.5        7 3         70         6.8         6 7        f
of which: Effect of Acto Legislativo3                                  0.0         0.0       -0.2        -0.3       -0.3        -0
of which: Closure of Agencies4                                         oo          0.0       -0.1        -01         -0.1       -0.8
Goods and Services and Other                                               3.5        3.1         3.0        2.9         2 8        2.8
of which : Savings from Public Hospital Restructuring5                 00          0.0       -0.2        -.3         -0A4       -0 5
*(includes: Lower Transfers due to ISS health restructuring)
Interest                                                                   4.4        4.4         4.4        4.2         4.0        4.0
of which: Debt Management'                                             00          0.0       -07         -0 2        -0.2       -0 3
External                                                                17         20          I'S        1.6         7.S        1.5
Internal                                                                2 7        24          2.6        2.6         2.5         25
Transfers to Private Sector                                                9.3        9.3         9.2        9.1         S.9        8 0
of which : Savings due to Pension Reform                               0.0         0.0        0.0        -0.2       -0 3        -0 4
Capital Expenditure                                                          7.9        7.9         7 3         7.4        7.5        7.5
of which: ISS Health Restructuring'                                     00         0 3         0.5        0.0         0.0         0.0
Fixed Capital Formation, cash basis                                     8.5         81         7 4        7.4         7.5         7.5
from floating debt                                               -0.7       -0 3        -02         -0.7       -0.e       -0. 
Transfers                                                               0.1         0.1        0.l         0 X         0.1        0.7
Net Lending                                                                 -03         0.0         0.0 0o0                0 0         0.0
Nonfinancial Public Sector Balance                                               -3.6       -3.3       -3.1        -25         -2.e       -tL
Quasi-fiscal balance                                                              0.5        0.5        0.3         0.5         03         03
Fogafin balance                                                                    0         0          0)         0A.         0.7        07
Net cost of financial restructuring                                             -0.4        -0 9        -0.6       -0 2        -0.2       -0.2
Overall Balance                                                                  -3.5       -3.6       -3.1        -2.1        -1.6       -l.l
Overall Financing                                                                 3.S        3.6         3.1        2.t         16         1.1
Memorandum item:
NFPS Primary Balance, with reforms                                                08         1.          7.3        1.7         2.1        2.5
NFPS Primary Balance, no reforms                                                 0.8         1.4         09         0.3         0.2       0o
A'ote: p =projected
1.   Increased annual revenues, ranging from US$150 million to US$200 million, are projected from strengthening of the territorial entities' tax
system. Departmental and municipal tax revenues are projected to eventually increase by about 15 and 25 percent, respectively. R.-forms
include broadening of tax bases and increase in tax rates at the territorial level.
2    Annual tax collection increases, on average, of about US$200 million during 2002-O5 as a result of increased tax complianve and
enforcement.
3.   Operating expenses of the public sector fall by about US$350 million annually during 2002-05 resulting from the Xcto Legislativo. The
Acto Legislativo sets a 2-percent ceiling on the real growth rate of transfers from the national to subnational govemments. 7he Acto
Legislativo also sets a 1.5-percent ceiling on the real rate of growth of national govemment operating expenses.
4.   Average annual savings of US$130 million result from closure of nonessential and redundant public entities and agencies.
5.   Annual savings averaging US$350 million during 2002-05 results from restructuring of public sector hospitals.
6.   Annual savings on interest payments averaging about US$275 million are projected through 2005. Savings on interest payment,s results
from a 250-to-400-basis-point fall in average interest rates (relative to a no-reforms scenario). It is projected that a 1-percentage point fall
in the debt-to-GDP ratio leads to a spread reduction of 7 basis points in average interest rates.
7.   Average annual savings of US$230 million are projected during 2002-05. Savings accrue as a result of strengthened application of reforms
already introduced through Law 100 of 1993. These reforms include (a) completion of the transfer of administration and control o i public
pension regimes into a single agency, (b) improvement of the databases required for recognition of pensions, and (c) creation of a unified
registry of contributors. It is also assumed that there is an increase of I percentage point in ISS pension contributions, and an increase2 from
3 to 16.5 percentage points in contributions to the Fondo del Magisterio. These measures slow down the rate of depletion of pensionl fund
assets and reduce the need for govemment transfers.
8.   Hospital restructuring costs amount to US$200 million in 2001. This amount increases to about US$600 million in 2002 and falls tIl zero
thereafter.
Source: Ministry of Finance, IMF, and World Bank staff estimates.
18



larly education, health, and pensions. Alternatively, if no reforms were implemented or if these
reforms were delayed until a new administration is in office, the NFPS would remain on an
unsustainable path, and probably sink into deeper, and more explosive, deficits. Moreover, as a
result of the reform package, the public sector's debt path will be modified-instead of entering
into a rapidly deteriorating, unsustainable spiral, Colombia's debt-to-GDP ratio would be put on
a more manageable path (Figure 3).
Figure 2. Colombia: Public Sector Balances Under Alternative Reforms Scenarios (1999-2005)
0.0
-1.0 
-2.0-
-3.0
-4.0-
-5.0-
-6.0-
-7.0
M O N    m         CC                 0        0
O N      C         C        C         C           
ONFPS Balance (No Reforms) ENPFS Balance (With Reforms)
Source: World Bank.
Figure 3. Colombia: Net Public Debt Under Alternative Reforms Scenarios (1999-2005)
65 -
60 -
55-
50-
; 45-
40 -
ON       0                             0        0 
ON       C    s   C          C         C        C 
-     Net Public Debt (No Reforms)      Net Public Debt (With Reforms)
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
19



IV. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SFAL)
(A) Objectives
54.    The proposed SFAL is the instrument through which the World Bank will support the
Colombian government's fiscal strengthening program described above. The program is seen as
a critical component in the efforts to sustain the economic recovery, consolidate growth and,
thus, reduce poverty. The proceeds of the loan will help reduce the cost of borrowing, lengthen
debt maturity, and provide a confidence-building signal to international markets, all of which
will, in turn, give the government fiscal space for protecting social sector expenditures and
implementing difficult structural measures-such as refornming transfers and expenditure
responsibilities, restructuring public hospitals, and redefining pension systems. In addition to
their fiscal implications, the measures supported by the proposed SFAL have social impacts that
have been identified, evaluated, and will provide the basis for additional policy decisions to
protect the most vulnerable groups (to be supported by the forthcoming Social Sector
Adjustment Loan). However, overall, the policy actions supported by the SFAL are not expected
to hurt Colombia's poor (see Box 1).
Box 1. Key Social Impacts of the Policies Supported by the SFAL
The key policy actions of the SFAL program on pensions, health, ISS, and public sector reform will resulf in an
adjustment in the relative real wages of public employees-for example, special benefit cuts in ISS and an
equalization of public pension benefits with overall Colombian pensions. These two measures could negatively
impact the poor by affecting their income-generation ability. However, the evidence shows that even under sizeable
adjustments, adverse effects on the poor due to an adjustment of public sector wages or pensions are very tuilikely
for two reasons (a) the poor disproportionately depend on the private sector for employment; and (b) the poor are
isolated from the special pension benefits of the public sector.
Relative to the private sector, Colombia's public sector employment is characterized by much higher wages and is
concentrated among households in the upper levels of the income distribution. Even after controlling for skill level,
public salaries exceed the private sector by about 20 percent.  Public employment earnings mostly benefit
households in the top 20 percent of the income distribution, which receive 80 percent of these earnings; while the
poorest 50 percent receive less than 5 percent of the total public sector earnings. Furthermore, the population
belonging to households who benefit from public labor earnings is barely present among the poor-they represent
only 2 and 17 percent of such households among the poorest 20 and 50 percent, respectively, whereas the richest 20
percent represent almost 50 percent. Just as the poor do not depend on public sector wages, they also do not benefit
much from current pension benefits. The poorest 50 percent of the population receive less than 10 percent of total
pension benefits. Moreover, 65 percent of pension earnings go to the richest 20 percent of households. Although
distinctions between private and public sector pensions are not possible with current data, the very regressive
distribution of public employment leads to the conclusion that public sector pensions should be even more
concentrated among the upper percentiles of the population
The SFAL's direct benefits for the poor will come from improved efficiency in the delivery of social services,
particularly education and health services. Public social expenditure (except pensions) has been progressive. For
example, first, in education, coverage rates (in primary, secondary and tertiary education) have improved over the
past years for all income quintiles. In addition, access to education services have become more progressive for
secondary education, and for tertiary education at the margin. Second, in health and nutrition, child malnutritien and
infant mortality, heavily concentrated in the poorest section of the population, have also been decreasing as a result
of public sector interventions. Finally, in basic infrastructure, access to public sector water and sanitation has also
improved, particularly for those people in the lowest quintile of the income distribution. Thus, given the
progressiveness of public expenditures, the poor will benefit from policies that ensure transfer levels and
autonomous management of public resources at the local level, increasing public expenditures effectiveness and
efficiency.
20



(B) Content
55.    The government's overall economic and fiscal strengthening program is laid out in the
Letter of Development Policy (see Annex E), which provides the broader context-a strategic
vision-and its dynamic implications. From that program, a core subset of policy actions
supported by this operation and listed in Table 2 has been selected as the legally agreed actions
that would trigger the disbursement of each of the two scheduled tranches and of the floating
tranche (details on tranche release conditions are included in Annex G).
56.    The timing of the tranches is calibrated to (a) support the government in its efforts to
deliver an immediate confidence-building signal to the markets through major refonns that have
recently been or are to be implemented before the end of the year 2001 (first tranche expected in
December 2001); (b) allow time for the implementation of policy decisions that require the
verification of the 2001 budget execution, the approval of the 2002 budget and its execution in
the first months of 2002, and coordination with various stakeholders (second tranche in March
2002); and (c) accommodate for policy commitments whose fulfillment does not solely depend
on the Executive but on Congressional approval (floating tranche). This timing fits well with
Colombia's political calendar-Congressional elections in March 2002 and Presidential election
in May 2002.
57.    The tranche release commitments were selected for their centrality to the government's
fiscal strengthening program. Other measures are also undeniably important for improving the
efficiency and quality of public service, but none of them can be sustained unless the overall
fiscal stance is put on a sustainable path.
Table 2. Colombia-Matrix of Policy Actions for Tranche Releases of SFAL
FIRST TRANCHE-Expected December 2001
A. General Condition of the SFAL
The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent with the objectives of the program.
B. Specific Conditions of the SFAL
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1. The constitutional amendment (Acto Legislativo No. 1, of July 30, 2001) reforming the transfer of
resources from the central government to subnationals has become effective, limiting the rate of growth of
fiscal transfers to subnational governments and the rate of growth of the central administration operational
expenditures for 2002 and there-after.
2. The government has submitted to Congress a draft law reforming the tax system of territorial entities
(Estatuto de Ingresos Territoriales) to increase subnational tax revenues by more than 20 percent in real
terms in the first year of its application term compared to realized tax revenues in 1999.
3. The government has issued a decree to regulate debt and borrowing of territorial entities that will
contribute to halting unsustainable borrowing, limiting bailouts, and eliminating discretionality in the
treatment of debt. Since July 1, 2001, the territorial entities have received no bailouts or guarantees of
their debt in accordance with Law 617/00.
Health
4. The Ministry of Health, the Department of National Planning, and the Ministry of Finance have defined
and approved a national public hospital restructuring policy and an implementation program for the next
five years, and have begun the implementation of the first phase, including the selection of at least 10
departments. For the year 2002, the implementation program has covered more than 15 percent of the
total public hospital budget included in the FYOI budget.
21



ISS
5. The government has initiated a restructuring plan for ISS Health, including negotiating with ISS unions
about labor costs and benefits, and has implemented the first phase, including the completion of
renegotiating 50 percent or more of ISS's total outstanding debt to health service providers and the
reduction in at least 30 percent in the waiting list for elective surgeries (as of June 30, 2001).
Pension
6. The government has created a new social security department in the Ministry of Finance for improving
social security system control. Improved control has generated fiscal savings equivalent to more than
US$100 million in 2001.
Public Sector Reform
7. The government's approved budget for FY02 has included a reduction in total central government current
expenditure (net of interest payments and transfers to subnational entities and to social security) of more
than 4 percent in real terms in relation to the same expenditures in the approved budget for FYOI.
8. The government's approved budget for FY02 has included a reduction in central government's general
expenditures (gastos generales) of more than 15 percent in real terms in relation to the same expenditures
in the FY00 executed budget.
SECOND TRANCHE-Expected March 2002
A. General Condition of the SFAL
The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent with the objectives of the program.
B. Specific Conditions of the SFAL
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1. The government is implementing the Constitutional amendment (Acto Legislativo No. 1, of July 30, 2001)
in accordance with its terms, limiting the rate of growth of (a) total transfers to subnational goverrunents
to last year inflation plus 2 percentage points; and (b) the central administration's operational expenditures
to last year inflation plus 1.5 (percentage points)-as both were included in the FY02 budget, approved by
Congress.
2. The decree governing debt and borrowing by territorial entities (referred to in condition 3 of the first
tranche) is being implemented in accordance with its terms.
Education
3. (a) Law 60, 1993 has been amended to provide for certification of municipalities that, together with
districts, represent at least 40 percent of the country's school enrollment enabling such municipalities to
autonomously manage the provision of education services (including teacher payroll) and to establish
education performance monitoring mechanisms; or (b) the central government has certified municipalities
that, together with districts, represent at least 14 percent of the country's school enrollment enabling such
municipalities to autonomously manage the provision of education services (including teacher payroll)
and intergovernmental performance agreements have been signed between the Central Government and
such certified districts and municipalities. In either case, no extra budgetary transfers for education to
certified districts or municipalities have taken place.
Health
4. The government has signed contracts with at least three subnational governments to finance the
restructuring of public hospitals, and the implementation thereof has started. These contracts have
included specific annual targets for (a) productivity increases in inpatient and outpatient services and (b)
labor cost reductions. The resulting fiscal savings are equivalent to at least 5 percent in real terms per
month, on average among those participating subnational governments, compared to the previous year in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5. The government has transformed 60 percent or more of the 2001 budgeted health situado fiscal 'after
legal mandatory deductions) to demand subsidies.
ISS
6. The government and the ISS have reached agreement to generate annual savings in ISS' total costs over a
10-year period which will, in the opinion of the Bank, make ISS financially and economically viable.
22



Pension
7. The government is carrying out and controlling the transfers of public pension regimes into a single
agency, reducing payments of ineligible pension claims. Ongoing controls generate fiscal savings of, on
average, at least US$10 million per month.
Public Sector Reform
8. The central government's total actual current expenditures (net of interest payments and transfers to
subnational governments and to social security) that are being incurred in 2002 are generating average
savings of more than 4 percent in real terms in relation to the same expenditures incurred during the same
period in 2001.
9. The budget approved for FY02 has included general expenditures (gastos generales) that in real terms are
not higher than those executed in the FY01 budget.
FLOATING TRANCHE
A. General Condition of the SFAL
The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent with the objectives of the program.
B. Specific Conditions of the SFAL
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1. Congress has approved the law referred to in condition 2 (first tranche), substantially in accordance with
the proposal submitted by the government.
Pension
2. Congress has approved a law to refonn the general pension system to put it on a sustainable path; or
Congress has approved a law to reform at east one of the exempted pension regimes to bring it/them, in
the opinion of the Bank, in line with the general pension regime.
(C) Risks
58.    The proposed SFAL carries high risks, both internal and external, but these risks are
much lower than the risk of inaction. With regard to internal risks, the first is that the overall
political context, including the ongoing internal conflict, is fragile, and the government may be
unable to sustain prolonged social disruptions and resistance from major interest groups (such as
teachers and health sector unions) that could derail the reform agenda and lead to more social
and political instability. Moreover, the internal conflict and the violence associated with illegal
drug activity could further escalate derailing both the stabilization and structural adjustment
efforts. The government is aware of this deep downside risk and is committed to the peace
process, continuing its dialogue with the guerrillas, and has also stepped up its war against illegal
drug activities. It has worked to mitigate other political and social risks through reaching out to,
and deepening its dialogue and building consensus with, different political parties,
representatives of civil society, and economic and interest groups, including unions. In addition,
members of opposition parties have privately endorsed the preparation of this project, and some
of their senior officials have participated in important Bank meetings with the Colombian
authorities. To help ensure sustainability, the Bank is preparing a collection of policy notes that
will contribute to smoothing the economic and social transition from the current administration
to the next.
59.    Second, the Congress, currently controlled by an opposition party, could block or
substantially alter one or more of the policy initiatives contained in the adjustment program.
This risk is real, but is substantially mitigated because the bulk of the reforms have already been
discussed with members of Congress, particularly with members of the majority party.
23



Moreover, to avoid delays in supporting the government's efforts, those reforms that rec uired
Congressional approval are either included up front in the program  or as conditions o( the
floating tranche.  In addition, several components of the reform  put more discipline and
accountability on the Executive (for example, the decision to rationalize central goverrnment
current expenditures, notably personnel, and procurement of goods and services; and to close
redundant national government agencies), something that well serves Congressional and
subnational government interests.
60.    Third, like any fiscal adjustment efforts in a country with a relatively recent reccr:d of
weak fiscal policies, there is a risk of reverting to fiscal mismanagement, particularly in the year
leading to both  Congressional and presidential elections.   However, this is unlikely in
Colombia's case, for two reasons. On the one hand, the government is committed to imprz)ving
its fiscal accounts (as prior actions, such as tax increases and expenditure cuts, have
demonstrated), and subnational governments will now be under a harder budget constraint--their
commercial bank lenders will face stricter lending regulations, and general bailouts by the
government (as of July 2001) are no longer available. On the other hand, this loan will req-iire a
set of nonreversible actions prior to disbursements of the tranches, limiting the possibil ly of
fiscal indiscipline.
61.    The final internal risk is the threat that future rulings and interpretations of the
Constitutional Court may reverse key legal reforms, with negative fiscal impacts, as it has
happened in the past. This risk is now reduced because recent changes (March 2001) in the
composition of the Court have resulted in a body more accepting of pragmatic and ma:-ket-
oriented policies, which has already reversed decisions of the previous Court such a, that
requiring that adjustments of salaries of civil servants should be based on the consumer price
index (see Box 2).
Box 2. The Colombian Constitutional Court
The Colombian Constitution of 1991 created a specialized constitutional tribunal-the Corte Constitzic-ional
(Constitutional Court). The purpose of this Court was, among other things, to ensure protection of human rights,
including social and economic rights (so-called "rights of the second- and third-generations").  The 1991
Constitution also introduced the Acci6n de Tutela as a means of simplifying and expediting the Court's protec ion of
human rights whenever threatened or violated. Court Justices are appointed for eight years and are guarinteed
independence and stability.
Following a transition Court in 1992, the first Court (1993-2001) distinguished itself for pursuing the consolidation
of human rights protection. The first Court's interpretation of labor and social security laws (including pcision
laws), however, was broad and inclusive, creating unanticipated liabilities for the government and affecting fiscal
sustainability. Moreover, without properly anticipating the economic impact of its decisions, the Court's rtA ings
have also affected the housing market, threatening the financial stability of mortgage banks.
The second Court (2001-09) has just taken office, and has had a different approach in the interpretation of lab r and
social security laws, having already reversed some decisions of the previous Court.
62.    There are also several external risks; most notably a further deterioration in the external
macroeconomic environment led by a deeper slowdown and/or recession in the Nkorld
economy-particularly as a result of the attacks of September 11 and subsequent events. The
most important transmission channels are (a) a further deterioration in the terms of trade,
particularly resulting from continued unfavorable coffee prices and volatile oil prices; and (b i the
closure of access to international financial markets due to crises in major markets and/or
24



emerging market countries. In the event of (a), the government intends to continue its flexible
exchange rate policy to encourage nontraditional exports and foreign direct investment. With
regard to (b), the government has committed itself to sound fiscal management (as supported by
this operation) and retains access to IFI financing, particularly the IMF through continued
fulfillment of the conditions and the right to draw under the Extended Arrangement.
63.  In spite of the above-mentioned mitigating factors, the SFAL remains a high-risk, high-
return operation. Thus, it will be essential to maintain a close working relationship with the
client, and to provide ample, ongoing dialogue and assistance during the implementation period.
Because this operation will form the core basis of the Bank's interventions in Colombia, its
successful implementation remains critical for future Bank assistance. To support timely
implementation, a schedule of frequent project supervisions, and continuous contact and
exchange of views with the government will be maintained, greatly facilitated by the presence of
a well-equipped Country Office in Bogota.
(D) Poverty Impact
64.   The proposed SFAL will contribute to poverty reduction at the national, regional and
local levels. First, it will help protect the macroeconomic framework of the country as a whole
by reducing the likelihood of fiscal crises at different levels of government. As mentioned
before, the Bank's analysis shows that negative macro shocks are the most important determinant
of poverty increases in Colombia. Second, the various sectoral reforms, supported by the SFAL,
will sustain economic recovery, consolidate economic growth in the medium- and long-term, and
reduce poverty-as economic growth continues to be the major source of poverty reduction in
Colombia (see Annex C). Third, the SFAL will also ensure that within the fiscal strengthening
program, public resource allocations to social programs are protected, particularly those for
education and health, facilitating the provision of public services for the poor. Fourth, the most
important poverty-related activities under the responsibility of the subnational level are the
provision of education and health services, and the SFAL support measures to improve the
efficiency and coverage of these services, benefiting the poor directly.
65.   Fifth, the reforms supported by the SFAL will also seek to increase equality of
distribution of subnational resources in different parts of the system, and will accelerate their
transformation from supply-driven to demand-driven subsidies. Such reforms will particularly
benefit the poor as they are the main demanders of public services. Finally, bringing balance and
transparency to departmental and municipal finances, together with improving the delivery of
education services and strengthening the provision of health services in public hospitals, will
ensure that essential public services will continue to be more efficiently available to those who
could not otherwise procure them by their own means.
(E) Loan Amount, Conditions, Financial Safeguards, and Disbursements and Audits
66.   The proposed (US$400 million) SFAL in the form of a fixed spread, U.S.-dollar-
denominated loan would be made to the Republic of Colombia. Disbursements under the
proposed loan would be made to an account (Deposit Account) of the Republic of Colombia,
established at the Banco de la RepuTblica for this purpose. The proposed loan would have two
scheduled tranches and a floating tranche, which is de-linked from the other two tranches. These
25



tranche arrangements have been discussed, and designed with the government, ensuring their full
ownership. They capture the government's request and the Bank's assessment of the necessary
timing for undertaking the actions and implementing the measures, while simultaneously
separating those actions that are fully under the administration's control and those that are shlared
with other institutions (including Congress and labor unions) and involve negotiations. The first
tranche would be US$160 million-scheduled to be disbursed in December 2001, the second
tranche would be US$180 million-scheduled to be disbursed in March 2002; there would also
be a floating tranche of US$60 million-to be disbursed when its specific conditions are
fulfilled.
67.   To meet the objectives elaborated above, a single loan (with two tranches plus a floating
tranche, and an integrated set of conditions tackling cross-cutting fiscal weaknesses) was juclged
to be more appropriate than other alternatives, including a single-tranche adjustment loan or a
programmatic loan. It is expected that fulfilling the set of conditions of a single loan during the
last year of the administration would convey strong messages to the market regarding the
government's commitment to reform and fiscal stability. Moreover, the government would thus
be able to fully implement its fiscal reform package within this administration's term, and [eave
the fiscal accounts on a sustainable path for the next administration, smoothing both the political
and, more important, the economic and social transitions.
68.   To ensure compliance with financial safeguards, the government is committed to
continue improving public expenditure management, including both procurement and financial
management, and combating corruption (for details, see Annex H) Over the last few years, the
Bank (at the authorities' request) has undertaken a substantial amount of analytical work to
support the government's efforts for improving public expenditure management. This included
Colombia-Country Financial Accountability Assessment (September 1998; a second Country
Financial Accountability Assessment is scheduled to be carried out in FY03, and will pay
particular attention to financial accountability arrangements at the sub-national and municipal
levels); the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR, March 2001); the Public Financial
Management Project (PFMP-I, closed March 2001); and the on-going PFMP-II (February 2001)
which follows and expands on the earlier project. In addition, the Bank has supportedl the
government's anti-corruption program through the World Bank Institute as well as an
Institutional Development Facility (IDF) grant completed earlier this year.
69.   The government has developed and is implementing strategies based on the
recommendations contained in the work mentioned above. More specifically, the governrment's
strategy for improving public procurement includes the establishment of an institutional
framework for an orderly and consistent development and dissemination of policies, regulaiions,
and standard bidding and contract documentation. In addition, it gives priority to simplification
and not to the introduction of new rules, control and punitive measures that could easily
aggravate existing problems and provide additional opportunities for corruption. These measures
have been developed in consultation with the major stakeholders. With regard to financial
management, the Office of the Accountant General is being strengthened to allow it to become
more effective, as are institutions (both public and private) involved in the professional practice
of public accounting. As indicated above, these efforts have been supported through two specific
Bank operations-the PFMP I and the follow-on PFMP II-both highly praised by QAG, and
recently completed sector work on corruption.
26



70.   Moreover, these two projects have also supported the government's measures to
strengthen institutional capacity and analysis in a number of key areas of public expenditure,
such as macro-programming, formulation and monitoring of the budget, budget execution-
including the development and implementation of an Integrated Financial Management System
(SIIF)- and evaluation of results of public expenditure-including the implementation of the
National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector Performance (SINERGIA). Despite
important progress in areas of public expenditure, further strengthening of financial management
processes is needed. These deficiencies include (a) divergence between budgeted expenditures
and the government's strategic development priorities; (b) lack of clarity regarding the roles and
reporting requirements of government institutions; and, (c) the need to enhance public sector
transparency and accountability by improving the dissemination of the objectives, performance
evaluations and budgetary results of public entities. The on-going PFMP II is supporting
reforms in these areas.
71.  In addition, the IMF's safeguard assessments report on the audit mechanism for the
Colombian central bank, completed in May 2001 under the transitional procedures, concluded
that the current auditing arrangements are capable of providing high-quality audit services.
However, while external audit of the central bank's financial statements is undertaken, it does
not comply with the strict definition of an independent audit under the International Standards on
Auditing (ISA). The principles governing central bank auditing mechanisms are enshrined in the
Colombian Constitution of 1991, whereby the President is responsible for auditing the central
bank, and is permitted to delegate this function to the Banking Superintendent and to an
independent State agency, but not to a private firm. Based on this finding, and on the legal
issues involved, the IMF and the Colombian authorities are looking for alternatives to overcome
this matter. The government also intends to request the IMF to assist it in addressing issues in
the area of fiscal transparency, and an IMF fiscal transparency mission is envisaged early next
year.
72.   For the purpose of SFAL's disbursement and audits, the government will open, prior to
furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account will be deposited by the Bank into the
Deposit Account. The Bank will monitor and assess ex-post (through supervision missions with
the government's permission) the use of the Deposit Account based on the Comptroller General
Audit Report. The government undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan will not be used to
finance ineligible expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that any proceeds of the
Loan have been used to make a payment for an ineligible expenditure, the government will, upon
notice from the Bank, (a) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of
said payment, or (b) if the Bank has requested, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request will be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Finally, the government will, at the Bank's request, (a) have the Deposit Account audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, a certified copy of the
report of such audits; and (c) provide to the Bank other information concerning the Deposit
Account and the audit at the Bank's request.
27



V. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED SFAL
73.   Sound macroeconomic management consisting of (a) good fiscal management, inc'uding
the implementation of fiscal reforms; (b) an inflation-targeting monetary policy; and (c) a
flexible foreign exchange regime, will provide the basis for sustaining the economic recovery
and for a potentially respectable rate of economic growth, single-digit inflation, and a v-iable
external balance (see Annex B for a fuller discussion of recent economic developmenTs and
prospects).
74.   Real economic growth for 2001 is now projected to be about 1.5 to 2.5 percent--down
from about 3 percent in 2000. While this projected real economic growth is above the country's
annual real growth trend of less than 1 percent observed over the past five years, it is still well
below the 4.5 percent annual real economic growth of the early 1990s. The manufacturing
industry and nontraditional exports have provided the main impetus to growth over the past year;
improved performance in agriculture, commerce, and construction has also contributed to real
economic growth. However, weakening of investment spending, disruption of oil exports,
falling coffee export prices and extensive strikes in both the public and private sectors have
negatively affected economic growth. Inflation continues its downward trend, and is expected to
attain the Central Bank's year-end target of 8 percent for 2001. The balance of payments current
account deficit (overall external deficit) is projected at 2.6 percent of GDP-up from the deficit
of about 0.2 percent of GDP in 2000 but within manageable proportions. This increase is due to
an increase in domestic demand for imports, and the simultaneous weakening of traditional
exports, particularly oil and coffee. Gross international reserves (in months of goods and
services) are projected at about six months for this year.
75.   For the medium term (2002-03), average real economic growth is projected at about 2.5
to 3 percent per year, and for the long term (2004 and on) at about 3 to 3.5 percent annually,
fueled mainly by investment expansion. As a result of the implementation of the forthcoming
fiscal reforns and the continuation of sound macroeconomic management, the deficit of the
NFPS would decline and reach about 1.5 percent of GDP in 2005. Inflation is projecTed to
continue its downward trend, and to stabilize at about 4 percent in 2003 and beyond. The
external current account deficit would reach about 2 to 3 percent of GDP, and gross international
reserves are projected at about seven months of goods and services imports. Finally, in this
macroeconomic framework, Colombia's net total public debt would stabilize at about 50 percent
of GDP by 2005.
Vl. BANK STRATEGY
(A) The CAS and the Proposed SFAL
76.   As mentioned before, the CAS-PR recognized that the worsening of the economic
situation could lead to fiscal imbalances and financing gaps that would prevent the realization of
the CAS objectives of poverty reduction, social development, and sustainable growth. Hence the
CAS-PR proposed to move the assistance strategy to a high-case lending scenario, including
adjustment operations. While a specific adjustment operation to support fiscal reforms was not
explicitly envisioned in the CAS-PR, the strategy identified the need to support Colombia's
efforts to strengthen its fiscal position, and the objectives of poverty reduction, social
28



development, and sustainable growth. These objectives still remain valid to date, and they
together with the Bank strategic interventions in Colombia are also confirmed in the Country
Assistance Note accompanying this Memorandum.
77.   The SFAL will directly contribute to achieving the CAS-PR's objectives of poverty
reduction and social development. The fiscal consolidation supported by the proposed operation
would protect the country's macroeconomic framework by reducing the likelihood of fiscal
crises and economic recession that would most impact the poor. By preventing major fiscal
crises, the SFAL also ensures that essential public services would continue to be available to
those who could not otherwise procure them-namely, the poor and most vulnerable. In
addition, the fiscal reforms that bring about fiscal stability at the macro level also bring
efficiency and equity at the sectoral levels, especially in the provision of public education and
health that benefit the poor relatively more. The efficiency and the equality of distribution of
subnational resources in different parts of the system and the transformation of resources from
supply to demand subsidies, aiming at improving the provision of education and health services
in public hospitals, not only help the poor, but also increase the balance and transparency of
subnational government finances. Moreover, the forthcoming Social Sector Adjustment Loan
(SSAL) will complement this operation as it will help (a) protect the poor from the potential
effect of the fiscal adjustment; (b) ensure that key social services, including safety net programs,
are targeted to the poor, and delivered more efficiently and effectively; and (c) start reforming
existing labor regulations which have negatively impacted the employment of the poor,
particularly young, female, and self-employed workers.
78.   The proposed SFAL operation is fully consistent with the strategy proposed in the CAS
and CAS-PR, not only in terms of policy content but also in terms of overall lending and
exposure limits. The CAS-PR envisioned and triggered a high-case lending program of around
US$450 million for FY98-01. If this program had been completely delivered, the lending
program would have amounted to about US$1.8 billion. To date, the total amount committed is
about US$1.4 billion-leaving space for the SFAL operation under the envelope proposed by the
CAS and CAS-PR. More specifically, in FY98 and FY99, total commitments of about US$130
million and US$140 million were approved, respectively. In FY00, total commitments of about
US$930 million were approved, including US$500 million to support financial sector reform and
US$225 million to support the reconstruction efforts after the devastating earthquake of January
1999. In FY01 total commitments of US$190 million were approved.
79.   Given its fiscal constraints, the government requested that the Bank stretch the lending
program into FY02. As explained in the accompanying Country Strategy Note, the Bank expects
to present six operations, including the SFAL and the Social Sector Adjustment Loan (for about
US$150 million), in FY02. This would bring our proposed FY02 program to about US$630
million. Under this scenario, the lending program for FY98-02 would total about US$2 billion
and average about US$400 million annually, which is below the high-case lending ceiling of
US$450 million. All of the operations that are being proposed for FY02 were explicitly
mentioned in the CAS-PR, with the exception of the SFAL. However, the CAS and CAS-PR
clearly identified the need for Colombia to strengthen its program of fiscal reforms, which is the
objective of the SFAL.
29



80.   The overall external debt exposure of Colombia is relatively high, but manageable--total
external debt as a percentage of GDP is about 42 percent, about three fifths of which is plublic
sector; total external debt service represents about 51 percent of exports of goods and services,
about two fifths of which corresponds to the public sector; and the ratio of total short-term
external debt to reserves is about 90 percent. The World Bank is not a dominant credilor in
C'olombia's balance sheet: IBRD debt outstanding as a proportion of public sector external debt
is about 10 percent, and IBRD debt service as a proportion of exports of goods and services
represents less than 3 percent. Moreover, over the last five years, on average, net disbursements
from the World Bank to Colombia have been negative. The share of Colombian debt in the
Bank's portfolio is modest, and the headroom for new lending is ample.
(B) Complementarity with Other World Bank Operations and Activities
81.   In order to help economic recovery and improve the financial system, the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan for US$500 million was approved by the Board in November 1999.
This operation supported a comprehensive program of financial structural reforms that sought to
promote the development of a healthy and sustainable financial system. In addition, part of its
proceeds helped Colombia regain access to international capital markets through a Policy-Based
Guarantee Operation. The SFAL's objectives will further contribute to these objectives by
ensuring their sustainability and by ascertaining that national and subnational governments are
better able to manage their finances and fiscal programs, including public sector debt
management within a market-disciplined framework for subnational borrowing.
82.   To alleviate the impact on the poor of the 1998/1999 economic crisis, the government
identified segments of the population that had been hit hardest by the crisis, including the
unemployed poor, young entrants into the labor market, female heads of households, children,
the elderly, and those displaced by the ongoing conflict. In response to the problems of these
vulnerable groups, the government decided to strengthen and expand its social safety net
program. This program has significantly been helped by two World Bank operations (the
Community Works and the Human Capital Protection Projects) for a total of US$250 million.
These operations will contribute to shielding the most vulnerable groups by creating jobs and by
protecting human capital through the provision of education and nutrition grants. The SFAL will
ensure that, within the fiscal strengthening program, public resource allocations to social
programs are preserved, particularly for education and health.
83.  In addition two analytical studies, which are underway, complement the SFAL in the
overall effort to reduce poverty in Colombia. The Colombia Poverty Report assesses and
reviews (a) the evolution of poverty and inequality in urban and rural areas over the past two
decades; (b) the incidence of crime and violence and related household responses; and (c)
selected aspects of public assistance, including an overview of public social expenditures and a
specific review of the subsidized health insurance system. The Social Safety Net Assessment
evaluates reforms to Colombia's social safety net, both for addressing the needs of vulnerable
groups during normal times and for developing a counter-cyclical strategy that could be
implemented rapidly during future crises.  The study (a) assesses vulnerability and risk
management in Colombia; (b) evaluates how the three new emergency Red de Apoyo Social
safety net prograrns fit into the broader social safety net over the long-term; (c) assesses the
30



efficiency, effectiveness and gaps in Colombia's existing social assistance programs; and (d)
proposes technical, program and policy reforms aimed at improving the social safety net.
(C) Complementarity with Other Institutions' Operations
84.   The proposed SFAL follows the SDR 1.96 billion (about US$2.5 billion equivalent),
three-year, Extended Arrangement Facility-the first of its kind for Colombia-that was
approved by the IMF Board in December 1999, which helped stabilize the economy and provide
a good macroeconomic framework for the implementation of the government's reform program.
Within this framework, the Bank takes the lead, through the proposed SFAL, in supporting the
authorities' effort at structurally strengthening the country's fiscal accounts and bringing them
onto a more sustainable path. Division of labor and responsibilities, as well as continuous
coordination between the IMF and the Bank takes place in the review of economic policy and the
preparation of the respective interventions in Colombia.
85.  In addition, the above-mentioned financial sector adjustment operation was prepared in
close partnership with the IDB, which committed about US$1 billion in fast-disbursing loans
through three operations-one in the electricity sector which was approved in December 1998
for US$350 million, another for public sector restructuring which was approved in January 1999
for US$500 million, and a third in the financial sector for US$100 million which was approved
in October 1999. These operations have been complemented by another recently-approved loan
focusing on territorial finances, for US$400 million. Assistance to the social safety net program
was also designed in close collaboration with the IDB, which has committed US$250 million to
this area.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
86.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, D. C.
November 16, 2001
31



32



Annex A
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Country Assistance
Update Note
The Current Strategic Framework
Al.  The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia was discussed by the Board of
Executive Directors in November 1997, and the Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report
(CAS-PR) was discussed in November 1999. Under normal circumstances a new CAS would
have been presented in the middle of 2002. However, it was decided that a new CAS would be
better justified following the start of the new administration in early FY03 to coincide with
Colombia's political cycle. In addition, we are currently preparing a collection of policy notes
summarizing the major challenges in Colombia's social-economic development. The policy
notes will serve as a bridge to the new administration, which will take office in August 2002.
This work will be the analytical basis for the new CAS. The present note provides an update on
the strategic framework under which the Bank proposes to operate until the Board of Executive
Directors discusses the new CAS.
A2.  Following participatory consultations with government leaders and civil society the CAS
identified, and the CAS-PR reconfirmed, the main objectives of poverty reduction, social
development and sustainable economic growth. Anchored with a stable macro-economic
environment and fiscal sustainability, these objectives were to be achieved by interventions in
key areas (a) promoting peace and development; (b) promoting rural development; (c)
developing human capital; (d) attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency; (e)
improving infrastructure services; and (f) ensuring sustainable development. These areas of
intervention have not changed and continue to be supported by the Bank's lending program.
Furthermore, the CAS-PR recognized that Colombia's economic performance, especially
economic growth and the fiscal balance, had deteriorated sharply since the presentation of the
CAS and recommended strengthening fiscal stability to restore growth and reduce poverty. The
CAS-PR confirmed that a reduction of the fiscal deficit was a key macroeconomic objective of
the government, and it recognized that without a correction of fiscal imbalances, Colombia
could face serious financing gaps and problems in accessing external financial markets.
Worsening economic conditions combined with heightened uncertainty as a result of the
country's long-standing internal conflict, would hinder the achievement of the government's
objectives as reflected in the CAS. In addition, the international economic and financial
repercussions of the tragic events of September 11, 2001 have reinforced the importance of a
return to fiscal sustainability as these repercussions may be severe and could further restrict
capital flows to Colombia and augment the deterioration of the country's terms of trade.
A3.  The CAS presented a base-case IBRD lending program of around US$300 million per
year for FY98-00. This relatively low lending ceiling was determined by Colombia's preference
at the time to limit its IBRD borrowings. The CAS-PR moved the assistance strategy to a high-
case lending program, with increased emphasis on adjustment lending, to around US$450 million
annually. This movement was justified by (a) the need to cushion the adverse social impact of
the economic recession, financial instability and internal conflict on the poor and vulnerable, and
(b) the Government's commitment to undertake fiscal adjustments and implement structural
33



Annex A
reforms to be supported by an IMF program. These triggers remain valid. Furthermore, the
CAS-PR indicated that we would reassess the lending program and move to a base-case or low-
case scenario if (a) the fiscal stabilization program supported by the IMF program went off track;
(b) project implementation problems arose; or (c) increased violence and social unr-est
significantly reduced our ability to work effectively in Colombia.  These risks have not
materialized.
Recent Developments
A4.  Peace Process. Colombia has been ravaged by intense conflict for the past 40 years,
financed in part by the illegal drug trade. About 40,000 people have died in clashes during the
last decade alone. President Andres Pastrana, who has one year left in his four-year term, has
made a highly ambitious peace initiative the focus of his administration. However, the progress
achieved so far has been disappointing and many Colombians are increasingly skeptical that the
peace process as currently conceived will achieve tangible results. In light of the attacks of
September 11, 2001, it is likely that there will be international pressure on the government to
take a stronger stance against the insurgent groups. The two main rebel groups in Colombia, the
FARC and ELN, as well as the paramilitary group, the AUC, are on the United States' official
list of foreign terrorist organizations. On October 7, 2001, Mr. Pastrana decided to continue the
peace negotiations by extending the demilitarized zone for three months, but with firmer
conditions, most notably the negotiation of a truce and agreements to end kidnappings and
attacks on the civilian population. The refocused peace discussions will center on a ceasefire and
on obtaining commitments from guerrillas to respect international humanitarian law. Colombia
will continue to need the assistance of the international community to fight terrorism and to
address the socio-economic determinants of violence in order to construct the underpinnings for
peace and development.
A5.  The Economy.  Economic growth for 2001 is now projected to be about 1.5-2.5
percent-down from last year's 3 percent. While this projected real economic growth is above
the country's annual average real growth trend of less than 1 percent observed over the past five
years, it is still well below the 4.5 percent annual real economic growth of the early 1 990s. TFhe
manufacturing industry and nontraditional exports have provided the main impetus to growth
over the past year; improved performance in agriculture, commerce, and construction have also
contributed to the expansion of output. However, weakening of investment spending, disruption
of oil exports, falling coffee export prices and strikes in both public and private sectors have
negatively affected economic growth. Inflation continues its downward trend and is expected to
attain the Central Bank's year-end target of 8 percent for 2001. The balance of payments'
current account deficit is projected at 2.6 percent of GDP-up from the deficit of about 0.2
percent of GDP in 2000. This is due to an increase in domestic demand for imports, and the
simultaneous weakening of traditional exports, particularly oil and coffee. Nevertheless, gross
international reserves (in months of goods and services) are projected at around six months for
the rest of 2001. While these projections take into account the initial impact of the tragic events
of September 11, 2001, they will have to be further assessed. Nonetheless, it is certain that the
impact on global financial markets and economic growth will be substantial and that as a result,
Colombia's economy will also be negatively affected, including by restricted access to capital
markets and further deterioration of terms of trade (particularly coffee and oil). Colombia's total
34



Annex A
external financing needs are projected at about US$ 8 billion per year for the 2001-2003 period.
Total public external debt has risen steadily, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of GDP.
In gross terms, it has almost doubled from 27 percent of GDP in 1994 to 50 percent in 2000.
A6.   The  government's  macroeconomic  program  has three  pillars (a) sound  fiscal
management, including the implementation of fiscal reforms; (b) an inflation-targeting monetary
policy; and (c) a flexible foreign exchange regime. If this macro-economic policy mix is
maintained, and given a stable economic environment, average real economic growth is
projected for the medium term (2002-2003) at about 2.5-3 percent per year, and for the long-term
(2004 and on) at about 3-3.5 percent annually, fueled mainly by investment expansion. As a
result of the implementation of the forthcoming fiscal reforms and the continuation of sound
macroeconomic management, the deficit of the Non Financial Public Sector would decline and
reach about 1.5 percent of GDP in 2005. Inflation is projected to continue its downward trend,
and to stabilize at about 4 percent in 2003 and beyond. The external current account deficit
would reach about 2-3 percent of GDP, and gross international reserves are projected at about
seven months of goods and services imports. Finally, in this macroeconomic framework,
Colombia's net total public debt would stabilize at about 50 percent of GDP by 2005.
A7.   IMF Program. The government's stabilization program is being supported by an IMF
Extended Facility, the first of its kind for Colombia, which was approved in December 1999 and
extends through the end of 2002. The government entered into an Extended Facility Program in
order to send a positive signal to international markets; it was understood that the arrangement
was precautionary and that it would not be drawn upon unless there was a pressing balance-of
payments need.' The government requested that the Fund focus on stabilization and balance of
payment issues and that the Bank take the lead on key structural issues. Therefore, the Fund's
program concentrates on stabilization of the fiscal accounts within the duration of the program,
and the Bank has taken the lead in identifying and supporting key structural reforms that will
contribute to bringing Colombia's fiscal accounts onto a sustainable path in the long term.
Colombia has so far met, and at times exceeded, the performance targets under the IMF program;
two program reviews have been successfully completed, and the third is expected to be presented
to the Fund's Board in early 2002. All performance indicators are expected to be met with the
exception of the original program targets for the fiscal deficit. The weakness of the economic
recovery this year, combined with external variables such as low commodity prices and the
events of September 2001, make it likely that deficit targets for both 2001 and 2002 will be
modified in the current program review-the targeted fiscal deficit is expected to shift from 2.8
to about 3.3 percent of GDP for 2001 and this adjusted target will be met.
1 We support this strategy for several reasons, including: (a) the signal to international markets is working as can
been seen by Colombian spreads, particularly in light of the recent events of September 11; (b) the fact that the
Central Bank is bound by strict constitutional restrictions against lending to finance the deficit-an exemplary
practice; and, (c) more importantly, the division of labor and responsibilities between the Fund (stabilization and
balance of payments) and the Bank (structural issues).
35



Annex A
Proposed Bank's Assistance Program Through the Next CAS
A8.  Portfolio Performance. At the presentation of the CAS-PR, it was recognized that the
quality of the portfolio had improved substantially since the presentation of the CAS; this trend
has continued. Portfolio performance in Colombia remains satisfactory. The portfolio currently
contains 23 projects, with net commitments of about US$1.3 billion and an undisbursed balance
of about US$663 million. Only one project is currently rated unsatisfactory. The disbursement
ratio was 24.6 percent in FYOI, up from 20.2 percent in FY95. The proactivity index is lOO
percent. Colombia has surpassed all of the key portfolio performance indicators included in the
CAS and CAS-PR.
A9.  Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). A CPAR was completed in March
2001. Its findings will be broadly discussed and its recommendations incorporated into the next
CAS. The report found that for Bank-assisted projects procurement is carried out in accordance
with Bank policies and procedures, and procurement performance under those projects is
generally satisfactory and free of major problems. Two procurement audits and four agency
procurement capacity assessments carried out in the last two years have found no major
problems and determined that the procurement risk in Bank projects is lower than average.
However, the CPAR found that public procurement and contract management had deficiencies
that had the potential to result in inefficient use of public funds and could be a source of
corruption. The findings and recommendations of the CPAR to strengthen public procurement
were discussed with the Colombian authorities. Following recommendations of the CPAR, the
government is implementing with its own resources a Public Procurement Project. In addition,
the second Public Financial Management Project (PFMP), approved by the Bank Board on
March 22, 2001 includes a component to strengthen public procurement.
AIO. Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). A CFAA was carried out in
September 1998. As a result of the recommendations in the 1998 CFAA report, the Office of the
Accountant General and public accounting institutions have been strengthened. These efforts
have been supported by recently completed sector work on corruption and by the Bank-financed
PFMP I and II. These projects have supported the government's measures to strengthen
institutional capacity and analysis in a number of key areas of public expenditure: macro-
programming, formulation and monitoring of the budget, budget execution, including the
development and implementation of an Integrated Financial Management System (SIIF), and
evaluation of results of public expenditure, including the implementation of the National System
for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector Performance (SINERGIA). Despite important
progress in public expenditure management, further strengthening of financial management
processes is needed. These weaknesses include (a) divergence between budgeted expenditures
and the government's strategic development priorities; (b) lack of clarity regarding the roles and
reporting requirements of government institutions; and (c) the need to enhance public sector
transparency and accountability by improving the dissemination of the objectives, performance
evaluations and budgetary results of public entities. The on-going PFMP II is supporting
reforms in these areas. The next CFAA will be completed prior to the CAS and will have a
special focus on sub-national finances. Its recommendations will be incorporated into the
strategy and program of the next CAS.
36



Annex A
Proposed Bank Lending and Analytical Program Through FY02
All. Lending Program for FY02. As mentioned above, the CAS-PR moved the assistance
strategy to a high-case lending program, including adjustment lending, to around US$450 million
for the lending program of FY98-01. Including FY02, the proposed lending program would total
about 2 billion and average about US$400 million per year. In FY98 and FY99, we committed
US$132 million and US$142 million, respectively. In FY00, six operations were approved for a
total of US$935 million (including the US$500 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and
the exceptional US$225 million Earthquake Recovery Loan). In FY01 we committed US$185
million. In FY02, we expect to present six operations, including the SFAL currently under
consideration and the Social Sector Adjustment Loan (for an amount of about US$150 million).
This would bring our proposed FY02 program to about US$630 million. With the exception of
the SFAL, all of the operations that we propose for FY02 were specifically included in the CAS-
PR. Although a fiscal adjustment operation was not explicitly envisioned in the CAS-PR, the
strategy clearly identified the need to support Colombia's program of fiscal and other structural
reforms.
A12. The Bank's FY02 program supports the short-term and longer-term efforts of the
Government of Colombia to protect and promote the welfare of the poor through a series of
interrelated lending operations, as well as analytical work.
* Magdalena Medio II.  The Bank has supported this program through a recently
completed LIL (Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project) and will continue its
support through a second LIL approved in September, 2001. The first project was very
effective in creating a longer term vision of a better future for the poor in this region in
the midst of conflict. It aims to strengthen human and social capital, and start a
community-led process of improving basic services and investment. The second project
will gradually shifting the focus of decision-making and leadership of the program to
local and regional actors, with communities playing a lead role.
*  Water Sector Reform Assistance Project. The Bank approved a $40 million project in
October, 2001 to support Colombia's initiative to reform municipal water utilities in
underserved rural and urban areas in the country's Caribbean coastal region. The project
will provide technical assistance to guide municipal leaders as they incorporate the
private sector in the management and operations of their water utilities and expand water
and sewerage services to more people, especially the poor.
*  Productive Partnership Project. This project aims to establish a successful program of
productive partnerships between agribusiness and small farmer producer organizations.
It will do so by providing an integrated package of incentives and assistance for the
development and implementation of demand-driven, sustainable subprojects that generate
income and employment opportunities for rural communities. The project would
contribute to (i) reactivating the rural economy; (ii) improving the welfare of poor rural
inhabitants; and (iii) generating an enabling environment for the peace process in- the
country.
37



Annex A
*  Judicial Reform. This project constitutes the first phase of a long-term initiative to
improve judicial conflict resolution services in the civil, labor and family law
jurisdictions.  The proposed project is expected to have three key impacts 'i)
improvement of the judiciary's social legitimacy and ability to respond to society's
justice needs; (ii) increased incentives for the resolution of labor, family and civil
conflicts through peaceful means, thus improving the prevalence of the rule of law and
peaceful coexistence; and (iii) more effective enforcement of contracts at lower cost.
*  Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan (SFAL).  The proposed SFAL would support
Colombia's efforts to achieve macroeconomic stability and consolidate growth by
undertaking structural reforms that would put the country's fiscal accounts on a
sustainable path. The Bank's strategy would assist the govenment to (i) ensure that the
fiscal decentralization process is economically sustainable through the reform  of
intergovernmental fiscal relations, including transfers, and the imposition of hard budget
constraints on subnational governments; (ii) rationalize central government expenditures
to sustain fiscal discipline; and (iii) support structural reforms in sectors where both
national and subnational governments share responsibilities, including education, health
and pensions. The SFAL will ensure that within the fiscal strengthening program, public
resource allocations to social programs are protected, particularly those for health and
education. By consolidating growth and fiscal sustainability, it will support poverty
reduction. History has shown that Colombia has enjoyed significant declines in poverty
during periods of positive growth and fiscal balance. For example, from 1988 to 1995, as
average GDP grew at rates of about 3.5 percent annually and poverty rates declined from
about 65 to 60 percent of the population. Furthermore, by protecting macro-economic
stability and reducing the likelihood of fiscal crises at the national and subnational levels,
the SFAL will help to prevent the social and political instability that negative macro-
economic shocks could engender.
*  Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SSAL).  In order to alleviate the impact of the
economic crisis on the poor, the government asked the Bank and the IDB to support
programs targeted to segments of the population most impacted by the crisis. In this
context, the Bank is currently financing the Community Works and Employment project
which provides temporary employment to poor unemployed workers in urban areas
through small community projects. The Bank is also financing the Human Capital
Protection project that funds a conditional cash transfer program to protect children's
health, education, and nutrition.  To ensure that the  impact on poverty and the
sustainability of the government's interventions in this area are maximized, the
government has asked the Bank to prepare a Social Sector Adjustment Loan to support
structural reforms needed in the social sectors. The project would assist Colombia in
establishing a social protection system that reacts quickly in response to economic crises
and that is better targeted, more transparent and properly evaluated. The project would
also assist in the reform of labor regulations that have hindered the employment of the
poor, particularly young, female and self-employed workers
A13. Key Analytical Work for FY02. To support the proposed program the Bank is
undertaking the following analytical work:
38



Annex A
* The Colombia Policy Notes will summarize the major challenges in Colombia's social-
economic development and will serve as a bridge to the new administration. It will
include thematic notes on peace, growth, governance, natural resource management and
poverty and inequality.  It addition, it will summarize essential sector issues for
development in about 33 areas.
* The Colombia Poverty Report assesses and reviews (i) the evolution of poverty and
inequality in urban and rural areas over the past two decades; (ii) the incidence of crime
and violence and related household responses; and (iii) selected aspects of public
assistance, including an overview of public social expenditures and a specific review of
the subsidized health insurance system.
* The Social Safety Net Assessment evaluates reforms to Colombia's social safety net, both
for addressing the needs of vulnerable groups during normal times and for developing a
counter-cyclical strategy that could be implemented rapidly during future crises. The
study (i) assesses vulnerability and risk management in Colombia; (ii) evaluates how the
three new emergency Red de Apoyo Social safety net programs fit into the broader social
safety net over the long-term; (iii) assesses the efficiency, effectiveness and gaps in
Colombia's existing social assistance programs; and (iv) proposes technical, program and
policy reforms aimed at improving the social safety net.
Risks and Opportunities of the Proposed Program
A14. There are serious risks associated with the proposed program. If security conditions were
to significantly deteriorate, implementation of the Bank program would be negatively affected.
In addition, the current broad-based support for the reform process could weaken, particularly
during the upcoming national elections. However, the Pastrana administration, and leading
opposition candidates, continue to support peace and economic reform. President Pastrana has
expressed his commitment to use the final year of his current administration to support the
implementation of vital reforms. Moreover, the program has been discussed with the main
political parties (which would like to have painful but necessary reforms out of the way before
they take office), helping to increase its viability and continuity beyond this administration.
There are also several external risks that have been augmented by the events of September 11,
namely a further deterioration in the terms of trade and closure of access to international markets.
However, the implementation of the fiscal reform program will mitigate these risks by sending
positive signals to the market that Colombia is committed to maintaining sound economic
management.
A15. The risks of not proceeding with the program are even higher. First, the possibility of a
deterioration in the fiscal situation and growing fiscal deficits, jeopardizing macro-economic
stability and growth prospects, which could in turn lead to deepening political and social conflict
in Colombia. Second, a missed opportunity to alleviate the impact of economic crises on the
most vulnerable citizens and to ensure that key social services are targeted to the poor and
delivered efficiently and effectively.
A16. Although this is a high-risk program, its returns could be substantial. Present political
and economic circumstances in Colombia, as well as recent performance of the Bank portfolio,
39



Annex A
do not warrant any significant departure from the strategy outlined in the CAS and reaffirmed in
the CAS-PR. Indeed, they confirm the need to focus urgent attention on several important
aspects, such as promoting key social and fiscal structural reforms. Under these circumstances,
it is management's view that there is no reason to deviate from the high-case scenario for Bank
lending at the rate of approximately $450 million per year.
40



Annex Al
Colombia at a glance                                                                          9/7/01
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               America    middle-    r
Colombia   & Carib.   income         Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                            42.3       516       2,046                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                       2,020       3,680      1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                           85.3      1,895      2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00                                                                               T
Population (%)                                              1.9        1.6        1.0
Labor force (%)                                             2.7        2.3        1.3      GNI                                Gross
per              -                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                      capita                         enrollment
Poverty (1% of population below national poverty line)      55
Urban population (% of total population)                    74         75         42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                            70         70         69
infant mortality (per 1000 live births)                     23         30         32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                   8          9         11            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)         91         85         80
liliteracy (% of population age 15+)                         8          12        15
Gross primary enrollment ( aofschool-age population)       113        113        114        --Colombia
Male                                                     113          ..       116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   112          ..       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980      1990       1999       2000
Economic ratiosa
GDP (US$ billions)                               33.4      40.3       84.8       81.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    19.1      18.5       12.5       12.2
Exportsofgoods and services/GDP                  16.2      20.6       18.6       21.9                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       19.7      24.2       12.5       13.7
Gross national savings/GDP                       19.6      21.6       13.4       14.9
Current account balance/GDP                       0.3       1.3       -0.2       -0.2      Domestic                      Investment
Interest payments/GDP                             0.9       3.9        2.8        2.5      savings
Total debt/GDP                                   20.8      42.8       41.0       41.9
Total debtservice/exports                        15.1      40.9       51.3       51.1
Present value of debt/GDP                          ..        ..       39.7
Present value of debt/exports                      ..        ..      221.8
Indebtedness
1980-90   1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                     3.6       3.0      -4.3        2.8        2,8            -Colombia
GDP per capita                          1.5       1.1      -5.7        1.0        0.9           -   Lower-middle-income group
Exports ofgoods and services            7.5       5.3       4.7        5.3        4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980      1990       1999       2000      Growth of investrent and GDP (%)
(Yo of GDP)                                                                                40
Agriculture                                      19.9      16.7       13.8       13.8      ;0
Industry                                        32.5      37.9        28.1       30.5      0
Manufacturing                                  23.9      20.6       13.7       13.8
Services                                        47.6      45.4        58.1       55.7    -20
-40
Private consumption                             70.2       66.4       64.4       68.1     -s6
Generalgovermmentconsumption                     10.1       9.4       23.1       18.2                  _GDl           0  GDP
Imports ofgoods and services                     15.6      14.8       18.6       20.4
1980-90  1990-00        1999       2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth) 
Agriculture                                       2.9      -2.2        0.2        5.2     30
Industry                                          5.0       1.7       -9.0        3.8      5
Manufacturing                                   3.5      -2.3      -10.2        9.33                              o
Services                                         3.1       4.3        -1.1        1.9
Private consumption                              2.6        2.6       -4.5        6.5
General government consumption                   4.2        9.5        3.9      -14.5    -30
Gross domestic investment                         E.4      2.1       -38.3       15.2             -Exports            0  Imports
Imports of goods and services                    0.4        9.4      -22.3        5.8                                                 1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
4]



Annex A I
Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      so -
Consumer prices                             26.4    32.4       9.2       8.8    40
Implicit GDP deflator                       27.6    28.6      10.2      10.7    3
20      _
Government finance                                                             12 -             _C-
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            ,o 
Current revenue                                     15.8      12.7      13.2            95   96   97   98   99   0o
Current budget balance                        .      6 8      -2.3     -2.9             --GDP deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              3.9      -7.5     -6.1
TRADE
'US$ millions)                             1980    1990      1999      2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       4,255   7,139    11,569   13,115       20.000
Coffee                                   2,361    1,415     1,324    1,069
Petroleum                                  101    1,951    3,757    4,569      15000
Manufactures                              973    1,759     3,947    5,190
Total imports (cif)                       4,663   5,589    10,659   11,538       10,000
Food                                      296      245      1,426    1,428      5OD
Fuel and energy                           564      330       252      234
Capital goods                            1,616   2,034      3,651    3,414        o
Export price index (1995=100)                 7       61       194      243             94  95  96  97  98  99  oo
Import price index (1995=100)                 5       56       161      201                U Exports      * Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                      126      110       121      121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP 
Exports of goods and services             5,747   8,687    13,866   15,608       0
Imports of goods and services             5,597   7,089    13,408   14,301        l                           99  co
Resource balance                            150   1,597        457    1,307
Net income                                 -211   -2,080    -1,422   -2,429     |2
Net current transfers                       166   1,026        785      990       t                i3 r-0
Currentaccountbalance                       105      544      -180     -132   |4
Financing items (net)                      -430       53       502     -737      5t
Changes in net reserves                     325    -597       -322      869   |  I
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..      ..    8,103    9,006
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)           47.3   502.3   1,756.6  2,087.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      6,940  17,222    34,678   34,081
IBRD                                      991    3,859     1,960    1,920
IDA                                        21       15         8        7                  3965   1960 a
Total debt service                          951    3,889     7,117    7,974                                   52
I1ARD                                     144     751       390       370
IDA                                         0        1         1        1                                   1470
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             8       35       103
Official creditors                        280      -40       970      275
Private creditors                         531    -155      2,502     -415
Foreign direct investment                 157     500      1,109    2,247
Portfolio equity                            0        0       25        17                 22883
World Bank program
Commitments                               351      536       591      350      A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             218     213       511       265      8-IDA    D- Other multilateral F - Private
Principal repayments                       66     435       271       244      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 152    -221       241        21   1_1
Interest payments                          79     318       121       127
Net transfers                              73    -539       120      -105
Development Economics                                                                                             9/7/01
42



Annex A2
Annex A2. Key Economic & Program Indicators-Change from Last CAS
As Of Date 11/12/2001
Forecast in Last CAS       Actual          Current Forecast
Economy (CY)                           1997   11998b  999b 2000  1999c 2000c 2001  2002   2003    2004
Growth rates (%)
GDP                              2.4   4.2    4.0   3.2  -4.3   2.8   2.0    2.5         3.0    3.5
Exports                          4.7  12.4   10.6   1.1   7.2   3.0   2.9         0      4.7    3.3
Imports                          5.9   3.0    4.2   1.7  -25.4   8.0  12.2    3.5        3.8    8.2
Inflation (%)                              18.5  18.0   17.0  16.0   9.2   8.8   8.0    6.0        4.0    4.0
National accounts (% GDP)
Current account balance         -4.8  -4.2   -3.7  -4.1  -0.2  -0.2  -2.7   -2.6    -2.9   -2.8
Gross investment                20.5   19.6   18.8  19.2  13.9  14.5  14.0   16.5    18.3   19.1
Public finance (% GDP)
Central Administration balance  -3.6  -2.4   -1.7  -1.4  -6.7  -5.9  -4.0   -3.9    -3.7   -2.8
International reserves                      6.1   5.2    4.7   4.4   6.8   6.9   6.6    6.8         6.8    7.1
(as months of imports)
Program (Bank's FY)                    FY97a  FY98 b FY99  F       FFyoo  Y99c FY0Oc FY01  FY02  FY3b  FY04'
Lending ($ million)                             345.0  375.0 550.0   140   930   190    630        665
Gross disbursements                             265.0  372.0 404.0   238   471   183    490        450
($ million)                             __= =
a. Estimated year
b. Projected year
c. Actual outcome
43



44



Annex A3
Annex A3.
Selected Indicators* of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
As Of Date 11/12/2001
Indicator                                              1999         2000          2001          2002
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects Under Implementation a                20            26           22            23
Average Implementation Period (years) b                 3.3           3.4          3.2           3.1
Percent of Problem Projects by Number a, c                0           7.7          4.5           4.3
Percent of Problem Projects by Amount a, c                0           6.9          5.5           5.7
Percent of Projects at Risk by Number a, d                0           7.7          4.5           4.3
Percent of Projects at Risk by Amount a, d                0           6.9          5.5           5.7
Disbursement Ratio (%) e                               33.3          36.6         24.6           6.5
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)                          YES           YES           NO           YES
Supervision Resources (total US$)                     1,033         1,245        1,240         1,594
Average Supervision (US$/project)                     51.65         47.88        59.04         83.89
Memorandum Item                              Since FY 80   Last Five FYs
Proj Eval by OED by Number                               86             7
Proj Eval by OED by Amt (US$ millions)                 6176         698.1
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Number              25.9          28.6
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Amt                 23.7            20
a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY).
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
beginning of the year: Investment projects only.
* All indicators are for projects active in the Portfolio, with the exception of Disbursement Ratio,
which includes all active projects as well as projects which exited during the fiscal year.
45



46



Annex A4
Annex A4. IBRD/IDA Program Summary
As Of Date 11/12/2001
Proposed IBRD/IDA Base-Case Lending Program a
Strategic Rewards b       Implementation b
Fiscal year      Proj ID                                              US$(M)                   (H/M/L)              Risks (H/M/L)
2002              Magdalena Medio 11                                   5.0                         H                        H
Water Sector Reform Assistance Project               40.0                        H                       M
Judicial Reform                                      5.0                         H                        H
Structural Fiscal Adjustmcnt Loan                   400.0                        H                       H
Social Sector Adjustment                             150.0                       H                       H
Productive Partnerships                             31.5                        M                        M
2003             Agricultural Technology Development                  35.0                        M                        M
Labor/Tax SAL                                       400.0                        H                       H
Higher Education Financing Reform                    150.0                       H                        H
Colombia-Bogota Urban Services                      80.0                        M                        M
a. This table presents the proposed program for the next three fiscal years.
b. For each project, indicate whether the strategic rewards and implementation risks are expected to be high (H), moderate (M), or low (L).
47



48



Annex A5
Annex A5. IFC & MIGA Program Summary
FY 1999-2002
1999   2000   2001 2002
IFC approvals (US$m)                                    55.10  21.60  176.38
Sector (%)
COLLECTIVE INV VEHICLE                                                    11
FINANCE & INSURANCE                                       65              79
NONMETALLIC MINERAL                                                       10
OIL, GAS AND MINING                                       35
Total                                                     100      0    100      0
Investment instrument(%)
Loans                                                     45               4
Equity                                                     9              33
Quasi-Equity                                              45               6
Other                                                                     57
Total                                                     99       0    100    0
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                                 155.42  155.42    0.00
49



50



Annex A6
Annex A6. Summary of Nonlending Services
As Of Date 11112/2001
Product                                      Completion FY           Cost (US$000)         Audience '         Objective b
Social Sector CEM                                   FY02                    87.5                G, B            KG, PD
Agro-Ecology                                        FY02                    60.0                G, B             KG, PS
Improv Pub Expend EF                                FY02                    45.0                G, B             KG, PS
Colombia Rural Finance                              FY02                    100.0               G, B           KG, PD, PS
Poverty Selected Topics                             FY02                    100.0             G, B, PD         KG, PD, PS
Social Sector Review                                FY02                    150.0             G, B, PD         KG, PD, PS
Environment, Land & Poverty                         FY02                    120.0                G, B            KG, PS
Policy Notes                                        FY02                    100.0               G, B               PD
Labor Reform Agenda                                 FY03                    80.0              G, B, PD            KG
a. Government, donor, Bank, public dissemination.
b. Knowledge generation, public debate, problem-solving.
51



52



Annex A7
Colombia Social Indicators
Latest single year           Same region/income group
Latin      Lower-
America       middle-
1970-75     1980-85      1994-00          & Carlb.      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)            25.4         31.7        42.2             515.6       2,046.0
Growth rate (% annual average for period)       2.4         2.1          1.8               1.6          1.0
Urban population (% of population)               60.7        67.0         74.9              75.3         42.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)            ..          ..           ..               2.6          2.1
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                            ..         ..         21.0
Urban headcount index                            ..          ..
Rural headcount index                            ..          ..
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                             560         1,150       2,460             3,680        1,140
Consumerprceindex(1995=1O0)                         1          11          215              152           149
Food price index (1995=10O)                       ..                        ..
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)      3.9          ..          3.1
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)    58.8          ..         61.5
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                 .           ..          ..               3.4          2.7
Education (% of GNI)                             ..          ..           ..               3.6          4.7
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)           ..          ..           ..               7.4
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                            ..          ..           ..               91            99
Male                                           ..          ..           ..                ..          100
Female                                         ..          ..           ..                ..           99
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                           64           91           75               85            80
Urban                                         86          100          90                93            95
Rural                                         33           76          32                62            69
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..          ..           ..               90            87
DPT                                              ..          ..           ..               87            87
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)               ..          17            8                 9           11
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           62           67           70                70           69
Male                                           ..          ..           ..               67            67
Female                                         ..          ..           ..               73            72
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)               62           37           24               30            32
Under 5 (per thousand live births)               ..          ..           ..               38            40
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                    ..          ..           ..              207           192
Female (per 1,000 population)                  ..          ..           ..              122           133
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                ..          ..
Births attended by skilled health staff (/.)        .           ..
10105101
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data.
53



54



Annex A8
Key Economic Indicators
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product         100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     1000      100.0
Agriculture'                   13.7      14.2      13.8       13.8      16.0      15.9      15.9       15.8
Industyy'                      29.4      28.3      28.1      30.5       28.3      28.9      29.1      29.2
Services                       56.9      57.5      58.1      55.7       55.7      55.2      55.0      55.0
Total Consumption               85.0      86.2       87.5      86.3      85.4       85.5      85.8      86.0
Grossdomesticfixed              21.3      19.6       139       14.5      14.0       16.5      18.3      19.1
investment
Public investment               ..        8.0       8.7       7.5        7.0       8.2       8.3        8.3
Private investment               ..      11.6       5.2       7.0        7.0       8.3      10.0       10.8
Exports (GNFS)5                 14.8      15.1       18.6      21.9      18.9       19.9      19.2      18.7
Imports (GNFS)                  20.8      21.0       18.6      20.4      20.8      20.8       20.6      19.7
Gross domestic savings          15.0       13.8      12.5      13.7      14.6       14.5      14.2      14.0
Gross national savingse         15.6       14.2      13.4      14.9      15.0       15.5      15.4      15.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product        106719     98806     84845     81290      82285     85151     89150     94697
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per    3450.0    2600.0    2200.0    2020.0    1870.0    1900.0    1960.0    2030.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1994
prices)
Gross domestic productat       3.4        0.6      -4.3       2.8        2.0       2.5       3.0        3.5
market prices
Gross Domestic Income           3.6      -1.1      -3.8       4.2        1.8       3.9       2.6        4.2
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at       1.5      -1.3      -5.7        1.0       0.3       0.9        1.4       1.2
market prices
Total consumption              3.3       -1.7      -4.2      -0.8        2.6       0.4       0.4        0.3
Private consumption            0.5       -2.7      -6.2       4.6        3.4       0.5       0.3        0.4
55



Annex A8
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports(GNFS)                14195.0   13560.0   13865.5   15608.0   155118    16204.2   164736    172554
MerchandiseFOB             115293    10944.3   11556.1   13619.7   13722.3   13520.0   13655.2   13928.3
lmports(GNFS)                184109    17539.5   13408.3   14301.4   16515.5   16978.1   17657.2   181123
Merchandise FOB            14371.4   13691.9    9899.5   11076.9   12162.4   12537.9   13039.5   13561.0
Resource Balance              -4216.0   -3979.5       457.2    1306.6   -1003.7    -773.9   -1183.6    -856.9
Net current transfers          613.6      444.0      785.4      989.8     382.2      887.9    1056.6      1105.0
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance      -5952.9   -5270.3    -179.8    -132.4   -2665.0   -2524.0   -2514.0   -2602.0
(after official capital grants)
Netprivateforeign direct      4829.6    2432.5    1011.6        1181       1218       1233      1798       1810
investment
Long-term loans (net)         2199.8      932.1      504.7    -294.0      607.0    1383.0       986.0    1386.3
Official                     -452.1      103.6      969.5      274.6     -73.5    -618.7    -928.3    -589.0
Change in reserves'            277.4   -1390.1      -321.8      869.0     296.0      278.0      234.0      310.0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of            -4.0      -4.0        0.5        1.6      -1.2       -0.9       -1.3       -0.9
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
YR94 prices)
Merchandise exports              5.7        9.1        7.2        3.0       2.9        0.0        4.7        3.3
(FOB)
Primary                        -3.7        3.2       24.3       -0.6      -0.6       -8.3        4.3        1.5
Manufactures                    4.2       19.3        1.1        5.4       5.2        5.9        4.3        4.3
Merchandise imports              -4.5       0.3      -25.4        8.0      12.2        3.5        3.8        8.2
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                12.6       11.9       12.7       13.2       14.9      14.7       14.1       14.0
Current expenditures            12.4       13.9       15.0       16.1       16.2      15.9       15.0       14.4
56



Annex A8
Actual              Estimate           P:ctd
7    0i ator -               1997       1998       1999      2000       200t1      2002   .203          2004
Current balance, surplus (+)     0.2       -2.0       -2.3       -2.9      -1.3       -1.2       -0.9       -0.4
or deficit (-)
Monetary indkators
M2/GDP (at current market       36.0       34.4       36.0      33.1       34.7       34.9       35.3       35 5
prices)
GrowthofM2(%)                   25.8       10.9       10.5        47       12.0        6.0        4.0        4.0
Private sector credit growth!   79.2       76.5      -492       20.1       66.2       78.0      110.7      195.3
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR94 =100)
Merchandise export price       1084        935        92.9      102.2      97.7      100.1       98.1       97.5
index
Merchandise import price        86.0       81.5       79.6      115.9      78.8       81.6       83.0       84.8
index
Merchandiseterrnsoftrade       126.1      114.7      116.6       88.2     124.0      125.7      122.3      126.5
index
Real exchange rate             119.1      1136       102.7       98.9      96.2       93.4       93.4       93.4
(USsLCU)J
Consumerprice index            17.7%      16.7%      9.2%       8.8%       8.0%      6.0%       4.0%       4.0%
(%/o growth rate)
GDP deflator                   16.8%      15 2%     10 2%      10.7%      11.1%      7.5%       6.2%       5.7%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating t'Data-YR' fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Data refer to the Central Administration
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
57



58



Annex A9
Key Exposure Indicators
2g ~~~~~~tt                               '-.,.  Estimate         PrIo
. 99,~~a. 13. 19"        1999      2000      2001      2002  X2003--,-   Z
Total debt outstanding and      31800     33338     34678     34081      35958     38403     41990     46307
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Total debt service (TDS)         6960      6584      7117      7974       7947      8986      9112     10280
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                       224.0     246.0     250.0     218.0     232.0      237.0     255.0     268.0
TDO/GDP                         29.8      33.7      41.0      41.9      43.7      45.1       47.1      48.9
TDS/XGS                         49.0      48.6      51.3      51.1       51.2      55.5      55.3      59.6
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS               21.0      11.9       8.2       10.4       9.2       9.5       9.2       8.4
Preferred creditor DS/public    42.1      24.7      21.1      25.7    26.200       24.8      22.3      21.1
DS (%)c
IBRD DS/XGS                      4.0       2.6       2.8       2.4        2.3       2.3       2.4       2.2
IBRD TDO (US$m)                1723      1740      1961      1920      2090      2340       2350      2220
IDA TDO (US$m)                    10         9         8         7         6         5          4         3
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
59



60



Annex A 10
Annex AIO. Operations Portfolio (IBRD/LDA and Grants)
A. Of D0e. II/12620
CIsd Pn,J..            141
IORD/MA .
Trs1 Dunb.d (Aov-)               616 50
ofnt.nh h6. brcn n:rd        35.16
T-1I Dhsobnnd (Clo-d)            7,567.30
.f vhich hr. bonn np.Wd      7,646 40
To1l D)bunud (AO-n I Cl1-n       81,83 S2
of th.h h. been rnpid        7,681 56
o.b1 UWnIi,b-nnd (A-On)          67s56
Tobl Und6b.e.d (CI.Md)           D W
T.Wl UOnd.b.n-d (Afiv0    Cl-d)  678 56
A,ti, Peeio.b                                                                                                                                                                                                            niffer.ne- BeOt-ten
L-t PSR                                                                                                         E.Wpted and Aeto.l
Su-prrvbirn Ratig                                           Orid,md An-int hn US$ Miio-                              D.b ......_b _
P.jeni ID                        Pnjeet N..,c                                                   mn-an,M          1a.0lmn ta"tPn        i F..lI Ye-              IBlRD           GRANT               Cranel.    Undl,b.        0Ori.  Fr R evd
P057692                          2nd Magdalena Medio Prmject                                         6                                   2002                        5                                                5
P006880                          AGRICULTURETECHNOLO                                                 S                 HS                1995                      51                                              11.8         118        -5.7
P044140                          CARTAGENAWATERSUPPLY &SEWERAGE ENVIRO                               S                 S                2000                       85                                              68.8        239
P040109                          CO PUBLIC FiNANC MANAGEMENT PROJECTII                               S                  S                2001                     3535                                             35 2         -0.2
P006861                          CO URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                                             U                 U                 1990                       75                                             573         29.5
P006891                          CO- ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                                             S                 S                 1998                      40                                                26         183         16
P068762                          CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA)                               S                 S                 2000                      100                                               96          28
P069964                          CO- H.man Capit Patn- Cash Trmsfer                                  S                 S                2001                       150                                              150           0
P046112                          CO- PASTOEDUCAT7ON                                                  S                 S                 1998                      72                                               36           29         03
P050578                          CO- RURAL EDUCATION                                                 S                 S                 2000                      20                                              I0.0         42
P050576                          CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                                               S                 S                 1999                        5                                                3           3
P063317                          COLOMBtAHIGHANDES                                                   S                 S                 2001                                       154                            14.7          0.7
P065263                          EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                                                HS                 HS               2000                      225                                             104.2        55 9
POl6S93                          ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                         S                 S                 1995                       11                                              0.5          0.5
P006884                          FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                                       S                 S                 1997                       15                                   5 5        3 2          8.7
P054125                          ODS-PHASE OUT                                                       S                 S                 1999                                        0.7                            8 3           0
P053243                          PEASANTENTERPRISEZ                                                  S                 S                 199S                       5                                               27           2.4
P006887                          POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY (TA)                             HS                 S                 1996                    2493                                                 1            1          1
P040102                          REG REFTA                                                          HS                 S                 1997                     12.5                                              5.3          53
P006894                          SANTAFE I (Wat.r/S.pply)                                            S                 S                 1996                      145                                             39.9          39
P057326                          SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT                               S                 S                2000                        5                                               4 4         -0.6
P039291                          URBANENVIRONMENTTA                                                  S                 S                 1996                      20                                                1.9         1 9       -04
P065937                          WATER SECTOR REFORM ASSISTANCE PROJECT                              6                 #                 2002                      40                                                40
Overall result                                                                                                                          Result                  13015                24                  55       7015        236.1        -3 2
a Intended d,sb.rsements to date mmuns aenasl dsbursement. to dale as pojected at appraisal



62



Annex Al I
Annex All.
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 7/31/2001
(In $US Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval       Company          Loan    Equity Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valle          0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0
2001 CHMC                   0   0.21     0      0       0   0.21     0      0
1974/01          Cementos Caribe      4.05     10     0  12.95   4.05     10      0  12.95
1963/90          Coltejer             6.02      0     0      0   6.02      0      0      0
1995/99          Corfinsura             25      0    25      0      0      0    25       0
1987 PRODESAL               0   0.59     0      0      0   0.59      0      0
1977/89/92/94/96   Promigas           6.25      0     0   12.5   6.25      0      0   12.5
1994/95          Promisan                0    0.2     0      0      0    0.2      0      0
1996 Proyectos              0      5     0      0      0      5      0      0
1997 Suleasing            9.1      0     0      0    3.8      0      0      0
1999 Surenting              0    5.1     0      0      0    2.5      0      0
2001 Tolcemento          3.33      0     0  10.67       0      0     0      0
Total Portfolio:           53.75   21.1   25  36.12  20.12   18.5   25  25.45
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity Quasi Partic
2001 CHMC              100000      0     0      0
2001 CCGF                   0 19000      0      0
Total Pending Commitment:      100000  19000     0      0
63



64



Annex B
ANNEX 1B
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM-STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(SFAL)
THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
B1.   A moderate recovery took place in the Colombian economy in 2000 and this recovery has
continued, although at a slower pace, in 2001. The recovery comes on the heels of the 1999
recession, when real GDP contracted by 4.3 percent (Table A.B. 1), and which was the deepest
economic crisis Colombia has experienced in the last 70 years. The recession had its roots in
large imbalances in both the fiscal and external accounts, which were exacerbated by the Asian
and Russian crises and drops in oil and coffee prices in the late 1990s. Fragile and deteriorating
Colombian domestic security conditions further alarmed investors, both domestic and foreign.
B2.   Profound changes in the early 1990s conspired against fiscal and macroeconomic
stability in Colombia. Changes in the Constitution in 1991 generated significant new financial
obligations for the government, and set the stage for what should have been an important shift in
the role of government.  The most important changes were the consolidation of the
decentralization process, reforms in social security, and a renewed emphasis on the role of the
state in the provision of social services, justice, and security. The fiscal implications of the new
rules were large. Transfers from the central to local goverments nearly doubled from 22
percent of current revenues in 1990 to over 40 percent in 2000, social security expenditures at
the central level grew from 2.9 percent to 5.3 percent of GDP between 1990 and 1997, and
defense spending increased from 1.4 percent to 3 percent of GDP over the same period.
Table A.B.1. Colombia: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990-2000
In Percent of GDP (Unless Otherwise Indicated)
1990-94   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Real GDP Growth (%)        4.5      2.0     3.1     0.6    -4.3      2.8
NFPS Balance              -0.7     -3.0    -3.9    -4.6    -6.4    -3.6
Central Government Balance    -1.3  -3.7    -3.7    -4.9    -7.5    -6.1
Current Account Balance   -3.7     -4.9    -5.5    -5.3    -0.1    -0.2
Inflation Rate (%/o)      24.8     21.6    17.6    16.7     9.2      8.8
Investment                18.4     22.2    21.3    19.6    13.9    14.5
Unemployment Rate (%)      9.5     11.2    12.4    15.2    19.4    20.2
B3.   The emphasis on decentralization was not, however, compensated by a reduction in the
size of the central government. Central government expenditures, other than transfers to local
65



Annex B
governments and to social security, continued to rise during the 1990s, growing by 50 percent,
from 4.2 percent to 6.3 percent of GDP during the decade. The mounting pressures led to
continuous attempts to raise revenues through no fewer than eight tax bills, with little empnasis
until recently on trimming spending. While central government tax revenues increased by 1.9
percentage points, expenditures did so by 3.3 percentage points during the decade. Fromn a
situation of a nearly balanced budget in the early 1990s, Colombia thus ended 1999 with a Non-
Financial Public Sector (NFPS) deficit of 6.4 percent of GDP.
B4.   In addition, a rapid real appreciation of the peso through the early and mid-I 990s, partly
as a result of large capital inflows due to new oil discoveries, increased borrowing from abroad
as a result of the country's new investment-grade rating, and the repatriation of drug profits,
undermined trade liberalization efforts. Capital inflows pushed up asset prices, particularly real
estate. A strong peso was supported by a newly independent Central Bank with a Constitutional
mandate to control inflation. The appreciating currency was particularly detrimental to the
agricultural sector and to textile manufactures. In addition, while capital and imports were
relatively cheap, labor became increasingly costly. The combination of these factors led to
growing fiscal and external deficits, pushing Colombia first toward slower growth and rising
unemployment from 1996 onward, and later into a full-blown recession.
The 1998-99 Recession
B5.   The current account deficit had reached worrisome levels by 1997-98, standing at above
5 percent of GDP. The deterioration in the current account began in 1993 as a result of rapid
growth in private investment and borrowing spurred by a boom in the real estate sector. By
1997, however, the external deficit reflected the imbalance in the fiscal accounts, spurred by
growing public expenditures and rising interest payments. In addition, export revenues fell in
1997 and 1998 as a result of the drop in oil and coffee prices, Colombia's two largest exports,
further aggravating the problem.
B6.   Colombia's deteriorating fumdamentals, combined with a trade shock estimated at :.5
percent of GDP, and with events in international credit markets, resulted in the virtual closing of
financial markets to the country. This forced the Colombian authorities to turn to the domestic
market to fulfill their large financing needs, putting increasing pressure on domestic interest
rates. Interest rates were driven even higher by continued attacks on the peso in 1998 and 1999,
confirming market concerns regarding the sustainability of Colombia's fiscal and external
imbalances. The failed attempts by the Central Bank to defend the existing exchange rate band
led to a cumulative loss of US$1.8 billion in reserves. The benchmark deposit rate had riser to
almost 20 percent in real terms, while the annual real lending rate rose to 26 percent in late 1998.
The exchange rate band was finally abandoned in September 1999 and the peso was allowed to
float freely.,
B7.   The economy, already suffering from the earlier demise of the construction sector in
1995-96, was thus hit by the collapse of productive activity as a result of galloping interest rates.
Private investment fell by over 60 percent and private consumption dropped 6 percent. 1 lie
1. The peso has depreciated by about 15 percent in nominal terms since the collapse of the band, and the behav ior
of the exchange market has remained largely orderly.
66



Annex B
sectors that suffered the most marked contractions were construction (-20 percent),
manufacturing (-15 percent), and commerce and financial services (each -7 percent). With the
severe recession that hit the country, however, imports plummeted as domestic demand
collapsed, while exports benefited from the high international price of oil and the devaluation of
the peso. The current account in 1999 and 2000 was therefore in near balance.
B8.   The condition of the financial system, already under strain, worsened during 1998 and
1999 due to the sharp deterioration of loan portfolios and a large volume of nonproductive assets.
High interest rates and negative economic growth stretched the payment capacity of most
borrowers, and arrears in the loan portfolios grew to almost 15 percent in 1999. To head off a
systemic crisis in the financial system, the government put in place programs to assist financial
institutions and mortgage holders. Measures were also put in place to recapitalize viable private
banks and to address the problems of public banks.2
B9.   Economic woes have been accompanied by high unemployment levels of about 20
percent, which have not reacted to the moderate resumption of growth over 2000-01. Shrinking
demand has also been partially responsible for the drop in inflation from nearly 18 percent in
1997 to under 9 percent in 2000.
Macroeconomic Adjustment
BlO. In response to the severity of the recession, the Colombian government embarked on a
program of stabilization, supported by a three-year (2000-02) Extended Fund Facility from the
IMF. The government program aims at increasing revenues and reducing expenditures; this is to
be complemented by a rationalization and definition of the roles and competencies of central and
local government.
B 11. A number of measures, mainly directed to enhancing revenues, have been taken. These
include (a) passage of sound budgets for 2000 and 2001; (b) widening of the value added tax
base; (c) improving tax collection and fighting evasion and smuggling; (d) changes in royalty
allocation to attract private investment, particularly to the oil sector; and (e) recent passage of a
tax bill expected to yield additional revenues on the order of 1.8 percent of GDP. These revenue
measures are being complemented with some structural measures in a number of areas, including
expenditure reduction. A financial system reform law was passed in 1999 raising minimum
capital requirements and strengthening the faculties of the Banking Superintendency and
Financial Guarantee Fund (FOGAFIN). A constitutional amendment was passed that would save
part of the transfers to local government in order to finance local pension funds. Moreover,
another constitutional amendment that de-links territorial transfers from the central government's
current revenues for a period of eight years has also been approved by Congress. In addition,
legislation to limit the operational expenditures of government at the local level was also
approved. Further, a number of critical reforms are either currently under consideration by
Congress or are expected to be presented to legislative sessions in 2001 and/or in the first session
2. The govermment estimates the cost of cleaning up the balance sheets of private banks at about 4.5 percent of
GDP, nearly half of which would come out of public coffers through FOGAFIN loans, with an additional 4
percent of GDP for the restructuring of public banks.
67



Annex B
of 2002. These include a reform of the resources and competencies of local government (Law
60/93), and a territorial tax reform.
Economic Recovery
B12. The government's efforts have yielded encouraging results. Real GDP grew by 2.8
percent in 2000 following the 4.3 percent drop in output in 1999. The main engine of economriic
growth during 2000 was the recovery of exports, both traditional and nontraditional.
Manufacturing output expanded by about 9 percent, and inflation ended the year at 8.8 percetnt,
well below the Central Bank's 10 percent inflation target. Interest rates have come down from
their historic highs to about 4 percent in real terms.
B13. Colombia's fiscal performance was helped by higher than projected oil revenues and
lower capital spending during 2000. Notwithstanding a number of setbacks, including the
Constitutional Court decision of October 2000 to retroactively raise public sector wages, and the
financial deterioration in the public pension and health systems, the target Non-Financial Public
Sector (NFPS) deficit of 3.6 percent of GDP was achieved in 2000.
B14. The recovery is nevertheless fragile, because external conditions have deteriorated
substantially in 2001, with a sharp slowdown in world economic growth and international trade,
accompanied by drastic declines in oil and coffee prices.3  Internal demand growth has been
sluggish since 2000. Prospects for a significant reactivation in the construction and real estate
sectors looked reasonable until recently, but credit from the financial system has stalled in real
terrns. The private sector has been paying off its debt and appears cautious about borrowing
significantly for accelerating investments. The financial system, although stronger as a whole,
remains fragile. The oil sector, Colombia's main export earner, will see some declines in
production as a result of the aging of oil fields and guerrilla attacks on pipelines, combined xNith
volatile international prices. Unemployment has remained at about 20 percent since the
beginning of 2000, and in response much of the government's current investment program
focuses on strengthening the social safety net, targeted to mitigate the negative impact of The
economic contraction on the poor.
B15. The shortfall in privatization revenues during 2000 forced the government to rely heavily
on both extemal and domestic credit. Public sector external debt at the end of 2000 stood at
about 26 percent of GDP, up from 19.5 percent and 24 percent in 1998 and 1999, respectively;
total net public debt was about 42 percent of GDP. Domestically, there was a significant
increase in the holding of government securities by the private sector. At the same time. a
significant shift to more liquid monetary instruments took place, with broad money growing by
only 2.7 percent, while narrow money increased by nearly 14 percent. This was the result of the
combined effect of the financial transactions tax and the problems of the financial system.
Financial system credit to the private sector stagnated during the year, and the econom-ic
recovery was financed largely by the productive sectors through the use of own capital and
installed capacity.
3. The slowdown in world growth and international trade has intensified following unprecedented terrorist attacks
against the United States on September 11, 2001, and subsequent events.
68



Annex B
ECONOMIC PROSPECTS
B16.  GDP growth of 1.5 to 2.5 percent is projected for 2001, with a bias toward the lower end
of the range. The slowdown from 2.8 percent growth in 2000 is due to uncertainties regarding
capital markets and a weakening of investment spending, deteriorating terms of trade and
disruption of oil exports, and extensive strikes in the public and private sectors in the first half of
2001 (see Table A.B.2). Under a medium-term scenario that assumes full implementation of
structural reforms to strengthen the fiscal accounts, including the reforms to intergovernmental
fiscal relations and education expenditures, and the restructuring of the ISS and public hospitals,
an increase in the rate of GDP growth to levels approaching 2.5 to 3 percent is projected for the
2002-03 period, and to 3 to 3.5 percent for 2004-05.
Table A.B.2. Colombia: Selected Macroeconomic Projections, 2000-05
In Percent of GDP (unless otherwise indicated)
2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005
GDP Growth (%)                  2.8       2.0      2.5       3.0      3.5      3.5
NFPS Balance                    -3.6     -3.3     -3.1      -2.5     -2.0      -1.5
Central Government Balance     -6.1      -5.7     -4.6      -3.6     -2.6      -2.3
Current Account Balance        -0.2      -2.6     -2.6      -2.9     -2.8      -2.7
Inflation (%)                   8.8       8.0      6.0       4.0      4.0      4.0
Investment                     14.5      15.7     16.5      18.3     19.1      19.2
Unemployment Rate (%)          20.2      18.0     17.5      15.7     15.3      14.8
Source: World Bank Staff projections
B17. It is expected that in 2001 the NFPS fiscal deficit will be about 3.3 percent of GDP
(higher than the 2.8 percent of GDP target originally agreed under the IMF program although it
is likely that the program target will be modified). The expected shortfall is due to weaker than
programmed tax collections, mainly as a result of weakening economic activity, which will
offset lower-than-projected investment spending and bank restructuring costs. The objective of
the government was to end its four-year term in 2002 with a fiscal deficit close to 2.5 percent of
GDP. Achieving this goal, and maintaining sustainable deficits into the future, requires the
passage of structural reforms outlined above that are designed to improve control over public
sector expenditures. A reform of the public pension system is assumed-this reform, however,
would not significantly affect the fiscal balances within the horizon of the projections included
below. Thus, the full impact of the reform would fall outside the projection period, and most of
the savings in the short term arise from the improved administration of the ongoing transition, an
important component of the overall pension reform efforts. Under such a scenario, the NFPS
deficit would decline from 3.6 percent of GDP in 2000 to 3.3 percent in 2001, to about 3.1
percent of GDP the following year, and would steadily approach 1.5 percent of GDP by 2005.
The accruing benefits of structural reforms would make this fiscal stabilization possible despite
expected declines in oil production over the next five years. Under this scenario, Colombia's
total public debt would stabilize at about 50 percent of GDP in the long term.
69



Annex B
BI 8. Attaining the envisioned level of economic growth would also be supported by increases
in public savings, thus helping to raise national savings and maintain a current account deficit in
the 2 to 3 percent-of-GDP range over the medium term. The current account deficit is projected
to increase by about 2.5 percent of GDP in 2001 as traditional exports, particularly oil and
coffee, weaken sharply both in volume and price, while growing domestic demand sustains
imports.  The decline in the current account balance is expected to be moderated by a
devaluation rate of 10 percent this year, helping the growth of nontraditional exports, despite the
risk of weakening demand in the United States in particular, and increasing the cost of imports.
The capital account is expected to strengthen in 2001 as a result of further public seclor
borrowing and reduced net capital outflows from the private sector. International reserves are
projected at about seven months of imports in the coming years, with small yearly increases
resulting largely from interest earnings on the reserves.
B19. A reduction of inflation from a targeted level of 8 percent in 2001 to 6 percent and 4
percent in 2002 and 2003, respectively, is forecast as the Central Bank moves toward inflation
targeting in conducting its monetary policy. While some inflationary pressures can be expected
as the economic recovery proceeds, continued high levels of unemployment, slackness in
external and domestic demand, and productivity gains should enable the attainment of inflation
targets. Also forecast is the resumption in the growth of broad money aggregates and financial
system credit to the private sector following the decline experienced in 1999 and 2000.
B20. A higher national savings rate and a sustainable current account deficit would create the
required space for expansion in private investment that is critical to achieving an economic
growth of 3.5 percent or above. Both private and public investment dropped significantly during
the 1998-99 recession, and have not rebounded to levels sufficient for sustaining long-term
growth at the 3.5 percent level envisioned-total investment in Colombia stands at about 14
percent of GDP. Central government investment has been reduced to about 1.5 percent of GD]',
half its average level during 1990-97, and represents about half the resources currently spent on
interest payments by central government debt. Private investment has undergone a decline since
1994, and now stands at only 7 percent of GDP.
B21. The key ingredient for improving the incentives for investment is the reduction in
uncertainty, both political and economic. In the political front, peace negotiations have been the
main priority of the Pastrana Administration; progress, however, has been slow, and a
comprehensive agreement is unlikely to be achieved in the near future. While realizing
Colombia's full growth potential will not happen under conditions of conflict, much can
nevertheless be done on the economic front to improve the investment climate in the country.
Bringing the fiscal accounts onto a sustainable path is therefore doubly important, and would
help to significantly reduce the country risk associated with Colombia. The reduction of the
deficit, and therefore of the need to tap domestic markets to finance the deficit, would not only
open needed space for the private sector, but would also enhance the credibility of the
stabilization program and the prospects for the future. Fiscal stabilization would also create the
space for public sector investment in areas complementary to private sector activity, effectiveyv
''crowding in" private investment.
B22. The prospects for a consolidation of the economic recovery in 2002-03 and beyond thus
depend on the success of the government in garnering support for structural reforms to
70



Annex B
strengthen the fiscal position and on improvements in the climate for investment in the country.
The rationalization of decentralization is a particularly critical reform, and is central to the
solution of the fiscal challenges facing Colombia in the coming years. The realignment of
revenues and responsibilities at the different levels of government is fundamental to achieving
control over Colombia's fiscal balances, not to mention its importance in improving the delivery
of education and health services, and in the strengthening of human capital in the country.
External Financing Requirements
B23. The government plans to obtain the bulk of its deficit financing from external sources and
has already placed about US$2.7 billion in international bonds to cover its privately provided
financing for the year, including US$1 billion backed by a World Bank policy-based guarantee
operation. The remainder of its gross financing needs, approximately US$1.8 billion, is expected
to come from multilateral institutions. As such, although Colombia's spreads would be
vulnerable to a deterioration in the external environment toward the Region, the impact on access
to financing from international capital markets is likely to remain limited, at least during 2001.
The government's strategy of decreasing its reliance on domestic financing is expected to be
maintained over the coming years in order to decrease the crowding out of the private sector and
to set the stage for sustained investment and growth. Negative net domestic financing is
envisioned from 2002 onward, with limited recourse to privatization.4
B24. Projections of Colombia's external financing requirements and sources of finance are
presented in Table A.B.3. Total public and private sector gross external financing requirements
are estimated at US$8.1 billion, US$7.8 billion, and US$8.4 billion for 2001, 2002, and 2003,
respectively. These external financing requirements are expected to be financed largely through
public and private debt from both multilateral and private sources, including bond placements. A
smaller portion, roughly 15 to 20 percent, of these financing needs will be covered by private
investment flows. Private investment is initially projected to remain at levels close to their
current levels of around US$1.2 billion. A small accumulation of reserves is forecast in the next
three years, mostly as a result of interest income.
B25. The public sector will continue a strategy of refinancing external public debt to improve
its cost and maturity structure if international market conditions allow. Maintaining adequate
access to longer-term financing as provided by the World Bank and other international financial
organizations will continue to be essential for improving the structure of Colombia's external
public debt.
4. Domestic debt restructuring has already improved the government's domestic debt profile. In early June the
authorities swapped US$2.4 billion of domestic debt due in 2001-05 with paper of longer maturity. As a result
of this swap, the average maturity of domestic debt increased from 3.5 to 4.5 years; projected domestic debt
redemptions fell 22 percent in 2001, 34 percent in 2002, and 40 percent in 2003.
71



Annex B
Table A.B.3. Colombia: External Financing Requirements, 200-03
(US$ Millions)
2000      2001       2002       2003
Financing Requirements (1+2+3)                     5,285      8,118      7,799     8,400
1. Current Account Deficit                           132      2,665     2,524      2,514
2. External Debt Amortization                      4,284      5,157      4,997     5,652
a. Public and Publicly Guaranteed          1,464      2,401     2,717      3,602
b. Private                                 2,820      2,756      2,280     2,050
3. Change in Reserves                                869        296       278        234
Sources of Financing (5+6)                         5,170      8,118      7,799     8,400
5. External Debt                                   3,989      6,900      6,566     6,602
a. Public Sector                           3,395      4,875      4,503     4,377
Multilateral and Bilateral        1,703      1,950      1,850     1,702
Gross Disbursements
Private Creditors                 1,692      2,925     2,653      2,675
b. Private Non-Guaranteed                    594      2,025      2,063     2,225
6. Net Private Investment                          1,181      1,218      1,233      1,798
Source: World Bank Staff projections
72



Annex C
ANNEX C
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM-STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(SFAL)
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY, ECONOMIC GROWTH, AND POVERTY
BACKGROUND
Cl.  The proposal for fiscal reforms to ensure fiscal sustainability is a necessary condition to
recover high positive GDP per capita growth in Colombia and to return to the poverty reduction
path that the Colombian economy enjoyed until the recent recession. Such a reform would
reduce poverty by 2010 to the prerecession levels of 1995.  However, without fiscal
sustainability, low growth and high unemployment will continue and poverty will remain almost
unchanged.
C2.  This annex assesses the consequences of two alternative policy actions for the poor in
Colombia (a) implementing a fiscal reform package to recover positive real GDP per capita
growth; and (b) letting the fiscal situation deteriorate toward unsustainable levels. Given two
scenarios of fiscal balance and growth during 2001-10, microdata simulations of poverty levels
under these two alternative policy paths are projected. To calibrate the model, four urban
household surveys from the last two decades are used, measuring the impact of GDP growth on
income generation and poverty levels-directly and mediated via employment generation
connected to poverty profiles.
C3.  Two main findings are presented here. First, under the status quo, or fiscal instability,
low growth and high unemployment would continue and poverty would remain almost
unchanged relative to the current level. Fiscal sustainability would, however, deteriorate even
further if the GDP growth rate fell below the population growth rate. Second, if the proposal for
fiscal reform is implemented, high positive growth of GDP per capita is recovered. As a result,
Colombia would experience substantial reductions in poverty during the next decade, recovering
the losses suffered during the recent recession.
C4.  This annex (a) shows why fiscal sustainability is necessary to recover economic growth;
(b) examines the experience of growth and poverty in Colombia; and (c) shows why growth has
been the key factor in poverty reduction. It measures both the elasticity of poverty to growth and
the links between the probability of being poor and growth via employment generation. This
annex also estimates the potential gains (or losses) in poverty reduction if fiscal reforms were
implemented, and if they were not implemented; shows whether the proposed fiscal adjustment
has any adverse effects on the poor via the delivery of social services, public salaries, or pension
equalization; and presents a summary and conclusions.
73



Annex C
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY IS NECESSARY TO RECOVER ECONOMIC GROWTH
C5.   Sustainable  fiscal policy  is an  essential component for strong  macroecononic
performance. Fiscal deficits can lead to slow growth rates since they often lead to rising interest
rates and financial repression, as well as an increase in the current account deficit and, in turn,
real exchange rate appreciation. Likewise, deficits financed through seignorage indisputably
lead to higher inflation, under which uncertainty increases, relative prices are distorted, and
private investment falls. On the other hand, low and stable fiscal deficits can increase prospects
for growth, which in turn allow for further sound fiscal management, thus creating a virtuous
circle. I
C6.   Until the early 1990s, prudent management of the Colombian economy allowed for low
goxvernment debt levels which, together with low inflation rates by Latin American standards. led
to steady-although moderate-growth rates.  However, Colombia's current fiscal path is
leading to an unsustainable increase in deficits and debt-to-GDP ratio over the medium and long
term, with dim prospects for GDP growth if reform is not undertaken.
C7.   The government has recognized the need to strengthen fiscal accounts and set a sclid
foundation for further reforms. If all reforms of the proposed comprehensive fiscal strengthening
program (including Acto Legislativo, pension reforms, territorial tax reform) are approved before
2001, it is expected that Colombia will be able to undertake a high, sustainable growth path for
the next 10 years. Projections cited in Table A.C.1 are set up such that the main effect of fiscal
reform is on debt accumulation, with growth rates converging to 4.5 percent and 2 percent in :he
respective scenarios.
Table A.C.I. Growth Projections for Colombia: High Growth versus Low Growth
2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
High Growth      2.5    3.0    4.0    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5
Lowh Growth      1.5    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
GROWTH HAS BEEN THE KEY FACTOR IN POVERTY REDUCTION IN COLOMBIA
C8.   Poverty reduction can be achieved in one of two ways: increasing the income of the poor
2
through economic growth, or distributing income from the nonpoor to the poor.  If poverty
alleviation is achieved through economic growth, the result will likely be more wellare
enhancing than a mere redistribution of income. Yet some argue that the benefits of economic
growth for the poor are undetermined due to the sharp increases in inequality that often
accompany growth.
1. Easterly, W., C. Rodriguez, and K. Schmidt-Hebbel. 1994. Public Sector Deficits and Macroecono nic
Performance. New York: Oxford University Press.
2. Provided that poor and nonpoor positions are not reversed; that is, the principle of transfers holds.
74



Annex C
C9. Nevertheless, international evidence reveals the essential role of economic frowth for
poverty reduction. A recent cross-county study using data over the last four decades finds that
the average income of the poor (the bottom fifth of the income distribution) rises proportionately
with average income; thus, the poor do reap the benefits of growth. The study also finds that
growth-enhancing policies, such as reducing government consumption and stabilizing inflation,
not only raise overall income, but also appear to have an additional positive effect on the
distribution of income, further increasing the income of the poor.
CI0. In this respect Colombia's experience follows international patterns. Until the recent
economic recession Colombia had seen a reduction in poverty rates through economic growth,
even though the income distribution simultaneously deteriorated since 1988.
Poverty and Growth: The Colombian Experience During the Last Two Decades
C I1. Using data from the Colombian urban household survey, Table A.C.2 provides poverty,
growth, and inequality indicators for 1978, 1988, 1995, and 19994 for seven cities in Colombia-
Barranquilla, Bogota, Bucaramanga, Cali, Manizales, Medellin, and Pasto. Extreme poverty is
defined as a situation in which a person lacks the income needed to purchase a very basic basket
of food products.5 A person is considered to be poor if his or her household per capita income is
below the poverty line (a multiple between 2 and 2.5 of the extreme poverty line). To allow
cross-country comparability with World Bank statistics, the US$2 per day poverty rate is also
calculated.6
C12. From 1978 to 1995 poverty reduction was substantial during positive growth periods.
During the periods of growth (1978-88 and 1988-95), Colombia experienced significant
declines in the poverty rate, even though inequality deteriorated (see Table A.C.2). The
headcount decreased at a rate of about 2 percent per year between 1978 and 1995, going from 70
percent in 1978 to 48 percent in 1995. In the following four years, the recession resulted in an
increase in the poverty rate back to 1988 levels, along with further income inequality. During
this period, poverty increased at a rate of 4 percent per year.
3. Dollar, D., and A. Kraay. 2001. "Growth is Good for the Poor."
4. The analysis assesses the elasticity of poverty to growth to provide a forecast of potential future poverty paths
under the two economic scenarios-high or low-depending on whether fiscal policy is strengthened.
5. That is, if his or her household per capita income falls below the extreme poverty line defined by DANE, based
on the 1985 Encuesta de Ingresos y Gastos.
6. Adjusting for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP).
75



Annex C
Table A.C.2. Colombia: Income Inequality
and Poverty Indicators (1978-1999)
1978      1988       1995        1999
Poverty
Poverty rate                70.2%      55.0/o     47.9%       55.4%
Poverty Gap                 35.1%     23.2%       18.90/o     26.0%
P(2)                        21.4%      12.7%      9.8%        15.4%
Extreme poverty rate        27.5%      17.4%      9.8%        14.5%
US$ 2 per day poverty       34.00/o    4.7%       2.5%        5.4%
Mean household income
per capita2                 157,080   235,163    294,522     277,469
Average annual growth rate   NA   5.00/o     3.6%         1.4%t
GDP growth rate             4.1%3      4.1%       5.2%        -4.3%
Income inequality (Gini)    47.3%     48.6%       52.2%       54.5%
Source: Colombia Poverty Report 2001.
1. Based on Purchasing Power Parity Converters from WDI database.
2. 1999 pesos.
3. 1980 figure
* 1978-1988.
** 1988-1995.
t 1995-1999.
C l 3.  Between 1978 and 1995, Colombian GDP growth rates averaged between 4 and 5 percent
per year, producing proportional welfare gains for the poor and more than proportional gains for
the extreme poor. Figure A.C. 1 shows the cumulative distribution functions for mean house hold
income per capita in 1978, 1988, and 1995 urban Colombia. Welfare levels improved
continuously and unambiguously for every percentile of the population between 1978 and 1995.
The proportion of the population below  the 1995 poverty line (at C$166,204 or US$2647)
decreased from over 70 percent to under 50 percent during that interval. During 1978-88,
improvements in earnings reached 47 percent for nearly all percentiles, except at both extremes
of the distribution, where the improvements were slightly higher. Those at the bottom of the
income distribution thus experienced income increases that were actually more than proportional,
unlike Dollar and Kraay's findings that, on average, the income of the poor rises one for one
with average income.8 This is also confirmed by the fact that extreme poverty rates declined by
37 percent during 1978-95, whereas poverty rates fell by only 22 percent. In the next interval,
between 1988 and 1995, the extreme poor fared even better when compared with the poor-their
headcount declined by 44 percent, whereas it declined by only 12 percent for the poor (Table
A.C.2). Large declines in the poverty gap and the P(2) are further evidence of the fact that those
at the bottom of the income distribution did benefit from economic growth.
7. The Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) adjusted exchange rate was I US$ = 629 C$ in 1999.
8. Dollar and Kraay's study (2001) is based on the average income of the bottom 20 percent of the distribution.
They point out that outcomes would differ if they used poverty headcounts in their study, but that the elasticity of
the poverty headcount with respect to average income varies widely across countries.
76



Annex C
Figure A.C.1. Colombia: Cumulative Income Distribution
1978, 1988 and 1995.
0.9
0.8 -1995 Poverty Line: $1l66,204       -       
0.8-*                                                    
,S 0.7-          l7                                       *K)
0.7
0.6
Pe19  ia9otl5hueod noe 19  eo
.~0.5
(U 0.4
30.3-
0.2
0.1-
0 1
0       50000    100000    150000    200000    250000    300000    350000
Per capita monthly household Income, 1999 pesos
C14. During 1995-99 economic recession hit the extreme poor harder and partially erased the
substantial gains obtained during 1978-95. Although extreme poverty had sharplv decreased
with income growth, half of these gains were erased during the economic slowdown. Just as the
extreme poor benefited substantially during periods of growth, Colombia's economic recession
seems to have more severely hurt the very poorest segments of the population. Both extreme
poverty rates and the US$2 per day rate increased disproportionately-by around 50 percent,
compared to 16 percent for the poverty rate-during the recession years.'0 The behavior of the
P(2) measure provides one more confirmation: it rose by 22 percent between 1995 and 1999,
indicating both deeper poverty and a higher level of income inequality among the poor. It is
worth noting that all these results are very robust to the poverty line chosen. ' I
C15. That poverty has deepened during the economic slowdown is not surprising, since the
current crisis tends to disproportionately affect the poor. Using Fedesarrollo's Encuesta Social,
Gaviria (2000)12 found a positive relationship between poverty and vulnerability-the latter
defined as a household's risk of facing a significant loss in income-during Colombia's recent
economic recession. He cites the fact that the poor tend to be employed in more volatile sectors,
9. Dollar and Kraay (2001) find no evidence that periods of negative growth affect the poor disproportionately.
However, our findings for Colombia's recent economic recession show otherwise.
10. Nevertheless, the extreme poverty rate is still 2.9 percentage points below the 1988 rate.
11. We computed poverty and extreme poverty rates for the US$1 and US$2 per day lines, as well as for a wide
range of hypothetical poverty lines, with no change to the above-described behaviors.
12. Gaviria, Alejandro. 2000. "%Sobre quien ha recaido el peso de la crisis? Un analisis preliminar usando la
Encuesta Social de Fedesarrollo." October.
77



Annex C
such as construction, and that less-skilled labor tends to be more inconie elastic, implying that
low-skilled workers experience disproportionate losses during times of crisis. The poor are also
more likely to experience welfare losses due to loss of income, since they disproportionately lack
savings or access to credit. Thus, overall welfare losses during periods of negative growth are
even higher than just increases in the poverty headcount.
C1 6. In 1999, following a drop in mean household income per capita, urban welfare
unambiguously deteriorated compared to 1995. Figure A.C.2. shows the cumulative distribution
functions for 1988, 1995, and 1999. The cumulative distribution of income for 1999 lies to the
left of the curve for 1995 for all monthly per capita household incomes below C$350,001) (or
about US$556).  The percentage of poor people, as measured by the 1999 poverty line
(C$175,831 or about US$280) increased by about 5 percentage points between 1995 and 1999.
Figure A.C.2. Colombia: Cumulative Income Distribution
1988, 1995 and 1999.
0.9                               -
_ 7   _            X _ __                                    *.
0.8     -  - -  _ _ _  __          _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _   _
1999 Poverty Line: $175,831
0.7           --                                  Li__ _ _  _ _ _ _
0 .6       Xa 198g  
C=0.51--~-& 1t995  
0
CO             _ ______
~0.6
0.4
0.3
0 0.2- -                          _
0.1
0      50000    100000   150000   200000   250000   300000   350000
Per capita monthly household income, 1999 pesos
Cl7. During the recession, the poor suffered more than the rich. Both the 5th and 10th
percentiles lost 25 percent of income, while the median income decreased by 11 percent, and the
90th percentile income rose by 9 percent and the 95th percentile by 1 percent. Since first-order
stochastic dominance does not hold, we turn to the generalized Lorenz curves of those two years
in Figure A.C.3, which provide additional information on second-order stochastic dominance.
The 1995 curve lies above the 1999 curve, implying that income was more equally distributed in
1995; welfare in 1999 is thus unambiguously worse than in 1995.
78



Annex C
Figure A.C.3. Colombia: Generalized Lorenz Curves
1988 and 1995 (1999 Pesos)
350000                     __     __          _       _-
300000  - ___       _ ___           __ __ _          _
V l-1999$
E  250000                 ------------ _ _ 
o  200000                 -                              v
.    150000    --                _
10(0000
5000   _ 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100
Cumulative percentage of population
C18. Welfare losses due to economic recession are so massive that poverty levels rise above
those of 1988. The Generalized Lorenz curves, displayed in Figure A.C.4, intersect around the
60th percentile. This implies that social welfare measures with substantial weights on the poor
tend to favor the 1988 distribution. The comparison of poverty measures in Table A.C.2
illustrates this point: the poverty count was marginally higher in 1999 (55.0 percent in 1988
compared to 55.4 percent in 1999), but both the poverty gap (at 26 percent) and the P2 index (at
15.4 percent) were clearly higher in 1999.
C19. In summary, poverty rates are countercyclical, and the extreme poverty rate appears more
sensitive to growth than the "normal" poverty rate. Thus, periods of economic growth produced
substantial welfare gains for the poor, and even more for the extreme poor, in Colombia, whereas
the economic recession sharply reversed these gains. After high periods of growth, under any
distributional weights, 1995 social welfare in urban Colombia was better than in any previous
year. However, due to the economic downturn, a similar claim cannot be made about 1999:
although that year is still unambiguously better than 1978, when social weights concentrate on
the poor, it is clearly dominated by 1995 and even by 1988. Economic recession thus sharply
reversed the improving welfare dynamics that had been observable until 1995.
79



Annex C
Figure A.C.4. Colombia: Generalized Lorenz Curves
1988 and 1999 (1999 Pesos)
300000
250000
E
E .   200000 -1999
1988
o  150000
E E  100000
50000
o -                      .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .
0  5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100
Cumulative percentage of people
The Elasticity of Poverty to Economic Growth in Colombia
C20. Income per capita growth explains most of the gains and losses in urban poverty firom
1978 to 1999. Changes in the headcount of the poor over time can be decomposed into three
components (a) economic growth (proxied by mean household income per capita growth), (b)
changes in the real value of the poverty line (relative prices); and (c) changes in inequality (as
measured by the share of each household's income distribution percentile in total income).13
Results are displayed in Table A.C.3. Actual poverty reduction was in the magnitude of 15
percentage points between 1978 and 1988, and 7 points between 1988 and 1995. Growth was
the only contributor to poverty reduction during 1978-95 (29 percentage points), accounting for
112 and 164 percent of the fall in poverty during 1978-88 and 1988-95, respectively.
13. For basic methodology, see Datt, G., and M. Ravallion, 1992, "Growth and Redistribution Components of
Changes in Poverty Measures: A Decomposition with Applications to Brazil and India in the 1980s," Journal
of Development Economics 38 (2) :275-95. Here, the same methodology is used with some modification to
control for changes in the value of the poverty line. Formally, poverty rates in dates I and 2 can be expressed
as functions of the level of the Poverty Line or price index of the poor's basket (p), mean income (u), and the
level of inequality in those dates (q), thus:
PI = P(pl, p,u ql) and P2 = P(P2, u2, q2) and our decomposition computes these three components
(1) Prices: P (P2,P2, q2)-P(Pl-,2,q2)
(2) Growth: P (P2, P2 q2)-P(P2, P1, q2)
(3) Inequality: P (P2 P2 q2) - P(P2-42, q)
80



Annex C
Meanwhile, higher inequality counterbalanced the positive growth effect by nearly 7 percentage
points (2.5 percentage points first, and 4.2 points subsequently). Likewise, more expensive food
items raised the poverty line and increased poverty by 2.0 percent during 1978-95.
Nevertheless, despite the negative consequences of a deterioration of the income distribution and
a rise in prices, poverty was still reduced, due to the dominant, positive effect imposed by
economic growth.
Table A.C.3. Colombia: Decomposition of Poverty Changes
by Growth and Inequality
Actual                                                Poverty-
change in                      Poverty>         Income  income
poverty    Growth  Distribution   Line    Residual change elasticity
1978-1988      -15.2     -17.0       2.5       1.7     -2.3   50%  -0.343
Contribution   100%      112%      -16%      -11%      15%
1988-1995       -7.1     -11.7       4.2       0.3      0.1   25%  -0.462
Contribution   100%      164%      -59%       -4%      -1%
1995-1999       7.5       3.3        2.2       3.3     -1.3   -6%  -0.572
Contribution   100%      44%        29%       44%     -18%
Source: Colombia Poverty Report 2001.
C21. During the recession, poverty increased due to the combined effect of growth loss,
persistent inequality, and high relative prices of food items. Poverty increased by 7.5 percentage
points during the crisis period, wiping out the 1988-95 gain. This resulted from contributions of
all three components in similar proportions: high prices and recession contributed 44 percent,
while inequality contributed an additional 29 percent.
C22. The elasticity of poverty to mean household income has increased over time, reaching its
highest level, -0.57, during the recession period. This implies that proportional effects on
poverty rates have been larger during the economic crisis than during the previous years. Thus, a
1 percent decrease in GDP is now associated with a larger change (increase) in poverty than the
change (decrease) in poverty that a 1 percent rise in GDP once produced. A boost in the
elasticity of poverty to growth means more poverty alleviation can be achieved through growth,
but the consequences can be more severe if economic slowdown is revisited. If the poor are
disproportionately vulnerable during times of crisis, as noted above, an economic slowdown also
causes further deepening of poverty.
How MucH DOES EMPLOYMENT REDUCE POVERTY?
The Links of Poverty to Economic Growth via Unemployment
C23. The relationship between employment and poverty and employment and aggregate
demand is an alternative way of showing the way in which economic growth affects poverty
levels. Employment levels are positively associated with aggregate demand. Since low
81



Annex C
employment rates have been shown to lead to higher poverty rates, an increase in aggregate
demand has positive consequences for poverty alleviation, partly through this mechanism. In
addition, earnings per worker tend to move procyclically, especially for self-employed workers.
C24. Households with high poverty risks have lower unemployment levels of spouses and
other household members of working age. Table A.C.4 reveals that the proportion of poor heads
employed is only marginally above the nonpoor's: from 2 to 4 percentage points during booms
and down to 1 percent during the recession year 1999. However, employment of other
household members (spouse and other adults) is consistently lower among poor households, by
11 to 13 percentage points during 1978-99. In fact, the employment rate of poor households fell
more than that of nonpoor households during the recent crisis.  Furthermore, household
employment rates are associated with poverty: a household with an employment level between
only 0 and 20 percent faces a 26 percent increase in poverty risk, whereas a household with an
employment level between 40 and 50 percent is protected from poverty, by 25 percent 'Table
A.C.5). It is also important to note that unemployment also disproportionately affects the poor:
members of the first quintile experience unemployment rates over 4.5 times as high as those of
the fifth quintile (Table A.C.6).
Table A.C.4. Colombia: Household Employment
The Poor vs. the Non-Poor (1978-1999).
1978             1988              1995              1999
Household
employment         Poor  Non-poor   Poor  NVon-poor   Poor  Non-poor   Poor  ANon-poor
Household head     83.7%    80.7%    80.3%   78.3%    81.3%   77.3%    74.5%    73.4%
Other adults 17 &
over               56.8%   68.0%    55.3%   68.8%    59.1%   71.1%    56.2%    68.9%
Source: Colombia Poverty Report 2001.
Table A.C.5. Colombia: Relative Risk of Being Poor
by Household Employment Rate (e)'
(1978-1999)
Share of total
Relative risk       population in
Emplooyment rate  1978   1988   1995   1999      1999
zero             -0.8%   13.3%    4.5%   55.0%    7.6%
O<e<=0.2         25.7%   48.7%   64.8%   25.5%    1.2%
0.2<e<=0.4       12.9%   24.3%   33.8%   15.8%    22.9%
0.4<e<=0.5        4.6%   15.5%   15.9%  -25.2%    31.4%
0.5<e<=0.75     -26.3%  -33.3%  -26.3%  -25.2%    18.7%
e >0.75         -31.1%  -39.7%  -39.1%  -36.7%    18.3%
Source: Colombia Poverty Report 2001.
1. e=# of employed/# of persons older than 12 years of age
82



Annex C
Table A.C.6. Colombia:
Urban Unemployment
for Various Demographic Groups.
Quintile    1978     1988      1995      1999
1            12.2%    20.8%     18.0%    36.1%
2            12.4%     15.2%    11.90/%   26.4%
3             7.7%     11.1%     8.8%     20.0%/o
4             6.4%      7.4%     5.9%     14.6%
5             3.8%     3.6%      3.6%      7.8%
* Quintiles are taken on household per capita income.
Source: Colombia Poverty Report 2001.
C25. Higher household employment substantially reduces the probability of falling into
poverty. A Multinomial Logit regression model on the probability of being poor reveals that a 2
percentage point increase in the employment level of household members was associated with a
1 percent reduction in poverty risk in 1999. This is also equivalent to a 15 percent decrease in
poverty risk if one additional household member becomes employed. 14 (The marginal effects are
shown in Table A.C.7). It is important to note that of all other household characteristics
examined in the Logit model (including demographic, skill endowment, and labor market
attachment variables), those associated with employment variables had the largest impact on the
probability of being poor, with only the marginal effect from having a college education
following closely.
Table A.C.7. Colombia: Logit Results Marginal Effect
of Household Employment Rate on the Probability of Being Poor
(1978-1999)
1978         1988         1995          1999
Marginal   Marginal   Marginal    Marginal
coeff        coeff        coeff         coeff
Household employment                -35%         -55%          -73%          -51%
Source: Colombia Poverty Report 2001.
* Significant at 10% level or less
** Significant at 5% level or less
Marginal Logit coefficients evaluated at means.
Elasticity of Total Employment to GDP Growth
C26. Employment clearly responds to aggregate demand fluctuations, with an elasticity close
to 80 percent. The country's GDP per capita grew at an average annual rate of 1.8 percent, with
14. With the average number of working-age members per household being 3, and the average household
employment rate of 54 percent, one more household member working translates into a 33-percentage-point
increase in the average household employment rate.
83



Annex C
very low instability.'5 Between 1978 and 1988, GDP grew at an average. rate of 3.3 percent per
year, compared with 4.3 percent per year between 1988 and 1995. As growth rates declined, so
did employment's response: its growth fell from 5.2 to 3.2 percent for the corresponding
subperiods. This yields an estimate of the elasticity of employment with respect to growth of
0.75 (Velez and others 2001). 16 Similarly, a study by L6pez (2001) finds an elasticity of 0.81
during 1991-98. 17
POTENTIAL GAINS IN URBAN POVERTY REDUCTION: FISCAL REFORM COMPARED TO
NONREFORM
C27. If fiscal reform is not implemented, income per capita growth would be negligible.
Depending on whether fiscal reform is adopted in Colombia, GDP growth rates could reach
sustained levels of 4.5 percent (similar to those between 1978 and 1995), or remain at on]y 2.0
percent. If the population growth rate continues at its current level of 1.8 percent per year, the
growth rate in GDP per capita under fiscal reform would be about 0.7 percent in the first year
and about 2.5 percent on average in the nine years following, compared to about -0.3 percent in
the first year, and about 0.2 percent on average in the following nine years if fiscal policy :is not
strengthened. 18
C28. With no fiscal reform and low growth, poverty would remain almost unchanged. Figure
A.C.5 depicts potential poverty reduction in Colombia under the above low- and high-growth
Figure A.C.5. Colombia: The Poverty Rate
Under High and Low Growth Scenarios (1978-2010)
6%                      Bars represent average annual income per capita growth.  75%
1978-1988      Line represents poverty rate.
X 5%                                                                    70%
4 4                                                                     65%
c      l .t           ;          1995-1999      ,1995
0'
3%                                                                   60%
1 999-201 0         -o
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
CD2%                                  ~                                 5%
C
tu 0%                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45%V
1978          1988          199519920
ID -1%                                                                  40%
-2%                                                                   35%
15. A standard deviation of 0.02 percent. Moreover, a cross-country study (Rodrik, D. "Why is There So Much
Economic Insecurity in Latin America?" World Bank mimeo, October 1999) shows that the probability of the
Colombian economy entering episodes of "high volatility" in the last 30 years was close to zero.
16. Velez and others. 2001. "The Reversal of Inequality Trends in Colombia, 1978-1995." IDB and World Bank.
17. L6pez Castanlo, H. 2001. "Caracteristicas y determinantes de la oferta laboral colombiana y su relaci6n con la
dinamica del desempleo: Consideraciones te6ricas y de politica."
18. L6pez (2001) estimates that population growth might fall to 1.7 percent during 2001-os. Hence, per capita
growth estimates should be adjusted marginally.
84



Annex C
scenarios. Without reform, sluggish growth would decrease poverty rates to 54.4 percent by
2010-this is only 1 percentage point less than today's poverty rate, and still 6.5 percentage
points higher than the rate in 1995 and similar to 1988 levels-two decades earlier! In short, by
2010, Colombia will not be able to recover the poverty losses it endured during the recession
unless it reaches high sustainable growth rates.
C29. Fiscal reforms and positive income per capita growth would reduce poverty to
prerecession levels, or that observed in 1995. Fiscal reform, through its positive effect on GDP
per capita growth rates, could result in a decrease in the poverty rate-currently at 55.4
percent-or less thanl percent in the first year, and about 1.5 percent on average per year
thereafter.'9 At this rate, the headcount in urban Colombia could fall back below prerecession
levels (48 percent) by 2010.
C30. High GDP growth would raise the employment rate by almost 8 percentage points during
the next decade. As mentioned, employment rates are highly sensitive to economic cycles.
Figure A.C.6 shows the two possible paths the Colombian employment rate could undertake
under low- and high-growth scenarios. If comprehensive fiscal reform is adopted, one could
expect average employment rates to increase slightly in the first year, and by about 1.5 percent
per year for the following nine years20 (provided that the elasticity of employment to growth
does not fall throughout time and that the working-age population grows at a rate of 2.2
Figure A.C.6. Colombia: The Employment Rate
Under High and Low Growth Scenarios (1999-2010)
61%
59%
:j7%    -0-High growth
-4--Low growth
t 55%
E 53% -
51%
49% -
47% -
45%-
1998     2000      2002     2004      2006      2008     2010      2012
19. Calculated with a poverty-income elasticity of 0.57 (see above). Although we do not have elasticities calculated
for extreme poverty rates, past experience shows us that this rate is more sensitive to growth than the poverty
rate, since extreme poverty endured larger fluctuations during periods of growth and economic decline.
20. Using an employment-growth elasticity of 0.75, percent change in employment = 0.75 percent change in
GDP/capita - 0.25 percent change in labor force.
85



Annex C
percent 2). If Colombia follows this pattern, starting with an employment rate of 51 percent in
1999, it could reach a rate of about 58 percent by 2010. By 2004, the employment rate could
already surpass the 1995 rate (53 percent).
C3 1. Higher employment rates can have clear positive effects on poverty reduction, as they
have been shown to play a significant role in combating poverty risk. If average household
employment rates rise by 1 percentage point (a probable scenario with an employment rate that is
growing at 1.5 percent per year), poverty risk will decline by about 0.5 percentage poinits on
average.
C32. In the absence of fiscal reform and the high growth rates it would bring, employment
rates would fall-by about 0.3 to 0.4 percent per year in the next nine years. At tha: rate,
Colombia's employment rate would stagnate, falling only 1 percentage point-from its current
level of 51 percent-in the next decade. Household employment, on average, would fall by
about 0.2 percentage points, increasing average poverty risk by 0.1 percentage points. C'learly,
the prospects for poverty alleviation through an increase in employment are dismal if. high
growth rates are not achieved.
C33. In summary, positive growth of per capita income can bring reductions in poverty during
the next decade and recover the losses suffered during the recent recession. In adclition,
predicted poverty levels under alternative growth scenarios are similar if we use direct effects on
income distribution of per capita income or indirect effects via employment levels. Potential
discrepancies between the two come from additional effects of growth on individual earnings
that would reduce poverty levels even further.
THE EFFECT OF FISCAL ADJUSTMENT ON THE POOR
C34. The proposed fiscal adjustment does not affect the delivery of social services to the poor,
nor does it reduce their main sources of earnings. Colombian public social expenditure is
currently well targeted toward the poor: 43 percent of total public subsidies go to the poorest 40
percent of the population. In addition, public subsidies via social services provide substantial
welfare improvements for the poor. Subsidies are equivalent to a third of household incoiTie for
the poorest 20 percent of the population. The largest and most progressive categories of public
expenditure are childcare, basic education, and health services, with the poorest 40 percent
receiving 59, 54, and 50 percent of the expenditures on these services, respectively.
C35. Some of the components of the proposed fiscal reform tend to improve the efficiency of
the delivery of social services. Given that current public social expenditure is progressive, it is
evident that the poor would benefit indirectly. By contrast, if fiscal sustainability were not
recovered, well-targeted public spending in social services might become unfeasible. For
example, the budget for social service delivery could easily be strangled if Colombia's country-
specific risk premium increases and public debt payments rise.
C36. The proposed fiscal reform includes an adjustment in relative wages of public
employees-for example, special benefit cuts in ISS-and an equalization of public pension
21. DANE's estimate for 2000-05.
86



Annex C
benefits with overall Colombian pensions. The evidence shows that even under sizeable
adjustments, adverse effects on the poor due to an adjustment of public sector wages or pensions
are very unlikely.
C37. Relative to the private sector, Colombia's public sector public employment is
characterized by much higher wages and is concentrated among the upper levels of income
distribution. Comparing the distributions of labor earnings in the public and private sectors
(Figure A.C.7) shows remarkable differences.  While only 25 percent of private sector
employees receive wages above C$540,000 per month (equivalent to about US$858 in 1999), 75
percent of the workers in the public sector receive wages above that amount.
Figure A.C.7. Colombia: Labor Earning Density Functions
Public vs. Private Sector (1999)
0.9- 8Publi inm
0.8           
0.7      Private income
0.6-
0.5
0.4-
0.3
0.2-
0.1                             _ _
0
10,000             100,000     540,000  1,000,000          10,000,000
Labor earnings, 1999 pesos (log scale)
C38. Only a minor fraction of the poor depend on the public sector for employment-the
welfare of the poor depends almost completely on private sector employment. Figure A.C.8
depicts concentration curves and concentration coefficients for total labor earnings, and the The
CAS-PR envisioned and triggered a high-case lending program of around US$450 million for the
lending program of FY98-01 within which the proposed operation was prepared. The operation
is fully consistent with the strategy proposed in the CAS and CAS-PR, including the policy
content and the overall lending and exposure limits. Indeed, if this program had been completely
delivered, the lending program would have amounted to about US$1.8 billion. To date, the total
amount committed is about US$1.4 billion, leaving space for this operation under the envelope
proposed by the CAS and CAS-PR. More specifically, in FY98 and FY99, total commitments of
about US$130 million and US$140 million were approved, respectively. In FY00, total
commitments of about US$930 million were approved, including US$500 million to support the
financial sector reform program and US$225 million to support the reconstruction efforts after
87



Annex C
the devastating earthquake of January 1999. In FY01, total commitments of US$190 million
were approved.
Figure A.C.8. Colombia: The Distribution of Private & Public Labor Earnings
by Household Income Percentile-Concentration Curves (1999)
100%..                                                .    -
90%
80%
Concentration Coefficients:
70%       Public sector: 0.736
Private sector: 0.492
60%       Total labor:  0.531
50%
40%       -D{ Private
30%
20% -
10%
0%
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100
Mean household income per capita percentile
C39.  Given the fiscal constraints, the government requested the Bank to stretch the lending
program into FY02, and Bank support to Colombia will continue during this fiscal year as
proposed by the Country Strategy Note. Specifically, we expect to present six operations,
including the SFAL and the Social Sector Adjustment Loan (totaling about US$150 million) in
1FY02. This would bring our proposed FY02 program to about US$630 million. Under this
scenario, the lending program for FY98-02 would total about US$2 billion and average about
US$400 million annually, which is below the high-case lending ceiling of US$450 million. All
of the operations that we propose for FY02 were explicitly mentioned in the CAS-PR, with the
exception of the SFAL. However, the CAS and CAS-PR clearly identified the need for
Colombia to strengthen its program of fiscal reforms, which is the objective of the SFAL.
C40. Only a minor fraction of the poor depend on the public sector for employment--the
welfare of the poor depends almost completely on private sector employment. Figure A.C.8
depicts concentration curves and concentration coefficients for total labor earnings, and their
public and private components in 1999 urban Colombia.22 Public employment eamings mostly
benefit households in the top 20 percent of the income distribution, which receive 80 percent of
these earnings. (Consequently, only 20 percent of public sector labor earnings go to the poorest
80 percent of the population.) While 30 percent of total labor earnings go to the poorest 65
percent of households, their share of public sector labor earnings is only 10 percent. Moreover,
22. For further emphasis, Figure A.C.7 depicts the shares of public and private sector income for mean household
income percentiles.
88



Annex C
the poorest 50 percent receive less that 5 percent of the total public sector earnings. Finally, the
population belonging to households which benefit from public labor earnings is barely present
among the poor: the poorest 20 and 50 percent represent only 2 and 17 percent of such
households, respectively, whereas the top 20 percent represent almost 50 percent.
C41. Just as the poor do not depend on public sector wages, they also do not benefit much
from current pension benefits. Figure A.C.9 shows concentration curves and concentration
coefficients for total earnings and their pension and nonpension components, again for 1999
urban Colombia.23 The poorest 50 percent of the population receive less than 10 percent of total
pension benefits. Moreover, 65 percent of earnings via pensions go to the richest 20 percent of
households. The concentration coefficient for pensions-a measure of inequality comparable to
the Gini Coefficient-is 0.624, much higher than the Gini Coefficient for income in 1999, which
was 0.543 .24 One caveat, however, is that the pension data do not distinguish between private
and public sector pensions. Nevertheless, one can suspect that public sector pensions are even
more concentrated among the upper percentiles of the population. This follows from the fact (as
seen above) that public employment is very regressively distributed.
Figure A.C.9. Colombia: The Distribution of Pension and Non-Pension Income
by Household Income-Concentration Curves (1999)
100%
90%
Concentration Coefficients:
80%     Pension:    0.624
Non-pension:  0.539
70%     Total:     0.543
60%
50% -    _    Pensions
-C- Non-pensions
40%- -
30%-
20% 
10%
0%.                           .  .  ..           .  .  .  .  .
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100
Mean household income per capita percentile
23 Once again, we provide further emphasis by depicting the shares of pension and nonpension income for mean
household income percentiles in Figure A.C.10.
24 Even by Latin American standards this seems a very large level of inequality. Comparing with Wodon (2000), in
Colombia the Gini Elasticity for pensions (ratio of concentration coefficient to Gini) is higher than all other
countries except Brazil. See Wodon, Q., 2000, "Poverty and Policy in Latin America and The Caribbean," World
Bank Technical Paper No. 467, Washington, D.C.
89



Annex C
C42.  In summary, the analysis of this section does not find significant effects of the proposed
fiscal reform on public expenditure for the poor either via reforms on delivery of public services
or public employment and/or public salaries for the poor.  Fiscal stability guarantees the
sustainable provision of progressive social expenditure to the poor. Likewise, the proposed
public employment reforms are in effect targeted toward the middle class and the rich and not the
bottom 60 percent of the population. Furthermore, our analysis of public sector employ ment
further emphasizes the role that fiscal stability can play in alleviating poverty: given that the poor
disproportionately depend on the private sector for employment, sustained growth that stimLulates
private sector investment is increasingly important for raising the incomes of the bottcrn 55
percent of Colombia's population.
CONCLUSION
C43.  Fiscal sustainability is necessary to sustain economic recovery and achieve high positive
GDP per capita growth in Colombia, and to retake a poverty reduction path. During the last two
decades Colombia has replicated international patterns of growth and poverty. Positive growth
has been the key instrument for poverty reduction in Colombia: each additional point of GDP'-per
capita growth reduces inequality by approximately 0.6 percentage points. At the same time, the
recession in the second half of the 1990s resulted in high costs in terms of poverty increase-
back to 1988 levels.
C44. In addition, evidence shows that the extreme poor in Colombia receive amplified shlocks
from macroeconomic cycles. That is, both gains and losses are more than proportional for them.
Therefore, from the poor's perspective, positive, stable, and sustained growth is preferalb[e to
unstable economic performance. In summary, poverty rates are countercyclical, and the extreme
poverty rate appears more sensitive to growth than the "normal" poverty rate.  F iscal
sustainability reform is a necessary condition to recover positive income per capita growtl, and
to alleviate unemployment for the poor. That, in turn, would reduce poverty by 2010 to the
prerecession levels of 1995, as shown by microdata-based simulations. However, without f iscal
sustainability, low growth and high unemployment would follow and poverty would renain
almost unchanged at the current level-similar to that of 1988.
C'45.  Finally, negative effects are not anticipated for the poor from  the fiscal reforms
associated with changes in public employment or the equalization of wage benefits and pension
rights of public employees with the rest of the population. If applied, they would affect mostly
the upper quintile of the income distribution.
90



Annex D
ANNEX D
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM-STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(SFAL)
PUBLIC SECTOR DEBT-STRUCTURE AND SUSTAINABILITY
EVOLUTION OF PUBLIC SECTOR DEBT
D1.   Over the last six years the level of Colombia's total gross public debt has been rising
steadily in absolute terms and as a proportion of GDP. Public debt servicing costs have risen
substantially and there is pressure on the government to strengthen its primary balance.
D2.   The total gross stock of public debt,' internal and external, increased from  about 27
2
percent of GDP in 1994 to about 50 percent of GDP in 2000.  This resulted primarily from
rising fiscal imbalances at different levels of government throughout the decade (see Figure
A.D.1). The steady growth in fiscal imbalances first became visible in the central government
accounts, but this was initially masked by surpluses in other parts of the public sector. The
central government accounts started the decade with a small surplus. However, starting in 1992
the central government posted a series of increasing deficits, which peaked in 1999 with a deficit
of 7.4 percent of GDP.
Figure A.D.1. Colombia: Public Sector Balances
(1991-2000)
2.0 -
0.0 
cp -2.0
-4.0
-6.0
-8.0
-  m~i  ct  m-   *IN          r    00 c>    O
O    ON  ON  ON  ON  ON  ON  ON  ON   o
0 NFPS * Central Government
Source: IMF
D3.   Behind the deterioration in the central government accounts are some of the institutional
changes brought about by the 1991 Constitutional reforrn, which transferred to subnational levels
1. There are several types of public sector liabilities other than "debt." For more details on the classification of
public sector liabilities, see Allen Schick, Targetingfor Fiscal Risks, Mimeo, World Bank, September 1999.
2. In net terms, the total stock of public debt represented about 42 percent of GDP in 2000. Net debt is total gross
debt minus the stock of Treasury bonds (TES) held by all public sector entities. The evolution of debt aggregates
in the last decade is discussed with reference only to gross aggregates because estimates of net debt in Colombia
are available from only 1999 onward.
91



Annex D
of government discretionary spending powers, which the central govemrnent has been forced to
finance through fiscal transfers. In addition, other policy reforms put pressures on revenues (for
example, trade liberalization led to a decline in tariff revenues and several tax reforn packages
aimed at strengthening tax revenues were only partially successful).
D4.   By the mid-1990s it became evident that the accounts of the public sector were :,-apidly
deteriorating. The public sector deficit rose steadily-basically tripling from just over 2 percent
of GDP in 1995 to 6.4 percent of GDP in 1999. Large central government deficits, growing
deficits at the subnational level, dwindling social security surpluses, and volatile oil revenues, all
contributed to the deterioration in the public sector balance. This is evidenced by the continued
erosion of primary balances in the second part of the decade, when the public sector primary
balance went from a very small deficit in 1996 to a deficit of 2.6 percent of GDP in 1999.
D5.   The weakness in public sector finances is also due in part to increasing debt-servicing
costs. Total public debt interest service increased from about 2.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to
about 4.4 percent of GDP in 2000. Total interest service on internal debt increased more than
proportionately-almost threefold-from I percent of GDP in 1994 to about 2.7 percent of GDP
in 2000 (see Figure A.D.2).
Figure AD.2. Colombia: Interest Payments
of the Public Sector (1994-2000)
5.0
3 4.0 -
09. 3.0-_
r 2.0
v 1.0
0.0
"t   In    \O    r-         O x   ON
oo      C7 a   o   ol    o\    CD
ON   O     ON    N    O      N    O
* External    U Internal
Source: IMF
D6.   During the last decade the structure of public sector debt also changed. External debt fell
sharply from about 32 percent of GDP in 1991 to about 14 percent of GDP in 1996 (thanks
mostly to the surpluses generated in the decentralized public entities, for example, through oil
revenues). Internal debt rose throughout this period, but not enough to offset the sharp decline in
external debt. However, as the public sector accounts began to deteriorate in the mid-1 990s
(particularly central government accounts), debt levels began increasing again. Throughout this
period, a sizeable portion of the change in the level of total debt occurred through an increase in
external debt, which reached about 26 percent of GDP in 2000. Most of the increase in the
external debt after 1996 has been driven by central government borrowing, because other levels
of government currently face statutory restrictions on borrowing abroad. However, throughout
this period gross public sector internal debt continued to rise steadily, reaching 27 percenit of
GDP by 2000, as both the central government and subnational entities sought financing
92



Annex D
domestically (see Figures A.D.3 and A.D.4).
Figure A.D.3. Colombia: Gross             Figure A.D.4. Colombia: Gross Public
Public Sector Debt (1991-2000)                Debt by Debtor (1991-2000)
60
60
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
4h 10                                     0   40
30                                         3 c
20                                          20
-     _       In  \_  N  00 _               - ON C S e  -   : -    -C-  00 ON 0
ON         s  sa  a   soON OCC                                           4 ~0  ~   ~O 
U External a Internal           * Central Government    * Sab-National Governmi
Sources: IMF, MoF, Contraloria              0 Other Public Sector
Sources: IMF, MoF, Contraloria
D7.   The structure of domestic financing changed throughout the 1990s as well.  First,
implementation of the Constitutional changes of the early 1990s led to elimination of Central
Bank financing of the fiscal deficit, implying that domestic financing would now have to be
obtained at market terms by the central government.3   The domestic debt of the central
government has nevertheless continued to rise through a large expansion in issuance of Treasury
securities.
D8.   In contrast to the case of central government debt, the stock of subnational government
debt has remained relatively stable since 1991 -fluctuating between 7.4 and 9.2 percent of GDP.
The borrowing requirement of subnational public entities has been somewhat limited, in part
because financing gaps are often met through fiscal transfers from the central government.
However, as a result of the restrictions on foreign borrowing by subnational entities, their
domestic debt has increased (see Figure A.D.5). The main source of this increase is domestic
commercial bank lending.   Financing has been readily available mainly because of an
expectation that there is an implicit central government guarantee on the liabilities of subnational
public entities; and because of failure in the implementation of the "traffic lights" law, which
aimed at regulating subnational government borrowing.
3. In 1990, debt to the Central Bank amounted to 50 percent of the total internal debt of the public sector-falling to
less than I percent by the end of the decade. However, the Central Bank balance still continues to be an
important contributor to public sector accounts (the balance of the Central Bank amounted to about 0.8 percent of
GDP in 2000).
93



Annex D
Figure A.D.5. Colombia:
Debt Structure of Sub-National Entities
8
-6
4 CM                    0 '  t   0C     CD 
ON    Oa    m  ON O ON O ON O   0
* External   Internal
Source: Contraloria
D9.   Recent adjustment efforts have gone some way toward restoring balance in the fiscal
accounts. In 2000, the public sector deficit was almost halved, to -3.6 percent of GDP;
moreover, the primary balance showed a surplus (albeit small) of around 0.8 percent of Gl)P-
for the first time in several years. However, there are very large and growing implicil. and
contingent public sector liabilities (arising mainly from the social security pension system and
subnational levels of government), which are not yet being fully reflected in the fiscal accounts
but will add pressure to them in the future.
DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS
D1O. To analyze the sustainability of public sector debt, we calculate the primary balance
necessary to keep public sector debt on a sustainable path,4 using a model that includes (a) the
present value of all net public sector liabilities (including implicit and contingent liabilities from
social security), and (b) key economic parameters and projections in a base-case scenario.
DI 11. According to our calculations, to avert an explosion of the debt-to-GDP ratio, the public
sector has to generate a permanent primary surplus of about 2.5 to 3 percent of GDP.- By
comparison, for the last six years the average primary balance-to-GDP ratio was -0.37 percent
(that is, a deficit). During this period, the debt-to-GDP ratio grew very rapidly (the average
expansion rate of the debt-to-GDP ratio was about 6 percent per year), thus suggesting that the
current path of the debt-to-GDP ratio in the absence of adjustment is not sustainable.
4. This is the level of the primary balance expressed as a ratio to GDP that if generated "permanently" by the
government would keep the debt-to-GDP ratio sustainable. Moreover, a steady-state debt-to-GDP ratio is
achieved in the long term.
5. Primary balances are defined here with respect to the consolidated public sector, including social security and
subnational government entities. For consistency, we are assuming that seignorage revenues accrue ic the
government "above the line" (through the reported Central Bank balance).
94



Annex D
Table A.D.I. Colombia: Key Macroeconomic Assumptions and Projections
2001    2002     2003     2004      2005
Real GDP Growth (p.a.)                        2.0%    2.5%     3.0%     3.5%      3.5%
Inflation (p.a.)                              8.0%     6.0%    4.0%     4.0%      4.0%
Nominal Exchange Rate Depreciation            8.0%     6.0%    4.0%     3.0%      2.5%
Total Public Sector Debt (% of GDP)           44%      45%      47%      49%      50%0
Domestic                                    19%      19%     20%      20%       20%
Extemal                                    24%      26%      27%      29%       30%
Nominal Interest Rate (domestic)             15.9%    14.4%    12.3%    11.2%     10.6%
Nominal Interest Rate (foreign)               8.5%     8.5%     8.5%     8.6%     8.6%
D12. It follows that in the absence of reforms, keeping debt on a stable path would require a
sustained fiscal adjustment in the primary balance of 2 to 2.5 percent of GDP (to bring the
primary surplus to about 3 percent of GDP, from about 0.8 percent in 2000). If the primary
surplus were kept permanently at 2.5 to 3 percent of GDP, it is estimated that total net debt of the
public sector would stabilize at about 50 percent of GDP by 2005 (see Table A.D.1).
Figure A.D.6. Debt-GDP Ratio                    Figure A.D.7. Debt-GDP Ratio
Primary Balance Constant at 2000 Level        Primary Balnce Set to Keep Debt-GDP Ratio Constant
10l                           70               7.0                             50
60               6 "    LiC.0
Prinery Balance  DebtlG  Ratio40
50               50
0                                                                        30 en~~~~~~~4  0o
nO                               40940i
3 0 
E Q                                                                                 20~
10               10                             I 0
o        0 0         0a                              -   4     
Pj    Baane  ebtGDRato  -Primary Balance  Debt/GDP Ratio (2000)
Source World Bank estimates                     Source: World Bank estimates
D13. The vulnerability embedded in public finances in the absence of comprehensive reforms
can be shown by projecting the path of the total net debt of the public sector under the
assumption that the primary balance-to-GDP ratio is kept constant at the 2000 surplus level (just
6
over 0.8 percent of GDP).  As can be seen in Figure A.D.6, total net debt would rise from about
42 percent of GDP in 2000, to over 65 percent of GDP in 2005 (assuming real GDP growth of
3.5 percent per year). In this scenario, the debt-to-GDP ratio would be rising at an average
annual rate of about 4.5 percent per year, a small deceleration from the 1994-2000 level (when
the debt-to-GDP ratio increased at an average annual rate of about 6 percent).
D14. Figure A.D.7 shows the path of the primary balance required to stabilize the debt-to-GDP
6. If the 2000 primary balance was adjusted to filter out cyclical or noise components, the resulting "structural"
primary balance would in fact be lower, since unusually high oil revenues improved the fiscal accounts that year.
With the primary surplus kept constant at the lower, adjusted level, the debt-to-GDP ratio would increase even
faster. Similarly, the size of the fiscal adjustment required for debt sustainability would be greater than 2.3
percent of GDP.
95



Annex D
ratio at the 2000 level (about 42 percent of GDP). As can be seen, the primary surplus would
have to be maintained in the range of 4 to 5 percent of GDP in the next five years to keep the
debt-to-GDP ratio constant (higher than the 3 percent of GDP required just to keep debt on a
more sustainable path).
D15. Table A.D.2 shows the sensitivity of these calculations to changes in the rate of GDP
growth; for example, if GDP growth is 2.5 percent per year in the long term (instead of 3.5
percent), the permanent primary surplus that keeps the debt-to-GDP ratio along a sustainable
path is about 4.5 percent of GDP (instead of 3 percent as before). The sensitivity of these
calculations to the inclusion of liabilities arising from social security (mainly pensions) in a
scenario of limited structural reforms is also shown in Table A.D.2. For example, if GDP is
assumed to grow at a rate of 3.5 percent per year and social security liabilities are excluded from
our calculations, a permanent primary surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP would be sufficient to k eep
the debt-to-GDP ratio on a sustainable path. This should be contrasted with the 3 pe-cent
primary balance-to-GDP ratio required once Social Security liabilities are included in these
calculations.7
Table A.D.2. Permanent Primary Surplus: Sensitivity Analysis
GDP Growth Rate           1.5%    2.0%     2.5%     3.0%     3.5%    4.0%
Including Social Security  5.7%    5.2%    4.6%     3.9%     3.1%     2.1%
Excluding Social Security  1.1%    0.9%    0.8%     0.6%     0.5%     0.3%
D 16. In sum, our analysis shows that in the base-case macroeconomic scenario and withoul full
reforms, a minimum of about 2 percent of GDP adjustment in the primary surplus from the 2000
level is required to bring about a more sustainable fiscal path in Colombia. If this adjustment in
the primary balance is carried out, the debt-to-GDP ratio would stabilize at about 50 percent of
GDP by 2005.
7. Should comprehensive social security and other reforms take place, the present value of contingent and implicit
government liabilities would fall sharply, implying that the permanent primary surplus required to keep the debt-
to-GDP ratio on a sustainable path would be smaller than 3 percent of GDP.
96



Annex E
November 14t^, 2001
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank Group
Washington, D.C. 20331
Dcar Mr. Wolfenson:
1.    This le(Ler intends to briefly rcview the progress achieved under our economic
program (supported by both the IMF and the World Bank), describe the reccnt economic
and social dcvelopments, including the economic recovery, inllation, and the fiscal and
extemal positions. We would also like to outline the main challenges that remain as
Colombia enters the last year of its three-ycar economic recovery program, and to present
the policy changes that arc being introduced to achieve the objectives of the govenmuent's
program, including strengthening and consolidating the fiscal accounts, for the next year
and for the medium term.
I. Recent Developments
2. Economic conditions improved in 2000 as real GDP recovered from a drop of
4 percent in 1999 to a growth of an estimated 2.8 percent, based on a recovery of exports
and some reboui in momesu,c aernanU'; J11W,u1cr. L [lLL UULtA %e   I _t A , J^  1.a 10
percent. inflation ended the year at 8.8 pcrcent, wcll within the 10 percent target and has
declined to about 8 percent in October 2001. fn 2001 economic growth has slowed down
reflecting the weakening of external and internal demand. In pa rticular, the slower growth
in cxternal markets has affected both coffec and oil exports and, most recerntly, the
export of manufactures. Colombia has also suffered supply shocks: oil exports were
disrupted by sabotage in the first half of the year and strikes affected economic activity.
The unemployment rate has remained high, around 18 percent.
3.    Policy implemcntation under our economic program has progressed well-all
quantitative perfornance cnrtcria agreed with the IME have been observcd up to
September 2000, and a nurnber of significant reforrns have been implemented.
4.  In 2000 thc combincd public scctor dcficit l'cil to 3.5 perccnt of GDP, from 5.5
percent of GDP in 1999, achieving the target set in lhc IMF program. In October of last
97



Annex E
0 0 7 8 6
year, the constitutional court handed down a dccision that revoked the wage freeze that
was being applied most public employees, requiring that they instead bc awarded
increases corresponding to the previous year's intlation (9.2 percent, payablc before the
end of 2000), and that future public wage increases must, at a minimum, compensate for
inflation in the preceding year. This raised the NFPS wage bill by about 0.5 perccnt of
GDP in 2000 and absorbed somc of the good perfonnance dtat the governmcnt had
planned to achieve relative to the fiscal deficit target.
5. Fiscal performnance remained on tar-et through the first half of 2001, despite a
shortfall in revenue collections induced by the cyclical downturn, the disrupfion of
exports, and some initial delays in impleTncnting the tax package that was approved last
year. The revenue shortfall was compensated by a reduction in spending, lower than
projected bank restnrcturing costs, and largcr than projected quasi-fiscal profits of the
central bank. After taking into account the effect of the cyclical downturn and the
temporary reduction in oil exporls, the deficit for 2001 is expected to be 3.3 percent of
GDP, 04 perceat higher than the 2.9 percent of GDP indicative target that had been set in
the last rcview of the IMF program. Recently, the Constitutional Court revoked thc
decision mentioncd abovc. partially reducing backward indexation of public wages.
While this will not represent significant savings in 2001, it does represent an important
improvcment for fiscal policy in the future.
6.  Monetary developmcnts over the past year lhave been characterized by slow growth
of deposits and credit to thc private sector. Whilc the pnrvate sector's financial portfolio is
projected to grow by 8 percent in 2001, broad money would increase by 4 percent, up
from 1.3 percent in 2000. Outstanding credit to the private sector is projected to rise by
5.5 percent this year when adjusted for loan writeoffs and mortgage debt relief, r:ainly
due to strong growth of credit by private commercial banks. Interest rates have declined
since the bcginning of the year, by mid-Novrember lending rates were lower by 377 bps
and deposit rates 175 bps. The central bank has reduced its interest rates in six occasions
in 2001 (March, July, August, September, October and November ) for a total of 3.25
percentagc points in light of the continued favorablc outlook for inflation in 2001 and
2002, the economic slowdown, and declining international interest rates.
7.  The recovery of thc financial system has continued ovcr the past year-the average
capital adequacy ratio increased from  11 percent in December 1999 to 13 percent in
December 2000, and to 12.7 pcrcent in August 2001; at the same time rionpcrfonning
loans fell to 10.9 percent of total loans, reflecting lower delinquencics for consumer and
conmuercial credit. Mortgage portfolios, however, have deteriorated sincc May 2000
(following an inmprovement in the preceding m eonths that reflected debt rclief programs
9S                                        2



Annex E
00 07;8 6
z r  k  .7  - W,, Mier .ffiX -~0 7 
introduced at the beginning of the year), with nonperforning loans hovering around 20
percent of total loans this year.
8. The foreign exchange market has remained orderly since the peso was floated in
September 1999, and the ccntral bank's foreign exchange auction system is tansparent
and has becn functioning well. After experiencing a depreciating trend since April 2000
tha. reflected political events and increasing difficulties in executiiig the govermrent's
pTivatization program, the peso was relatively stable in the last few months of 2000 and
during 2001.
9. The external current account is estimated to have posted a surplus of 0.38 percent of
GDP in 2000, aftcr a surplus of 0.2 percent of GDP in 1999; the trade supltus rose to 3.1
percent of GDP from 2.1 percent of G7TDP a year earlier. Boosted by higher oil prices and
a more competitive exchangc rate, Colombian exports grew by nearly 13 percent (in U.S.
dollar terms) in 2000, with petroleum exports rising by 22 percent and nontraditional
cxports by nearly 17 percent, while coffee exports fell. In 2001, non traditional exports
will grow by around 8 percent, while imports are expected to grow by 12 perccnt, causing
the trade balance to fall to a deficit of USSI billion from a surplus of US$1.3 billion in
2000. The capital account was in near balance in 2000 as net repayments of debt by the
financial sector and the non-financial private sector were compensatcd by net loan
inflows to the non-financial public sector. Nct international reserves rose by more than
US$800 million, thus remraining at more than six months of imports of goods aTd
services. In 2001 a similar accumulation of reserves is expected. bringing the stock to
UIS$9.6 billion.
10. As a result of the strong implementation to date of the governent's 3 year rccovery
program, the external vulnerability of the Colombian economy is relatively low (the ratio
of NIR to 2002 external debt-service payments excecds 100 percent). Tp to September 11
evcats in the United States and despite the turbulence in the international capital markets
and the financial difficuJtics faced by some countries in the region, Colombia cnjoyed
access to external financing with falling bond spreads; more recently, in November 14,
markets reopened for Colombia when we were able to place US$0.5 billion in bonds
towards the financing of next year's needs. The floating of the exchange rate and the
fiscal consolidation since 1999 havc strengthened the confidence in Colombia's
economic nanagemcnt and given the authorities room to mancuver in case of extemal
shocks. The timely fmancing of this year's fiscal deficit and the progress in financing
next year's requirements provide additional assurances, especially in view of the
temporary closure ofexternal markets for all emcrging countries since September.
99                                        3



Annex E
00 0 7 8 6
II. The Economic Program
A. Macroeconomic Policies
Iit Undcr the economic program for 2001, the expected real GDP growth was initially
set at 3.8 percent. However, the deteriorating extemal environment, and continuing
depression of coffec prices and the volatility of oil pnrces conspired against these
projections and GDP growth is now projected at about 2 percent for 2001. The GDP
growth projection for 2002 has been reduced to 3 percent from 4.5 percent, in line with
the revisions that have becn made for growth of the world economy. The target for
consumer price inflation is 6 percent and for NIR accumulation USS326 rmlIion.
13. As noted above, the combined public sector deficit in 2001 wvill be 3.3 percent of
GDP. On this basis, the NFPS primary surplus will continue to improve in 2001, to 1.1
percent of GDP from 0.9 percent in 2000. The strengthening of the primary fiscal
balance, when the oil sector and the operations of the public health (TSS) and pension
systems are excluded, illustrates the fiscal consolidation effort to date under Colombia's
three year recovery program. This balance improved by 3.3 percent of GDP in 2000 and
will be strengthened by another 1.9 percent of GDP in 2001.
14.  Jn order to secure adequatc credit resources for the private sector to sustain the
economic rccovery and prevent any 4;t#;;cbivc upvcd priaouro on dom..a.tic int!roct rnta
the governmcnt has made every effoTt to limit the access to domestic financial savings
by the combined public sector during 2001. To this cad, the govcmmtnt has secured
foreign financing, with the equivalent of US$2.7 million in bond issues betwecn
November 2000 and September 2001, including thc arrangement of the World Bank's
Policy Based Guarantec Operation for a leveraged bond placement of about US$1 billion
successfally carried out in early 2001. Most of the remaining financing necd will be
covered by disbursements from multilateral institutions, including the proceeds fromn the
first tranche World Bank's Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan (SFAL). With this extemal
financing plan, the program is providing for Lhe net use of domestic credit by the
combined public sector of 0.2 percent of GDP in 2001, a sharp reduction compared with
2000, when the comparable number was 1.5 percent of GDP. In June this year the
governnent swapped domestic debl amounting to COLS5.6 trillion (US$2.4 h:llion)
falling duc in 2001-2005 with securities of longer maturities in order to smooth the
amortization profile. This voluntary opcration extended the avcrage maturity of the
dlomestic debt from 3.5 to 4.5 years and redutcedi amortization payments by 22 percenit in
2001 and 34 perccnt in 2002, at a marginal increasc in costs.
100                                      4



Annex E
000786
J  M, .,4A.
15.  Based on current and additional fiscal policies, supportcd mainly by thc World
Bank's Structural Fiscal Adjustnent Operation, the NFPS deficit for 2002 is projected to
be 2.5 percent of GDP given current forecasts for economic growth, while the balance for
thc combined public sector will amount to 2.6 percent of GDP. The expected deficit
takes into account the effect on revenue of 0.4 percent of GDP of two consecutive years
of lower than projected growth of the Colombian economy. In addition, Colombia will
have to spend some 0.3 percent of GDP to promote thc ongoing peace process in the
context of implementing the "Plan Colombia" which sets out the govcmment's strategy
to settle the intemnal conflict, curb the production of and trafficking of illicit drugs, and
deal with the social consequences of these problems. The additional spcnding reflects the
,ovcrnment's intcnsified efforts in these areas. Nevertheless, the targets for 2002 reflect
the continuation of the adjustment effort that will strengthen the primary balance by morc
than I percentage point of GDP- The improvement of this balance over the three years of
the government's recovery program supported by the IMF and the World Bank, would
amount to 3.8 percenl of GDP. Thc primary deficit excluding oil and social secunty
accounts will improve by another 1.1 percent of GDP in 2002, for a total adjustment of
6.3 percent of GDP between 1999 and 2002.
16. The NFPS deficit in 2002 is projected to be financed mainly through medium and
long-term external resources from nmultilaterals and private financial markets and, to a
lesser extent, with domestic resources. To this end the central government has already
made considerable progress by pre-financing its 2002 needs in amount of US$1.5 billion
of a total of US$2.8 billion. It should be noted that US$0.5 billion were obtained in
November, signaling the rc-opening of the marklets for Colombia. The resources that are
expected from the multilateral institutions add up USS845 millions.
17. Last year the central bank continued to take steps to make inflation targeting the
norminal anchor of its monetary policy. Consequently, Colombia's monctary policy
fiamework for 2001 is being based on a scheme for inflation targeting. The new
framework is transparent and provides a clear signal to the markets of the central bank's
determination to continue to achieve the program's inflation objective. The authorities
have developed performance criteria for inflation, jointly with the rMF staff. These
include consultations with the Fund about inflation control policies if current inflation
werc to dcviate significantly from the projected quarterly path.
B. The Fiscal Strengthening Program and Other Structlhral Reforms
101                                     5



Annex E
st,$           z                                            DO4t,  0 3 00 786
18. Tn July 2000, President Pastranuappointed a member ofthe Liberal party to the
ministry of finance in an effort to broaden the political support for the economic program
of the government. This has strengthened govemnability and has been decisive in
advancing refomis through Congress. At the same bme, the govenmuent initiated
roundtable discussions with the political opposition, the terTitorial govemmments, the
business community. the unions, and others on the most important structural reforms.
This broad dialogue on issues that affect lar;e scgments of the population has been
usefiul, and the views expressed in these fora arc being reflected in the structural refonn
proposals that have been presented to Congress.
19. The govntunent's stctiral reform agenda includcs ambitious measures to increase
economic efTiciency. stimulate economic growth, and foster social progress. To this end.
a large numbcr of rerorms have been introduced so far under the three year recovery
program, starting with the floating of the peso at the inception of the program in 1999.
Other important rcforms havc been introduced through the territonral fiscal adjust-mmnt
law (Law 617); the adoption of an inflation targeting framcwork for monetary policy; the
restrucring of the financial sector; two revenuc enhaincing tax reforrns; the
establishment   of   finds   to   support  temritorial   govenunent   pensions;
privatization/liquidation of public entcrprises and banks; and actions to deepen domestic
financial markets and develop longer-term finazncial instruments for the private sector.
20.  Tn order to ensure that medium-term fiscal sustainability is achieved a tax packagc
was approved in December 2000 that will yield about 1.9 percent of GDP annual)y. The
approved tax package is based on an increase in the VAT rate from 15 to 16 percent; an
increase in the presumptivc incomc tax ratc from 5 percent to 6 percent of net assets; and
an increase in the rate of the financial transactions tax to 0.3 perccnt from 0.2 percent. In
addition, the tax package establishes temporary tax incenlives for the repatriation of
capital.
21.  Congress recently approved tle Constitutional Reform (Acto Legislativo), changing
the system of revenue lransfers (revenue sharing) to the tenritorial govermments. The
reform of the system of revenue transfcrs to the territorial governments that was adopted
through a constitutional amendment in June will be complementcd by the modification of
Law 60. The proposed changes in this law, submitted to congress in Scptember, will
improve the cflicicncy in the use of revenue sharing funds and strengthen the control over
the use of these resources. In the area of education, the proposed reform establishes clear
definitions of the responsibilities bctween regional and MITunicipal governimenits for
providing education services; distributes resources based on the nurbcr of students rather
102                                        G



Annex E
CO Q 7 8 6
e4f/44~
than teachers; incorporates performance indicators for leaming; and establishes limits on
current spending. A special regulatory commission will be created to monitor the
performance indicators and determine the technical paramcters of the new system, such
as the average cost per student, optimal student to teacher ratio, etc. In the area of health,
the roles of each jurisdiction are being clarificd; a number of intcrmnediary institutions
will be eliminated; and performance-based indicators also will be established. Whilc this
law is niot expected to generatc fiscal savings, it will contribute to significant efficiency
gains that will allow for a widening of coverage in the provision of these services. In the
health seclor, witl IDB and World Bank support, the govemment is also implementing a
restructtuing plan for public hospitals, which is deepened under the Structural Fiscal
Adjustmcnt Operation.
22.  In addition, considerable progress has been made over the past few years to
streamline the opcrations and reduce the size of territonral governments under the
diirection of the ministry of finance (Direcci6n de Apoyo Fiscal-DAF). Additional actions
were taken last year to introduce systems designed to help control public spceding and
strengthen the public financos at the territorial level. Law 617 ("Ley dc Sancamiento
Fiscal de las Entidades Temritoriales" or territorial fiscal responsibility law), passed in
October 2000, strengthens the control of spending at the territorial government level and
limits territorial govemment current spending and introduces restrictions on the creation
of new municipalitics, allowing only those capable of generating sufficient own revenues.
It also provides for a debt-restructuxing scheme that involves support from the central
govenmcnt for thosc local govemments that enter into fiscal adjustment programs
monitored by the DAF. In addition, the govemnment will modify regulations governing
subnational borrowing, reducing the scope of the central government in approving access
to credit to local govemments and introducing incentives for a more active participation
of international reputed credit rating agencies and market determined mechanisms for
credit access.
23. For the past two years, and again in the budget for 2002, the government has been
taking strict measures to reduce current expenditures in the central administration. The
paymcnts that are under the control of the government, that is current expenditures
cxcluding interest payments and transfers to local governments and social security, have
decrcased by 4 percent in real terms from 2001 to 2002, while general cxpcnditures
(supplies, utilities, etc-) will not increase in real terms. Both Ley 617 and the
constitutional amendment recently approved, includc rules for limiting cenlral
governmnt expenditures. The govemment also submitted to Congress a draft law that
grants powers to the executive to merge and liquidate public institutionis, which is
103



Annex E
000786
*   #    t   a. -~ , WE%          gBt,
expected to be discussed and hopefully approved during the first half of next year. The
final element of the strategy to strengthen the control over public spending is the
presenitation to congess in the first half of 2002 of a fiscal responsibility law that
complements the actions taken under "Ley 617" and thc "Acto Lcgislativo."
24.     The govemnment supports thc principles underlying thc Code of F.scal
Transparency, and will begin to assess Colombia's compliance with the codc. In addition,
public financial management has been strengthencd through the implementation of- the
SIIF (Tntegrated financial itformation system), which registcrs the exccutior or
govemment expenditures of 46 institutions of the central admuiistration in real time. This
system increases the efficiency and transparency of the cxpenditure process.
25.   Regarding the plan to provide territorial governments with increased fiscal
autonomy, the government has drafted a law, which was presented to Congress in the
second half of 2001. In addition to strengthening the territorial tax administrations, the
main provisions of the proposed law are to simplify the regulations and procedures for
regional taxes, such as those on liquor, tobacco, property, and the turnover tax ("industria
y comercio"), providing the regional administrations with a transparcnt fianework for
applying and collecting cxisting taxes. An advancc in this direction was the congress:onal
approval of a law in September 2000, that increases the proceeds from lotteries and helps
strngthen the finances of the health sector.
26. The authorities have initiated the reform the public health system unlder the social
securitv institute (ISS), which is facing a difficult financial position as a result of rapidly
rising costs and stagnating revenues. Operational aencits or arunu v..; put t;z ur
GDP appeared in 1999 and the system's deficit was projected to widen further in 2001
and 2002 Action has been taklen in recent months to rcverse the financial deterioration of
the ISS-health. To this end, a wide-ranging restructuring plan has been adopted and is
being iniplemented. The main elements of the plan include an unprecedented
renegotiation of the collective bargaining agrcement with the health worker unions which
significantly reduces wage and pension bcnefits; a set of measurcs to strcamline the
operations of the ISS; and the restructuring of ISS's debt. It has been decided to rcduce
rss costs further through a more equitable distribution of the financial burden related to
high-cost illncsses among health-service providcrs. The superintendency of hcalth has
lifted the sanction that prevented the ISS from incrcasing affiliation. This will allow the
ISS to generate additional income that will contribute to the reduction of the deficit.
These reforms involve significant savinigs that will reduce the health system's cash deficit
by 0.2 perccnt orGDP in 2002, and will climinatc the deficit by 2005.
104



Annex E
w 0 786
27. Colombia has initiated a second-generation reform of its pension system with the
establishment of funds to help finance territorial government pension liabilities, and the
authorities are currently in the process of introducing a fundamental and broad based
pension reform. During the past months the government has been discussing a pension
reform proposal that aims to bolster the financial position, which would othcrwise require
significant fiscal support over the next decade, and to reduce its long-term actuarial
dcficit. Ample discussions have been held betwecn the technical teams of the ministry of
finance, the national planning department tind the labor ministry, with the technical
advice of World Bank experts. The government's draft pension reform has been
submitted to the comrnission that was called by the President last May, integrated by
representatives of the industrial associations. labor unions, congress and the presidcntial
candidatcs. This commission will study the proposal and suggest changes before
presenting it to congress by December 14. The reform of the special pension regimes
(military, teachers and those included in labor bargaining agreements) will be discussed
bv a special commission that has been entrusted to present recommendations for their
reforTn by March 2002 which would be added to the reform of the general pension
system. The reform proposal seeks to achieve the financial equilibrium for new cntrants
into the system, finance the contingent liabilities generated by the minimumn pension
guarantce, as well as reduce the fiscal effort required to finance pension pavments in the
mcdium term. The main elements of the reform are: a) an increase of up to 2 percentage
points in payroll contributions (1 point when the reform is implemented and then 0.25
points yearly froTn 2005 to 2008); b) increased retirement ages (from 60 to 63 years for
meni and from 55 to 58 for women in 2014 and then to 65-60, respectively in 2020); c) an
iincrease in the minimum number of weeks of contributions required for a pension (from
1000 in 2014 to 1250 in 2020, increasing 35 weeks pcr year); d) making higher-income
pensions subject to income taxes; e) establishing a cap for new pensions equivaleat to 20
minimunm wages; f) new public employees must enroll in the public pension system. The
government expects that the final approval of the reformn will be made in the first half of
2002. The fiscal savings of the pension reform amount to 2.2 percent of GDP to 2010,
And the net present value of the pension liabilities to 2050 wrill be reduced from
206 percent of GDP to 159 percent of GDP as a result of the proposed reforn.
28. Tn dealing with a resurgence of the difficulties faced by the savings and loans
-s.sociqIinn% (WAVs). the authorities recognize thc need to strengthen further their capital
base and assure their efficient rcstructUring in ordcr to faisilitetz the rocovery of the
housing industry. lTe strategy adoptcd for the CAVs consists of introdlucing rigorous
capitalization and restructuring plans to be monitored by the banking superintenldcncy
with clear targets and a credible set of actions to hc taken by the authorities should those
105                                        9



Annex fE
.0 7 8 6
targets not be met. Simultaneously, FOGAFTN, the securities and banking
superinendencies, the ccntral bank, and the ministry of finance are developing a full-
fledged package of mcasures to facilitate the restructuring process and the develo-Dment
of capital market instrumcnts for long-term rnortgagc financing. The annual fiscal cost of
the additional assistance to the mortgage nnance sector nas Deen CsLunaLLCU LU VIC :Iuau
and has been incorporated within Lhe fiscal program
29. Recent developments suggest that the private banks which have receivea support
from FOGAFTN have irnproved their performance, although some of them remain w eak.
Conditional on the implementation of a restructuring plan, the authoritics stand ready to
assist potentially viablc institutions that may nced support. The remrraiirmg statc bank-s are
being prepared for privatization or a process of gradual asset shrinking and final closire.
as noted above. The clean-up of their portfolios and additional capitalization in
preparation for their sale or liquidation by mid-2002 is progressing, with the additional
costs having been incorporated in the fiscal program.
30. Togethcr with the IME staff and the technical assistance of Bank staff on structural
issues supported by the SFAL, the authorities have revicwed the medium-term outlook
for Colombia's public finances, external debt, and the balance of payments. The
projections reflect a conservative scenario in wlhich productiVity gains. unemploymnent,
the investment rate, and 1GDP growth return gradually to their historical levels. As a -esult
of the extensive fiscal adjustment mcasures and the structural reforms that have 'een
implemented so far, the growth of public sector debt is projected to moderate
significantly firom the rapid increascs in the late 1 990s, when the debt rosc from
26.7 percent of GDP in 1997 to 42.4 percent of GDP in 2000 Al the same timc, the
external current account deficit would be reduced from 5.4 percent of GOP on average
during 1997-98, to 2.9 percent of GDP on average in the period to 2010. The authorities
recognize that the fiscal adjustment and the structural reforms being pursued in 2001 and
2002 will not be sufficient to stabilize thc public debt at 44-46 percent, as is desirable. To
achieve this, it will bc necessary to continue the Colombia's fiscal consolidation cfforts
beyond the three years of the economic recovery program and put in place a combination
of measures that permanently reduce the fiscal deficit by around I percent of GDP.
Howevcr, it should be noted that this medium-term  scenario does not take into
consideration the impact on the economy that additional progress in the peace process
would bring about or the fact that the pcnsion refomr  will havc its most significant impact
on public debt beyond the projection period. Thcsc two elements do improve the
performance of the debt oYver a longer pcriod of time.
106                                      10



Annex E
qRr4"M                          UU 0 7 8 6
31.   This brief roview of Colombia's economic performance and our efforts towards
fiscal consolidation shows the govermment's continued cornitxnment to the achievement
of macroeconomic stability for the recovery of growth. The support of the World Bank
throughout these past years has been a decisive factors in the succcss of our efforts.
Sincre yours,
-        i
aulSantos
ster of Finance and Public Credit
107                                      ll



Annex E
108



Annex F
Bogota, D.C., 8 de agosto de 2001
Doctor
OLIVIER LAFOURCADE
Director Subregional
Colombia, Mexico y Venezuela
Banco Mundial
Washington,D.C.,U.S.A.
Estimado doctor Lafourcade:
Recibf con agrado su comunicaci6n en la que hace referencia a
su reciente visita a Colombia en la que pudo conocer mas de
cerca la situaci6n social y economica del pais.
Para mi es verdaderamente gratificante recibir esta manifestaci6n
de apoyo de parte suya, mas aun cuando afirma que usted y su
equipo pudieron apreciar en su visita el constante esfuerzo del
Gobierno Nacional por mejorar la calidad de vida de los
colombianos.
En su mensaje tambien hace alusi6n a las multiples
oportunidades que tuvo de hablar con personas que estan
verdaderamente agradecidas con este esfuerzo. Son esas
personas las que nos animan para continuar con esta importante
labor que, sin lugar a dudas, esta contribuyendo eficientemente at
desarrollo del pais.
109



Annex F
Le reitero nuevamente mi agradecimiento y le confirmo una vez
mas mi firme decisibn de continuar con las reformas que se han
iniciado, pues estamos logrando, como usted mismo pudo
constatar, la transicion de una sociedad castigada por la
inequidad a una sociedad en vfas de mejorar la distribuci6n de su
ingreso y de dar mejores oportunidades a su gente.
Reciba un cordial saludo,
,   ,C    /-t---
110



Annex G
ANNEX G
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM-STRIICTURAL FISCAL ADJIJS1 MENT LOAN
(SFAL)
SPECIFICATIONS, DEFINITIONS, AND EVIDENCE FOR TRANCCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS
First Tranche (Board Presentation)
A. General Condition of the SFAL
The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent with the
objectives of the program.
Specificity and Definition. The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is
consistent with the objectives of the program (as described in the government's Letter of
Development Policy sent to the Bank) means that the macroeconomic program supported by the
IMF's three-year extended arrangement facility (approved in December 1999) is on track. The
macroeconomic program is considered to be on track if the quarterly performance criteria-
namely, the overall fiscal deficit of the combined public sector, the inflation targets, the net
international reserves, the increase in medium- and long-term debt, and the issuance of
guarantees by the public sector for private external debt-were observed; and the Bank staff is
satisfied with the overall progress of the program as defined in the Letter of Development Policy.
Evidence. The Bank staff, in consultation with the IMF and the government, will exchange
views on the macroeconomic performance, and will assess progress in the program's
implementation through exchange of information via e-mail and periodic (for example, every
two months) missions to Colombia.
B. Specific Conditions of the SFAL
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1. The constitutional amendment (Acto Legislativo No. 1, of July 30, 2001) reforming the
transfer of resources from the central government to subnationals has become effective,
limiting the rate of growth of fiscal transfers to subnational governments and the rate of
growth of the central administration operational expenditures for 2002 and there-after.
Specificity and Definition.  Congress has approved a Constitutional amendment (Acto
Legislativo) limiting the rate of growth of the transfer of resources from the central government
to subnationals and combining different kinds of transfers into a single transfer system (Sistema
General de Participaciones). According to the Constitutional amendment, the rate of growth of
fiscal transfers to subnational governments will be limited to the inflation rate plus 2 percent for
years 2002 through 2005, and inflation rate plus 2.5 percent for years 2006 through 2008. The
lII



Annex G
limits on the growth of the central administration operational expenditures will be equal to
inflation plus 1.5 percent for 2002-08.
Evidence. Official copy of Acto Legislativo No. 01 of 2001, as published in the Diario Of<icial.
2. The government has submitted to Congress a draft law reforming the tax system of
territorial entities (Estatuto de Ingresos Territoriales) to increase subnational tax
revenues by more than 20 percent in real terms in the first year of its application term
compared to realized tax revenues in 1999.
Specificity and Definition. The government has submitted to Congress a draft law that
substantially amends and consolidates in a single legal text the rules for subnational revenues
(Estatuto de Ingresos Territoriales).  The draft law includes provisions that rationalize
subnational tax power and strengthen enforcement. Specifically, the measures regulate, among
other things, (a) the basic principles and rules for all departmental, district, and municipal
revenues, including taxes, fees, and special contributions; (b) distribution of tax revenues by
level of government; (c) tax base and tax rates (or delegation to subnational entities) for liquor,
beer, and tobacco excises, vehicle taxation, property tax, and industry and commerce tax,
valorization contribution, and participation in surplus value of real estate; (d) penalties for
noncompliance by taxpayers or beneficiaries; (e) tax procedures.
Evidence. Official copy of draft law submitted by government as received by Congress, and
subnational revenue projections as prepared by government in the Exposicion de Motivos for the
above-mentioned draft law.
3. The government has issued a decree to regulate debt and borrowing of territorial
entities that will contribute to halting unsustainable borrowing, limiting bailouts, and
eliminating discretionality in the treatment of debt. Since July 1, 2001, the territorial
entities have received no bailouts or guarantees of their debt in accordance with Law
617/00.
Specificity and Definition. This involves primarily: (a) the government has issued a decree,
whereby the debt of territorial entities contracted after December 31, 2001 and held by
commercial and development banks would be subject to a differential capital-risk-weighting grid
based on a current, published credit ratings performed by internationally reputable credit rating
agencies; and (b) there is evidence that since July 1, 2001, the territorial entities have received no
bailouts or guarantees of their debt in accordance with Law 617/2001.
Evidence. Copy of the decree, and a letter from the Ministry of Finance confirning that
government has observed restrictions of Law 617 on bail outs and new lending to subnational
governments after July 1, 2001, and listing the subnational entities that have applied for the debt
restructuring program before July 1, 2001.
112



Annex G
Health
4. The Ministry of Health, the Department of National Planning, and the Ministry of
Finance have defined and approved a national public hospital restructuring policy and
an implementation program for the next five years, and have begun the implementation
of the first phase, including the selection of at least 10 departments. For the year 2002,
the implementation program has covered more than 15 percent of the total public
hospital budget included in the FY01 budget.
Specificity and Definitions: The Ministries of Health and Finance, in conjunction with the
National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, DNP), have defined and
approved a public hospital restructuring policy and a program for implementing such policy
during the following five years. The objectives of this restructuring program are (a) to guarantee
the financial viability of public hospitals and (b) to improve productivity in health services
delivery in individual hospitals and in the overall public health services network. To achieve its
first objective, the program contains actions to reduce costs, including: (a) reforming the
personnel structure of public hospitals; (b) resolving accumulated debts (to public hospital
employees and providers); and (c) renegotiating collective bargaining agreements with hospital
unions, especially in what relates to seniority-based severance. To achieve the second objective,
the program includes actions such as (a) reaching agreements among national, departmental, and
municipal governments, and hospital directors, to advance the long-lasting restructuring of
public hospitals and to develop functional health services networks, and (b) identifying and
analyzing existing information regarding supply and demand of health services in different
regions to better define plans for managerial and technology improvements. The first phase of
the program includes (a) the selection of at least 10 departments (representing at least 1 5% of the
total 2001 public hospital budget) to start the implementation of the restructuring program; (b)
the completion of all information needed to start the restructuring program in the selected
departments, including demand and supply analysis of health services, and financial statements
and outstanding debt; (c) the identification of the financial needs and the sources of financing for
the implementation of the program included in the corresponding fiscal-year budget; and (d) the
launching of the restructuring activities.
Evidence: A document presenting the above policy and program signed by the Ministers of
Health and Finance and by the Director of DNP, and a document signed by the Minister of
Health providing information regarding the first phase.
Iss
5. The government has initiated a restructuring plan for ISS Health, including negotiating
with ISS unions about labor costs and benefits, and has implemented the first phase,
including the completion of renegotiating 50 percent or more of ISS's total outstanding
debt to health service providers and the reduction in at least 30 percent in the waiting
list for elective surgeries (as of June 30, 2001).
Specificity and Definitions: The national government has defined, approved, and initiated the
implementation of a restructuring plan for ISS-Health (that is, ISS-EPS and ISS-IPS), including
the improvement of managerial practices and enhancement of its financial viability (in the
113



Annex G
medium term, defined as moving from operational deficits of US$52 million equivalent in3 2000
and US$278 million equivalent in 2001 to an estimated surplus of US$10 million equivalent for
2005) through a series of actions focused on (a) reducing costs and (b) increasing re- enues.
Actions for reducing costs include (a) renegotiating the collective bargaining agreement ii what
refers to primas extralegales (related to vacations, seniority, and services), seniority-based
severance and pension benefits; (b) rationalizing clinics and ambulatory health servic es; (c)
improving contracting mechanisms with own and external health care providers; anld (d)
effectively verifying beneficiary rights to services, based on the improvements in its enirollee
database. Actions for increasing revenues include (a) improving the collection of contriHutions
from affiliates through reforns to the current system of self-estimated contribiutions
(autoliquidacidn); and (b) increasing collection of arrears from, among others, Fonc.o de
Solidaridad y Garantia (FOSYGA), Seguro Obligatorio de Accidentes de Transito (SOATI, and
ISS-ARP. The completion of the first phase of the program includes (a) the initiation oi labor
unions' negotiation; (b) the renegotiation of at least 50 percent of the Instituto de Seguros
Sociales (ISS) outstanding debt with public and private hospitals (as of June 30, 2001); (c) the
initiation of the rationalization in the provision of health services, particularly reducing at least
30 percent the waiting list for elective surgeries (as of June 30, 2001); and (d) the re-definition of
the current system of self-estimated contributions (autoliquidaci6n).
Evidence: ISS restructuring plan and a copy of ISS Board minutes in which said restruct-Jring
plan is approved; new collective bargaining agreement signed by the President of ISS and
representatives of the trade union; certification of the reduction of waiting list of 30 percent in
pending surgeries issued by the Vice-President of ISS-EPS; and certification by the presid-nt of
the ISS regarding debt restructuring.
Pension
6. The government has created a new social security department in the Ministry of
Finance for improving social security system control. Improved control has generated
fiscal savings equivalent to more than US$100 million in 2001.
Specificity and Definitions: Government has issued a decree that has created a new Social
Security Department in the Ministry of Finance. The decree specifies the staffing ol the
department and the date by which the new department will be operational. The main function of
the new Department will be to issue norms to improve the working of the pension systeni and
defend the interests of the government and participants in the system. The activities of the
previously existing pension unit in controlling and gathering information on pension liabilities
are maintained and institutionalized in the Ministry of Finance. The Department will ensure that
ongoing control efforts, like in FONCOLPUERTOS, are expanded. The Department through
improved control is generating fiscal savings.
The decree ensures that in the Ministry of Finance there is an adequate structure and sufficient
authority and resources to (a) expand and carry out more efficiently the ongoing information and
control activities, which include building and securing databases required for recognition and
recertification of pensions in national and territorial funds (cajas), monitoring capitalization
plans of pension funds and FONPET, monitoring membership of pension funds, issuing general
procedures and norms for recognition of pensions, and issuing norms to implement Law 100; (b)
114



Annex G
contract third parties to carry out the activities on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; (c) request
the required work history and pension infornation from all public and private entities, including
cajas, health institutions, cooperatives, regional comptrollers, and individual workers and
pensioners; and (d) require that the discussion of the budget of an entity with a pension fund
(caja) is tied to the satisfactory provision of information required to build work histories and the
database for the recognition of pensions.
Fiscal savings will include the actuarial value of identifying and stopping payment of ineligible
pensions avoiding that the government assumes liabilities from additional entities, and
identifying and abolishing norms that contradict Law 100 and generate other liabilities.
Evidence: Copy of the decree for the creation of the new social security department in the
Ministry of Finance; report issued by Ministry of Finance documenting fiscal savings.
Public Sector Reform
7. The government's approved budget for FY02 has included a reduction in total central
government current expenditure (net of interest payments and transfers to subnational
entities and to social security) of more than 4 percent in real terms in relation to the
same expenditures in the approved budget for FY01.
Specificity and Definitions: Adjustment to real terms will be based on the Consumer Price Index
for years 1999, 2000, and 2001, as published by the Departamento Nacional de Estadistica,
DANE.
Evidence: Approved budgets for FY01 and FY02, and a letter from the Ministry of Finance
explaining the above-mentioned reduction in current expenditures.
8. The government's approved budget for FY02 has included a reduction in central
government's general expenditures (gastos generales) of more than 15 percent in real
terms in relation to the same expenditures in the FY00 executed budget.
Specificity and Definitions: General Expenditures is defined as (a) acquisition of goods and
services, and (b) per diem and traveling expenses. Adjustment to real terms will be based on the
Consumer Price Index for years 1999, 2000, and 2001, as published by the Departamento
Nacional de Estadistica, DANE.
Evidence: Copy of the approved FY02 budget and of the executed budget for FY00, and a letter
from the Ministry of Finance explaining the above-mentioned reduction in general expenditures.
115



Annex G
Second Tranche
A. General Condition of the SFAL
The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent with the
objectives of the program.
Specificity and Definition. The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colonibia is
consistent with the objectives of the program (as described in the government's Letter of
Development Policy sent to the Bank) means that the macroeconomic program supported by the
IMF's three-year extended arrangement facility (approved in December 1999) is on track. The
macroeconomic program is considered to be on track if the quarterly performance cr:ieria-
namely, the overall fiscal deficit of the combined public sector, the inflation targets, the net
international reserves, the increase in medium- and long-term debt, and the issuance of
guarantees by the public sector for private external debt-were observed; and the Bank staff is
satisfied with the overall progress of the program as defined in the Letter of Development Policy.
Evidence. The Bank staff, in consultation with the IMF and the government, will exchange
views on the macroeconomic performance, and will assess progress in the program's
implementation through exchange of information via e-mail and periodic (for example., every
two months) missions to Colombia.
B. Specific Conditions of the SFAL
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1. The government is implementing the Constitutional amendment (Acto Legislativo No. 1,
of July 30, 2001) in accordance with its terms, limiting the rate of growth of (a) total
transfers to subnational governments to last year inflation plus 2 percentage points;
and (b) the central administration's operational expenditures to last year inflation plus
1.5 (percentage points)-as both were included in the FY02 budget, approved by
Congress.
Specificity and Definitions: Implementation of the Constitutional reform is satisfactory when the
government budget for 2002 meets (a) the value of transfers authorized by the Acto Legiviativo
ANo. 01, 2001, (b) the Constitutional provisions for the consolidation of transfers in one single
Sistema General de Participaciones, and (c) the limit in central administration operational
expenditures.
Evidence: Approved budget for 2002. Ministry of Finance issues a letter certifying that the
budget execution up to that point in time meets the requirements of the above-mentioned Acto
Legislativo No. 01, 2001.
2. The decree governing debt and borrowing by territorial entities (referred to in
condition 3 of the first tranche) is being implemented in accordance with its terms.
Specificity and Definitions: Implementation of the new regime for the debt and borrowing of
territorial entities will require that, among other things, the Superintendency of Banking is
116



Annex G
implementing the decree on capital-risk weighting for bank loans to subnational/territorial
entities.
Evidence: A report from the Ministry of Finance explaining how the new decree is being
implemented (including a list of the territorial entities that have obtained credit ratings, and
information on the capital risk weighting that has been applied to subnational bank loans granted
since the enactment of the decree).
Education
3. (a) Law 60, 1993 has been amended to provide for certification of municipalities that,
together with districts, represent at least 40 percent of the country's school enrollment
enabling such municipalities to autonomously manage the provision of education
services (including teacher payroll) and to establish education performance monitoring
mechanisms; or (b) the central government has certified municipalities that, together
with districts, represent at least 14 percent of the country's school enrollment enabling
such municipalities to autonomously manage the provision of education services
(including teacher payroll) and intergovernmental performance agreements have been
signed between the Central Government and such certified districts and municipalities.
In either case, no extra budgetary transfers for education to certified districts or
municipalities have taken place.
Specificity and Definitions: Government submitted a bill to reform Law 60, 1993 (bill No. 120
submitted to the Senate on September 27, 2001), the Colombian framework law for
decentralization. Law bill No. 120 automatically certifies municipalities that are capitals of
department and/or larger than 100,000 people. Districts and municipalities certified by the
reform bill account for more than 44 percent of the student enrollment of the country. Bill No.
120 also allows departmental governments to delegate education responsibilities to
municipalities with less than 100,000 inhabitants. Bill No. 120 gives specific contents to
certification of local governments for autonomous management of education services (as defined
below).
Districts refer to the territorial jurisdictions of Bogota, Barranquilla, Cartagena and Santa Marta.
In accordance with the 1991 Constitution, districts were automatically given responsibility for
education services.
Certification implies: (la) if Bill No. 120 is passed, districts and municipalities will be subject to
education performance evaluations, (lb) in the case of individual certification, districts and
municipalities agree with national government on specific district or municipal education
performance goals (matriz de desempeno), and (2) districts and municipalities are entitled to
autonomous management of education services.
Autonomous management of education services will be assessed on the basis of the following
factors: (a) transfer of resources to municipalities will be explicitly calculated based on the
number of students, (b) minimum coverage goals are explicitly agreed and stated in the
performance matrix (matriz de desempeno) between national and local governments, in the case
of individual certification, (c) autonomous management of human resources including proposals
117



Annex G
for appointment of teachers, relocation within the jurisdiction, disciplinary action on teachers
that do not meet their commitments and obligations and training, (d) autonomous managerlent of
financial resources, including capacity to reallocate surplus from the education sector, (e)
technical assistance from the Ministry of Education when so required by the municipality or
district, and (f) no extra budgetary transfers are made to participating municipalities.
Extra-budgetary transfers are defined as ad-hoc transfers, additional to fiscal transfers defined by
the Constitution and the Law.  Specially financed education programs and DAF-fnanced
municipal restructuring programs do not constitute extra-budgetary transfers.
It is anticipated that Pereira, Armenia, Manizales, Pasto, Dos Quebradas, Cartago, Tulua and
Soledad, all of them medium-sized cities, would be certified for autonomous managernent of
education services before the second tranche. Together with the districts (Bogota, Barranquilla,
Cartagena and Santa Marta), these municipalities account for at least 10 percent of Colombia's
school enrollment. However, the list of municipalities that are to be certified may differ firom the
above.
Evidence: i) copy of the law as approved by Congress; ii) certification by the Ministry of
Education of the student enrollment in districts and certified municipalities; iii) Ministry of
Education calculation of per student transfer to districts and certified municipalities; iv) as ailable
performance matrices (matrices de desempeno) for each participating district and certified
municipality, as agreed between the National government and participating local governrnents;
and v) certification by Ministry of Education that no extra-budgetary transfers for education have
been made to the districts or participating municipalities.
Health
4. The government has signed contracts with at least three subnational governments to
finance the restructuring of public hospitals, and the implementation thereof has
started. These contracts have included specific annual targets for (a) productivity
increases in inpatient and outpatient services and (b) labor cost reductions. The
resulting fiscal savings are equivalent to at least 5 percent in real terms per month, on
average among those participating subnational governments, compared to the previous
year in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Specificity and Definitions: The government has signed at least three financing contracts with
departments, municipalities, and hospital directors for the restructuring of public hospitals and
developing functional health-service networks (repayment of this financing may be waived as
noted below). These contracts will be assessed on the basis of, inter-alia, the following eleirients:
(a) specific annual targets regarding labor-cost reductions (including rationalizing personnel
structures, both open ended and short-term); and (b) specific annual targets refl-cting
productivity in inpatient and outpatient services.
Evidence: Copy of financing contracts signed by the government, by the legal representatives of
the departmental and municipal governments, and by the Directors of the participating public
hospitals, and documentation estimating fiscal savings.
118



Annex G
5. The government has transformed 60 percent or more of the 2001 budgeted health
situado fiscal (after legal mandatory deductions) to demand subsidies.
Specificity and Definitions: As contemplated in Ley 344 of 1996, the government has continued
with the transformation of supply subsidies to demand subsidies in health during 2001, reaching
a total amount of transformed resources equivalent to at least 60 percent of the health-related
situado fiscal as defined in the Constitution of 1991. Legal mandatory deductions include
preventive health, mental institutions and social security contributions of health workers.
Evidence: A letter signed by the National Director of Aseguramiento of the Ministry of Health
(Director Nacional de Seguridad Social) certifying the transformation of resources during 2001
in the amount referred to above.
ISS
6. The government and the ISS have reached agreement to generate annual savings in
ISS' total costs over a 10-year period which will, in the opinion of the Bank, make ISS
financially and economically viable.
Specificity and Definitions: The final agreement reached in the renegotiation of the ISS
collective bargaining agreement (including fringe benefits, seniority-based severance, and
pension benefits) generates net annual savings in total ISS costs during a 10-year period
equivalent, in real terms, to a percentage of the total labor costs for 2000 that contribute
significantly to making ISS financially and economically viable (based on a methodology and
parameters satisfactory to the Bank). Total labor costs include salaries, pension payments,
severance payments, and other benefits. Total savings will be complemented by other actions
included in the restructuring plan referred to in commitment 5 of first tranche.
Evidence: Copy of the executed ISS budget report, for 2000 (the base year), presented to the
Ministry of Finance. Copy of the new ISS collective bargaining agreement, signed by the ISS
president and representatives of the unions. Detailed study elaborated by the Ministry of Finance,
satisfactory to the Bank, calculating the expected savings during a 1 0-year period.
Pensions
7. The government is carrying out and controlling the transfers of public pension regimes
into a single agency, reducing payments of ineligible pension claims. Ongoing controls
generate fiscal savings of, on average, at least US$10 million per month.
Specificity and Definitions: The new controls will be assessed according to among other
elements: (a) all pensions of at least 8 national cajas or entities are being paid by FOPEP; (b)
Unified Registry of Contributors (URC) is operating and includes ISS contributors; and (c) a
national pension information system has been created and has completed the work for 10 pension
funds at the national level and 400 pension funds at the regional level. In addition, a mechanism
is operating that provides a consolidated estimate of all pension liabilities. Furthermore, the
government has strengthened the operational process to issue the pension recognition bonds.
Evidence: Report by the Ministry of Finance on reduction of pension liabilities and claims.
119



Annex G
Public Sector Reform
8. The central government's total actual current expenditures (net of interest paf ments
and transfers to subnational governments and to social security) that are being incurred
in 2002 are generating average savings of more than 4 percent in real terms in relation
to the same expenditures incurred during the same period in 2001.
Evidence: Letter by the Ministry of Finance certifying the relevant expenditures and the ensuing
real term reductions.
9. The budget approved for FY02 has included general expenditures (gastos generales)
that in real terms are not higher than those executed in the FY01 budget.
Evidence: Letter by the Ministry of Finance certifying the relevant expenditures and the ensuing
real term dynamics. Approved budget for 2002 and executed budget for 2001.
120



Annex G
Floating Tranche
A. General Condition of the SFAL
The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent with the
objectives of the program.
Specificity and Definition. The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is
consistent with the objectives of the program (as described in the government's Letter of
Development Policy sent to the Bank) means that the macroeconomic program supported by the
IMF's three-year extended arrangement facility (approved in December 1999) is on track. The
macroeconomic program is considered to be on track if the quarterly performance criteria-
namely, the overall fiscal deficit of the combined public sector, the inflation targets, the net
international reserves, the increase in medium- and long-term debt, and the issuance of
guarantees by the public sector for private external debt-were observed; and the Bank staff is
satisfied with the overall progress of the program as defined in the Letter of Development Policy.
Evidence. The Bank staff, in consultation with the IMF and the government, will exchange
views on the macroeconomic performance, and will assess progress in the program's
implementation through exchange of information via e-mail and periodic (for example, every
two months) missions to Colombia.
B. Specific Conditions of the SFAL
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1. Congress has approved the law referred to in condition 2 (first tranche), substantially in
accordance with the proposal submitted by the government.
Specificity and Definitions: The new law will be assessed as "substantially in accordance with
the proposal submitted by the government" when it includes provisions that rationalize
subnational tax power and strengthens enforcement. The measures would include (a) the basic
principles and rules for all departmental, district, and municipal revenues, including taxes, fees,
and special contributions; (b) distribution of tax revenues by level of government; (c) tax base
and tax rates (or delegation to subnational entities) for liquor, beer, and tobacco excises, vehicle
taxation, property tax, and industry and commerce tax, valorization contribution, and
participation in surplus value of real estate; (d) penalties for noncompliance by taxpayers or
beneficiaries; (e) tax procedures.
Evidence: Copy of the law.
121



Aninex G
Pension
2. Congress has approved a law to reform the general pension system to put it on a
sustainable path; or Congress has approved a law to reform at east one of the exempted
pension regimes to bring it/them, in the opinion of the Bank, in line with the general
pension regime.
Specificity and Definitions: The law reforming the general pension system will be considered to
have put the system on a sustainable path if it at least balances its finances at the margin, that is,
new entrants will not add to the liability of the system.
Ihe Exempted Regime will be one of the following (data for 1999):
Liabilities
Active Workers         Retirees        (percent 1999 GDP)
Public Teachers             303,000              61.848                   19.0
Armed Forces & Police       220,000              93,300                  39.0
Ecopetrol                     6,000               7,947                   2.4
Total                       529,000             163,095                  60.0
The law reforming the exempted regime will be assessed according to, among other>, the
following principles: (a) links between contributions and benefits, and (b) no new entry into the
unreformed exempted regime.
Lvidence: Copy of the law.
122



Annex H
ANNEX H
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM-STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(SFAL)
MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC FINANCES
HI.   This note reviews the background and advances that have taken place in Colombia in the
area of accountability and effectiveness in the management of public finances, and outlines some
outstanding issues as well as the government's agenda, and Bank support, in this area. The note
draws on the substantial amount of work already undertaken in the context of the Colombia
Country Financial Management Assessment (CFMA, September 1998; a second CFMA is
scheduled to be carried out in FY03), the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR,
March 2001), the Public Financial Management Project (PFMP, closed March 2001) and the on-
going PFMP-II which follows and expands on the earlier project. In addition, the Bank has
supported the government's anti-corruption program through the World Bank Institute as well as
an Institutional Development Facility (IDF) grant completed earlier this year.
H2.   The proposed operation, in tackling issues of fiscal control and sustainability, will help to
fulfill the necessary conditions for improved performance in financial management. At a more
specific level, however, the PMFP-II, following earlier activities under the first PFMP, explicitly
addresses weaknesses in financial management and procurement. The project includes a
component on public expenditures as well as a sub-component on procurement, the latter
reflecting many of the recommendations of the CPAR. In addition to a number of quantitative
objectives' outlined in the text below and largely related to the expansion of integrated
information systems, the PFMP-II, which was approved in 2001 and with an expected
completion date in 2006, is supporting activities that will lead to: (i) enhanced accountability for
achievement of performance objectives, spending of public resources, and procurement of goods
and services; (ii) increased value for money in public spending; (iii) increased transparency; and
(iv) enhanced civil society capacity to monitor public sector performance. At the operational
level, the project contributes to clarifying inter-institutional roles and equipping decision-makers
with the tools, information systems and skills needed to make well-informed decisions about
allocation, use, control and evaluation of public expenditures. Many of these qualitative
improvements are also expected to be accompanied by financial gains to the government as a
result of savings in expenditures. These financial gains are, however, difficult to quantify ex-
ante. Other issues related to financial management are being addressed by the IMF and the IDB,
and are also discussed below.
H3.   Looking forward, the CFMA scheduled for FY03 will add to the considerable existing
knowledge base in the fiduciary area in Colombia by focusing specifically on issues of financial
management in sub-national entities. The recommendations of the CFMA, as well as those of the
1. Briefly, some specific quantitative objectives of the PFMP-11 include an increase in the coverage of the central
budget by the Integrated Financial Management System (SIIF) to at least 90 percent, the system's implementation
in 145 regional offices of central government entities, and the development of a modified version of the system
for decentralized entities and its implementation in 1 I such entities that spend about 12 percent of the national
budget.
123



Annex H
recent CPAR and other on-going activities, will in turn constitute an important input into the
Colombia CAS which will be prepared with the new administration taking office in Colombia in
August 2002.
I.    Background
H4.  During the last decade, various steps have been taken to strengthen public expen(liture
management in Colombia. The Constitution of 1991 created the office of the Accountant
General of the Nation (Contaduria General de la Naci6n, CGN) charged with the responsibility
of consolidating the accounts of all levels of government, changed the role of the Comptroller
CGeneral of the Republic (Contraloria General de la Repuiblica, CGR) from ex-ante control to ex-
post audit of government expenditures, and emphasized the establishment of a modern financial
administration based on efficiency and effectiveness in public spending. Reforms have been
introduced to strengthen fiscal stability and macroeconomic coordination, implement a new
planning framework based on increased civil society participation, provide autonomy in budget
execution to operative agencies, and introduce performance management in the public sector.
H5.  The Bank, through its first PFMP project has supported the government's measures in
these areas, focusing on strengthening institutional capacity and analysis in a number of key
areas of public expenditure:
in macro-programming, formulation and monitoring of the budget;
in budget execution; and
* in the evaluation of results of public expenditure.
H6.  In the area of macro-programming. formulation and monitoring of the budget, the PFMP
financed the work of a multi-party Commission for the Rationalization of Public Expenditures
which carried out a detailed review of public expenditure management issues, and whose
recommendations have been an important input into policy reforms undertaken by the current
government in various areas, such as pensions, territorial transfers and privatization. The project
also assisted in the development of statistical accounting methodologies to strengthen the
capacity of the MHCP and the DNP in macro-economic analysis as well as information systems
for monitoring public finances and public sector cash flow. In the area of budget formulation the
development of a system for formulation of the investment budget has been initiated, and a
system to provide online access to budgeting norms has been implemented.
W[7.  In the field of budget execution, the development and implementation of an Integrated
Financial Management System (SIIF) has been a major accomplishment supported by the PF MP.
The system has been in operation since January 2000 in 46 central government entities and
covers about 80 percent of the central government budget. The SIIF has automated the entire
process of budget execution by line entities and has already resulted in a reduction in idle cash
balances by about US$ 45 million per month on average. Its database is available to the CGR for
real time audit of central government accounts.
HE.  The project also supported the establishment of the CGN and the training of its staff in
financial audits. The CGN has since developed and implemented new accounting norms, a new
chart of accounts and trained officials at all the three levels of government. The project also
supported the CGR's efforts to implement a system of social control, by involving civil society
in oversight and audit of public expenditures. The project has also assisted in the development of
an investment planning module for the Treasury. In the area of public credit, the PFMP has
124



Annex H
provided support in developing methodologies for risk management and in the identification of
options for the replacement of the existing debt management system.
H9.  In the area of public expenditure results evaluation, Colombia has pioneered a
comprehensive National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector Performance
(SINERGIA) to institutionalize systematic evaluation of government programs, projects and
entities; this results-oriented approach to management was assisted by the Bank through the
PFMP. SINERGIA has been in operation since 1997 and has been implemented in all 16 sector
ministries and 170 public entities. Under this system annual Indicative Plans are established for
each sector and entity, outlining strategic objectives, specific indicators of results to be achieved,
along with performance targets. Based on the SINERGIA, the National Planning Department
(DNP) and Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) have also started the practice of
signing Efficiency Agreements with specific ministries and public entities. In exchange for
commitments regarding availability of funds made by the DNP and MHCP, the ministry or
public entity concerned commits to deliver specific outputs.
II.   Current Agenda: Addressing Outstanding Issues
H1O. As can be appreciated from the above, Colombia has undertaken a number of
fundamental reforms to its system of public expenditure management in recent years. These
have included the creation and restructuring of institutions, the development of information
systems and accounting methodologies, and the introduction of results evaluation systems for the
public sector. Despite this progress, weaknesses continue to reduce the effectiveness of financial
management and procurement processes in some areas. These outstanding issues were identified
during the implementation of the Bank's PFMP and some were also highlighted in the Country
Financial Assessment completed in September 1998. They now constitute the basis of reforms
being supported by PFMP-II, as is outlined below.
A.   Financial Management
HI 1. In the area of budget formulation and monitoring, the government, with Bank support
through the PFMP-II, is addressing three key issues:
 Ensuring consistency between the government's strategic development priorities
and budgeted expenditures;
* Increasing clarity in the roles of different levels of government and different
institutions within the central government; and
*  Reducing the proliferation of norms as well as of reporting requirements.
The background to these issues and government response are expanded on below.
H12. Ensuring consistency between the government's strategic development priorities and
budgeted expenditures. A number of constraints affect the degree to which the budget reflects the
government's development concerns. Foremost among these is the fact that earmarking limits the
degrees of freedom available to the central government to implement its policy priorities through
changes in expenditure patterns. There is also a tendency to overestimate revenues and
underestimate costs. The consequent relaxation of the budget constraint allows low priority
programs to be included in the budget. The inadequacy of systems for evaluating programs and
projects, the lack of good information on unit costs of inputs and outputs, and weak capacity at
the sector ministries to carry out evaluations make project prioritization more difficult and affect
125



Annex H
the ability to evaluate budget requests. The government's ability to match public expendit ires to
strategic priorities is further affected by poor budget estimates compounded recently by irmacro-
economic shocks. This has meant that the government is unable to execute a significant portion
of budgeted expenditures. Budget turn-outs, relative to originally budgeted amounts, var) year
to year, often as a function of revenue projections and as a result of spending requests made after
the budget is approved. The latter have in the past been accommodated by postponing their
execution and payment to the subsequent year. Fiscal arrears grew from 1.0 percent of CrDP in
1990 to 2.6 percent in 1999 although they declined in 2000 as a result of the government's fiscal
adjustment program. Arrears are fundamentally the result of fiscal imbalances rather than
financial management, although the two are closely related (i.e., fiscal imbalances lead to
inefficient methods being used to control expenditures). The budget law of 2000 begins to
address this issue by establishing that commitments carried over to the next year be subtracted
from the budget appropriations of the concerned entity for that year. Additionally, the
government, in an effort to improve fiscal management, began in 2000 to measure the fiscal
deficit on a commitments basis (i.e., by accounting for commitments in the period in which they
are incurred). This is expected to strengthen the Ministry of Finance in dealing with spending
requests that come after budget formulation.
1113. The PFMP-II comprises specific actions to improve the responsiveness of the budget to
the government's development plans. These include: (i) better quantification of earmarked
expenditures and the development of options for reforms to reduce earmarking; (ii) enhancing
information and methods for revenue projection and for evaluating expenditure and revenue
policies; (iii) improvements in macro-programming through developing, enhancing and
implementing models for medium- and long- term macro-economic projections and simulations;
(iv) perfecting the methodology for calculating unit costs of inputs and outputs in a number of
areas; and (v) upgrading the tools for formulating and monitoring the central government's
investment budget.
Hi4. Increasing clarity in the roles of different levels of government and different institttions
within the central government. A lack of clarity regarding the respective roles of national,
regional and local governments has at times resulted in institutions at the central level continuing
to perform, and budget for, functions that have been devolved to local authorities. Within the
central level the need also exists to clarify the roles and responsibilities of entities that participate
in different stages of expenditure management. The division of expenditures responsibilities
between the MHCP and the DNP has led to problems in budget integration. MHCP is responsible
for the preparation of the recurrent budget, while DNP is charged with the formulation of
National Development Plans and the budget for capital expenditures. Recently, efforts have been
made to improve coordination between these two entities as well as with the CGR through an
inter-institutional agreement. The PFMP-II is providing assistance in clarifying and adjustin,:g the
roles and responsibilities of the various entities that participate in the programming, budgeting,
execution and evaluation of public expenditures.
1115. Reducing the proliferation of norms as well as of reporting requirements. In Colombia,
agencies monitoring public spending impose multiple reporting requirements on line agencies. In
addition to increasing the compliance overload of the agencies, this leads at times to a
proliferation of mutually inconsistent information that affects the quality of programming and
budgeting decisions. The norms for formulation and execution of the budget need i.0 be
consolidated and streamlined. The PFMP-II is addressing this issue by implementing existing
126



Annex H
inter-institutional agreements between the MHCP, DNP and CGR to reduce the costs of
monitoring of budgetary expenditures.
H16. In the area of budget execution and accounting the government's activities concentrate
on addressing the following issues:
*  Improving the quality and coverage of information systems;
*  Enhancing the quality of accounting data; and
*  Upgrading institutional capacity.
1117. As outlined above, the development and implementation of the SIIF responds to the need
to integrate all accounting, budgeting and payments of the public sector at all levels. While
major progress has been made, the system is still in its initial phase. The SIIF will also enable
line ministries implementing investment projects to have immediate access to external and
internal funds, beginning in January 2002. The PFMP-II is providing assistance to expand the
coverage of the central budget by the SIIF to at least 90 percent, and to extend the system to 145
regional offices of central government entities; a modified version of the system for
decentralized entities is also being developed and will be implemented in 11 such entities which
spend about 12 percent of the national budget. Strengthening the information systems of the
CGN to capture and integrate accounting infornation at the national, decentralized, and
territorial levels is another key objective of the project.
H18. Improvement in the quality of accounting information that is generated by public entities,
especially those not covered by the SIIF, is another area receiving attention as part of the PFMP-
I1. This is addressed through mechanisms to enhance the registration and reconciliation of
accounting records; to fortify institutional capacity, the project is supporting activities in the
areas of dissemination, advisory services and training for the improvement of accounting
practices. More specific actions by the project in the area of management systems include
improvements to the Treasury's investment portfolio management system to improve control of
transactions and optimize returns on investment, and an improvement in the debt management
system of the Directorate of Public Credit. While the latter system has adequate information on
external debt, it suffers from various deficiencies, including an inability to connect with the SIIF
or to allow debt service and cash flow projections.
H19. In order to effect further improvements in the area of public expenditure results
evaluation, the government, with the support of the PFMP-II, will:
Expand SINERGIA, the system of public sector results evaluation; and
. increase transparency through dissemination strategies to inform the public on
performance targets and results achieved.
H20. As background, the general budget (Presupuesto General de la Naci6n) covers all central
government expenditures. Territorial and decentralized entities are governed by separate
budgets. All are subject to control and audit by the CGR. The CGR is charged with carrying out
audits of all public entities and individuals who manage public funds. The resulting audit
reports are made available to the audited entity and to the general public. Each year, a General
Auditing Program (Plan General de Auditoria) is established whose coverage extends, at a
minimum, to 80 percent of the total budget. This year the CGR has also decided to audit
127



Annex H
territorial transfers in the areas of health and education, as well as royalties transferred to twelve
departments. The reports are timely and of generally good quality.
H21. Besides these "micro-audits" the CGR is also responsible for macro and fiscal control of
public finances and for an assessment of the accomplishment of development objectives. In this
context the CGR prepares a number of reports that evaluate public finances and policies,
including the National Development Plan, some of which are mandated by the Constitution.
These reports are also are publicly available on the CGR's website2 and are presented to and
discussed by Congress. In the economic area, the CGR's reports include: an audit of the general
balances of the consolidated public sector, a report on the general budget and the treasury, an
annual report on the state of public finances, and an annual report on public debt.
H22. In addition to the audit and evaluation work undertaken by the CGR, there is an
institutionalized process in Colombia for public sector results evaluation, as mandated bv the
Constitution and by law 152 of 1994. The DNP is charged with implementing this system
(SINERGIA) through its Department of Management and Results Evaluation (Direcci6o, de
Evaluaci6n de Gesti6n y Resultados, DEGR). Annual sector targets are set jointly by DNP and
line ministries, and are approved by the CONPES (Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y
Social). It is important to note that SINERGIA is conceived as a system to facilitate the
implementation of internal controls by entities of the public sector and one that enables the
gradual achievement of improvements in accountability, transparency and service delivery. 'It is
not seen as a system that is purely concerned with quantitative outputs (that falls under the
purview of the CGN and CGR). Two general types of results agreements are envisioned:
institutional goals (metas), and specific commitments (compromisos). General sector goals are
those contained in the Indicative Plans (IPs) for each sector; these do not depend exclusively on
the entity in question, but are the result of actions by agents in numerous sectors and of variables
not entirely under the control of the public sector. It is therefore very difficult to measure the
extent of the deviation from IPs. Commitments, on the other hand, are those results that can be
measured and where a direct line of responsibility can be established. The latest results
evaluation for the central government in 2000 has been completed, and is centered on a
comparison of sector performance indicators between 2000 and 1999, their contribution to the
achievement of development objectives, and the resources used to achieve said objectives. The
various sector commitments and results are obviously far too numerous to mention here, but a
summary can be found in the DNP website3. This process is carried out annually.
H23. While much progress in the area of results evaluation has been made through the
introduction of SINERGIA, advances have been constrained by: (i) the uncertainty of budgeted
funds which remains as an impediment in enforcing compliance with agreed performan-ce
targets; (ii) weak links between performance and incentives or penalties; (iii) the monitoring of
performance only with respect to investment expenditures, not recurrent expenditures; (iv) the
need to extend the evaluation system beyond the central level to public enterprises and territorial
entities; and (v) limited systematic analysis of the incentives faced by public sector managers in
executing the budget.
H24. In this regard, measures to improve the quality of budget formulation, and thus to
improve the ability of entities to comply with performance targets, have been addressed above.
2. www.contraloriagen.gov.co
3. www.dnp.gov.co
128



Annex H
To address the remaining issues related to results assessment, the government, with support from
the PFMP-I1, is expanding SINERGIA's project evaluation module to include recurrent
expenditures in the evaluation process. New modules are being developed for strategic
perfonnance evaluations of different sectors and for expanding performance evaluation to
territorial and decentralized entities. Additionally, dissemination strategies are being designed to
provide information to the public on performance targets for different policies, programs,
projects and public sector entities, as well as on evaluation of the results achieved and the
amount of money spent in the process, with a view to increase the transparency of public sector
operations.
H25. Other initiatives. Other initiatives in progress in the area of financial management
include an agreement between the Bank and the CGN that is to be used as a model for other
countries in the LAC region of partnership in the implementation and follow-up of fiduciary
Bank policies and procedures. This agreement is building on PREM's work over several years
with the Ministry of Finance. A Memorandum of Technical Understanding has been drafted that
aims to complement the work of CGN to enhance the World Bank's fiduciary responsibility
through financial control over cooperation and international development projects. In particular,
the objective is to provide support and guidance to those responsible for the accounting and
financial aspects of projects and programs in a number of areas: on fiduciary issues, by making
available to the Bank the instruments and tools of financial information needed to enforce
contractual commitments, policies and procedures established both in individual loan contracts
and in the general rules governing their operation; in the production of integrated financial data
on projects, through the SIIF or another compatible system that is easy to develop and can be
quickly and reliably fed into the SIIF; in ensuring that financial information from borrowing and
executing entities in World Bank-financed programs and projects are prepared in accordance
with CGN accounting principles, are consistently applied and acceptable to the World Bank, and
submitted to professional audit by the managers of those entities; and ensuring that in programs
and projects, financial statements convey the existence of transparent fiscal mechanisms, a
properly functioning financial management system, and compliance with the accounting,
financial, administrative and managerial clauses of the respective World Bank loan contracts, in
accordance with CGN regulations.
H26. Financial management issues at the sub-national level are addressed in a number of the
initiatives outlined above, namely: increasing the clarity of functions at different levels of
government, strengthening the information systems of the CGN to capture and integrate
accounting information at the decentralized level, and extending the results evaluation system to
territorial entities. Nevertheless, in view of the importance of this issue for fiscal outcomes in the
country as a whole, the upcoming Country Financial Management Assessment, scheduled for
FY03, will pay particular attention to addressing financial management issues at the
departmental and municipal level in a comprehensive manner.
H27. IMF. Related activities are being conducted by the IMF. The safeguard assessments
report on the audit mechanism for the Colombian central Bank, completed in May 2001 under
the transitional procedures, concluded that while audit of the central bank's financial statements
is undertaken, it does not comply strictly with the definition of an independent external audit
under the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The principles governing central bank
auditing mechanisms are enshrined in the Colombian Constitution of 1991, whereby the
President is responsible for auditing the central bank, and is permitted to delegate this function to
129



Annex H
the Banking Superintendent and to an independent State agency, but not to a private firm. The
central bank's financial statements are thus subject to an audit by an especially-assigned external
Auditor General who is appointed directly by the President of the Republic. The Office's
independence from the central bank was, in 2000, validated by the Colombian Constitutional
Court, which also validated the legal basis of the auditing arrangements. In practice, the
President names an auditor who is assigned an independent staff to assist him or her, using a
methodology developed with the technical advice of Price Waterhouse.
H28. In the Fund's assessment, the current auditing arrangements are capable of providing
high-quality audit services. However, as indicated above, the existing mechanism falls short of
ISA requirements regarding independence. Moreover, the IMF report concludes that the public
perception of independence may be compromised by the fact that the costs of the Audit Office
are paid by the central bank, and by appointments to staff positions in the Audit Office being
made in accordance with central bank procedures. The assessment also noted that the Auditor
General's main responsibilities are functions typically associated with an internal audit
department, and that under international best practice, this would preclude the Audit Office from
also performing the external review. The Fund report recommends the publication of the audit
opinion together with the central banks's annual financial statement; the latter are made public
through the journal of the bank, in major Colombian newspapers and on the bank's website.
Based on this finding, and on the legal issues involved, the Fund and the authorities are
exchanging views on the appropriate means to overcome this matter. The government also
intends to request the Fund to assist it in addressing issues in the area of fiscal transparency. A
fiscal transparency mission is envisaged early next year.
B.   Government Procurement and Contracting
H29. One of the areas that has a major impact on the results of public expenditure is
government procurement and contracting.  The recently completed CPAR highlights the
strengths and weaknesses of the Colombian legal and administrative public procurement
framework and makes specific suggestions to improve it.
H30. Law 80 of 1993, together with some 80 regulatory decrees and other laws provide the
legal framework for public procurement in Colombia. Law 80 was intended to be a law of
principles, which is positive. Some of the strengths of the law are the full decentralization of the
procurement function to national and territorial entities, the prohibition of excessive formalities,
and the use of alternative dispute resolution procedures. In terms of procedures and practices,
the bidding and contract award process is relatively expeditious. Additionally, the President has
issued a directive in 2000 (Agenda de Conectividad) which aims at establishing E-Government
in Colombia; some institutions have begun to establish information systems for a wider
dissemination of their procurement activities. Law 598 of 2000 established, within the CGR, a
monitoring system for State contracting. The directive and the law are first steps towards the
objective of establishing a procurement information system.
H31. In terms of Bank-assisted projects, the CPAR found that agencies responsible for project
implementation carry out procurement in accordance with Bank policies and procedures, using
its standard bidding documents. Procurement performance in Bank projects was therefore
concluded to be satisfactory and free of major problems. Two procurement audits and four
agency procurement capacity assessments carried out in the past two years found no major
problems and determined that procurement risk in Bank projects is lower than average.
130



Annex H
H32. There is, however, a consensus that procurement and contracting activities are affected by
serious deficiencies that have led to the inefficient use of public funds and that have become a
source of corruption. Measures are needed to improve institutional aspects and to increase
efficiency and transparency. The legal framework lacks clarity, over-regulates public
procurement, and contains loopholes. Over-regulation and the high concern with corruptiqn has
in turn led to an environment of distrust between the government and those doing business with
it. Weak institutional leadership in the area makes it difficult to develop and improve the public
procurement framework on an ongoing basis. There is also room to improve the monitoring and
evaluation of procurement practices.
H33. The government recognizes these problems and has taken steps to institute changes, as
outlined below. Additionally, it is beginning the process of developing capacity for
disseminating procurement opportunities, bidding documents and contract awards to the public
via the internet, in an effort to carry out procurement transactions on-line. More generally, the
government is currently working on an amendment to the Procurement and Contracting Law
(law 80). The DNP has, in this context, decided to submit to the Consejo Nacional de Politica
Economic y Social (CONPES), the Government's highest policy-making body in social and
economic matters, a policy paper on public procurement which should draw on the findings and
recommendations of the CPAR.
H34. Drawing on the action plan outlined in the CPAR, the PFMP-II includes a procurement
component that is providing assistance to: (a) develop legislation and regulations to support
modifications to Law 80 with a view to improve the legal framework for public procurement; (b)
design and implement institutional arrangements, including the possibility of establishing a
national body, for developing and regulating public procurement and contracting policy,
standardizing and disseminating procedures, bidding documents and contracts, and assisting
central and territorial entities in procurement and contracting matters on an ongoing basis; (c)
develop and implement a system for monitoring and evaluation of procurement and contracting
practices in the public sector, piloting the system in two central level entities, one decentralized
entity and two territorial entities; (d) design and implement an internet-based public procurement
information system aimed at disseminating all information regarding procurement notices,
bidding documents and contract awards to interested parties and the public, thereby setting the
basis for online public procurement; and (e) carrying out a survey to determine procurement
training needs and developing a pedagogical system aimed at providing public sector personnel
with learning tools relating to the conceptual, technical, legal and procedural aspects of public
procurement and contracting.
H35. The government is also receiving assistance from the Inter-American Development Bank
in the area of procurement, in particular for the modernization of control and supervision
mechanisms in the public contracting information system (Sistema de Informaci6n de la
Contratacion Estatal - SICE) implemented by the CGR.
C.   Anti-Corruption Initiatives
H36. Colombia possesses an extensive legal framework to combat corruption. The Criminal
Code, Law  190 (Estatuto anti-corrupci6n) and Law 200 (Estatuto Disciplinario de los
Funcionarios Ptublicos) have provisions defining corrupt practices and the duties of public
officials. Various entities monitor how the public sector carries out its functions in general and
procurement in particular. Nevertheless, the perception in both the public and private sectors is
131



Annex H
that corruption is common. The government's approach in the past has focused on introducing
additional regulations, controsl and punitive actions-a strategy that has not fully resohled the
problem. As a result, several new initiatives to combat corruption are presently being carried out
both by the Presidency and Vice-Presidency of the Republic.
H37. Following a request to the Bank made by President Pastrana, a joint initiative with the
Bank, headed by the Vice-Presidency of the Republic, was launched in association with a variety
of public and private institutions and civil society organizations engaged in anti-corruption
activities. The objective is the construction of a National Strategy for Integrity and Governance
(Estartegia Nacional de Integridad y Gobernabilidad). A central pillar for constructing such a
strategy was the implementation of a national survey to establish perceptions regarding public
sector institutional integrity and the incidence of corruption in the country. The survey,
developed and implemented with Bank support, was conducted in seven of Colombia's main
cities and covered over 8000 respondents from the public sector (central and local levels), the
private sector, and households. The survey's results were summarized in a recent report. The
report concluded that corruption is still perceived as a problem in Colombian societv, with
negative perceptions regarding the legislative branch in particular. With respect to public sector
institutions (166 of these, at the central and local levels, were surveyed), public sector officials
were generally satisfied with their entities' performance and commitment to corporate objectives.
Weaknesses did emerge regarding the coincidence between corporate objectives and citizens'
needs. Governance and transparency are perceived to be weaker at the local level than at the
central level, reflecting weaker controls in the former. The report also concludes that the
incidence of corruption in the public sector-including state contracting and diversion of public
resources - while being a matter of concern, does not present a serious enough situation to justify
the high level of importance accorded to the topic at all social levels. Social concern with the
issue appears to be the result of weaknesses in governance and a perception that the political
system, particularly the legislative branch, lacks integrity, rather than being due to classic issues
of corruption (i.e. rent-seeking activities). Taking into consideration these results, the
government is designing a comprehensive anti-corruption policy.
H38. Another initiative, an IDF grant for Colombia's Anti-Corruption Program, was begun in
1998. The grant was implemented by the Departamento Administrativo de la Funci6n Publica
(DAFP) with the assistance of the UNDP, and was completed in December 2000. The main
objectives of the grant were to improve understanding of the nature and causes of corruption in
the Colombian public sector, to review the efficacy of measures taken so far, and to develop
strategies to strengthen integrity, transparency and accountability. The grant carried out an in-
depth institutional analysis of two public sector entities to identify the causes and patterns of
corruption in the public sector and develop counter-measures to deal with them. While these
case studies were intended to help prevent and control corruption within the entities covered,
they were also expected to lead to general lessons and tools that could be applied to other public
sector entities. Based on the case studies, a comprehensive report was prepared providing
insights into corruption risks, the possible consequences of these risks, their relative severity and
strategies to mitigate them. The report, Riesgos de Corrupci6n en la Administraci6n Publica,
was published in book form, and 1500 copies of the book were distributed to public entities and
other stakeholders. The book is also available in the Web-page of the DAFP. A gen1eric
methodology for the preparation of corruption risk maps (Mapas de Riesgos) was developed.
This tool enables any public sector entity to carry out a self-analysis of its vulnerability to
corruption and to prepare a realistic strategy to combat corruption. In order to disseminate the
132



Annex H
results of the activities supported by the IDF Grant, 38 workshops were held, and were attended
by 1300 representatives of a wide range of ministries and departments. To help institutionalize
the outputs of the IDF, the DAFP included anti-corruption as one of the major dimensions to be
considered by sector ministries in the development of their Administrative Development Plans.
These plans are required to be submitted to the DAFP under the Estatuto Bdsico de
Administraci6n Publica. The DAFP is providing advice and guidance, on a continuing basis, to
public agencies who have chosen to use the methodology. In parallel, considerable effort was
made to integrate the activities of the IDF Grant with the broader Presidential Program for
Combating Corruption, led by the Office of the Vice President.
133



Annex H
134



IBRD 26153
COLOMBIA
-  - .   it  b       0     *+Etx        /        t                      7                       -'(
0 cqf / sA' ~~~~~~VaN dupssr '9 EAI
/                                          C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLIV~A
Sincle   j a
PANA         A         =Ate                                                                                                         RGENTINA 
Sb-    The boundaries, colors, denominations
['4'                               O~~~~~~~~~~nd any other informnation showsn on
SAN ~~~Aj-i,-~~~'- 0                 A~ics mop do oat ieply, on tie part of
Sn            -~~~~~~~~~~~                  N.  CM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~The World Bank Group, any judgment
-8   1' P  h)    .  (              >:>        ;     Si - Quto                                          on the legal status of any territory, or
any endorsement or acceptance 6t
N/            >          i                            , r n                                                  such boundaries
t t-, a ~N T\ C; G                                                                                    ,., :td.A,^  .;;. V E N E Z U E L A
(   9   i eMdrilin  S                     wf>R>q<?zP               s  r                      9 _eC
P4  a c /    C        r   T dfbdo*r
.0 !                         //7fr4O  )7UP+fNAM4C,,l8,
/    /   0A~~~se&m  ~~~    1FtD  ~OTA
*                                                      I Ltu,''  Et ' 3,-''<3 V illn,cencio
AU',;;  4                                                F  I  
Cat,   * ~u~ 
c C                         A>  1   A  9    / 12;.           >      Jose de Gusw a *   \           .     t <, t .1 >   iR
>J ASRan                                                        e   n
A  ~~~ ~~~\ }    Crenvi~~Plrec,o                             o;            \     
N >.t A R I h# aj7   :tV    t*" \\MILES
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ c U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0501011
C-,C-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                 0 ~~~~5011    0   150   200  2,50
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A  Z  I L 
ELEVATION ABOVE 1000 METERS                                 .                                  |
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                     \        J
Jl    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                         ,           E      R     U                I
RIVERS                                                                               /    I
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                          QI.
-. -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            .4,,i C       /         /
7r-                                                 74-
AUGUST 199A



