Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7092 - CO
Loan Agreement
(Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 19, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7092 - CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated November 14, 
2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the 
Borrower’s fiscal situation (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
Page  2
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
"Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the Borrower, 
shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the Loan Account the 
currency of such deposit account as shall be required to deposit the withdrawn 
amount 
into such deposit account.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Central Government" means the Borrower’s central government  as defined 
in Article 38 of the Borrower’s Law 489, of December 29, 1998;
(b)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding 
$160,000,000, to be released by the Bank to the Borrower upon fulfillment of the 
conditions set forth in Sections 2.02(a) and 5.01 of this Agreement, and Sections 
12.01 and 12.02 of the General Conditions;
(d)
"Floating Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding 
$60,000,000, to be released by the Bank to the Borrower upon fulfillment of the 
conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement;
(e)
"ISS" means Instituto de Seguros Sociales, the Borrower’s Social Security 
Institute, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 90/1946, as amended by 
Article 275 of the Borrower’s Law 100/1993;
Page  3
(f)
"Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan, not exceeding 
$180,000,000, to be released by the Bank to the Borrower upon fulfillment of the 
conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement; and
(g)
"Territorial Entities" means the Borrower’s entidades territoriales 
defined in Article 286 of the Borrower’s Constitution, which consist of the 
departments, districts, municipalities and indigenous territories.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
million Dollars ($400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account: (i) pay the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (ii) open and thereafter maintain in its central bank 
a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Second Tranche unless: (i) the amount of the First Tranche has been disbursed by the 
Bank to the Borrower; and (ii) the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; (B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, 
after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled, and, 
within 90 days after such notice, any such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second 
Tranche.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Floating Tranche unless: (i) the amount of the First Tranche has been disbursed by the 
Bank to the Borrower; and (ii) the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; (B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, 
after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled, and, 
within 90 days after such notice, any such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Floating 
Tranche.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
Page  4
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be paid by the 
Borrower not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; 
and (ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion," as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that, unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal $20,000,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
Page  5
of the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedules 3 or 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date February 19, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  6
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 350-9344
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By  /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112            -
Alcoholic beverages
Page  7
121            -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122            -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525            -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718         718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897         897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
Page  8
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2010 
       through May 15, 2015
10%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C)
of this Agreement (Second Tranche Conditions)
Page  9
1.
The constitutional amendment (Acto Legislativo No. 1, dated July 30, 2001), 
which amended Articles 347, 356 and 357 of the Borrower’s Constitution, regarding 
transfers of resources from the Central Government to Territorial Entities, is being 
implemented in accordance with its terms, including by limiting the rate of growth of: 
(a) total transfers of resources to Territorial Entities to a rate equivalent to the 
rate of inflation in 2001 plus two percentage points; and (b) the operational 
expenditures of the entities of the Central Government set forth in Article 38, 
paragraph 1, of the Borrower’s Law No. 489, of December 29, 1998, to a rate equivalent 
to the rate of inflation in 2001 plus 1.5 percentage point.
2.
(a) The Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 2540, of November 27, 2001, governing 
debt and borrowing of Territorial Entities, is being implemented in accordance with 
its terms; and (b) since July 1, 2001, Territorial Entities have not received any 
bailouts or guarantees of their debt, as provided in the Borrower’s Law No. 617, of 
October 6, 2000.
3.
(a) The Borrower’s Law No. 60 of 1993 has been amended to provide for 
certification of municipalities that, together with districts, represent at least 40 
percent of the country’s school enrollment enabling such municipalities to 
autonomously manage the provision of education services (including teacher payroll) 
and to establish education performance monitoring mechanisms; or (b) the Central 
Government has certified municipalities that, together with districts, represent at 
least 14 percent of the country’s school enrollment enabling such municipalities to 
autonomously manage the provision of education services (including teacher payroll), 
and performance agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been entered into between 
the Central Government and such certified districts and municipalities.  In either 
case, no extra budgetary transfers for education to such certified districts or 
municipalities shall have taken place.
4.
The Central Government has signed and has started the implementation of 
contracts with at least three Territorial Entities to finance the restructuring of the  
hospitals of such Territorial Entities, such contracts to include specific annual 
targets for productivity increases in inpatient and outpatient services and labor cost 
reductions with a view to achieving, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, fiscal 
savings for such Territorial Entities equivalent to at least five percent per month on 
average, in real terms, in relation to the same period in 2001.
5.
At least 60 percent of the health-related funds of the situado fiscal (budgetary 
transfers) (after deducting mandatory legal contributions) set forth in the Borrower’s 
budget for 2001 have been transformed to finance demand subsidies for health services.
6.
 The Central Government and the ISS have reached an agreement to generate annual 
savings in ISS’s total costs over a ten-year period which will, in the opinion of the 
Bank, make ISS financially and economically viable.
7.
(a) The Central Government is carrying out and controlling the transfers of 
public pension regimes into a single agency, reducing payments of ineligible pension 
claims; and (b) controls, inter alia, of payments of ineligible pension claims by the 
Central Government are generating fiscal savings of, on average, at least $10,000,000 
equivalent per month.
8.
The Central Government’s total actual current expenditures (net of interest 
payments and transfers to Territorial Entities and to social security) that are being 
incurred in 2002 are generating average savings of more than 4 percent in real terms 
in relation to the same expenditures incurred during the same period in 2001.
9.
The Borrower’s budget approved for 2002 has included general expenditures (
gastos generales) that in real terms are not higher than those effectively incurred 
under the Borrower’s executed budget for 2001. 
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii) (C)
of this Agreement (Floating Tranche Conditions)
1.
The draft law (Proyecto de Ley) No. 086, reforming the tax system of the 
Page  10
Territorial Entities (Estatuto de Ingresos Territoriales), which was submitted to the 
Borrower’s Congress on September 6, 2001, has become a law substantially in accordance 
with the submitted draft law.
2.
(a) The Borrower’s Congress has approved a law to reform the Borrower’s general 
pension system governed by the Borrower’s Law No. 100/1993 in order to put such system 
on a sustainable path, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; or  (b) the Borrower’s 
Congress has approved a law to reform at least one of the pension regimes which are 
exempted from the rules applicable to the Borrower’s general pension system in a 
manner that brings the reformed regime or regimes, in the opinion of the Bank, in line 
with the Borrower’s general pension system.
