Documaot Of
The World Bank
FoR omcFCL USE ONLY
Rpwot Nb. P-4113-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27.7 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 31, 1985
I   & d.cumeu  ha a reualdedm didirIem   and mm be mii by recilmml gu1Y In the Peifommanc Of
&edWal daUtw ias acgmmla =ay not oghuiwbe be dbdclosd witheu WwrM Bank avlhorkaiom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CY 1984              February 1985
Currency Unit  =    Tunisian Dinar (D)           TD
US$1           =    TD 0.7768                    TD 0.9037
TDI            =    US$1.2873                    US$1.1066
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report is US$ = ID 0.75.
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AIC      =     Association of Coumon Interest
BNT      =     National Bank of Tunisia
CTV      -     Local Extension Center
DGR      =     Department of Rural Engineering
DPSAE    =     Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analyses
DRE      =     Department of Water Resources
DRS      =     Department of Soil Resources
GIAF     =     Association of Fruit and Citrus Farmers and Traders
GIH      =     Group of Hydraulic Interest
GIL      =     Association of Vegetable Producers and Traders
IRA      =     Arid Zones Institute
MOA      =     Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      =     Ministry of Finance
O&M      =     Operation and Maintenance
OMV      =     Irrigation Development Office
OMVGM    =     Gabes and Medenine Irrigation Development Office
PMU      =     Project Management Unit
STIL     =     Tunisian Milk Processing Company
T&V      =     Training and Visit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower              Republic of Tunisia
Amount                 US$27.7 million equivalent
Terms                  17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The proposed Project would rehabilitate 42 selected
oases of the Gabes Governorate, expand three existing
oases and create a new one. To this end, the Project
would include (a) replacement of deep wells and
provision of pumping equipment, and construction of
piped water distribution systems; (b) orchard and crop
reconversion and intensification; (c) provision of
equipment and staff to the executing agency, the Gabes
and Medenine Irrigation Development Office (OMVGM); (d)
provision of technical assistance to OMVGC and to
existing farmer associations; and (e) provision of
credit to farmers for onfarm development. The project
would directly benefit about 7,700 farm families, among
the poorest in'Tunisia. The principal risk related to
slow adoption by farmers of new cropping patterns is
inimized by the provision of suitable extension
services.
Estimated Project Costs:                           Local    Foreign    Total
(Us$ million)
Investment Costs
Buildings                                       0.6       0.4        1.0
Irrigation and on-farm works                   10.9      14.1       25.0
Equipment                                       2.0       3.1        5.1
Studies, training, technical assistance         0.1       0.1        0.2
Onfarm development (credit)                     1.7       1.4        3.1
Incremental operating costs                     4.2       2.1        6.3
Total Base Costs                          19.5      21.2      40.7
Physical contingencies                  2.0        2.5       4.5
Price contingencies                     7.2        5.9      13.1
Total Project Costs                       28.7 /a   29.6       58.3 /a
/a Includes $14.3 million of taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financina Plan:                                   Local    ForeiRn    Total
(Us$ million)
World Bank                                         -         27.7       27.7
BNT                                                 1.0       1.9       2.9
Beneficiaries                                      5.0        -         5.0
Government                                         8.4        _         8.4
Net Project Costs                             14.4       29.6      44.0
Taxes and Duties                              14.3         -       14.3
Total Project Costs                           28.7       29.6      58.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
(US$ million)
Annual                    1.0    2.0    3.0    6.7    8.5    4.5    2.0
Cumulative               1.0    3.0    6.0   12.7   21.2   25.7   27.7
Economic Rate of Return:    21%
sI//
Staff Appraisal Report:     No.      -TUN, dated May 30, 1985
Map No.                      IBRD 18405
IBRD 18490



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$27.7 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help
finance a Gabes Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY -'
2. A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), in two volumes, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983. An economic
mission to review the performance of Plan implementation at mid-term Wisited
Tunisia in April 1984; its findings are reflected in this part and the country
data sheets, attached in Annex I.
3. Tunisia is a medium-size, middle-income country with a population of 7
million and a per capita income of about $1200.-' Much of Tunisia is arid
or semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land is irrigated, and areas where
rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuation
in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every
three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw materials
are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Known exploitable reserves of oil
and gas are approaching depletion, and new hydrocarbon reserves are limited
and require costly off-shore drilling; priority is now given to slowing down
the growth of domestic consumption by conservation and pricing measures. The
low quality of phosphate deposits constrains the expansion of the highly
efficient Tunisian phosphate processing industry. The country also has
considerable tourism potential, but after a period of rapid expansion, the
sector is experiencing difficulties in maintaining competitive prices and
quality standards.
4. Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human resources,
paying special attention to family welfare, education, and technical and
vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and the early
1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 65, the
expectation of life at birth rose from 48 to 61 years, the adult literacy
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No.
P-4082-TUN of May 13, 1985 for an Irrigation Management Improvement
Project.
2/ 1984 preliminary figure at current prices and current exchange rates.



-2-
rate increased from about 15 to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply
per capita increased from 83 to 116 percent of minimum standard requirements.
An active family planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease
in fertility and birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the
gross reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5 to 2.1 percent over the
same period. However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya, the
growth rate of the labor force accelerated, a main reason for the rapidly
growing, serious unemployment problem. Open unemployment reached 14 percent
in 1983 and underemployment is extensive. These problems are particularly
serious among young school dropouts.
5.       During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy did extremely well.  Rapid
growth in the range of 7-8 percent was accompanied by substantial structural
transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more diversified, and their
share in total exports increased. Economic performance benefitted from
substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price increase of oil,
allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase and investment to
remain high (over 30 percent of GDP). It also benefitted from improved
economic management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal,
market-oriented economy. The balance of payments current account deficit,
averaging 5 to 6 percent of GDP over the period, was easily financed, much of
it by direct foreign investment. The only major problem was a high rate of
unemployment and underemployment.
6.       During the Fifth Plan (1977-81), more than half of total investments
was allocated to directly productive sectors, but the direct employment
effects of the leading sectors (petroleum, phosphate mining and processing,
and tourism) were small and unemployment continued to increase. These
sectors, however, made a vital contribution to GDP, public savings and
exports. They provided 52 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings
in 1983, while manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals,
provided 19 percent.
7.       The Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposed a number of policy reforms to face
the consequences of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments and to encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. These measures were to be accompanied by
a substantially tightened incomes policy, in particular cautious wage and
salary policies and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.
8.       The Sixth Plan started poorly.  In 1982, a prolonged drought
depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial production, technical
problems plagued the phosphate and cement industries, and tourism and exports
of manufactured goods were adversely affected by the recession in Europe. The
economy recovered in 1983 and 1984 due to buoyant growth in manufacturing



output, stimulated by rapidly growing local demand. This brought the average
annual growth of GDP in the first three years of the Plan to 3.5 percent,
compared to 5.3 percent targeted. This performance is nonetheless commendable
in view of the world recession and compared with other countries.
9.       More worrisome than the slowdown in economic growth are the
macroeconomic imbalances, which have worsened over the last years. In
contradiction to the Plan's macroeconomic scenario, the investment rate
remained high rather than declined, mainly due to high public enterprise
investments in energy and transportation, and consumption expanded rapidly,
fuelled by sharp increases in wages and salaries. The corresponding strong
demand pressure, facilitated by rather liberal credit policies, was reflected
in rising inflation: 13.6 percent in 1982, compared to a 7.8 percent average
over 1977-81; it was slowed to 8.4 percent in 1984 through increased price
controls. Lower than planned overall economic growth, higher capital
intensity of new investments, and the sharp increase in labor costs combined
to keep employment creation below Plan goals, and unemployment further
increased.
10.      Despite a virtual stagnation of imports (in constant prices) due to
tightened import control, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments deteriorated to 8.9 percent of GDP by 1984. A fall in exports of
petroleum and of agricultural products, and a slowdown in tourism, depressed
export receipts. Direct foreign investment (mainly in the oil and gas sector)
stagnated in 1983-84. Nevertheless, Tunisia's net foreign exchange reserves
increased substantially to reach 1.7 months of imports at end-1984, as
compared to 1.1 at end-1980. This reflects, inter alia, a revaluation of the
Central Bank's foreign exchange assets, as well as the Government's drawing
down part of a syndicated Eurodollar loan contracted in 1982.
11.      The budgetary situation has also deteriorated since 1981; the Central
Government's overall budget deficit jumped from 2.7 to over 7 percent of GDP
between 1981-84. This reflected increases in public investments and in
recurrent expenditures due to wage and salary increases, higher subsidy
payments to households and public enterprises, and growing dollar-denominated
debt service payments caused by a 36 percent dollar appreciation vis-a-vis the
Tunisian dinar between 1981-84. On the other hand, this latter factor helped
keep petroleum revenues from falling, and total revenues showed a continuous
growth despite the recession. In 1984, recurrent expenditure growth slowed
considerably, however, as a result of a freeze in Government salaries and
wages and of lower consumer subsidies.
12.      Medium-term prospects depend on two main factors: future developments
in the hydrocarbon sector; and the speed with which the Government implements
the far-reaching macroeconomic policy changes outlined in the Sixth Plan. Oil
and gas exploration programs under way have not been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production could be stabilized at about its present annual level 3f 5-6
million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. Barring large new
oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia would turn into a net importer of oil in the early 1990s.



-4-
13.      Making the necessary adjustments to prepare the economy for the post-
hydrocarbon era is made more difficult by increasing financial and balance of
payments constraints. While there is little disagreement about the
desirability or objectives of economic reform, the appropriate implementation
measures and particularly the speed of reform are more controversial. While
undeniable progress has been made since the early 1980s in several respects,
other factors have worked in the opposite direction (para. 14). Over the last
years, the Government has focussed with some success on administrative type
measures. Legitimately concerned with immediate economic and social problems,
it resorted to short-term measures and direct, quantitative controls such as
mandatory price reductions and import restrictions. Among longer-term
policies, only export promotion was addressed by a sufficiently broad approach
(tax rebates, foreign exchange risk insurance, special credit, trade
companies). The price liberalization process has moved slowly, with some
reductions in price subsidies (particularly for agricultural inputs,
transportation and energy) and some liberalization in the price regimes for
manufactured goods. Economic incentives have been modified to promote
regional development and stimulate smaller firms, but the existing bias in
favor of capital-intensive investment rather than employment has little
changed. Finally, fiscal reform has been initiated.
14.      Policy reforms to address the root causes of the structural
imbalances identified by the Sixth Plan have been less actively pursued.
Specifically, major areas that need greater attention are: (a) wage and
salary policies, which should become more restrictive, so as to slow down
growth of public and private consumption and stimulate labor-intensive
investments and exports and, thus, increase employment creation. As mentioned
before, trends during the early 1980s were in the opposite direction. In
1984, however, no salary increases were granted and the Government has decided
to continue to pursue cautious salary policies in 1985 and beyond; (b) subsidy
policies, with consumer subsidies to be reduced so as to dampen private
consumption and stimulate public savings. Some encouraging first steps have
been taken in this respect, but more action is needed; (c) interest policies,
to make interest rates positive in real terms, so as to stimulate savings and
labor-intensive investments. A thorough reassessment of these policies is
underway. As a first step, rates were increased in late April 1985 by 1-2
percentage points on average; (d) public enterprise reform, to stop the drain
of public enterprise deficits on the Government budget. First steps have been
taken in this direction, and a number of enterprises have been closed; (e)
public investments, which should be reduced to decrease the budget deficit,
but made more efficient and reoriented so as to increase their contribution to
economic growth and employment creation. A particularly careful screening of
projects will be necessary in the future; (f) domestic protection and pricing
policies so as to create more incentives for exports, particularly for
manufactured products; and (g) exchange rate policies, so as to ensure that
exports (including tourism) become more competitive.
15.      Even if the Government moves more rapidly in implementing all or most
of the above measures, the delays incurred so far in meeting the Sixth Plan
macroeconomic targets and in implementing its policy recommendations will
probably not be recovered by 1986. It is unlikely therefore that medium-term
GDP annual growth will match the 6 to 8 percent rate achieved in the past. A
growth rate not exceeding 4 percent would be more coamensurate with the need
to control current account deficits without a systematic recourse to



- 5-
quantitative protection measures or excessive external borrowing. This 4
percent growth rate takes account of the projected stagnation or even decline
of hydrocarbon production. It also assumes that while agriculture will remain
sensitive to weather conditions, manufacturing will perform well as the full
impact of the export promotion policies is felt.
16.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16 percent of GDP is
now devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from
17 percent of total population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. This
improvement was largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981,
social issues have faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy
financial situation seemed to allow a relatively unconstrained expansion of
social services. On one hand, the Tunisian population has become increasingly
aware of and sensitive to the issues of income distribution and the
Government's responsibility for redistribution. Furthermore, the beneficial
effects of past rapid expansion in social services, reflected in the
improvement of the country social data (see Annex I), have created a demand
for improved standards in social services delivery. On the other hand, the
provision of adequate social services - education, health, town
infrastructure, housing - is being increasingly hampered by budgetary
constraints. Attempts to respond to protect the workers by raising the levels
of minimum legal wages and social insurance has discouraged private business
from increasing employment.
17.      To reduce internal differences, in particular between rural and urban
areas and among workers in the modern sector and those precariously employed
in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources into
regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulate productive job creation and grassroots
participation. Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create their own enterprises and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
demand. To reduce the financial burden of social services, the administration
is reviewing the cost structure of the various types of social services,
including free or below-cost delivery and the introduction of some user fees.
Special efforts are needed to improve social infrastructure management, in
particular as regards hospitals. Also, decentralization of social facilities
in deprived zones will have to be assessed carefully because costs for
servicing and maintaining them could become rapidly prohibitive.
18.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at $3 billion, or 42 percent of GDP;
debt service was 10 percent of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 10), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. To.a; public foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed at the end of 1983 reached nearly $3.7 billion, equivalent to about
45 percent of GDP; according to preliminary estimates, it reached nearly $4.2
billion (52 percent of GDP) at the end of 1984. The relative burden of debt
servicing reached almost 22 percent in 1984. However, a relatively cautious
debt management policy has been followed by the Tunisian authorities. While



-6-
the share of short-term borrowings has increased slightly since 1980,
Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains overwhelmingly long and medium-term,
and debt service requirements are projected to increase only slowly. During
1978-82, 65 percent of foreign loan commitments were from official sources and
about 30 percent on concessional terms. Just over half of official
commitments came from bilateral sources (mainly France, Japan, the Federal
Republic of Germany and some Arab oil-producing countries), and about 24
percent each from the Bank Group and from other multilateral sources. Overall
borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 7.4 percent interest and 15.9 years
maturity, including a grace period of 4.2 years. These terms hardened,
however, in 1983 and 1984.
19.      In the medium-term, external capital requirements will clearly remain
manageable. In the longer-term, much will depend on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years, and on developments in the hydrocarbon
sector. The Government's medium-term objective is to maintain the present
level of indebtedness; this prospect strongly depends on a timely
implementation of policy measures to accelerate exports, reduce public
investments, lower domestic demand growth, and liberalize regulation and
controls. On this basis, the current account deficit is projected to
fluctuate around $630 million until 1986, but decline thereafter. New loan
co-mitments from abroad could be kept at little over $1 billion per year on
average (in current prices at the 1984 exchange rate), while net foreign
borrowing migh' average about $360 million between now and the early 1990s.
20.      Tunisia, after a decade of outstanding performance, is facing the
major challenge o0 adapting its economic structure at a time of external and
internal financial constraints. A strategy of demand restraint combined with
more liberal econoLnic policies is called for to preserve the country's
financial stability and creditworthiness. Considering its long record of
prudent and skillful balance of payments and external debt management, there
are good grounds to assume that Tunisia will implement the necessary policy
changes, and remain oreditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-seven loans and
ten IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,441.0 million and $75.2 million
(net of cancellations) of which forty-one loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of March 31, 1985, overall disbursements amounted to 51
percent of appraisal estimates, which is in line with experience in other
countries in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial
finance and port projects has generally been above the country average, while
longer than average disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural
credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to
project-specific problems that are being addressed through supervision
missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important
institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have
been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.



-7-
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs. This adjustment process, as outlined in the
Sixth Development Plan, will require further diversification of exports,
greater savings efforts, reduction in consumer subsidies, gradual
liberalization of all sectors of the economy, and stronger incentives to the
private sector particularly in agriculture and industry, while taking measures
to increase employment and target development to low-income groups. In
support of the above, the overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize
projects which have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and
exports (or import savings) and which minimize Government net contributions.
The focus of lending for agriculture and industry meets this objective. In
addition to the above, proposed Bank lending would focus on improvement of
public enterprise performance, development and conservamAon of energy
resources, and continued support to the social sectors and operations targeted
to low-income groups. For the latter, attention would be given to increased
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of institutions and investments and to
linkages with directly productive sectors (e.g., education reforms stressing
vocational training). We envisage only marginal lending for basic economic
infrastructure, focussed in areas where Bank guidance would still be useful,
such as rural water supply and highways maintenance.
23.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastr-acture and social development, each of which accounted for about
one-third of Bank/IDA commitments since 1971. The rest of the commitments
were almost equally distributed between agriculture and industrial financing.
In addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance. Within the
broad framework noted in para. 22, we expect a significant shift in our
lending, with well over half going to agriculture and industry. In addition
to the Irrigation Management Improvement Project (President's Report No.
P-4082-TUN of May 13, 1985), and the proposed Gabes Irrigation Project,
proposed lending in the next couple of years would include projects for grain
st=..ge, a credit line for small-scale industry, urban development, energy,
and sector loans for agriculture and industry.
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
will be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to
the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum-exporting to a petroieum-
importing country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic
report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)"
(No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983, is being pursued
through a number of studies. A mid-term performance review of the Sixth Plan
is being discussed with the Government, as are studies on industrial
employment creation and on the financial sector. A number of key studies
resulted from provisions in Bank loans, for example on the institutional and
incentive framework for electromechanical industries and for exports in
general. In time, the recommendations of the above studies, and of those
currently in progress (industrial policy study, agricultural sector discussion
paper) will provide the basis for policy action programs. Further economic
and sector work includes studies of educational finance and administration,
housing finance, and a review of public enterprise performance.



-  8  -
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 17 percent of total commitments
from official sources to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from private
sources) was an estimated 11.5 percent, and their share in debt service during
1984 was 11.5 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed
external debt is expected to increase to about 16 percent and their share in
the debt service to about 13.7 percent through 1986.
26.      As of March 31, 1985, IFC's net commitment in Tunisia totalled about
$14.0 million. IFC has invested in the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), in 1966, 1970, and 1978; in the National Bank for Tourism Development
(BNDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects; in the Societ6 Touristique
et Hoteli&re (RYM), a large hotel development; in the Industries Chimiques du
Fluor (ICF), a producer of aluminum fluoride from local fluorspar for export;
and in the Societ6 d'Etudes et de D6veloppement de Sousse-Nord for an
integrated tourism development project. In FY84, IFC approved two new equity
investments in Tunisia: (i) Fluobar, a project to privatize, rehabilitate and
expand an existing fluorspar mine; and (ii) Tunisia Leasing Company, the first
leasing company in Tunisia to provide financing to the industrial sector. IFC
is currently considering an investment in the privatization of an existing
state-owned textile mill.
Part III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
27.      Background.  Tunisia has a total land area of 16.4 million ha of
which 8.4 million ha are suitable for agriculture and grazing. The country
can be divided into three main ecological zones. The northern 25% of
Tunisia's land area is the most fertile, receiving adequate rainfall
(400-1,000 mm). The central zone (15% of total land area) receives between
200 and 400 mm of rainfall. The southern part (60% of total land area) is a
predesert zone receiving less than 200 mm of rainfall with very extensive
grazing and some irrigated agriculture. Of the 5.0 million ha of cultivable
land, 34% is planted in cereals, 35% in fruit trees and the remainder in
forage crops, vegetables, grain legumes and industrial crops; 20% is normally
left fallow. Given the high variability in rainfall, important efforts have
been made to develop irrigated agriculture. However, water resources are
zcarce and the total irrigation potential is estimated at about 250,000 ha or
some 5% of total arable land. About 205,000 ha are presently equipped for
irrigation of which about 160,000 ha are irrigated effectively. This
relati-vely small area currently accounts for some 25% of the Agricultural GDP.
28.      Past Performaiice.  Tunisia's agricultural sector performed well
during the 1970s. The value of production grew at 4.4% p.a. in real terms
between 1970 and 1979, compared to 3% p.a. for middle income countries as a
group. However, the pace of growth slowed down considerably near the end of
the period and early 1980s (0.5% p.a. for 1977-82), mostly because of drought
which has repeatedly affected the country. While the more rapid growth in
other sectors, particularly petroleum and tourism, induced a decline in the



-9-
relative role of agriculture, it still represents 13Z of Tunisia's GDP and
employs about one-third of the labor, force. The continued growth of
agricultural production and rural migration has resulted in an increase in
average per capita income in agriculture (from US$173 in 1960/62 to US$380 in
1979, measured in 1979 US dollars) and a reduction in the percentage of the
rural population living below the absolute poverty level (from 172 in 1975 to
131 in 1980).
29.      National Development Plans and Government StrategY.  Under the Fifth
Development Plan (1977-81), the Government's main objectives for the sector
included a balanced agricultural trade and increased rural employment and
incomes. Partly due to the drought, Plan targets were in most cases not fully
met. Agricultural value added increased at an annual rate of 1.0 between
1976 and 1981, well below the plan target of 2.5X. Potential exports were
diverted to local consumption, and imports, in particular of cereals,
increased. As a result, the ratio of food imports to exports increased from
1.2 in 1976 to 1.8 in 1981. The basic objectives for agriculture under the
Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) have not changed. The need to resolve key
issues such as employment and regional income disparities as well as increased
efficiency of investments has become even greater due to the necessity of
adjusting the economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation. The Government is
attempting to achieve this adjustment through inter alia: (a) a shift toward
smaller, less capital-intensive investments, including rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure, thereby generating employment opportunities; and (b)
the creation of an economic environment more favorable to agriculture,
including the introduction of a more realistic price structure for
agricultural products. Investments in agriculture are planned to increase
from 13X of total investments during the last Plan to 19X. Some 402 of
investments would be for irrigation.
30.      Previous Bank Involvement in Agricultural Projects.  Bank Group
lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and to date 15 projects
have been approved for a total of US$358.2 million of Bank/IDA funds. Of
these, eight are ongoing including three irrigation projects and the recently
approved Northwest Agricultural Production Project. Performance under these
projects has been mixed reflecting the institutional constraints in the
sector. The First Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN) was completed at the
end of 1979 with considerable delays and low loan recoveries for boats. These
problems were addressed under the Second Fisheries Project (Loan 1746-TUN) and
this Project is now progressing well. The First and Second Agricultural
Credit Projects (Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN and Loan 1340-TUN) financed BNT
lending for onfarm development. While the projects achieved good rates of
return, the continuing problem of higher interest rates on Bank funds than on
Government-supplied credic and the lack of decentralization of BNT caused
disbursements to be slower than anticipated.  The Third Agricultural Credit
Proiect (Loan 1885-TUN) is addressing priority credit problems. Action has
been taken to decentralize BNT's operations and raise interest rates (para.
35), and the Government is preparing a plan of action to improve loan recovery
ratios. The physical implementation of the poverty-oriented Northwest Rural
Development Proiect (Loan 1997-TUN) is proceeding satisfactorily. The Grain
Storage Project (Loan 2052-TUN) is also progressing well after initial delays
and the recruitment of new consulting engineers. Under the Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN). strategies have been or are being
developed for several subsectors including farm input distribution, farm



- 10 -
mechanization, produce marketing, research and extension and improved
operation and maintenance of existing irrigation infrastructure. These
strategies will contribute to increasing the efficiency of investments under
the Sixth and Seventh (1987-91) Development Plans.
31.      Experience with Past Irrigation Lending.  Implementation of the
irrigation projects - First rrrigation Rehabilitation Proiect (Loan
1068-TUN), Sidi Salem Project (Loan 1431-TUN), Southern Irrigation Project
(Loan 1796-TUN), Medlerda/Nebhana Irrigation Prolect (Loan 2157-TUN) and
Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (Loan 2234-TUN) -.has generally been
satisfactory and on schedule. The Irrigation Development Offices (OMVs), the
public enterprises which manage the projects, have demonstrated their ability
to carry out construction works efficiently, but their management still needs
improvement and their performance on operation and maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure has been mixed. OED's audit of the First Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, dated November 5, 1984, determined that the economic
rate of return of the Project was highly satisfactory (32X). A major finding
was that the increased reliability of water supply brought about by
rehabilitation works carried out under the Project had a major impact on farm
production and incomes in the Project area, by increasing farmers' willingness
to take higher risks by planting higher value crops. The recently-negotiated
Irrigation Management Improvement Proiect (President's Report No. P-4082-TUN
of May 13, 1985) is designed to support nationwide improvements of the
operation and maintenance of existing irrigation systems as well as policy and
institutional reforms to increase the efficiency and self-financing of the
OMVs. The Project would inter alia (a) reduce the need for major costly
investments for the rehabilitation of irrigation systems; (b) ensure the
sustainability of agricultural development in public irrigation schemes; and
Cc) aim at eliminating OMVs' operating deficits.
32.      The Southern Irrigation Project covering the implementation of the
first phase of the Southern Tunisian Water Master Plan is expected to be
completed on schedule, in December 1985. The Project provides for the
rehabilitation and new construction of desert oases in the south of the
country as well as some oases in the Gabes area similar to those proposed
under the present Project. Initial results are already encouraging and
indicate that benefits will be in line with expectations. On the cost side,
however, some overruns have been experienced for the desert oases due mainly
to the unexpected need to strengthen sand barriers and wind breaks. However,
costs in the Gabes area have been in line with estimates and useful experience
has been obtained for the design of the proposed Project.
Sector Issues Relevant to the Project
33.      Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform.  In Tunisia, the size of holdings is
generally a constraint to the intensification of irrigation. Studies carried
out by the Ministry of Agriculture have indicated a strong inverse correlation
between the size of holdings and irrigation intensities. To rationalize the
use of available water resources and ensure fuller exploitation of its
investments in irrigation infrastructure, the Govenzent has enacted Agrarian
Reform Laws providing for (a) land ownership limitation; (b) land
consolidation; (c) inducement to irrigate; and (d) farmers' contribution to
investment cost. While some progress has been made, particularly in the area
of consolidation in some public irrigation perimeters, farmer resistance and



- 11 -
inadequate penalties have limited implementation of the Agrarian Reform Laws.
A study on land issues is being carried out under the Technical Assistance
Project, and an internal Government Commission has been established to review
this matter. The lack of a proper national cadaster has affected the
Government's ability to address land issues, and the Government therefore
envisages a National Cadaster and Cartography Project. The land situation in
the Project area is discussed in para. 39.
34.      Extension and Applied Research.  Since 1973/74, OilVs have made
considerable efforts to set up effective extension services, supported by
Applied Research Stations, to cater to the specific needs of the farmers in
their sphere of influence. Although their impact on production is difficult
to assess, OMVs' extension and research services seem to have performed
reasonably well. They have been instrumental in selecting and introducing new
high-yielding varieties, in particular for vegetables, and promoting fodder
crops with pure-bred milk cows. However, the present system still has
drawbacks: (a) applied research by OMVs lacks linkages and coordination with
other existing research services and programs, and concentrates mostly on
providing advice on specific crops, without taking into consideration the
whole farm system or farmers' different needs, motivations and capabilities;
(b) little attention has so far been given to improved water management at
farm level; and (c) OMVs' extension agents are burdened by additional tasks
(input supply, credit, marketing, collection of statistics, etc.) that have
diverted them from their principal role. The Government is preparing a
National Extension and Research Master Plan under the Technical Assistance
Project, which will propose the measures necessary to improve Tunisia's
extension and research systems, including irri.gated agriculture, and is
planned to be implemented in 1986 and beyond. In the mrantime, measures are
underway to facilitate the introduction of an improved system nationally.
Under the Northwest Agricultural Production Project, the Training and Visit
(T&V) system is being introduced in a large rainfed area on a pilot basis.
The proposed Project would introduce the T&V system on 5,000 ha of irrigated
areas. In addition, under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project,
measures would be taken to divest OMVs of scme of their commercially-oriented
activities, which will facilitate the future reform of the extension system by
allowing OMUs' extension agents to devote more time to their primary
function. Under the proposed Project, the Gabes and Medenine Irrigation
Development Office (OMVGM) would particularly transfer to the private sector
activities related to production of seedlings and marketing services. OMVGM
would also conclude agreements with regional research agencies to carry out
selected research programs essential for the Project, thereby contributing to
better coordinated and more meaningful research efforts.
35.      Agricultural Credit.  The institutional structure of formal
agricultural credit in Tunisia is complex. The principal vehicle for medium-
and long-term investment credit is the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT). The
main sources of short-term credit are BNT (in the case of larger farmers,
generally clients of long standing) and the Mutual Guarantee Societies
(SCMs). SCMs grant seasonal credit, using BNT funds but with Government
guarantee, to small- and medium-size farmers. Supervised credit is also
offered by a number of agricultural development projects financed by external
donors. Some Government-owned enterprises operating outside the financial
sector (e.g., the OMVs) provide credit in kind. A new agricultural bank



- 12 -
(BNDA) was recently created to finance investments by large farmers or
agricultural enterprises. While access to credit is not a problem in the
Project area, use of credit is constrained by the farmers' lack of
appreciation of investment opportunities because of, inter alis, the
ineffective extension system. The improvement of extension services provided
by OMVGM in the framework of the Project would motivate farmers to better
understand and participate in credit activities. The ongoing Third
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-T-UN) is addressing priority credit
problems, especially interest rates and loan recovery levels.  As part of the
April 1985 general interest rate reforms, the interest rates of commercial
banks for short-term credit to agriculture were raised from 5.5-8.75 to
6.75-9.5%, for medium-term credit from 6.25 to 7%, and for long-term credit
from 7.5 to 9% (the latter rates after deduction of a 3-point Government
subsidy). Interest rates of development banks increased by 0.5 percentage
points more. In addition to these base rates, borrowers must pay a tax to the
Government which adds about another point to the cost of borrowing. With an
inflation rate of about 8.4% in 1984, many of these rates have now become
positive in real terms. Some, however, remain somewhat negative, and the
Government has indicated its intention to follow more flexible interest rate
policies in the future, with more frequent interest rate adjustments based on,
inter alia, inflation. The Government is also preparing a plan of measures to
improve loan recovery levels.
36.      Prices and Subsidies.  In an effort to provide food at low cost, most
consumer prices are fixed by Government. Traditionally, farmgate prices in
Tunisia have also been fixed artificially low compared to world prices,
discouraging the use of more productive but higher-cost techniques and
investment. Farm input subsidies, which the Government has seen as a means of
compensating farmers for low producer prices, benefit only a minority of
farmers and tend to be provided for the most modern inputs (purebred cows,
feed concentrate, irrigation water, fertilizer, pesticide, etc.). While this
encourages use of these inputs, it also causes their excessive use. The
Government recognizes the negative resource allocation and income distribution
effects of its present pricing and subsidy policies and one of its objectives
is to move towards a pricing system that more closely reflects the real costs
and benefits of inputs and outputs to the economy. Some agricultural producer
prices (milk and cereals) have thus been increased more rapidly than average
price inflation in the recent past, thus improving agricultural incentives.
As a result, current producer prices are now for the most part reasonably in
line with world prices (94%, 89% and 92% for durum wheat and 100%, 103% and
107% for bread wheat in 1981/82, 1982/83 and 1983/84, respectively). Consumer
prices for milk, beef and cereal products have also been increased recently.
The Project's main outputs, fruits and vegetables, are not subject to price
regulations and therefore would not require any special price policy
re-ommendations. In the sector, the input which so far has received
considerable subsidies is irrigation water.
37.      Irrigation Cost Recovery.  Government policy for recovering
irrigation investments is embodied in land reform legislation, which calls for
betterment levies aimed at recovering part of the increase in land value due
to new irrigation. Actual recovery of farmers' contributions to inve:-tment
costs has, to date, been very limited. Investments to rehabilitate existing
systems are considered deferred maintenance which creates no new :ncome



- 13 -
sources for farmers, or investments which compensate for the lowering of the
artesian head of wells due to the use of water resources for other development
purposes, and are therefore the financial responsibility of the State. As
regards irrigation O&M costs, Government policy is to achieve lOOZ cost
recovery. Water charges have been substantially increased since 1980, with
average annual increases in various OMVs ranging from 15-36% in current terms,
or from 3-24% in constant terms. Despite this major effort, water charges
currently cover on average only about 40% of O&M costs. In the Gabes area,
however, farmers do pay the full O&M costs for their irrigation systems
through their water user associations (para. 43). Bank-financed irrigation
projects have followed a consistent approach to cost recovery based on (a) the
recovery of investment costs according to land reform legislation, (b) the
recovery of 100% of O&M costs within a reasonable time frame, and (c) recovery
levels consistent with farmers' ability to pay.  The Irrigation Management
Improvement Project will introduce comprehensive measures, consistent with
those already taken under ongoing projects, to achieve full repayment of
irrigation O&M costs nationally within 5 to 10 years, thus increasing the
financial autonomy of the OMVs and encouraging a more rational use of
available water. The proposed Project, in addition to maintaining the current
arrangements for full O&M cost recovery by farmers, would aim at achieving
sustainability of the irrigation investments by creating a reserve fund for
replacements and renewals and by recovering part of the investment cost for
new perimeters within the framework of land reform legislation (para. 54).
38.      Input Supply and Output Marketing.  Public marketing and input supply
enterprises exist for cereals, grain legumes, olives, wine, meat, fertilizer,
seed and farm machinery. Several Government development authorities
participate in the collection of milk, fruit and vegetables. All these
institutions require improvements in their efficiency. They are slow to
respond to market signals and to introduce cost-cutting efficiencies. Farm
inputs are frequently not available in the quantities and at the time
required. However, in the context of the Irrigation Management Improvement
Project, the Government has indicated its intention to start divesting the
OMVs of many commercial activities, and as noted in para. 44, the private
sector is already active in the Gabes area in supplying basic fertilizers and
small-scale mechanized equipment. An input supply study financed under the
Technical Assistance Project has already led to urgently needed increases in
fertilizer distribution margins, and an agricultural marketing study, also
funded from the Technical Assistance Project, is expected to lead to a series
of output marketing measures for implementation during the Seventh Plan period.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.      Rationale for the Project.  The standard of living in the Gabes area
is among the lowest in the country. Land distribution in Project oases shows
a predominance of smallholders. The small size of holdings is generally
conducive to intensive development of irrigation, and while some oases are
characterized by land fragmentation, cropping systems in the oases (largely
for vegetables and fruits) are such that this is not a major constraint to
agricultural development. However, in recent years, agricultural production in
the formerly prosperous oases in t;; area has declined sharply, causing



- 14 -
increased unemployment, due mainly to (a) shortage of water (the lowering of
the artesian head of wells (para. 42), deteriorating irrigation networks as
the systems have been abandoned or poorly maintained, increasing water losses,
and aging of deep wells); (b) increasing salinity (poor drainage and
insufficient leaching); and (c) aging of trees and subsequent decreased
production. Unless corrective and rehabilitative measures are taken quickly,
there will be further rapid deterioration and the area will become almost
totally unproductive from an agricultural viewpoint sometime in the 1990s,
with a seriously negative social impact on the Gabes area. The Project aims
to resolve two main issues - water availability and improved crop production -
and would provide the physical infrastructure, the institutional support and
the assistance to farmers required to achieve this.
40.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Project represents a follow-up
to the successful pilot operations in the Gabes region financed under the
Southern Irrigation Project. Bank involvement during preparation of this
second-phase Project has been instrumental in causing a careful review and
optimization of proposed investments and significant reductions in investment
costs. The proposed Project will also support the Bank's dialogue, already
underway in the context of the Irrigation Management Improvement Project, on
key irrigation subsector issues such as (a) improving the efficiency of the
public and private organizations connected with the provision of irrigation
services and with the production and marketing of agricultural goods, and (b)
establishment of proper systems for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of
hydraulic structures.
41.      Background.  The Project was identified in October 1983, and prepared
by the National Center of Agricultural Studies (CNEA), a Government consulting
agency. The Project was appraised in November 1984. Negotiations were held
in Washington from April 29 to May 3, 1985. The Tunisian delegation was led
by the Director General of International Cooperation, Ministry of Planning,
and included the General Manager of the Gabes and Nedenine Irrigation
Development Office (OMVGM), and the Directors of Planning, Statistics and
Economic Analyses and of Rural Engineering in the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA). The Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Gabes Irrigation Project", No.
5111-TUN of May 30, 1985, is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the Project are summarized in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III of this President's Report. Maps showing the
areas covered by the Project are attached.
42.      Project Area.  The Project area consists of about 5,000 ha of oases
located on the coastal strip of the Gabes Governorate. Agriculture is the
most important sector of the Governorate's economy, although industry and
tourism have grown recently. The traditional date palm plantations started at
the beginning of the century have been replaced by other fruit trees and
vegetables to meet changing demand patterns, largely influenced by the growing
tourist flow. Traditionally, water in the area was obtained either from
natural springs or artesian wells. However, with increased development, the
springs declined or dried out and the artesian pressure decreased. In
recognition of the need for a more carefully planned approach, a Master Plan
for Water and Soil Resources Development in Southern Tunisia was prepared in
1976 and has been systematically updated. In addition, the Government
promulgated a Water Code in 1978, regulating water exploitation, use and



- 15 -
conservation. This Code is satisfactory and has been strictly enforced.
Future planned uses of water for agriculture, including the proposed Project,
industry and domestic use are within acceptable limits. Agreement was
obtained at negotiations that water use would be adequately monitored, that
agreed limits on water use would not be exceeded, and that the Government
would inform the Bank of the water balance situation annually (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.02).
43.      The Gabes area is one of the few areas in the country where water
user associations - the Associations of Common Interest (AICs) - have
effectively developed. AICs are responsible for operating and maintaining the
irrigation systems included in the Project oases. As noted in paras. 39 and
42, these systems have deteriorated due to many factors including, to a large
extent, increasing shortages of water beyond the AICs' control. Project
investments would overcome this problem. The Group of Hydraulic Interest
(GIH) is an apex consultative body which oversees the AICs' management and
performance, as well as overall use of water resources under the Water Code.
The AICs also receive support from OMVGM which provides extension services,
storage and marketing facilities and technical assistance, as well as
execution of large repairs for the AICs, the latter at cost.
44.      Agricultural support services are available in the area, but in some
cases need strengthening. OMVGM's extension services suffer from lack of
staff, facilities and equipment. Research, largely carried out by the Arid
Zones Institute (IRA) and the Water and Soils Departments (DRE and DRS) of the
MOA, needs to be expanded to better cover the specific needs of the area. As
regards input supply, in contrast to most other parts of the country, basic
fertilizers are sold by private retailers in the Project area. The proximity
of fertilizer production plants and the consequent savings in transport costs
make this a more viable operation in the Gabes area than elsewhere. Similarly,
small-scale mechanized equipment is available on the private market because
the many development activities in the Gabes area, including non-agricultural,
have attracted the private sector. OMVGM also provides some inputs as credit
in kind. BNT is the main agency responsible for providing agricultural credit
in the Project area. For marketing, two trade associations of vegetable and
fruit growers (GIL and GIAF), as well as a private company financed by local
development banks, operate in the Project area to promote marketing,
especially for export. In addition, since the European Economic Community is
providing technical assistance for the organization and management of service
and marketing cooperatives in the area, only limited assistance to strengthen
OMVGM's marketing infrastructure is proposed under the Project. These
facilities would eventually be passed on to the private sector. Finally,
although the road network in the Project is generally adequate, some
rehabilitation of farm access roads is needed.
45.      Project Objectives and Description.  The Project would aim to: (a)
provide more water under an improved distribution system; (b) increase and
diversify agricultural production; (c) strengthen public and private
organizations involved with the production and marketing of agricultural
goods; (d) set up proper systems for the O&M of irrigation structures; and (e)
reduce the exodus of farmers from the area, get farmers back to their land and
improve the socio-economic standards of the farmers' coummnity. The project
would be implemented over a six-year period (1986-1991), and would consist of



- 16 -
a)   rehabilitation of 42 selected oases covering 4,800 ha,
comprising digging deep wells (including 5 reserve wells),
installing and providing power connections for pumps,
establishing a conduit distribution system, improving drainage,
applying leaching techniques, uprooting unproductive trees and
replacing them with higher-yielding, more valuable varieties,
and rehabilitating farm access roads;
b)   expansion of the irrigated area by about 200 ha (1 new oasis and
expansion of 3 existing oases) by using available extra yield -f
newly equipped wells and by digging 1 more well, and undertaking
distribution, drainage and access road works;
c)   introduction of an efficient extension service in the Project
area to be managed along the lines of the T&V system, including
construction and provision of equipment, vehicles and agents for
local extension centers (CTVs), provision of services of
specialists and administrative staff, and provision of support
facilities to OMVGM - a nursery, a soil and water laboratory and
staff - to allow research experimentation in topics relevant to
the Project area;
d)   strengthening of OMVGM, including creation of a Project
Management Unit (PMU), provision of technical and administrative
staff, workshop and cold storage, grading and packing equipment
and vehicles, and construction of houses;
e)   training of OMVGM staff to assist AICs in dealing with water
management and maintenance of pumping and water distribution
structures and to monitor the execution of works; provision uf
consultant services to review and give recommendations in thc
fields of marketing, organization and management, extension,
hydromechanics and communications; and
f)   investment credit for new trees, plastic tunnels, small farm
machinery, greenhouses and reservoirs.
46.      Proiect Cost and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the Project
is $58.3 million, of which $29.6 million is in foreign exchange. Base costs
are estimated in June 1985 prices and were derived from recent bids and
appraisal estimates. Taxes and duties estimated at $14.3 million are
included, as well as physical contingencies representing about llZ of base
costs (15X for civil works and 1OZ for equipment), and price contingencies
totalling about 29% of base costs plus physical contingencies (7.5Z for 1986,
8% for 1987-90 and 5% for 1991 for foreign costs; lOZ for 1986-1988, 9Z for
1989, 8Z for 1990 and 7Z for 1991 for local costs). The Project includes
about 25 staff-months of consultant services for technical assistance.
47.      The pioposed Bank loan of $27.7 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the Project, with the exception of agricultural credit which
would be financed by BNT through available lines of credit. The Bank loan
would represent 48% of total project cost, or 63% of the total cost net of
taxes, and 94% Lf the foreign exchange cost. The Bank loan would be made to



- 17 -
the Government and passed on to the Department of Rural Engineering (DGR) of
the MOA ($20.2 million) and OMVGM (US$7.5 million) through their annual
budgets to finance Project activities (para. 51). The Government would cause
BNT to provide investment credit to farmers (see para. 35 for current interest
rate structure). Beneficiaries would share the Project cost through credit
downpayments, qcjotas to the AICs to pay full O&M costs during the Project
implementation period, and payment of their share of the tree uprooting
operation. The Government would finance the remaining Project costs. On a
net of tax basis, Project financing would be shared as follows: World Bank,
63%; BNT, 6%; beneficiaries, 11%; Government, 20%.  Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that the Project's annual budgets and financial plans, as
presented to the Ministries of Planning and Finance, would be sent to the Bank
for information by September 30 .f each year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Details of Project costs and1 rinancing are contained in the Loan and Project
Summnary.
48.      Status of Engineering.  Standard architectural plans and
specifications are available for most Project buildings, as are terms of
reference for Project-related consultants. Detailed specifications and
bidding documents for the first year's works and supplies are being completed,
and bid results for deep well execution confirm Project cost estimates.
Procurement documents for the rest of the Project period would be ready by
December 1985.
49.      Procurement.  Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table on
page 18. ICB in accordance with BanAk guidelines would be used to procure
major works and equipment. For the purposes of bid evaluation of contracts
bid under ICB, qualifying domestic manufacturers would be granted a margin of
preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods or the
actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. When bulking is
not feasible, equipment contracts which do not exceed the equivalent of
US$150,000 each, and totalling no more than US$1.0 million in aggregate, may
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Due to
the scattered nature of tree uprooting and civil works for laying of pipes,
construction of buildings, drainage and roads, they would be of no interest to
foreign contractors based overseas and would be procured under LCB
procedures. LCB procedures are generally consistent with the need for economy
and efficiency in the execution of the Project. Laws and regulations
regarding these procedures in Tunisia are being reviewed in the Bank in order
to reach a judgment as to whether they are acceptable for Bank-financed
contracts. The findings of the review will be discussed with the Tunisian
authorities and agreements will be sought regarding required changes- Small
dispersed civil works, not suitable for contracting, would be carried out by
OMVGM by force account, up to a total amount of $800,000. Contracts for
electrification and related equipment would be negotiated with the Tunisian
Electricity and Gas Company (STEG), a public company solely authorized to
execute rural electrification works. Office and extension equipment and
furniture which are easily obtained off-the-shelf, and whose contract cost
does not exceed $20,000 individually or $500,000 in aggregate, would be
procured through local shopping based on at least three price quotations.
Because it is advantageous to standardize servicing, small vehicles (about 14,
costing $60,000 in total) would be procured through direct contracting with
local assembly plants following procedures currently used by the Government.



- i8 -
Procurement Method                         Total
Project Element               ICB          LCB         Other        NA           Cost
-(US$ million equivalent) ~
A. Deep wells               5.1 (3.4)    -             -           -           5.1 (3.4)
B. Supply of conduits      13.4 (8.2)    -             -           -          13.4 (8.2)
C. Execution of irrig.
and drainage works,
roads                    -          11.2 (7.0)    -            -          11.2 (7.0)
D. Supply of pumps, pipe
accessories and
hydromechanic equip.   5.0 (3.2)    -             -            -          5.0 (3.2)
E. Electrification           -            -           0.4 (0.3)    -           0.4 (0.3)
F. Buildings and minor
civil works              -           1.1 (0.6)   0.3 (0.1)    -            1.4 (0.7)
G. Tree uprooting            -           6.2 (3.8)    -            -           6.2 (3.8)
E. Vehicles and other
equipment                -           0.7 (0.5)   0.6 (0.4)    -            1.3 (0.9)
I. Studies, T.Asst.,
Training                              -          0.3 (0.2)    -            0.3 (0.2)
J. Onfarm investments        -            -           -           4.7 ()       4.7 ()
L. Incremental staff
and other op.costs       -            -           -           9.3 (-)      9.3 (-)
Total                  23.5 (14.8) 19.2 (11.9)  1.6 (1.0)  14.0 (-)    58.3 (27.7)
Koce; Figures in parentheses are the respective auouats financed by the Bank.



_ 19 -
All bidding packages for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000
or more and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation,
resulting in a coverage of about 80% of total contract values. Contracts for
consultant services would be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Works and goods under the credit component would be procured through regular
commercial or other channels.
50.      Disbursements. The proposed BanE loan would be disbursed over a
period of seven years as follows: 601 of local and 100X of foreign
expenditures for civil works; 65% of local and 100X of foreign expenditures
for equipment and vehicles; and 70Z of local and 1001 of foreign expenditures
for consultants and training. To ensure the efficient and timely
implementation of the Project, a revolving fund of $1.0 million would be
established in a special account at the Central Bank of Tunisia. This fund,
corresponding to an average three months' Project needs, would be used to pay
eligible expenditures for civil works, goods and technical assistance. The
Bank would replenish the fund upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that
expenditures paid were eligible for financing out of the fund. Project
completion is expected by December 31, 1991 and the Loan Closing Date would be
December 31, 1992.
51.     Pro;ect Implementation.  The MWA would have overall responsibility
for the execution of the Project, with OMVGM ma-naging the Project at the local
level. A Project Management Unit (PMU) would-be created to coordinate Project
activities for OMVGM's General Manager, and establishment of the PMU and
appointment of its head would be conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). The-PMU'E role would be coordinative;
specific Project activities would be carried out by existing services of
OMUGH, which would be reinforced under this Project and the Irrigation
Management Improvement Project. The MOA's Planning Department (DPSAE) would
monitor Project activities at the central level and supervise the allocation
of counterpart funds. Major Project construction would be handled by DGR,
which would be responsible for preparation of bidding documents, procurement
and supervision of the execution of the important infrastructure works and
procurement of hydraulic and electric equipmmt and supervision vehicles.
OMVGM would be responsible for procurement and supervision of the works
related to tree uprooting and removal, extension buildings and miscellaneous
construction, equipment and vehicles connected with support activities.
Proposed activities are well within the scope of DGR and OMVGM's capabilities.
52.     The Government, through the Project, would provide the necessary
infrastructure investments to help stop the gradual degradation of the Project
oases. It would also, through OMVGM and research agencies, provide support
services such as extension, research, marketing, and special repairs and
maintenance. However, with a view to encouraging private sector/cooperative
involvement, and consistent with agzeements reached under the Irrigation
Management Improvement Project, all commercially-oriented services provided by
OMVGM would be provided at full cost by the end of 1988, with interim costing
arrangements to take effect from the start of 1986. In addition, the private
sector, through the AICs, would be responsible for the use and maintenance of
irrigation infrastructure. The Government is currently taking measures to



- 20 -
improve the AICs throughout the country by decentralizing their operational
responsibilities and simplifying their management procedures. It has been
agreed under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project that legislation in
this regard will be passed by December 31, 1985. Under the proposed Project,
a management agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be signed by OMVGH and
each AIC, prior to the completion of irrigation works for that AIC's oasis,
deff-ing the responsibilities of OMVGM and the AIC in respect of water
management and agricultural developmeut in the oasis (Loan Agreement, Section
3.05). In these agreements, OMVGM would commit itself to provide, inter alia,
free extension services, marketing advice, help with annual programs and
budgets and technical assistance on maintenance and water distribution, as
well as other services related to agricultural development at cost. The AICs
would commit themselves, inter alia, to maintain and operate their pumping,
irrigation and drainage systems and to promote the payment by farmers of the
respective costs thereof; to promote land consolidation; to assist in the tree
conversion program; and to pay OMVGM for its services -such as major repairs.
Under these agreements, OMVGK would have the right to inspect the irrigation
works to ensure that they are being properly maintained and, if they are not,
to carry out the necessary remedial measures at the AICs' expense. A model
agreement between OMVGM and the AICs was reviewed at negotiations, and the
first five agreements would be sent to the Bank for approval.
I
53.      Agricultural Support Services.  The Project would reorganize and
strengthen the extension services of OMVGM to achieve and maintain regular
contacts with farmers using the principles of the T&V system, which is already
accepted by Project authorities. Extension agents would help farmers with
crop planning, marketing and water use, disseminate the results of applied
research, promote land consolidation,- and help AICs with the organization of
water distribution, preparation of budgets and financial control, and O&M of
equipment and works.  The Project would finance the construction of 10 new
CTVs, provide training to OMVGM agents and establish 750 demonstration plots.
About 22 additional extension agents would be recruited to achieve coverage of
about one agent per oasis or per small group of adjacent oases. The
principles to be followed by the Project's extension program were discussed
and agreed at negotiations. Also, since some agricultural practices may have
become routinized by the end of the Project period to the extent that the
extension service could be modified, it was agreed at negotiations that OMVGM
would submit to the Bank by December 31, 1990 a plan for the organization and
operation of the extension service for three years after Project completion
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)). Other support activities to be provided by
the Project include adequate arrangements for the supply of good quality
seedlings; promoting adequate water use, monitoring soil and water salinity,
and doing research on themes of particular importance for the area. Although
OMVGN would initially handle certain research activities to ensure their
availability for the Project, agreement was obtained at negotiations that
these activities would be transferred to appropriate organizations (e.g.,
production of fruit and vegetable seedlings to GIAF, GIL, or other specialized
producers) by December 31, 1991. In addition, agreement was obtained that
CMVGM would enter into agreements, by December 31, 1986, with IRA, DRS and DRE
to ensure that applied research required by the Project and soil and water
salinity monitoring would be integrated into their programs (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.07). In recognition of the need for OMVGN to concentrate on water
distribution issues and in view of other agricultural marketing initiatives



- 21 -
in the area (para. 44), agreement was obtained at negotiations that an action
plan to define marketing strategy and OMVGM's support role for marketing
cooperatives would be agreed with the Bank by June 30, 1986 and implemented
thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). This action plan would include (a)
a timetable for signing a letter of understanding between OMVGM, GIL and GIAF,
or other marketing organizations, defining the respective roles of each in
marketing; (b) a program, including a timetable, for transferring the
management of OMV0M's cold storage, grading and packing facilities to the
private/cooperative sector, this transfer to take place no later than June 30,
1989; and (c) OMVGMfs commitment, in the interim, to charge fees for these
facilities which would cover the full costs of O&M.
54.      Cost Recovery. The proposed Project goes beyond existing cost
recovery achievements elsewhere in Tunisia, and would aim at immediate
recovery of 100X of O&M costs of the irrigation systems, and recovery of 50S
of tree uprooting investments. As noted earlier (para. 43), AICs in the
Project area already have responsibility for operating and maintaining their
irrigation systems with the assistance of GIH and OMVGM. Continuation of this
practice would be recorded in the agreements to be signed between OMVGM and
the AICs (para. 52). Included in O&M charges would be a charge approximating
5' of total O&M costs, which would finance a reserve fund for future
replacements. Future major investments not covered by this fund would be
financed by special assessments on farmers or by BNT credit to the AICs.
These cost recovery provisions wquld ensure long-term sustainability of
Project investments and relieve the Government of future fi-nancial
responsibilities for irrigation rehabilitation investments in the Project
area. It was confirmed at negotiations that for new perimeters, betterment
levies would be established within the framework of land reform legislation to
recover part of the investment costs from farmers. Based on an analysis of
farmers' ability to pay, it is estimated that up to 40Z of these new
investment costs could be recovered. In addition, present tax legislation
provides for an agricultural sales tax which, when applied to incremental
Project production, would recover an average of 22 of the investment costs for
all perimeters. Assuming 100% O&M cost recovery with provision for a reserve
fund, 40% investment cost recovery for new perimeters, and the sales tax as an
indirect method of investment cost recovery for all perimeters, farmer rent
recovery would range between 17-39Z for the six farm models at full
development, which is considered acceptable in terms of farmer affordability.
55.      Agreement was also obtained at negotiations on cost recovery for tree
uprooting and for STIL. Present legislation provides for a subsidy for tree
uprooting in order to encourage the upgrading of production. Agreement was
obtained that farmers would repay 50Z of the total uprooting cost for palm,
olive and other fruit trees under a repayment schedule to be agreed with OMVGM
and satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). STIL, a public
enterprise which produces, inter alia, dates, has a long-term rental agreement
with the Government for the use-of one of the Project oases. It would be a
condition of disbursement for the works in that oasis that should STIL
continue to rent the oasis, STIL would present an investment plan to the Bank
for review, including a proposed repayment schedule designed to recover from
STIL the full capital cost of these works; make a downpayment of 20Z of the
investment costs; and obtain medium-term credit for the remaining investment



- 22 -
cost (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3). If the rental agreement should
terminate, the Government would rehabilitate the land for other farmers under
the normal Proiect provisions.
56.      Monitorinw and Audits.  The PMU would be responsible for monitoring
Project activities, and DPSAE for Project evaluation. The PMU would establish
and maintain separate Project-related accounts, in accordance with accounting
principles and procedures to be agreed under the Irrigation Management
Improvement Project. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that Project
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and that the audited financial statements and reports would be submitted
to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.01). Agreement was also obtained that OMVGM would help
design and install an appropriate accounting system for the AICs, and that at
least three randomly selected AICs would have their accounts audited each year
by an independent auditor (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
57.      Justification and Risks.  Incremental production under the Project of
dates, pomegranates. apricots, apples, pears, peaches, summer and winter
vegetables, forage and new crops such as table olives, pistachios and late
season potatoes-would amount to about 70,000 tons at full development. These
production increases would stem from increased water availability, decreased
salinity, thinning of dense orchards and intercropping. Although some of the
Project production may be exported, most is expected to find a ready market to
meet strong inter-nal demand, from both Tunisians and the growing-local tourism
industry. Gabes' production has a marketing advantage by being earlier than
other main producing areas.  The Project would benefit about 7,700 farm
families in the oases, while support services, such as applied research,
nurseries and marketing facilities, are expected to benefit an additional
3,000 farm families. The Project would also create about 1,900 full-time jobs
in agriculture. Based on farm models representing the different faning
systems found in the area, increases in farm income range from about 100 to
about 900%, the financial rate of return to the farmers for all farm models is
over 50%. The Project economic rate of return (ERR), with benefits based on
incremental production, is estimated at 21%. A separate economic rate of
return was calculated for each of six farm models; the ERR's ranged from 17 to
43%.
58.      Risks facing the project include: (a) a fall in the price of some
Project production. This risk is minimized by using conservative price
estimates, well below current wholesale prices; (b) inadequate response of
marketing channels to increased supply. Demand and production projections
indicate that Project output would help fill a substantial deficit in supply,
and with the modest Project investments in refrigeration, grading and packing
facilities, adequate market infrastructure exists to respond to increased
Project output; and (c) slow adoption by farmers of new cropping patterns.
This risk is minimized by the Project focus on extension services, by the high
profitability of cropping patterns, and by the fact that proposed Project
investments do not require undue farmer financial risk. Sensitivity analyses
show that even if prices are reduced by 50% or farmer participation lagged by
3 years, the ERR would still be 13% and 16%, respectively. Overall, benefits
could decrease by 53% or costs increase by 114% before the Project would reach
a level of ma-ginal justification (1Z).  Separate sensitivity analyses were



- 23 -
also done on three Project oases where land fragmentation is a problem
(benefits were halved) and to measure the effect of poor maintenance 'Project
life was reduced from 20 to 10 years); under both scenarios, the Project is
still viable. The Project thus has a strong economic justification which is
resistant to adverse movements in key variables.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Establishment of the PMU and appointment of its head would be a
special condition of effectiveness. It would be a condition of disbursement
for works in the oasis rented by STIL that should STIL continue to rent the
oasis, STIL would present an investment plan to the Bank for review, including
a repayment schedule for full capital cost recovery; make a downpayment; and
obtain medium-term credit for tLe remaining investment cost.
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 31, 1985
Washington D.C.



- 24 -
TAB*L E  SA                                       PAU
TUNISIA                -8 I SOIL NDICATORS DAT  FNzr
TUNII                                RIPIRZU  OMA   (WENTER APSAI)  p
HOST                (HOrST Re    TIT) lb
*  RECN           11301 lIlltX          WIDOWS r13
Io1Lb    19701k      x zxanb   V. UtICA   HItD ZSAT  L T. ETCA & CA
AUL Cuomm uq. IN)
TOL                                 163.6      163.6        163.6
AGRICULTUAIAL                       68.B        70.3         72.2
P PaR cAT  CUs$)                      210.0       340.0       1390.0            1149.6                 2108.6
m30   ceenasmP  caum
CKRLGWW OF 01L zUqVAzvwr)          119.0       230.0        497.0             622.1                  995.5
POPMIATION.MID-YEAR (TTWSAN)    4221.0        5127.0       b683.0
URBA  POPULATION tX OF TOTAL)       36.0        43.5         53.6              48.2                   66.5
POPULATION0 PRORCIZONS
IPOPITION IN liaR 2000 C(IL)                               10.0
STATION   POPULATION CHrLL)                                11.1
POPUIATIWO  HONNTU                                          1.8.
POPULATON uDSmTY
PE1t SQ. KI.                      25.8        31.3         39.9              36.3                    35.7
PER FP. IN. AI. LAND              61.4        72.9        90.3              461.7                   92.4
POPULATIOW AGE STRUCTUHE (I)
0-14 YRS                          43.4       46.2         39.9              43.6                    39.9
IS-64 r1s                         52.5        50.0        56.2               53.1                   56.0
bS AND ABOVE                       4.2         3.8         3.8                3.3                    4.1
POPULATION GRDOJ? RATE (C)
TOrAL                               1.8 IC     1.9 e        2.2 /             2.8                     .4
URaS                                3.2        3.8          3.9               4.5                    3.6
CRUDE  BTR1  RATW (PE  TNOUS)       46.6        39.4         33.9              a0,4                   31.3
CRUe DEATH RATE (Pat nDO)           19.1        14.3         9.2               11.3                    8.1
GROSS REPRODUC7TON RATE              3.5         3.2          2.1               2.L                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOuS)            .        29.2        1HO.9 /d
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WON)             ..         ..         61.0 7            22.2                   40.3
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       97.0        96.0        12B.0              97.3                  114.3
PEM CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALERIS (I OF REQUIREfE#S)         83.0       88.0        116.0             110.8                   110.6
PROTINS (GRAMS Pre  DAY)          52.0        57.0         74.0              70.1                   67.3
OF WHICH ANMAL AND PULSE         13.0        14.0        23.0 If            17.8                   34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RAIE         36.1        20.0         6.0               14.6                    5.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       48.3        53.0         61.1              57.5                   66.7
INFANT MORT. .ATE (PER T2OUS)      158.9       121.0        65.0              101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAE WATER (fPOP)
TOTAL                                .        49.0         70.0 X            59.7                    65.4
HIRAM                                                           : .91.0      84.5                   78.1
RURAL                               .      -               66.0 LK           38.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
OTAL                                ..        62.0           ..                ..                    52.9
lEAN                                D. 10.0                42.0                ..                   67.0
RURAL                               *         34.0           ..                ..                   24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         IW30.0       5930.0      3690.0             4345.1                 1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               ..       730.0       890.0             1831. 1                 815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOrAL                             610.0      410.0        460.0 fd          632.9                   367.2
URAn                              230.0 /h   310.0        350.0 717         545.5                  411.5
RDRAL                            1040.0 /   1270.0       1230.0 71T        2513.5                  2636.3
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..        24.1         25.0 /t           26.2                   27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOID
TOTAL                                          5.1          5 5                ..
URBAN, 
RURAL                                                       5i
AVERMA  NO. OF PFRSONS/ROOG
TOTAL                               ..         3.2 I
URBAN                               ..          L2/.
RURAL                                .         3.6f         3.8 7W
ACCESS TO ELECr. (2 OF LE.fl)
TOTAL                               ..        2&.0Ol       34.2 ht           46.2
URBAN                               ..          ..         68.2 V            77.7
RURAL                                .          ..          6.07W            16.1



- 25 -
T A I L 1 3A                                      PACE 2
TtINIA                 -SOCrAL MIDCATR UTA SHCET
TUNISCADUPS [REERIC   IN   (ViOWZED AUZRAI)
HOST               CMOlT RECENT INTIATE) 1b
RIGENT         MIDDLE imEI           MID  INCOGM
1960i       Wa19lk    USTiHTU     N. AnUCA  H MID EASS    LAT. AmIcA   CAR
-DCAXM
ADWUSTED ENROLLNENT RATIOS
PRINARY:  TOTAL                   66.0       101.0        106.0              08.3                  105.4
HALz                    88.0       121.0       119.0             102.5                  106.3
FZKALE                  43.0       80.0         92.0              73.6                  104.5
SECONDMYA TOTAL                   12.0        23.0        30.0              43.0                    43.2
MALE                    19.0       33.0         37.0              52.3                   42.3
FEKALE                   3.0       13.0         23.0              33.0                   44.5
VOCATIO1AL CZ OF SECONDARY)         23.5        11.1        25.2               10.3                   33.6
PUPIL-TEACI RATIO
PRIKARY                           61.0        47.0        3S.0               30.3                   30.1
SECONDARY                         16.0        28.0        21.0               23.1                   16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)             15.5        24.0 Li     62.0 /            43.5                    79.5
PASSENCER CARS/'OUSAND POP          10.5        13.0        18.3 A            17.8                   46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP        4D.3        75.7       157.0              136.8                 225.6
TV RECEZVERS/THOUSAND POP            0.1        14.0        47.1              46. 1                  107.2
NEUSPAPER "DAILY CGNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            18.6       15.9        43.6 /d            31.2                   53.5
CINrN ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       1.6          *-         1.5  ;             1.7                    2.8
LANDOL FORM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         1138.0      1215.0      1751.0
FEUZ CPLcERZNrS)                   6.0         7.7         8.5               10.8                   23.2
AGRICULTRE (PERCENT)              56.0        50.0        35.0               42.4                   31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0        21.0        32.0               27.9                   23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              27.0       23.7        26.2               26.2                   3L2
ALEz                              50.2        44.2        47.3               46.4                   49.3
FIIALE                             3.3         3.6         4.5                5.8                   15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RSTIO            :.a         2.1         1.7                1.8                    1.4
xucom DlSmRMDll
PERCE3T OF PRI1VATE INCOME
RECEIVED By
IIICHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..         17.0 /
RICHEST 20D OF DOUSKEOLDS           ..          ..        42.0 
LOWEST 20Z OF UOUSZROLDS            ..          ..         6.0                 .
LZWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..          ..        15.0                 .
uOIX TARGET
ESTIKATED ABSOLUE POVEREY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       204.0 If           274.8                  288.2
RURA                                ..          ..        97.0 Lf           177.2                  184.0
ESTIMTED RELATIVE POVERTY ICOME
IZVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
ORIN                                ..          ..       193.0 /f          402.6                   522.8
RUMRL                               ..          ..       193.0 W            284.9                  372.4
ESTItATED POP. BELOW ABS1G5 E
POVERIT INC0ME LEVEL (Z)
RBRAN                               ..          ..        20.0 /f
RUML                                ..          ..        15.0 if:
NOT AVAIABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T e s
la  The group averages for each Sndicator are popuLation-weighted aritbeetic means. Coverage of countrIAs amon  the
indicators depends on availability of data and 1s not unform.
/b  Unles otherime noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and date for "togt Recent Etiate" betwen 1980 and 1982.
/e  Due to eamgretian poplation growth rate Is loier than rate of natural increase; /d 1979; Io 1983; /f 1977;
LA Accens to piped water only;  b 1962; /i 1976; /1 1966; Ak 1975.
JUNE, 1984



iaaiaiS iii  . - a. -  a.  aaq.aasool  Sq- J.       
-.                  puma~~~~~'I  "-     -iA"" ip  ." -  -P -0
* -5w   -~~~~ -(   **  I-      it-  li*OPT-6       -455
-I - a%ml Sam    pSwap, ast buas atla, hi -o
OR s-p saaitslaa  - ma - $-"Pam -." 5 - M
aat  -taq  S      i -s   atmam- Q-   -a    1 a
as    Po - .ya,aa    sm    -bis-  I-a..a-a as    AO-a  .
-i sa                                    ~~~~~~~~~S.am  a allja    -. mem   ara       saasaia          am
,  -  -a'.  ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     -ci.aatls ns-als.Iasaass  -tal-Lta
esi -w                                                            -   an-A -  0  -  -M-    atamsas106 paa- aas  -al  a3 -1.1, u.aa
.ss.daG aa.staagasa a. slays- .5..m5                                 las as-sam ~~~~day oda,  a.'a.a - am,ao,-.. a amid yi 
W   alSRIMa                                                            .sa.  a    a alqasa. ml w       ala          if"g l fli Piaai a. .,1
- 5aa la  A I-Oladst1 a"sai. "         a0.saas) .1su  sa.a..
p- -.1-n A.-  p  al I MN A-                                        1; P_~a  S . *-i5    I. t.w - ta  -. sa-. a    .  s0n 
-. es g..a m  aas.s aaitd as aaaa..lllam          bala.W ail --v .a5 P-...... - -0 7Clas jo,          rU2sogB.   I-
- iiaOLaai 1a.ii -I  *5Ja.n .I-55J5a1,a ayat  .ala-_U~  oti, a                                                 ftuiaai
Sn. aabPil I -e  sCiiisa    amf
uuaai qa n.jminus?Si la.t als    L.tfl.qa a.s-al ~as.s        .P t GI am ages  mn, *lWl.aitd -l n3sirams,p  vasi-
eta. -    .... as unam .- isa.? a-sa       .......- b Ame                               yla aaWI.am awg     %.-% in:d.a 
- ;o,      S. asi   go asdamsasi -Il ao    -It". asst" "M~is                      atP.   dal    I--gmai JlqatCy    )P
amI"lS-    a. aos.-a  ias. M-    La,1aaa  - -    .anl 3.'~s2L..as   z.sa clI  -5   a. t                              andam!-  ..as
ftls-.d      as  a_as-as  mal saSaasm sn.* s- -a  -  maim)   P- -kass                                          Ana - ~      s  J. a_-S a    --sa.
sns   S  all ~-   WAb 'I%[a  t5-J tI mam   -a5  a-nls s-ml?sa                tis  iia. -S..) _         - laspa .1m.a -W .sa. js kyB. aim  as
-1 Lai p                                   as-s..,baas u-n
ft,     5C  ~   ta.5115   tAa  ass.  saaaaaas                                         tsa  a   m.0  iaaaytsI-a            a. Sq- ~.a-l        mSa-m
-_q, a.aJ    a  .. amlS   a5              sI--    a.LIaam- 's1                                  - -as.Zda  a. sasasl)s.s11XisLis - assma
aw,a-tts*snas  aajas   s.a                      a       cs                 5s aa --MIatad amd  aias           , -as  asPM"  lsaata   m
a. biass   55s.fl *5s151 54   Sho'lasql" -"llw  -Ilo-               am    .oils   tms_* allS                a,ai asuadlm
J5 il 15.1  . O.sa -ad m    -a~ diqa si"                                  fusSEsn-   1  9- p *Wa5- g=t.l-atst)  i.  .Jssa.aaaaa
Ja.as.asuesemt sia                                                                                           S IU-  a
5... aa asia aaslaa si amtisslaal.  ssdi 5W is alalamSo-IN 
- asala sta..m as matins- b4a Al *a  att bIas  vAl a"allsls
sam. ass saL  -si a stes. i ii.tit a1 aies   . ia                          Am.tV - T      ---l d.lQ. SIWZ3IW1
masms a5 A-P    iss.du dlpa..a a LIILal.. G  -.AdIap.m..1. aJsm."u                                                                       . qa
5b55a  am  - asss -4 m-"Mq .as  lid"ss                                alsIada-a  a-ad       aaf.Na1 A-ava"    ml~ swa         as aa
ai.f. 5 astm  ~ a alatalsa  aaa at a. ai saa                               smi. al.  aIA  1 lsasasbp,   Las %alo    -  U     W-I
aatas a    als.maa.las-55a."sIs t5at                                                                         .c z-s-aamgh ,uJha~s
~~leiaels matias- asia    ~~~~~~~~~~~~"   pn    " a .                   _5 *1tI..      ass
aM-aai  -1,-Sa        .  .  asa          ssa   asa at -s-avmw 3. a                            a ad- assl   li- qis      -           .     s1
ails, 15 altaslals ma asiatI a. mian si ta--si asamis.-aao   Itrd-  ".-Ie AmIam pa                         Amlaa a   .
a~a~n  lataas a ass-al ad5511  iaaa   a slatatAqs.j olad  -l.   la-sia"Ia ft -op                 Ai    3a  -   s    -aa
almul -  ta-ta.  a. sas t-l.   ~ 111p1        -..- salmi-  S.aqa_my a..aa _51                    ayes.    . allow    a-ag a---- aai1ldsn
am  ati.a  .asnyas inlsitsaiam iasaMssaall3a1515a.                                                    -s  ut a   oomI    -   Za.t-I
as-as nss  asa .sssaa - 1Siiiiie    -.u rUd                            sa-Ml as Sssa a,o A sa.'las -5a Glopo- iallplam  asas-      1
ta aasmsaP- saim-gs  als"  _ -    "  "'ssi) .a,aaa sR       tta
M. .1              me - Polaoll Mol, -ill'baasro"Ieljiss"Wttdi ;
*~a5  a asa si  -   itlaaa  ii-  5s.Mai    ta                  m  s.1-astaakas-aem-Mla msaqP. asnsa mllssnI'mal'll a
as i-taa 5Dais  5~50   a5-N.tasf -A.  V a-La-a aSi ..a555  35                                             a15p Hues a.a Gesss dni  as. n
ss s~ saa.aas - .a- sq sysasa -~a.at.asa-sa as-sat.d                                                    .55ta55astaa tassP
--pssita   atmsa aP aaamaaSasaua                                 as-st-  ta-ala.. 55 satin-a *atinasi  ut    sma *
.aiss-ssat i.aa.a- saaaa   .aai.yaisrlaaaa.                               s a.aataanianatF ssa  6                         "'saa   a-t mama"
~allnwj 1   J.  *sa Masas ptta ada                a011.. -asad lasasa.a v" sea alsiaama.asf   .
*-:   -1 3am. -iaJaI!. ass Gaod.  Iat-s a A.is-   asia                     ass9  vamasataa . - as. loata    L55aaid as.aamatI   im-              31
ass.4   smlsasm.5. saasdaP  sba~   s-ma m-Pa"alm  wal aisslam  lsIe 35i5-5aqaa    ysa ins oo wu.i ta
sas  a- asPlW asl-s satia  lsai-   .a.--aq1a iia                               as,1 iis  tsann  h - a i-a  dsamssi asm  ma.
.aaa"aaa abaa.a5     P.a LasasM"W   ..tI Ia  a    a          1i--ssiissi  5lia -m.S  Wm "maSb  .31 sam                           5ss5qy.
~~ls am ata  mat anal -  a5  -                  asIlala- alsiisssas am -a- ma. sy am a         -.31,  a  fl51   Ma
j-o!IJL ao~~~~~    I"  If -j"maa,a. m  masa anat Mn a1,nsM.aiaa  sesal
Clsssis    ii   l.a a   n55mma  aala  an    Ps as. -  Pnfl.sj-a -J  ssm -A.. Ia
s-As.     "I am      s 1. . as, l-a.M       -1 a0Jb"              .   n    al- as  *a' *iis intl.taia-    aaal.stqI a  J.ss5  sa-fi ba     at-atsoo
GI  -  4111- -1-  l  . "o    411119    -  -"-ssss"Po ,sii           asso oavomass- ina lkllus   as: = assiadl  alalasi "as-S.a  wl
us. -a-ss asasas-   la    Api.s    daisdsauaislsa   a  slsa~a  as  doa..ssa
lasoilas,sa4 aS. AIsia. p.   is  rp at aa adasE                 a          s - assoooa P.Gstu"isasra ousiaJls- aas5-4
swlaslaosvv a   La  -         mme.5555 a aam .atm, -.1 al   aiisassu am l         an, a. Ssllus,afl aasasia isoak a-      W. a'ol   sa0 ass..
~ ~5a sapIirs ~ salaa asj    fa         1111.                s-iataai a"s s mfa  tai
5.asamals  sa-555aaaa   aaa.smsmaa  &.iW5



- 27 -
Pqe 4 of 6
IIIII -m  m         D
Aml Gwut Rates
Amamt                                   i(At 1960 prics)
(uiuim 11*                    Pcteal                 Prel.        Proiwted
lalicator             at cut pices
1983         1979   1960   1981   1962   1983     19%    1985   1966    1991
NLTM MX0s
Gros    1 ` prouct /1          8,136.5       6.6    7.4    5.5    0.0    4.8     5.5   4.4    3.5    3.5
hpiclur                        998.6      -4.8    9.8    6.5   -9.9    Z.7    11.6    2.0    2.5    2.5
Indutry                       2,503.7     10.8   9.0    6.8    0.3   6.7        3.7   3.2    3.2    3.3
Senvices                      3,542.6      8.4    7.7    6.6    2.6    3.9      5.0   3.9    3.9    3.9
COMRain_                       6,454.5       4.1   1..7   7.5    3.4   5.9       4.9    4.3    4.1    3.8
Crona       t                  2,402.6       6.3    0.9   15.1   1.7  -4.0       4.5  -3.3   -0.5    7_8
Ehytt of goEs wd 61*           2,863.3      21.4    0.1    3.4  -6.9    L4       2.2   9.3    4.5    2.7
imats of goo8   I ES           3,583.9      15.1   4.5   13.0   0.9  -1.B        L8    3.0    3.0    3.0
Qum  neiial prouct             8,24L9        6.8    7.3    5.8   0.3    5.0      5.0    3.6    3.4    3.4
Gms inmt l  wirg               1,787.4      15.2   4.7    0.7  -9.8    1.4       4.8    4.3    0.3    17
-D  deflator (1980 - 100)                   87.2  100.0  111.4  128.9  141.0   15L0
fxdae rate                                   2.46   2.47   2.03   1.69   1.47    1.29
sm  of G  at ur lut price. (2)                    Avre  Anaalncfeame (2)
(at current prices) 2V                      (at cutamt prices)
1971    1976    1981    1983       19B6    1991   1971-76     1976-81       1981-6       19-91
Cros dintic praIurt /1  M0      100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    8.8            5.8           3.6          3.9
Agicultu             19.0    17.8    11.3    12.3    12.9    12.0    8.2              L2           L5           2.5
laxlusy              25.9    25.2    32.0    30.8    31.2    32.1   10.0              8.6          3.4          4.5
Services             43.1    44.0    41.8    43.5    42.2    42.1    7.6              6.1          3.8          3.9
tnuuqtia                80.5    77.3    76.1    79.3    80.8    80.4    9.6              7.6          4.5           3.8
Gram  inwemt            21.5    30.7    3Z.3    29.5    26.3    23.1   14.1              6.9          -0.4          L3
Eorts of gods  d NS   24.1    29.1    41.4    35.2    36.4    3L8            5.7         7.7           2.0          5.3
Impots of goWds ai NF5  26.1    37.1    49.8    44.0    43.5    42.4   13.1             11.2           W3          3.4
G     nos nosoml ptduct    99.6    98.7   100.8   101.3   100.2    99.0    8.5           6.3          3.4           3.8
ier factor  uE          -0.4    -1.3       0.8      L3      0.2    -1.0       -           -            -            -
GM"s l2atl Aixp         19.1    21.4    2467       22.0    20.6    19.6    2.9           2.7          0.1           3.7
AS Z of GOP
(at currut prices)
1976    I981    1962    19B3
EUBLBC FIWZ
CGZZe ree                                          26.8    31.9    34.2    34.1
Gurrant adintre                                    19.9    21-9    26.6    27.3
Surplus (4) or deficit C-)                         6.9    10.0       7.6      6.8
CQica1 nqmoice                                     11.3    12.7    10.7    12.4
,Foxpi finmizg                                    1.0      2.6      3.7      1.4
1971-76      1976b1       1981-%6      1986-9L
am     W2
GQE gith rate (Z)                                  8.5          6.3          3.4          3.8
GP per cpi=a gcoth rate (Z)                        5.9          3.6          LO           1.2
I=                                                 2.5          5.1         1.4           6.3
l.zia. saiqp rae                                  24.0         22.5          0.4         19.2
lqmpc elasicity                                    L5           1.9          0.4          0.9
(*) world U.k Atlas glqWy.
/1 GOP at   et prices ad comim.A at fa:tor cost.
P ojected y7ers in contant prices.
EM CP -IC
May 1985
0667S. p. 34



- 28 -
max I
*Pi    5 of 6
(aE 196 Prima)
(Wiua1 Ug s1.$
at csu)t pr_ce)
lindicator                   L9              1979   19W0   191 W82   1963               91    L965   1966   1991
-L U
1uwim   pt                   1,l61.1           ILO   -0.4    3.9     Li6 3.S               L7   11L3    4.3    1.8
Comb oil          B3L2                       22.9    2.2   4.4  -=0.       0.6          -L1   -3.6   -6.8  -U.2
A 4iculbm ad foc
pOCON.'zu indstry            143.4           11.4  -3L0   54.3  -31.0   -9.5            25.9    1.2    7.2    3.4
1fWtt, otA  11               H85.5           L3.0    4.6    30    U.5    8.9             L7   23.1   10.7    6.8
Hkzcbadia impowt             3,119.0           20.5    0.5   1L7   -0.9   -2.9             L6    2.8    2.9    3.1
Food                         43b             26.2  -13.5   28.1  -7.7   20.7           -4.3    4.6    4.1    L.6
Petrolemi                    346.8           71.4    L6   -6.9  -4&8       3.0          122    3.6    8.1    7.2
lA&-rY -d eyn.pC             795.5           -9.6   -L2   40.9   15.8  -19.5             5.4   -9.8   -L8    2.5
Odw                       1,542.3           20.2    5.1    4.8   Ml.1    0.7          -0.8    8.8    3.5    2.3
Price UAW
E-t price ind-                               R0.5  100.0  116.8  13.3  1MO             143.2  147.1  155.3  234.7
IUCCt Price, izda                            85.3  1O.0  113.9  173.3   Ml            148.1  152.6  162.9  2.0.1
T-Ed of craft ind                            86.5  I0.0  15.6  10.0   98.4             96.7   96.4   95.3   97.8
Camesitiom  of  T;      -       (X)                     &.. Aml I1mrum (b)
(at                                             (at Pnc)  CaC   _)
1971   I976   19 19  1983   1966   1991                1971-76   1976-81   9I1h6    96 291/
IW0.0   000  1W.0  10.0  100.0  100.0                      5.0       7.8       2.3       5.6
cie oil                      26.8   42.3   53.3   44.7   30.5   23.1                    3.4       6.4       6..7     -0.8
hpicul        ad foc-
P,Cea.  idmagry              35.7   20.6    9.7    7.7    9.7    9.2                    4.4       1.4      -L3        3.2
,mfdtum.. od    11           37.5   37.1   37.0   47.6   59.8   67.7                    9.2       12.2     lL0        8.4
14a-ta                          100.0  100.0  10.0  ID.O  I.O  1O.0                     14.2      10.5       0.7       3.4
Food                          19.6   12.3   11.3   13.9   13.8   15.0                  -L9        13.0       3.0       3.0
pemo1m                        3.6   lLl   19.8       1    12.2   15.8                  3D.5       13.8     -7.2       7.9
1bizry ad Equirnir            27.7   3L9   25.4   25.5   22.4   19.2                    18.0       7.2     -2.7        Ll
49.1   44.7   43.5   49.5   516   50.                     12.1      10.9       4.4       3.4
0me of Tzle with    9 Sme of Te uith                  Rims of TIe vida          s        of Trae wzh
Iiustraml GOxxuries (X)    fl.   m Counri& (CZ            OCnaym _                                   is)
1970    1975    190       1       19                           7                1970    1975    L96O
D       sr  E                   'or                                                  '                  '                 -
FEqiatt              70.8    60.1    687        4.9    21.7    25.4         13.9    .1    4.8         9.4     6.1     0.4
~ota                 85.9    79.5    8L8         7.1    10.9     7.7         0.7    6.3    7.5         6.3     3.1     3.0
If IlEbd  Ohn*mmem ad dimViSw, dical,   ifacmusuA ad oe   poad.
i/ Lam= "me.
0667S, p. 2                                                                                                          2Na Ca-C



- 29 -
P4p 6 of 6
==rm- auai  r smiu. oru cp=. m    ma               -
uslim   8  , carmt pwkm)
AcWAL                          l!L
i7   17         is      wm       u 1911 1991
Met bdim  of  ad 6  _   viC.             417.0  -356.0  -47.6  -61.5  -7989   -40.5    -757.7  -9.9  -701.7  -406.6
EWyM of _odis I amx,                  1,479.5 3,137.5 3,9.3  3,932.4 3,457.9  3,24.    3,113.6 3,50.0 3,B79.3 7,245.3
3qarr of smds & sereeem               1,35 3.493.5 4,3%49 4,623.9 4,2568  3,9.7   3,871.3 4,160.9 4,51.0  7,85L9
Nottba=                                   -0.5    10.3    58.5    50.6    51.0      56.3      45.1   481    52.6    75.1
Cmrc  t ccmblece                        -W5  -36.7  -414.0  ffW.9  -747.9  -614.2    -6Lf  -GL    -.1' 53L5
Dixet  F iwae iw0 32.6    50.9   236.0   387.4   420.5    223.9                              219.1   215.6   236.9   317.1
GcnDtm                                    53.2    50.7    41.5    20.3    19.0      25.4      25.8    27.1    29.1    4L6
riZ 1      (Dec)                         18.7   484.6   34.5   295.0  310.8    371.4         506.3   417.5   453.2   277.5
Official                               135.8   191.9   263.0   247.4   277.6   2W188       367.6  473.3   M5.1   236.7
1!i%Vft                                 48.9   292.7    81.5    47.6    63.2    122.6      138.7   -5.8   14L1    40.7
Othr cqpiol                               37.3  -116.6  -14W.1    28.3   -5.4   -21.2        -77.3    -       -       -
Ouqe in          (- imp];  iae.ue)        38.7  -123.9  -6&.9   -90.1   -27.0       14.7      37   -48.4   -70.1  -34.7
IVenutiaul z304,.5   347.5   412.4   5M2.5   529.5    514.8                                  553.5   601.9   672.0 1,2183
H        lierea.tDqzo,za                   1.9     1.2     1.1      L3      1.5      L6        L7      17      L       L9
Acoml               ~1.
1976    1979     190    1981    192         1983 0
OfEici Fit                                   53.2    50.7      41.5    20.3     19.0     25.4     25.8
Gm  diubrum   oE ILT  7                     250.8    637.8    559.1   607.2    629.0    74LB    966.1
ComessiamL                                  109.3    140.9   206.4   245.5   2M6.1    165.7    31.5
BiLatumi                                100.4    140.0    198.4   239.5    230.0    142.7    223.2
ML                                        8.9      0.2      1.0     Ll       LO      -        -
Otjer wAtilatal                          0.0      0.7      7.0     4.9      15.4    23.0      78.3
-m= 1maii                                   141.5    496.9    352.7   361.7    31S.9    576.1    664.6
Pri_ma                                   71.6    378.3    223.5   224.4    255.0    366.0   402.5
Offi;a eqot cradits                       9.9     49.6     55.5    35.4    24,4    87.6    15.3
MD                                       25.3     55.4     51.1    69.4     81.8     89.6     88.0
Otbur zuitilaceul                        3D.2     13.7     22.6    32.5     21.7     32.9      15.8
Deb OSwimg a,d Disha e                   1.1826  3,02L.5  3,227.4 3,280.9  3,480.5  3,65B.7  4,165.0
Offliti.                                976.2  1,854.7  2,038.0 2,149.1  2,3;8D   2478.0  2,ak5.5
W127.8    232.0    269.0   319.6    375.5    43k.2   410.9
MLis                                   64.1     67.3     67.9    67.5    67.8   - 67.0       66.2
Oteur                                  784.3  1,554.7  1,701.1 1,762.0  1,904.7  1,976.8  2,29.4
Pzwms                                   206.4  1,166.8  1189.4  1,13.8  1,132.5  1,1t0.7  L,319.5
hdisbwlaed dek                          1,14.8  1.819.8   L925.6 2,020.7  1,900.7  2,065.9  1,960.7
Toia debt ervie pW'ma                      9L5    315.4    430.4   517.0   4F3.3    560.2    681.7
Interest                                 36.9    162.5    215.9   27       194.8    189S    221.9
Paymets as I aorts                          6.7     10.1     11.0    t3.1    14.0      17.1     2L9
PlED    siaZaQP                             2.2      4.4      4.9     6.1      5.9      6.8      8.3
AW   inEeE   reo an wt             (:>      5.5      7.2      6.8     8.1      7.6      8.2      9.5
Offic-I                                   4.3      5.6      5.9     6.9      7.1       -        -
Priic                                     7.9      9.8     10.5    12.7      9.4       -        -
A-we rmwrityaonw Lod (ye.s)                16.3     15.6     17.4    15.6     17.5      13.9     I.B
Official                                 20.4     19.4     19.4    18.       20.2      -        -
Prist                                     8.6      9.2      9.2     5.8     10.2       -        -
t                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An Z o-f Debc Outsmizgz
at EM of int   ent
Year (1983)
OElZ SEN)MCUI                                                   - 
Marity sm=Dme ae debt Outadlg (D
Amrtirada  due wiutin 5 yer                                   40.1
Artjzaciai due witdin t yeam                                 74.1
Interest sCrzeum of debt outatadirg)
tzEru  due viAtb   fint: yer                                   3.9
h1 1Wbe  y rno  add up due t. mDAir.
Ma 1985



- 30 -
Po 1 od 2
ME SIXAlU  OF B? K  MP OinATXaN IN !IUA
A. S      l=  cF MC mgLo     ID im   l      (Amf Hd nt 31. 1985) *
US$ Sillion
Lamn or                                            ~(m
N&whr    Yaw           Borzuwrn                                                     uk        ML   Udisiburmmd
Forey oas t     d Cradits ull7y DLurmad                                            389.00    75.2
1431      1977      Rqublic of Tunisia          :rrigatica  Deuelapat               42.00               2A7
1445      1977      S                           Fourth Water Supply                 21.00               0.77
1601      1978      Pqublir of TmiAi.           RurSl Rods (Thid 1ihmys)           3L00                1184
1675      1979      Rqublic of Tunisia          Secod Urban Peu.were                26.50              11.99
1705      1979     RPpublic of Tluiuii          Secood Urban Nvalopment             19.00              10.21
1746      1979      Republic of Tunisia         Secad Fiaberies                     2L50               16.36
1796      1980      Republic of Tunisia         Southern Irrigetion                 25.00             lb.83
1797      1980      Office dam Porc. Natioamm    Thiri Port                         42.50              11.27
1841      1980      Rpublic of Tunisia          Fourch Hi1hwsys                    36.50              23.51
1864      1980      Socift& Dmisime de
l'Elctr,icith et du Caz    Secoed Natural Cm Pipeline          37.C0              16.21
1885      1980  EBeque Nationale de Tunisi atd rd Agr Aiculurl Credit              30.00              12.57
191      1981      R public of Twb;ia          Fourth Edwatim                      26.00             22.10
1969      1981      Republic of Tunisia         SuI.l-Scaue Industry DeelotprAt    30.00              24.38
1997      1981      Republic of Tunisia         NorthwAt Ruial Dewelopumnt          24.00             17.36
2D03      1981      SacikTfnisiaT de
.'EIectricit& eC du GaZ   TMiird Pobr                          37.50              17.80
2005      198       Republic of Tnisa            aii  s aid Ebpulation             IL50              10.71
2012      1981      Republic of Tunisia         Texctile Rehabilitatina             18L60              0.26
2052      1981      Republic oE Tuaisia         Grain Ditrbution ad Stora           42.00              36.40
218       192       Republin of Tunisia         Fifth Himy (Rral Road)              35.50              32.04
2113      1982                                  Electical mdl MwlwAicl xnuctries  30.50                14.57
21314     m1982    SU                          Sixth Waer Supply                   30.50              13.43
2157      1982      Republic of Tnisia          Irrigstion DcalopM                  22.0               20.56
2197      1982      Republic of Tunisia         Tecb2ic4d Amistae                    4.50               3.73
2223      1983      Republic of Toiaina         Urba Deaelop.e  nl                  25.00              24.05
2230      1983      Republic of Tunisia         Ea=atio  V                          27.00              26.53
2234      1983      Republic of 2misis          Cental Tuia Irrigaton               16.50              13.54
2255      1983      Republic of Tbijia          Urba Saerage III                    34.00              32.97
2289      1983      Republic of 1umiia          Sfac Flood Procwcim                 25.00              24.49
2301      1983      SO.13C                      Iniumtry (IV) FoumLry               16.80              15.96
234.6     1984      lepublc of Tuniia          Miuig Techical Asaissace            13.40              13.30
2368      1984      Republic of    Bia          Seventh Waer Supply                 50.00              49.88
Z629 a    1984      Republic of Tunisia         Secad Urban Tran5ort                33.00              33.00
2455 a/   1984      Socek& Tumisiemie de
l'ElectricitE et du GaZ    Fourth Pboer                        38L70              3870
2502 a/   1985      Republic of TUnisiz         North Weat Agricultrcal Pwoductiond  15.00             15.OD
TnnmL    -                                                  I37.W    i,.z3   i327:R
Of ftuch has beem repaid                                       190.03     9.1
Total no outstnd*irg                                         1,146.97    66.1
Armux  Sold                        14.33
of 'hideh ha ben repaid          14.33
Total ww held by Bank sari  b/                              1,132.64    66.1
Total. Unisbursed                                                               63O70
*/ Not yet effwetwe
b        Prior to aed=e rate asiuoint
*   On April 25, 1985 a 50.0 14illin. loan for an Eqport Izduetries Project has been approved, anl ou May 23. 1985 a
t54.0 million loan for a Second Eletrical and Mericmical Inmiatries Project baa bea approved.
* Signed oan April 25,1985.
0732S/28



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as ot March 31. 19851
Amount of USS Million
YUCr               Oblhiator                   Tvo of Business    Loan         Enuitx       Total
1962      NPK Engrais                          Fertilizers           2.0         1.S         3.5
1966      SociEte  Nat. d'Investissement       0ev. Finance Co.                  0.6        0.6
(now BOET)
1969      COFIT (Tourism)                      0ev. Finance Co.      8.0         2.2        10.2
1970      Socidtd Nat. d'Investisssment        Dev. Finance Co.                  0.6        0.6
(now BDET)
1973      SociEte  Touristique                 Tourism               1.6         0.3         1.9
et Hoteli&re RYM SA
1975      SociEte  d'Etudes et                 Tourism               2.5         0.6        3.1
Sousse-Nord
1974      Industries Chimiques                 Chemicals                         0.6        0.6
1978      BOET                                 Dev. Finance Co.                  1.2         1.2
1984      SociEte  Tunisienne de Leasing       Leasing Co.                       0.5
1984      SociEte  Mini6re de Spath            Mining Co.                        LA
Fluor et de Barytine
(Fluobar)
Total Gross Comuitments                                   14.1        8.5        22.6
Less Cancellations                                        1.          ZIA        14.A
Terminations. Repayments
and Sales
Total Comimtments now                                      L          LaZ         La
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                          -         OS          0.
0732S/29



- 32 -
ANNEK III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplemental Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable for Key Events
(a)      Time taken by the country
to prenare the Project:                     12 months
(b)      Agency that p;Rpared the Project:            CNEA (National Center of
Agricultural Studies)
(c)      Project first identified by Bank:            October 1983
(d)      Bank appraisal mission:                      November 1984
(e)      Negotiations completed:                      May 3, 1985
(f)      Planned date of effectiveness:               December 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)      It would be a condition of effectiveness that the PMU be established
and its head appointed (para. 51).
(b)      It would be a condition of disbursement for -works in the oasis rented
by STIL that should STIL continue to rent the oasis, STIL would
present to the Bank for review an investme-nt plan, including a
repayment schedule for full capital cost recovery; make a
downpayment; and obtain medium-term credit for the remaining
investment cost (para. 55).
(c)      Other conditions:
(i)        An agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be signed by
OMVGM and each AIC defining the responsibilities of each
in respect of water management and agricultural
development (para. 52).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii)       OMVGM would develop plans for organization and operation
of the extension service after Project completion, for
passing on key research activities to appropriate research
organizations and for marketing strategy, including
transferring cold storage, grading and packing facilities
to the private sector (para. 53).
(iii)      AICs would pay lOOZ of the O&M costs for their irrigation
systems, with provision for a reserve fund, and farmers
would repay 50% of the cost of tree uprooting investments
(paras. 54 and 55).
0732S



Lab. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ?.O.A.h ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR D 18405
GAMMOUDA   '~a.orsubm    RGTQ                                                          P0E
Of  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
GASES                                     gx~~~~~ ~ -SEOOAYROM,
--- -   -  -  -  --  -  -  -  -.                         -
KEBILI                                   elElMama                                   '1..EOIERANAP5SAU
J~~~~~~~J
Y                      X4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            .
TAT1 RF AOU     ~      A
31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,
aid
*IdJ                 -'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    5,~~~oun
.5.-.  5.   5,.          -la5--so-4
4   '~~~9  .OMI  /S
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
?1JO~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'TSR19



IBRD 18490
n-Rz:  3                                                             -                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUNISIA
va    j    Tunh                                                               'k I
:   (t                                                            - - ww  &  '0GABES IRRIGATION  PROJECT
-":1) tUN~A   > liPROJECT AREA
IRRIGATED AREAS
vJ)         JW"' '                                                    ,                                                     \ REHABILITATION AND EXTEN'ION
UNDER THE PROJECT
\&4j2AS ANF    \                                                  \ \                                                       \_ REHABILITATED UNDER THE PROJECT
*.I-..-~                                                            - \ OUINET                            UNDER REHABILITATION
OUED RF-               265 n
r              ~~~HANNOUCH
'i/i'             .4 r//,           - $fIRAA 280 ha                     MAIN ROADS
6OIAN 268 ha
30' ha jehNb.   ERENGHILCUTANNOUCH                                                                              SECONDARY ROADS
B CFIIMA I and 11    ~CEMM                                 +$--E-RAILROADS
550 ha    ELH AMM    CHNi-IOU IIl                                             CHOTTS (SALTWVATER LAKES)
515 h      H  ~~~~~~~~AES                       *147   SPOT ELEtVATIONS
KHEBAIET  -AEOLPHA                                            Wift   ~~~~~~~~~~~PHYSICAL FEATURES
30~~~~HN               71 hat,  I0h  x                                           0h                          U I                      0.2
32 tia0                                                           INTERNATIONALS OUNDARIES
70 ha                                   AMM  MZRA                           ha            5 hr.  /i RlIGE>G^
*:   _  A    /           S ETNGHILCU                 So haELID
~~~~_/  71ha                                                               Z \   IMDrRAH^ 
H A  A             So Ed~ZLBoU
30 hat MATMATA      70 ha nRehb.                                       2473                                                0             10             20
* 2Oha            ~~KILOMETERS
ELTE                A I  KA AlT TA A A
17 ~    40he'       4ZE'RIG EI HANDRI
3 0 ha'-EEx t
4   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*KETTANAl I8 h; ha
472 ~ ~ ~ ZEI                  KETNI AIUZRKN1h  140 h 74a
Lmao   a ARANIAW            KETN  IV-125ha
71 ha                         MfEDITERRANEAN sEA
LIMAOUA
iSha RIhta.
MATIAATA      70 has Ext.                     'Iha
ZEATMATAZERKINTE II
472                  ~~~~~156 ha /                7a
AIOUN ZE-R KINE 30 h a
MARETH
III1IIIV           o 
513 ha
wa'. a ca.por=  @ P0vo Hbmj8aid ardft ha' pgAiavW C.MW ft~ MO~n                                   10 Ia
a' ft ~QM IhlOji 01 IIIV Ii~dV  b~  ~W~'V  W  w.piw, a  ~'  ~OCTOBER    1984






