Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14444
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2605-TUN)
MAY 4, 1995
Agricultural Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2605-TUN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Tunisian Dinar (D)
Appraisal Year US$1     =     DO.77
Implementation Average US$1     =     DO. 89
Completion Year Average US$1     =      Dl.002
ABBREVIATIONS
AIC:      Association of Common Interest
(Association d'Interet Collectif)
AGSI:       Irrigation Management Improvement Project
(Am6lioration de la Gestion du Secteur Irrigu6)
BNDA:        National Bank for Agricultural Development
(Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement Agricole)
BNA:       National Bank for Agriculture
(Banque Nationale Agricole - aleas Banque Nationale de Tunisie, BNT)
CNEA:        National Centre of Agricultural Studies
(Centre Nationale d'Etudes Agricoles)
CRA:       Agricultural Extension Service
(Centre de Rayonnement Agricole)
CRGR:        Rural Engineering Research Centre)
(Centre de Recherche du G6nie Rural)



CRDA:       Regional Commissariat for Agricultural Development
(Commissariat R6gional de D6veloppement Agricole)
CTV:       Local Extension Unit
(Cellule Territoriale de Vulgarisation)
DGR:       Department of Rural Engineering
(Direction du Genie Rural)
DGPC:       Highway Department of the Ministry of Public Works
(Direction Generale des Ponts et Chaussees)
DPSAE:       Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analysis
(Direction de la Planification, des Statistiques et des Analyses
Economiques)
DRE:       Department of Water Resources
(Direction des Ressources en Eau)
DRS:       Department of Soil Resources
(Direction des Ressources en Sols)
FOSDA:       Special Funds for Agricultural Development
(Fonds Speciaux Pour le D6veloppement Agricole)
GIH:      Group of Hydraulic Interest
(Groupement d'Interet Hydraulique)
GIAF:      Association of Fruit and Citrus Growers and Traders
(Groupement Interprofessionnel pour les Agrumes et les Fruits)
GIL:      Association of Vegetable Producers and Traders
(Groupement Interprofessionnel pour les Legumes)
IPB:      Initiating Project Brief
INRAT:       Tunisian National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Institut National de Recherche Agronomique Tunisien)
IRA:      Research Institute for Arid Zones
(Institut de Recherche pour les zones Arides)
M&E:       Monitoring & Evaluation
MOA:       Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'Agriculture)



MOF:       Ministry of Finance
(Ministere des Finances)
MOP:       Ministry of Planning
(Ministere du Plan)
OC:      National Cereal Board
(Office des Cereales)
OEP:      National Livestock and Range Agency
(Olfice de l'Elevage et des Paturages)
OH:      National Olive Oil Board
(Office National de l'Huile)
O&M:       Operation & Maintenance
OMV:       Office de Mise en Valeur
OMVGM:         Gabes and Meddnine Irrigation Development Office
(Office de Mise en Valeur des Perimetres Irrigues de Gabes et Medenine)
PPI:     Public Irrigated Perimeter
(Perimetre Public Irrigue)
SAR:      Staff Appraisal Report
SONEDE:        National Company for Water Supply
(Societ6 Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux)
STEG:       Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company
(Societ6 Tunisienne d'Electricite et du Gaz)
STIL:      Tunisian Milk Processing Company
(Societ6 Tunisienne d'Industrie Laitiere)
SNPSA:       National Strategy for Promoting AICs
(Strategie Nationale de Promotion et Suivi des AICs)
WUA:       Water User Associations



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                        May 4, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Gabes Irrigation Project (Loan 2605-TUN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Tunisia-Gabes Irrigation Project (Loan 2605-
TUN). Parts I and III were prepared by FAO/CP for the Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office and Part II by the Borrower.
This successor to the Southern Irrigation Project (Ln. 1796) improved existing irrigation and
was supposed to improve fanning practices on 43 oases around Gabes. The 7,000 farms on 5,000 ha
suffered from aging date palm groves, declining artesian pressure, ill-maintained irrigation systems,
salt build up, and tenure problems. Some land was abandoned.
Civil works-watercourses, and deep wells and pumps to compensate for declining artesian
pressure-were well designed and built on schedule and at less than projected cost, thanks to efficient
bidding and supervision. Institutional and agricultural development suffered however. Government
froze hiring and did not provide its share of project finance in the early years; the project "office" was
abruptly abolished in mid-implementation. Consequently, extension to help farmers adjust to new
irrigation was minimal. Some farmers resisted drain installation. The program to replace aging date
palms with higher-return fruit trees and vegetables moved slowly even after Government reverted to
high subsidies, which had initially been reduced under the project. Projected involvement of the
"office" and irrigators' associations in marketing was wisely dropped. Irrigators' associations
strengthened themselves and now pay for 80 percent of operation and maintenance.
The irrigation facilities are now working well. Agricultural intensification is proceeding,
thanks to strong mark-ets, and strong farmer market orientation and initiative. In the absence of useful
monitoring and evaluation, evidence is fragmentary. The PCR estimates that, due especially to
delayed or non-implementation of agricultural components such as extension, benefits will be delayed
by 7 years, but that appraisal full-development targets will then be surpassed. The project outcome is
rated as satisfactory. There are still problems, especially with major maintenance, drainage and
salinization. Farmers' interest in and complete dependance on irrigation suggests that they will solve
these problems. Sustainability is rated as likely. While large-scale institutions have not evolved as
expected at appraisal, small-scale irrigators' institutions are flourishing. Institutional development is
therefore rated as substantial.
The PCR is factual, concise, provides a balanced assessment of the project's achievements, and
some perceptive lessons and insights.
An audit of this and other Tunisian irrigation projects is planned.
Attachment                                                           ,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



II
ac



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES RRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2605-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Currency Equivalents and Abbreviations
PREFACE              .......................                          .........................    i
EVALUATION  SUNIM ARY                         .................u....................   i
PARTI            ........................1.......................... 
1.   Project Identity  ...........................................   1
2. Background .............................................  1
3. Project Objectives and Description ................................ 2
4. Project Design and Organisation ................................. 4
5.   Project Implementation   ......................................   6
6. Project Results ............................................ 9
7. Project Sustainability ....................................... 10
8. Bank Performance ......................................... 11
9. Borrower Performance ...................................... 12
10.  Project Relationship  ........................................ 13
11.  Consulting Services  ........................................ 13
12. Project Documentation and Data ................................ 14
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... .... 15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                      I



PART m  - TABLES  .......................................... 17
1.     Project Timetable .................................. 17
2.     Cumulative Disbursements ..................................18
3.     Project Implementation ..................................    19
4.     Project Financing in US$  ..................................  20
5.  Financial Impact ................................... 21
6.  Economic Impact ................................... 22
7.  Status of Covenants ................................... 23
8.     Missions Carried Out  ..................................    24
9.     Staff Inputs ........................................... 26
ANNEXES
i .    Agricultural Development ..................................  27
2.     Financial and Economic Analysis . ............................. 37
Table 1. Financial Prices ..................................  39
Table 2. Economic Benefits and Costs  ..........                ................ 40



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2605-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Gabes Irrigation Project, for
which Loan 2605-TUN in the amount of US$ 27.7 million was approved in July 1985. The loan
closed in September 1993, nine months behind schedule. A sum of about US$ 9.3 million was
cancelled between December 1988 and January 1994, date of the last disbursement.
Parts I and m of this PCR were prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program which visited Tunisia in September 1993. The PCR is based on a review
of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 551 1-TUN) dated May 30, 1985, WB supervision reports and
project files, field visits to the Gabes Governorate, and discussions with relevant Government
officials and project beneficiaries.



II



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2605-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives: The main project objectives were to: a) provide more and better
distributed water to 43 oases covering 5,000 ha in the Gabes Governorate, b) increase and
diversify agricultural production, c) strengthen the public and private organizations directly
involved in the production and marketing of agricultural products, and d) set up sustainable
arrangements for the operation & maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation infrastructures. Total
costs were estimated at US$ 58.3 million (D 43.8 miUion) over six years and the Bank loan was
equivalent to US$ 27.7 million. Through increased water availability, decreased salinity, and
orchard reconversion, the project was meant to enable around 7,700 farming families to intensify
the production of fruits and vegetables, dates and forage, on a profitable and sustainable basis.
Implementation Experience: Loan effectiveness started in Year 1986 and two loan
cancellations totaling US$ 8.5 million were effected following substantial under-disbursements
in equipment/materials and agricultural development. An additional $876,000 was cancelled in
January 1994, date of the last disbursement. The physical targets for the civil works have been
exceeded, mainly because of efficient bidding procedures and the tight supervision of the work.
A total of 37 deep wells were sunk (although 8 were dry - 15% in terms of overall depth),
compared to 26 foreseen at appraisal. Some 4,225 ha are now irrigable - less than the 5,021
ha planned - but an additional 885 ha will also become irrigable when all the wells are finally
connected/operating, the conduits damaged by flood repaired, and the remaining land tenure
problems resolved (para. 5.6).
Agricultural development has not proceeded at the pace envisaged at appraisal. It
was planned that 5,021 ha. were to be fully reconverted - ie. aging date palm trees uprooted and
new fruit trees and horticultural crops planted - at the end of 1991. However, of the 4,225 ha
now irrigable, it is estimated that at least 25 % are still not being exploited on a yearly basis.
Only 23,000 trees have been uprooted so far, out of a target of 50,000 palm trees, and some
250,000 fruit trees have been planted or 56% of a target of 450,000. The 22 additional
extension agents envisaged at appraisal were never hired and, as a result, most farmers have
never been properly assisted in improving their water use practices and cropping systems. On
the other hand, there was the unexpected establishment of around 25 ha of geothermal green
houses which allow some off-season sales to Europe. Moreover, the domestic market for
horticultural products has revealed to be more buoyant than predicted. The market prices have
been strong and the private marketing channels dynamic. Partly as a result of this, some few



- iii -
investments planned at appraisal (mainly cold storage and grading/packing facility) turned out
to be unnecessary and were cancelled.
The main reasons for the slower than expected pace of agricultural development
were the beginning of national economic austerity at project start (shortage of Government's
counterpart funds and freeze on hiring national/incremental staff), the lack of balanced project
coordination (dominance of irrigation engineers with little input by agronomists and socio-
economists) and of a proper monitoring & evaluation (M&E) system, and the absence of an
analysis (and therefore knowledge) of the potentials, constraints, and priorities of the
beneficiaries.  At different periods during project execution, various farmers resisted the
installation of irrigation infrastructures (including drainage networks) in their fields as well as
tree uprooting, mainly for reasons related to land tenure (land fragmentation - too many owners
with very small plots or on the same lands - and absenteeism).
Results: The lack of a proper M&E system means that the information available on
the project results is insufficient and very fragmentary. Nevertheless, the mission feels that -
in general terms - it is a matter of time before most of the expected benefits at appraisal
materialize. The problems indicated previously will mainly result in delaying these benefits
rather than reducing them. Basically, the irrigation infrastructures put into place are operating
satisfactorily, the domestic and international (off-season) demand for horticultural products is
strong, and the farmers in the Gabes Governorate have a long/recognized experience with
growing/marketing these products. It is estimated that full development will now come in
Project Year 23, compared to Year 16 (2002) at appraisal. The incremental production at full
development would be at slightly higher levels than expected at appraisal; some 24,000 tons in
the case of vegetables of which 8,600 out of season (including 4,500 tons produced in
geothermal greenhouses). The mission has calculated that the project's internal economic rate
of return will be around 16%, compared to 21% at appraisal.
Sustainability: The sustainability of the project is promising. There is now a water
users association for each deep well in operation and around 80 % of the O&M needed on all the
irrigation infrastructures are being financed regularly by these associations. There is also an
upcoming nationwide institution building programme, financed through American and German
aid, which will reinforce the institutional support already provided through the project to these
associations. Moreover, an ongoing Bank-financed National Research and Extension Project is
expected to pursue most of the project's previous goals for applied research and extension in the
Gabes area. The main risk to project sustainability is increasing land fragmentation which might
hamper farmers' rational use of the lands made irrigable.
Lessons Learned: The main lessons to be drawn from the experience of this project
are not new. The first is that irrigation projects should always be formulated taking into account
the often limiting institutional/financial absorptive capacity of the Government and beneficiaries.
Second, and related to the first, is the necessity to analyze the socio-economic conditions of
beneficiaries before trying to help them. In the present project, this could have resulted in: i)
starting the project with oases where the problems were found to be least important in terms of



- iv -
land tenure, and ii) in parallel (still at project start), experiment with (pilot) solutions aimed at
solving these problems. This approach - combined with splitting the project into two phases
over a longer period, to reflect the constraining absorptive capacity - would probably have
yielded a higher overall economic rate of return than now expected. Third, there is always the
need to set up (and ensure the efficient functioning of) an overall project coordination system
as well as a proper M&E. In the case of Gabes, this perhaps could have avoided - or at least
minimized - the loss of synchronisation and balance between the civil works and agricultural
development.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2605-TUN)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name        Gabes Irrigation Project
Loan No.            2605-TUN
RVP Unit            Middle East and North Africa
Country             Tunisia
Sector              Agriculture
Sub-sectors         Irrigation
2. Background
2.1       Despite a more rapid growth in Tunisia's petroleum and tourism activities over the
1980s, the agricultural sector still represents about 13% of GDP and provides work to around
one-third of the labor force. Repeated droughts had, however, slowed the pace of agricultural
production during 1978-82. At the time of the formulation of the Gabes Irrigation Project -
under the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) - the Government's main objectives were to
decrease national unemployment and regional economic disparities. The need to maximize
investment returns in agriculture grew in importance due to the necessity of adjusting the
economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation. The overall approach adopted was to promote
small/labor intensive investments, including the rehabilitation of existing infrastructures, and to
create an economic environment more favorable to agriculture (mainly more realistic prices).



2.2       The southern part of Tunisia (60% of total land area) is a predesert zone with less
than 200 mm of rainfall per year. Given the relatively low level and high variability of these
rainfalls, important efforts are being made to develop irrigated agriculture. A Master Plan for
Water Resources Development in Southern Tunisia was elaborated in 1974 and a Southern
Irrigation Project was prepared by the World Bank in 1979, as a first implementation phase.
The project essentially provided for the rehabilitation and new development of 16 oases in the
South and the Project Completion Report produced in January 1988 indicated that: "In general,
rehabilitated oases and new plantations are almost fully in operation; farmers are dynamic, fully
participating and satisfied." The main lessons drawn were the need to "bulk" the contracts as
much as possible at project implementation, for avoiding long administrative procedures, and
to involve the beneficiaries in project preparation. The Gabes Irrigation Project constitutes the
second phase of the 1974 Water Master Plan.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The overall objective of the project was to reverse the decline of agriculture in the
southeast of the country. This decline was mainly due to: a) a shortage of water; lowering of
the artesian head of wells, deteriorating irrigation networks, aging of existing wells, b) an
increase in salinity; poor drainage and insufficient leaching, and c) the aging of trees (mainly
date palm and olive) and subsequent partial abandonment by farmers. To reverse this situation,
the project was aimed at: a) providing more/better distributed water and improving drainage, b)
increasing and diversifying agricultural production, c) strengthening public and private
organizations directly involved in the production and marketing of agricultural products, and d)
setting up sustainable arrangements for the Operation & Maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation
infrastructures.
3.2       The project area consisted of 43 oases covering around 5,000 ha on the coastal strip
of the Gabes Governorate. The oases are of four different types: i) the oases of the El Hamma
region mainly with varieties of date palm/olive trees and forage, ii) the oases of Gabes where
vegetable production predominates, iii) the oases of Gabes-South where fruit trees (pomegranate)
predominate, and iv) the oases of Ghannouche M'Ziraa where there is only vegetable
production. A characteristic of several oases is the large degree of farm fragmentation,
especially close to Gabes where each ha is typically fragmented into 3-4 plots owned by different
people. A total of 7,700 families are estimated to exploit the 43 oases.



- 3 -
3.3         The project components were essentially":
(a)     Development of Infrastructure:
(i)      rehabilitation of 42 oases totalling some 4,800 ha; digging 26 wells
and installing 45 pumps where artesianism is insufficient, setting
up distribution systems, improving drainage networks, uprooting
aging trees (mainly date palm and olive) and planting high-yielding
ones (ex: fruit trees) and horticultural crops.
(ii)      expansion of irrigation over new areas totalling 200 ha; one new
oasis and expansion of three existing ones).
(b)     Institutional Development:
(i)      strengthening of the central and regional administration of the
Ofrice de Mise en Valeur des perimktres irrigues de Gabes et
Medenine (OMVGM); additional technical/administrative staff, the
construction of offices and houses, and the provision of cars.
(ii)      strengthening  of the  extension  services  of the  OMVGM;
construction of extension centers, additional extension agents and
their training, the provision of technical assistance'.
(iii)      strengthening applied research; the construction of nurseries and
the provision of equipment for a small soil and water laboratory.
(iv)       support to marketing; the construction of a cold storage room, the
provision of one grading/packing facility and three trucks.
(v)       strengthening the financial/technical capacity of the Associations
d'Int6rAt Collectif" (AICs); through study tours/seminars and
workshops with the OMVGM.
Staff Appraisal Report, May 1985, page 15.
21  For the OMVGM in general; 22 new extension agents, four research technicians, three mechanics, 10 buildings
and 26 vehicles.
31 The AICs are water users associations. The issues of their reorganization and improvement of their legal status was
already being dealt with through a national project, Ameiioration de Ia Gestion du Secteur Irrigu6 - AGSI, (2573-
TUN).



- 4-
(c)    Support Action:
(i)     promotion of credit and input supplies; for the uprooting of aging
trees and the planting of 450,000 new trees, small farm machinery,
reservoirs, greenhouses (20 ha), and plastic tunnels (80 ha).
(ii)     strengthening of services to supervise the execution of the works
and to monitor and evaluate the project impact; the hiring of one
agro-economist with assistant.
(iii)     provision  of technical assistance and training; mainly  for
organization, management, extension, hydromechanics, and
marketing.
3.4      Total costs were estimated at US$ 58.3 million (D 43.8 million) over six years, of
which 51 % in foreign exchange and 25 % in taxes/duties. Some 77% of the costs are allocated
to the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructures; ie. civil and on-farm works, equipment and
operating costs.  The World Bank loan was equivalent to US$ 27.7 million and the
Government's counterpart funds to US$ 8.4 million. The Banque Nationale Agricole
(BNA)"was expected to provide US$ 2.9 million in credit and the beneficiaries would
contribute the remaining US$ 5 million.
3.5      Through increased water availability, decreased salinity, and orchard reconversion
(essentially the uprooting of aging date palms and other fruit trees and their replacement by more
productive/profitable fruit trees and vegetable crops), the project was expected to enable the
7,700 farming families to intensify the production of fruits, vegetables, dates and forage, on a
profitable/sustainable basis. The incremental production - with the project at full development -
was expected to be of the order of 18,000 tons of vegetables (55% in winter), 6,000 tons of
dates, 5,000 tons of pomegranates, and 28,000 tons of forage. The ERR was calculated at 21 %
over 20 years. The main risks were said to be related to cost overruns and delays in project
implementation. Other risks were the possibility of price shortfalls, marketing bottlenecks, and
slow orchard reconversion by farmers.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1      The project was identified in 1983 by the Bank as a follow-up to the Southern
Irrigation Project. The Center National d'Etudes Agricoles (CNEA) carried out a feasibility
study which was followed by two Bank missions to supervise project preparation by the
Govemment. Two other missions were subsequently sent to appraise the project. This gradual
approach, in close collaboration with the Govemment, had also been used for the formulation
I  Called the Banque Nationale de Tunisie at appraisal.



-5-
of the previbus project. The concept of the project is classical but sound, and seemed to have
been relatively well understood by all the Government institutions involved". Numerous
contacts were taken at project formulation with the future beneficiaries but it is reported that the
discussions were essentially limited to agronothic matters2".
4.2       One innovative aspect of the project design was the uprooting of aging trees, which
was to be carried out by private contractors and reimbursed at 50% by the farmers through
credit. This was in contrast with the Govermnent's approach to pay the farmers full subsidies
for carrying,out the uprooting themselves. The project approach worked well for the first years,
mainly - according to the Government - because the program was started in the Mareth oases
where uprooting is easier (lower tree density and more accessible for machines). The cost of
carrying out uprooting mechanically was said to be much higher in other oases and several
farmers refused to participate. At that point, tlhe Government - reversing its initial acceptance
of the project's approach - chose to offer farmers an increased subsidy of DlI per tree for
executing the work themselves. But this did not help because, as will be seen in the next
chapter, the difficulty remained that several faimers could not remove trees for reasons related
mainly to land tenure.
4.3      The organizational arrangements of the project were as follows. The Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) was the executing agency through its OMVGM in Gabes. A project
management unit (Bureau de gestion) was to be set up for the purpose of coordinating the
various activities. All the major civil works were to be managed and supervised by the
Direction du Genie Rural (DGR). The AICs - which constitute the main formn of water users'
associations in the region - were going to be strengthened and made directly responsible for the
Operation & Maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation infrastructures put at their disposal. Major
maintenance works and special repairs would be carried out by the OMVGM at cost, until the
AICs could take care of these services before project termination. The OMVGM was to
establish a contract with the Institut de Recherche pour les Zones Arides (IRA) to carry out
applied research on water use and fruit/vegetable production. The OMVGM was also in charge
of operating the cold storage, giading/packing facility, and trucks until some AICs (or existing
cooperatives) could take over the managemeuit of these assets. Credit was to be granted by the
BNA.
4.4      The roles/responsibilities of the institutions involved were relatively clear at project
start. The OMVGM was abolished in 1989, three years after project start. The already existing
Commissatiat regional de developpement agricole (CRDA) became the project executing
agency. This created disturbances in the operations which, along with the excessive turn-over
of the top management during project execution3", can still be felt today. Furthermore, the
" However, there were fundamental institutional changes during project implementation, see next chapter.
2/  A communications specialist was to be hired at project start and help organize a campaign to inform/sensibilize the
beneficiaries. This, however, did not materialize.
3' Three President-Directeur-Generals for the OMVGM and three Directeur-Gknrals for the CRDA.



- 6 -
situation was exacerbated by the fact that the Bureau de gestion was never given enough
recognition and power by The Borrower. This bureau, as well the agro-economist heading it"',
do not even figure officially in the CRDA's organigramme. Although there is validity in the
MOA's argument that the bureau is only temporary, the practical consequence is that it has no
direct authority to coordinate the project activities, particularly over the powerful DGR. As a
result, these activities quickly grew out of balance and agricultural development ended up
lagging far behind the civil works (see next chapter).
4.5      In retrospect, the Mission feels that project coordination was not given sufficient
attention at formulation. Given the overwhelming importance of the civil works in the project
costs - and consequently of the engineers in project implementation - there was a concrete danger
that agricultural development would be "neglected" as well as the land tenure problems. A
coordinating committee, set up at the Directeur-G6n6ral level in the MOA at Tunis, could
perhaps have assisted. This committee could have included officials directly concerned with
agricultural development (as well as irrigation) who would have ensured that matters such as the
organization of tree uprooting and applied research/extension were sufficiently dealt with during
project execution. Representatives from the AICs could also have been included, for helping
to understand better the constraints/priorities of beneficiaries.
5. Project Implementation
5.1      Loan effectiveness started in June 1986, only four months later than planned. Two
cancellations totalling US$ 8.5 million were effected following substantial under-disbursements
in the expense category "equipment/materials (mainly irrigation pumps)" due mainly to efficient
bidding procedures and favorable exchange rates, and in the expense category "agricultural
development". The total loan amount was consequently decreased to US$ 19.2 million and the
allocated sums per expenditure categories were modified, upward for the irrigation
infrastructures and drastically downward for equipment/materials and agricultural development.
A final cancellation of US$ 876,000 was effected on January 26, 1994, date of the last
disbursement.
5.2      The physical targets for civil works have been exceeded, mostly because of efficient
bidding procedures and the tight supervision of the work2'. A total of 37 deep wells were sunk
(although 8 were dry - 15% in terms of overall depth), compared to 26 foreseen in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR). A total of 61 irrigation pumps were procured (16 more than in SAR),
of which nine are still to be installed or used as back-up. The equivalent of 381,700 meters of
conduits and accessories were installed, slightly more than envisaged in the SAR. Some 4,225
ha are now irrigable - less than the 5,021 ha planned - but an additional 885 ha will also become
"  His only assistant, along with the computer, were taken away from the bureau two years ago.
2/  The slowing down of oil drilling in other areas also increased competition and resulted in lower unit costs than
expected.



- 7 -
irrigable when all the wells are finally connected/operating, the conduits damaged by flood
repaired, and the remaining land tenure problems in limited areas resolved (see para. 5.6).
Eight buildings (offices/houses) were constructed under the project and 24 vehicles provided.
5.3       Regrettably, agricultural development has not proceeded at the pace envisaged at
appraisal. The SAR envisaged that the 5,021 ha. planned were to be fully reconverted - ie.
unproductive trees uprooted and new/more valuable trees and horticultural crops planted - at the
end of 1991. But of the 4,225 ha now irrigable, it is estimated that at least 25 % are still not
being exploited on a yearly basis. Out of a CRDA's revised uprooting program of 50,000 trees
(as opposed to an SAR target of 270,000 trees"), only 23,000 palm trees have been uprooted
so far under both the project's approach (3,000) and with Government's subsidies (the remaining
20,000, see para. 4.2). In addition, some 250,000 fruit trees have been planted or 56% of the
SAR target of 450,000. Concerning applied research and extension, the contract with the IRA
was cancelled due to the institute's strong orientation towards livestock/pastures and its
consequent inability (mainly in terms of competent staff) to carry out the program envisaged.
The 22 incremental extension agents planned in the SAR were never hired and the limited
number of existing field agents have been far too busy with statistical surveys and data
collection/compilation. As a result, most farmers have never ben properly assisted in improving
their water use practices and cropping systems.
5.4       On the other hand, some unexpected and positive developments have taken place
during project implementation. First, there has been the establishment of around 25 ha of
geothermal green houses2'which allow some off-season sales to Europe (total of 707 tons of
tomatoes and melons in 1992). Second, the domestic market for horticultural products has
revealed to be more buoyant than predicted. Contrarily to what was feared at appraisal (see
para. 3.5), the market prices have been strong3'and the private marketing channels proved to
be dynamic. Partly because of that - and the proximity of main markets such as Sfax and even
Tunis - the project investments in marketing (see para. 3.3) have not been critical to the outflow
of the project's incremental production4'. These investments were eventually cancelled since,
in any event, the Gabes Wholesale Market - to which the cold storage was offered - was not
prepared to finance their O&M costs. Finally, although the experience with the IRA was
disappointing, the OMVGM's research station in Zerkine5'carried out useful trials mainly on
the use of geothermically heated water for greenhouses and on vegetable production6". The
This target was deemed to be grossly overestimated by the CRDA and reduced following new field inventories
during project implementation - see Annex 1.
2/  Using hot water from some deep wells to increase the in-house temperature, enabling earlier production of out-of-
season vegetables.
3/  The prices have generally been at higher levels in constant terms (after inflation) than expected at appraisal.
4'  Although it must be pointed out that the bulk of this incremental production has not yet materialized.
5/  This station was not targeted for research work by the project because the Government's policy was to rid the
OMVs of their separate stations and consolidate them under one authority.
6/  Most of these trials were conducted (unexpectedly) by an expert financed through the UNDP. The trials on
greenhouses were instrumental in the establishment of geothermal greenhouses.



-8-
station has also produced disease-free seedlings and rooted cuttings for farmers.  Under the
project, it was envisaged that the nursery activities would be taken over by private entrepreneurs
before project completion, but no interested party could be found.
5.5       One of the reasons for the slower than expected pace of agricultural development was
that project start coincided with the beginning of an austerity period in Tunisia.  As a
consequence, there was a shortage of Government's counterpart funds in the first years and a
freeze on hiring national (incremental) staff during most of the investment period. The mission
could not establish how i-nuch of these problems could have been foreseen before
implementation". Certainly, the fact that the 22 (incremental) agents planned in the SAR were
never hired, was also a major problem. In addition, as indicated in para. 4.5, the lack of an
efficient overall coordination was an other constraining factor. Better coordination could perhaps
have avoided - or at least minimized - the loss of synchronization/balance between the civil
works and agricultural development. The situation was exacerbated by the absence of a proper
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) system/unit in the OMVGM (and later in the CRDA). Again,
the main difficulty was the lack of provision of resources to the PMU, notwithstanding the clear
official recognition of the "bureau de gestion" in the legal documents (Section 3.02 and Schedule
5) with the resulting scarcity of manpower and annual/operating funds during project
implementation2".
5.6       The slow pace of agricultural development was also due to the lack of analysis (and
therefore knowledge) of the potentials/constraints/priorities of the beneficiaries. Several farmers,
at various periods during project implementation, resisted the installation of irrigation
infrastructures in their fields (including drainag,. networks) as well as tree uprooting - ex: in
the Kettana and  El Hamma oases.   Some did not want to pay  the O&M  costs of
irrigation/drainage while there was still artesi4nism or when salinity was not yet a problem,
others were not exploiting their land (absenteeism) and therefore were not interested, and many
could not take any decisions without the consent of all the other owners of the same land (land
fragmentation). A better knowledge of the beneficiaries could have allowed to: i) start the
project with oases where the problems were found to be least important in terms of land tenure
and capacity/willingness to borrow (see para. 9.3), and ii) in parallel - still at project start -
experiment with (pilot) solutions aimed at solving these problems; ex: land consolidation
activities to rationalize land use- .  The danger of slow  adoption by farmers of orchard
reconversion was indicated in the SAR, although last in the list of possible risks.
The fact that the loan amount was reduced by 30% would suggest that, in any event, the project size and its
financing plan were somewhat over-optimistic.
21 At the MOA's level, the DPSAE had initially the overall responsibility For M&E but was later replaced by an other
direction in MOA which limited itself to monitoring the physical/finarcial realisations.
"   The Government has been trying recently to convince the absentees to exploit their lands or to rent them to others.



9
(5. Project Results
6.1       The lack of a proper M&E system means that the information available on the project
results is insufficient and very fragmentary. Although the physical/financial realizations were
reasonably well recorded, the project impact - ex: in terms of the farmers' incremental
production/incomes - was never analyzed, apart from the preparation of indicative farm models
by the CRDA's staff in 1991 and 1992. Nevertheless, the missidn feels that - in general terms -
it is only a matter of time before most of the SAR's expected benefits materialize. The
problems indicated previously will mainly result in delaying these benefits rather than reducing
them. Basically, the irrigation infrastructures put into place are operating satisfactorily, the
domestic and international (off-season) demand for horticultural products is strong, and the
farmers in the Gabes Governorate have a long/recognized experience with growing/marketing
these products.
6.2       For the time being, although the con; eyance systems installed under the project have
resulted in greatly reduced water losses, there, are still technical problems - ex: some farmers
receive water at too long intervals for optimaN production of summer vegetables, some others
practicing different crop intensities have the same irrigation schedule. Salinity is also becoming
a problem for the equivalent of around 10% of the areas irrigated, often because no drainage
networks have been installed due to farmers' objections (see para. 5.6) or because of insufficient
maintenance. The reduced scale of the applied research/extension work carried out"so far has
seriously limited the possibilities for the farmers to maximize the use of the water available.
The mission has visited fields where the owners are obviously still trying to find out by
themselves how to adapt best their cropping patterns to the new situation.
I
6.3        The mission is of the view that the six farm models produced in the SAR are still
relevant (with modifications, see Annex I and Table 5 of Part III). One model representing the
emergence of geothermal green houses has been added. The financial profitability of all the
revised models is quite high (FRRs above 50% over 20 years), except for dates intensification
(20%) which was a type of cropping meant to be phased out in the SAR, precisely because of
its low potential value and longer gestation period. Farmers will gradually adopt the cropping
patterns implicit in the most profitable models as artesianism runs out and as they have to pay
the full cost of pumping water2'. Although the FRR for the geothermal greenhouses is
relatively low at 29 %, the net incremental income per ha/year at project full development is of
the order of $ 53,000. Of course, the investments necessary are also in proportion and out of
reach for ffost small farmers.
I
A special one-man supervision mission carried out in 1990 indicated that the ratio of farmers per field agent varies
between 250 and 600 ahd that extension is only a small part of the agents' work anyway.
2l  Roughly half the project wells still have artesianism. In the models, the O&M costs for the irrigation infrastructures
was calculated on the basis of the mid-point between with artesianism and with fully pumped water. With pumped
water, the FRR for dates intensification is 13%.



- 10 -
6.4      It is estimated that project full development will now come in Project Year 23,
compared to Year 16 (2002) in the SAR. The incremental production would then be of the order
of 24,000 tons of vegetables of which 8,600 of out-of-season vegetables (including 4,500 tons
produced in geothermal greenhouses), 7,000 tons of dates, 11,000 tons of fruit, and 28,000 tons
of forage. These production levels are slightly higher than those forecast at appraisal. There
is a larger production of out-of-season vegetables and still little of the expected new crops, such
as table olives and pistachios. On the basis of the (implicit) average farm holding size used in
the SAR (0.65 ha per family), the 4,225 ha now irrigable under the project would be exploited -
although not regularly, see para. 5.3, - by around 6,500 families. The mission has calculated
that the project's internal economic rate of return will be of the order of 16% over 30 years,
compared to 21 % over 20 years at appraisal".
6.5      Other tangible results could also be credited to the project. Before project start, a
number of farners - reportedly around 1,200 families exploiting some 800 ha - had abandoned
their lands, following the problems of water shortages, salinity and aging of their trees. It is
now said that about 25 % of them have returned with more families expected to follow in the
years to come. The return of these families will no doubt contribute (although modestly) to the
overall economic growth of the Gabes region. This is in line with the overall objective of the
project which was to stop the decline of agriculture in the southeast of Tunisia. The project also
served to establish the principle and practice of the water users paying the O&M of the irrigation
infrastructures put at their disposal, thereby helping guarantee the sustainability of irrigation.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1      The sustainability of the project is promising. There is now an AIC for each deep
well in operation and around 80% of the needed O&M for all the irrigation infrastructures are
being financed regularly by these associations2'. Consequently, the farmers are becoming
increasingly aware of the cost of water and the need to economize it. In addition to the support
provided through the project (although mainly technical), these AICs will now be further
strengthened (mainly in managerial and financial training) by a nationwide institution building
program (Strat6gie Nationale de Promotion et Suivi des AICs - SNPSA), financed through
American and German aid.
7.2       The major repairs and replacement of the main parts on the irrigation infrastructures
continue to be the responsibility of the CRDA. Up to the end of 1992, the financial matters of
the AICs in the Gabes Governorate - basically book keeping and disbursements - were indirectly
taken care of by the CRDA (and the Governorate's officials) through an established
Groupement d'interet hydraulique (GIH). The GIH is now meant to be tnerely an adviser
"  Part of the negative impact of the delays in benefits is compensated by lower project costs and higher market prices
for products.
2/  The remaining 20% of the needed O&M is either "neglected' or is carried out by the CRDA.



- 11 -
but the situation of dependence continues de facto since most of the AICs would not be capable
of maintaining proper financial records"'. It is to be hoped that the benefits of the SNPSA will
reach the AICs in the project area before major repairs become necessary on the irrigation
infrastructures. There is the danger that the CRDA will not be able to finance all these repairs
and that the AICs would then lose interest in the O&M of the infrastructures.
7.3       There is an ongoing Bank-financed National Research/Extension Project which is
determining priority objectives and strengthening the regional structures.  This project is
expected to pursue most of the project's previous goals for applied research and extension in the
Gabes Governorate. The monitoring of the water situation in the southeast of the country by the
Water Resources Department of the Ministry of Agriculture (DRE) is based on mathematical
simulation models developed with the help of UNESCO in 1968-72 and systematically updated
and refined as more detailed data have become available since then. The water balance in the
project area is closely monitored and no serious problem is expected for the foreseeable future.
The two main risks to project sustainability are increasing land fragmentation, which might
hamper farners' rational use of the lands made irrigable, and recurrent salinity due to
insufficient maintenance of the drainage networks.
8. Bank Performance
8.1      The project was the object of an Initiating Project Brief (IPB) in January 1984. The
main components and their content have not been changed substantially throughout formulation.
The financing by the Govermment of the counterpart funds had already been singled out in the
IPB as one of the main issues2'. The matter was raised, first, by the Task Manager in an
internal Bank memo and, later officially, with the Tunisian Ministry of Planning (MOP) and
MOA in July 1984. It was agreed that the financing of the project's operating costs would be
made/shown separately in the OMVGM's annual budget. In retrospect, this measure was not
sufficient to counter the negative impact of the austerity period coinciding with project start.
Furthermore, the transfer of overall responsibility to the CRDA in 1989 has resulted in the
abandonment of this practice. Conceming the potential problems with M&E, the issue was
raised at the Bank's review of the "yellow cover" SAR. It was suggested that particular
attention should be given to this aspect at appraisal. But, in any event, the lack of Government's
counterpart funds prevented the setting up of a proper system.
8.2      The project was systematically supervised each year and the reports often diagnosed
the problems ahead of time and proposed practical solutions. For crucial issues, such as the
shortage of staff for extension3'and M&E - as well as the controversies over the tree uprooting
" Including a correct depreciation of their assets and the setting aside of money for replacements.
21 This was already an issue with other Bank projects in Tunisia.
31 The Bank also sent two one-man special missions to analyze the problems with extension. But the shortages of
manpower and financing proved to be intractable.



- 12 -
program (see para. 4.2) - specific telexes stressing the problems, and the Bank's concerns, were
sent to the relevant Government officers in Tunisia. But in most cases, the problems were not
or could not be solved. Certainly, the fact that 30% of the initial loan amount was cancelled
lessened the temptation on the Bank's side to consider more serious steps". There is also the
point that the economic viability of the project was diminished as a consequence of the problems
but never seriously threatened. The project performed reasonably well, when compared to other
irrigation projects in the country (and elsewhere in the developing world).
8.3      However, the mission feels that the SAR tended to exaggerate the potential benefits
of the project's extension component, which was expected to solve most of the problems related
to land tenure and orchard reconversion. Consequently, the possible impact of these problems
was underestimated at appraisal and the uprooting program (for instance) was certainly over-
optimistic.
8.4      There are a number of lessons to be drawn for the Bank, all of them not new. First,
irrigation projects should always be formulated taking into account the institutional/financial
absorptive capacity of the Government and of the beneficiaries, which therefore need to be
analyzed. Nornally, this absorptive capacity constitutes a real limitingfactor to the project size.
In this case, the adoption of the approach suggested in para. 5.6 - combined with splitting the
project into two phases over a longer period, to reflect the constraining absorptive capacity -
would probably have yielded a higher overall economic rate of return than now Pxpect(ax1. In
addition, a critical analysis of the outlook for the Government's public finance would perhaps
have reinforced the case for implementing the project over a longer period.
8.5      Second, as indicated in para. 4.5, project coordination should be given sufficient
attention in the design if the right balance/synchronization between the components is to be kept.
In the present project, the lack of balance between the civil works and agricultural development
was a result of the fact that the officers responsible for irrigation in the MOA were allowed to
dominate the situation. Third, the setting up of a proper M&E system - meaningful but not
excessively complex - is more difficult than often thought. It requires speciali1ed technical
assistance which is seldom available in the borrowing country and of an intensity which might
need to be more than for other types of assistance2".
9. Borrower Performance
9.1      It is very difficult to judge to what extent the Tunisian MOP and MOA could have
foreseen the upcoming austerity measures at the time of project formulation. II so, they (in
particular MOP) should have insisted on a more modest project (in a first phase) or a different
financing plan. It is reported that the abolition of the OMVGM in 1989 was a rather sudden
Such as a Bank intervention with the Government at higher levels of management.
21  In this respect, the CNEA's contribution was deemed by the Bank to be unsatisfactory, see para. 11.1.



- 13 -
decision on the part of the MOA. Certainly, the Bank was not advised officially in advance and
the coordination of the project still suffers from this institutional clhange. The transfer of
authority to the CRDA should have been carried out with more consideration for the project, in
which - after all - the Government has a high stake.
9.2      It could also be said that the MOA  should have seen the need for a better
coordination/balance between the civil works and agricultural development. The main lesson
for the Government is to ensure that irrigation projects are being coordinated and managed by
people having the capacity to take an overall view of the matter, in particular of the ultimate
objectives pursued". On the other hand, it is to the Government's credit that the two loan
cancellations requested and effected were fully justified, on the basis of the developments in
project implementation (taking advantage of possible savings) as well as in terms of public
finance (minimizing commitment charges and the public debt).
9.3      Although the BNA was part of the project's financing plan, the BNA's regional office
in Gabes was not sufficiently familiar with the project. This office is basically managing credit
lines for other externally-financed projects such as the Fonds Speciaux pour le Developpement
Agricole - FOSDA. Very little of these funds is actually going to small farmers - who
constitute the bulk of the population in the project area - mainly because of the existing land
tenure problems (with the resulting lack of collateral) and some farmers's preceding bad debt
situation. The main lesson is that credit is an essential element of development projects targeted
to small farmers and that the terms and conditions of it must be analyzed and agreed as an
integral part of the projects.
10. Project Relationship
10.1     The relations between the Bank and the Government were satisfactory throughout the
project, except that in the case of the uprooting program the Government went back on
understandings reached with the Bank. The situation concerning uprooting is briefly described
in paragraph 4.2.
11. Consulting Services
11.1     The contracting and supervision of the civil works during project implementation were
efficient - mainly because of the Bank's experience with previous/similar projects - and the
procurement packages were constituted in larger sizes than foreseen at appraisal due to greater
homogeneity/better synchronization in the contracts. As mentioned in paragraph 4. 1, the CNEA
prepared the feasibility study for the project. This study was meant to be preliminary only but
it drew criticisms which were partly unjustified. Some Government officials felt that the work
i  The comments previously made about the M&E are also valid for the Government.



- 14 -
carried out was not detailed and specific enough for implementation purposes. It seems that the
study tended to be considered by all parties involved as a preparation report which was not the
intention. This explains partly the absence of socio-economic studies. Technical assistance
contracts have also been signed with the CNEA to assist in the fields of monitoring and
marketing. The report on M&E did not correspond to the project needs and was eventually
cancelled. The study on marketing (Etablissement de la Situation de Reference et du Plan
d'Action) was rather vague and suggested essentially to transfer the activities in input supply
and marketing from the Government structures to the private sector, ie. the existing services
cooperatives and the AICs. Although the project has not taken any concrete action in this field,
the situation has naturally evolved towards a greater privatization of these activities.
11.2     The mission feels that more competition should have been introduced in the selection
of the contracts, in order to avoid the risk inherent with having only one outside consultant
responsible for most of the technical assistance to be provided. Of the 25 man/months allocated
in the project for technical assistance, only four were eventually used. In contrast, 46 of the 47
man/weeks allocated for overall training were used.
12. Project documentation and Data
12.1     The SAR (in two volumes) provided a useful framework for implementation. There
are some inconsistencies in calculations (ex: buildup of incremental production to full
development) but these have no practical impact on project implementation. The lack of an
efficient M&E system meant that the information necessary for the preparation of a more
detailed PCR was not available.



- 15 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(a)      Data in Part m
There are no objections to the data given in Part mI of the project completion report.
(b)      Comments on the analysis in Part I
The analysis in Part I refers to the major problem relating to the low rate of oasis
development, despite the satisfactory construction of infrastructure. The factors responsible for
this situation were in general were analyzed.
Several comments that could be of use in the future should nevertheless be raised in
the light of project experience.
In point of fact, the objective to carry out simultaneously the construction of the
irrigation infrastructure and agricultural development was not realistic. After a long period
during which the oases were abandoned owing to water shortages, awareness-raising and
adaptation of farmers to the new oasis development conditions clearly require considerable time.
A project specifically focused on oasis development should normally follow the infrastructure
project.
(c)      Evaluation of the Bank's performance
Relations between the Bank (task manager) and the project managers were
characterized by clarity and confidence.
The nine monitoring missions that were made during project implementation did not
run into any difficulties.
With regard to the financial aspects, the payment of suppliers and enterprises was
made in a timely manner using the funds available through the Central Bank or IBRD.
(d)      Evaluation of the Borrower's performance
It is true that the Project Management Unit is the weak point in project
implementation. Because its structure was not formalized, the PMU was at times not given the
necessary importance and power, and its role was hindered by the multiple changes in the
regional officials and offices of the Ministry of Agriculture (Office/CRDC).
Because it was in "limbo", the Project Management Unit lost all motivation in
carrying out its functions, which had an adverse impact on the monitoring of the "development"
component of the project.



- 16 -
As a result, the lesson to be drawn for the future would be to give the PMU legal
status and the necessary powers to act vis-a-vis the various project partners (Rural Extension,
Agricultural Production, Land Tenure, Rural Engineering, AICs, BNA, farmers). Current
regulations in fact make it possible to establish project units that are sufficiently flexible from
the hierarchial standpoint.
The experience of the Gabes project also indicates a need to include technical
assistance to the Project Management Unit with a view to training its personnel in monitoring
and evaluation techniques and identifying the main indicators and the procedures for their
application.
(e)      Relationship between the Bank and Borrower
The relations between IBRD and the Borrower were very satisfactory.



- 17 -
PART m - TABLES
Table 1. Project Timetable
Stage               Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification               Oct. 1983                Oct. 1983
Preparation                  Sept. 1984               July 1984
Appraisal                    Oct. 1984               Nov. 1984
Loan Negotiations                                     May 1985
Board Approval               March 1985               July 1985
Loan Signature                                        Oct. 1985
Loan Effectiveness            Feb. 1986              June 1986
Loan Closing                 Dec. 1992               Sept. 1993
Loan Completion              April 1993               Jan. 1994



- 18 -
Table 2. Cumulative Disbursempents
(US$ Millions)
Bank FY         1986 | 1987 | 1988 | 1989 | 1990 | 1991    1992 |1993   1994
(1) Appraisal       1.0     3.0      6.0    12.7    21.2    25.7    27.7   27.7       0
Estimate
(2) Revised         1.0     3.0     6.0      6.7    15.2    19.7    21.6   19.2    0
Estimates'
(3) Actuals          0       1.7     6.8     9.1    13.3    15.9    17.1   18.2   18.3
(3) as a %of (1)    0%      56%    113%    72%      63%      62%     62%    66%       -
(3) as a % of (2)   0%      56%    113%    135%    87%       81%     79%    95%       -
a/ The loan was closed on 30/09/93. An amount of $6 million was cancelled in December 1988 and a
further $2.5 million as of December 1992.



- 19 -
Table 3. Project Implementation
Key Indicators             Unit   Appraisal                      Actual
Tar-get
Deep Wells                 No.         26     37 of which 8 negative (15% in terms of meters
of depth)
Conduits and Accessories    %         100      103% in terms of meters (or 381,700 m.)
Pumps                      No.         45     61 of which 9 as back-up or hot-installed yet
Works                       Ha      5,021     5110 of which 200 on new lands as foreseen.
The remaining 4,910 consist of tehabilitation
Tree Uprooting             No.    a/50,000 o   3,000 of which 3,000 through the Bank loan
Buildings
- ctv/cra                  No.         10     8
- offices                  No.          3     4
- houses                   No.          4     3
Vehicles                   No.         26     24
Demonstration Plots        No.        750     597
Area irrigable             Ha       5,021     5110 of which 4225 now operating (see Part 1)
a/ The SAR initial target was 270,000 trees (see Annex 1). It was subsequently revised following field
inventories during project implementation.



- 20 -
Table 4. Project Financing in US$
Expenditure Categories              As in Loan     Amended        Actual
Agreement
By World Bank
Civil Works
- for Irrigation Infrastructure       8,000,000     9,700,000   10,617.031.88
- for Agricultural Development        2,700,000        40,000      24,943.50
- for Extension/Institutions            700,000       700,000     382.814.65
- equipment and materials            11,400,000     8,670,000   7,202,798.60
- Consultant's Services and Training    200,000        90.000      96,167.63
- Unallocated                         4,700,000            0              0
- Total                              27,700,000    19,200,000  18,323,756.26
By Government
- regular budget                      8,400,000       -           b'1,886,339
- BNA                                 2,900,000       -            3,011,490
By Beneficiaries                      5,000,000       -            1,387,195
Total (before taxes and duties)      44,000,000   -35,500,000   24,608,780.26
a/ The financing targets for the Government, BNA and beneficiairies were not ajusted.
b/ Mission estimates in the field, using an average exchange rate of 0.89D per $1 over the project's
investment period (1986-93).



- 21 -
Table 5. Financial Impact
Models                                     No. of Ha    No. of   FRR in         Net
at Appraisal   Ha in    PCR a'   Incremental
PCR                Income per
Ha/Year dl
A. Dates intensification                     1,023       860       20%         1,306
B. Fruit/vegetables intensification          2,784      3,030     133%         4,198
C. Olives intensification                    422         500       71%         1,137
D. Olives/crops intensification              311         230       91%         5,975
E. New irrigation                            200         230      130%         5,152
F. Fruit tree development in vegetable area  231         260        b          3,540
G. Geothermal greenhouses                                 25       29%         53,460
a/ The SAR simply indicates that the FRRs for all the models were above 50%.
b/ This model does not have any negative cash flow.
c/ This model was not envisaged at appraisal.
d/ At project full development
Comments: The FRRs were calculated using an O&M cost for the irrigation infrastructures which is the
mid-point between with artesianism (DO. 15/m3) and fully pumped water (D0.40/m3). Other things being
equal, the FRR for each model will decrease as artesianism runs out and pumping becomes a necessity.
Rougly half the deep wells in the project area are now operated with pumps.



- 22 -
Table 6. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return
Appraisal Estimate           PCR Estimate
21 % over 20 years         16% over 30 years
Conversion Factors jUsed   I /1
Foreign exchange            1.00
Unskilled labour            0.60
Domestic fertilizers        0.90
a/ Ref: FAO/CP Preparation Report of Oroject d'allegement de la pauvrete,
March 1992, for the World Bank.



- 23 -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
As in Loan Agreernenta'                Status            Comments
- Borrower to establish within OMVGM a project        done      But this unit never had any
management unit                                                legal standing and this limited
seriously its efficiency.
- OMVGM to provide to the Bank a plan for organization    done  Only since the creation of the
and operation of extension services                             CRDA. But the incremental
staff necessary was never
provided
- OMVGM to enter into management agreement witlh each           Model agreements being used
AIC                                                             by CRDA.
- Borrower to prepare annual budgets                  done
- Borrower to transfer OMVGM's vegetable and fruit              Still under preparation
seedlings and research activities
- Borrowet to have special research and salinity      done      The IRA program was
monitoring programs included in IRA and DRS                     cancelled for lack of progress
- OMVGM to provide an action plan for marketing       done      Completed in 1988. But was
services satisfactory to the Bank                               never followed-up
- Borrower to maintain records and accounts of the project  done  For the loan's portion almost
exclusively
- Borrower to provide audit reports of annual project           Since 1989
accounts
- Borrower to maintain separate records of SOE to be           Included in audit reports
audited separately
- Borrower to prepare schedule of repayment for the tree       done only when uprooting was
uprooting and incorporate resulting obligations in              carried out by contract (see
agreements with landlords                                       para. 4.2 of Part 1)
- OMVGM to provide audit reports of selected AIC               done in 1992
accounts
- DRE to monitor water balances, salinity in the area  done     And published yearly
- Borrower to provide semi-annual progress reports              done from 1987 to first part of
1992
- Borrower to prepare a completion report                       a number of elements were
prepared, including farm
surveys and models
a/ The OMVGM (see Abbreviations) was amalgamated with the CRDA in 1990.



- 24 -
Table 8. Missions Carried Out
Stage of      Month/    No. of   Days in        Specialization     Performance        Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons       Field                            Rating          Problems
Identification    10/83       2          2       TM (IE),DC                -                -
Identiricationa'    12/83     3           1      TM (IE),AG, ECN           -                -
Preparation       2/84        4          11      TM (IE) AG, DC,           -                -
EC
Preparation       7/84        4          17      TM (IE), AG,              -                -
ECN, Irrigation
Drainage Specialist
Preappraisal      11/84       3          15      TM (IE) AG, ECN           -                -
Appraisal         3/85        2          14      TM (IE) AG                -                -
Supervision       12/85        1         3       TM (1E)                   2             Financial
Supervision       6/86         I         4       TM (E)                     I
Supervision       12/86        1         5       TM (1E)                    I             Project
Management
Supervision       5/87        2          5       TM (IE), AG               2              Project
Management
Supervision       12/87        1         5       TM (lE)                    I
Supervision       4/88        2          5       TM (GE), AG               -
Supervision       11/88        1         5       TM (G E)                  I           Development
Impact
Supervision       9/89         2         4       TM (IE), EC               I           Devel.impact,
Technical
Assistance
Progress
KEYS: TM=Team  Leader, DC=Division  Chief, IE=lrrigation  Engineer, Ag=Agriculturalist,
Ec=Economist, FA=Financial Analyst, SS=Soil Specialist, I=Problem free or minor, 2=Moderate
problems, 3 =Major problems.
a/ A feasibility study was conducted by "Centre national d'etudes agricoles".
N.B.: Two special one-man missions (with extension specialists) were conducted in 1988 and 1990 for the
purpose of looking at the situation and making recommandations in the field of agricultural extension.



- 25 -
Table 8. continued: Missions Carried Out
Stage of    Month/    No. of   Days in       Specialization   | Performance | Types of Problens
Project Cycle    Year    Persons    Field                          Rating
Supervision     9/90        1         6      TM (IE)                  2        Project Development
Objectives,
Availability of Funds
Supervision     11/90       1         4      AG (ext/research         -
specialist)
Supervision     12/91       1         4      TM (IE)                  1        Availability of Funds
Supervision     10/92       1         5      TM (IE)                  I
Completion      8/93        2         13     AG, ECN
KEYS: TM=Tearn Leader, DC=Division Chief, IE=Irrigation Engineer, AG=Agriculturalist,
EC=Economist, I= Problem free or minor, 2=Moderate problems, 3=Major problems.
N.B.: The agronomists in 4/88 and 11/90 supervision missions looked at the situation and made
recommendations in the field of agricultural extension.



- 26 -
Table 9. Staff Inputs
Preparation    Appraisal   Negotiations       ARIS        Supervision      PCR            Total
F'Y 84              14.9                                                                                   14.9
FY 85               31.1          27.1            4.6                                                      62.8
FY 86                                             0.4                          7.0                          7.4
FY 87                                                                          5.2                         5.2
FY 88                                                           0.1            7.3                          7.4
FY 89                                                                          4.7                          4.7
FY 90                                                                          4.2                          4.2
FY 91                                                                          6.4                          6.4
FY 92                                                                          4.8                          4.8
FY 93                                                                          3.2                          3.2
FY 94                                                                                        9.4            9.4
Total               46.0          27.1            5.0           0.1           42.8            9.4         130.4



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Introduction
1.        Agricultural development in some 5,000 ha rehabilitated for irrigation by the Project
was to be achieved through: a) increased availability of irrigation water; b) improved drainage
to reduce salinity; c) thinning of too dense or unproductive stands of date palms and other fruit
trees; d) their replacement by more productive and profitable fruit crops and vegetables; e) the
adoption of improved cultural practices suitable for the area; f) resumption of cultivation of
abandoned fields, either by returned absentee owners or through alternative forms of
management; and g) on-farm development through credit for such items as greenhouses, farm
equipment. In addition, some 200 ha of rainfed land would be provided with an irrigation and
drainage infrastructure enabling more intensive forms of land use.
Irrigation
2.        Despite a number of technical problems during Project execution, the Project's
objective of providing the 42 scattered oases with sufficient water resources to enable more
intensive forms of production were largely achieved. Moreover, the distribution network
installed results in greatly reduced water losses in the conveyance system. However, in some
areas, problems of water distribution still need to be resolved. Some farmers receive water at
too long intervals for optimal production of summer vegetables. In other cases water demand
can be met by extending the hours of pumping into the night, but farmers are unable or
unwilling to practice night irrigation. To alleviate this problem, on-farm reservoirs are
considered, with partial financing from credit. In another case, areas with different crop
intensities were receiving the same irrigation schedule, which caused complaints from farmers
having only fruit trees and no vegetables. An important achievement of the Project is that water
charges are now to be paid by all members of the AICs, to cover at least the 0 & M costs.
Farmers are therefore more aware of the need to economize water use. At field level, improved
irrigation methods are needed to ensure optimal efficiency. These methods should be adapted
to the individual farmer's needs, depending on soil type, tree and crop intensity and other
factors. To meet this need, one oasis has recently been selected in the Project area to test and
demonstrate methods to increase water use efficiency. This current work is done in the
framework of a FAO/UNDP assisted Project for training on economic water use (TUN/91/002).
In the early stages of the Project, work in this field had been initiated with the help of a
consultant recruited by the Project. This resulted, interalia, in the adoption of improved
irrigation practices for out-of-season vegetables, and lining of permanent field ditches in some
farns. Applied on-farm trials in this field are needed and should include the comparison of



- 28 -
various systems of intercropping and tree densities, under the main soil conditions in the Project
area. Another shortcoming is that no initial winter leaching is applied in oases with high initial
salinity (El Hamma and Zrig), although this is partly compensated by the growing of forage as
a first intercrop.
Drainage and Salinity
3.        The Project achieved a large part of its objectives to provide drainage, where
needed, to reduce salinity and to prevent its recurrence. However, in an estimated 10-15% of
the Project area, salinity is becoming a problem after additional irrigation became available, for
one of the following reasons: a) no drainage network was established due to farmer's initial
objections; b) due to the low groundwater table at that time and on cost considerations, drainage
was not considered essential at Project design; or c) insufficient or no maintenance caused drains
to be clogged up, thereby allowing the water table to rise. Some farmers who initially resisted
the construction of drains are now asking the authorities to rectify the situation, and funds have
been made available at the Governorate level for this purpose. Similarly, funds are expected
to be made available to construct drains where this was not considered necessary initially.
Furthermore, Government funds are made available to carry out at least part of the required
maintenance cleaning of drains. AICs are expected to bear full responsibility for this task in
future.
4.        During field visits, the Mission was made aware several times of the need for proper
functioning drains. In some areas, residual salinity prevents cultivation of the more profitable
fruit crops, such as apricots and apples. In this respect, the salinity monitoring program, carried
out by the Soils Directorate in the Gabes CRDA as a result of an agreement under the Project,
should be given adequate means to continue and intensify salinity monitoring in the field. It
should also be provided with the means to analyze and interpret the collected information without
undue delay. This work had started during project execution, and two reports have been issued
thus far. A seminar or workshop is planned to be held in December 1993 to discuss the
findings, to contemplate corrective measures where necessary, and to receive feedback on the
need for expanded or intensified monitoring. It would be of interest for regional and local
extension staff to be informed as well, and to discuss the potential of various crops under
different salinity conditions in their respective areas.  At regional and local level, AIC
representatives should also participate in discussions on the findings of the monitoring program.
Orchard Renovation
5.        This has perhaps been the most controversial component of the Project. The older
oases were originally fed by springs which led to the development of dense stands of date palms
with only a relatively small number of productive trees. Ownership of the date palms was often
shared among various heirs. As springs were gradually replaced by wells and artesian water
made way for pumped water, the parts near the dried up springs were partly abandoned because
of water shortage and salinity. Excessive land fragmentation was another factor leading to the



- 29 -
neglect of parts of these old oases. More recently developed oases, meanwhile, usually have
a wider spacing of date palms, with better maintenance and productivity. On the basis of a
detailed analysis of date palm and fruit tree densities in all the oases covered by the Project,
CNEA's Project preparation report recommended thinning of unproductive and low-productive
date palms and other fruit trees and their replacement by more profitable or more productive
species at regular spacing, to allow the maximum potential for vegetable and forage
intercropping. Prior to the CNEA study, a detailed study of one of the oases in the Project area
had been made (Bouchemma, 1978). It arrived at 46 palm trees/ha as optimal density to retain
their effect on the micro-climate (slightly higher and lower extreme temperature values, reduced
wind velocity, up to 10% lower evapotranspiration).
6.       In total, some 270,000 date palms and other fruit trees were to be removed, of
which some 50% in the El Hamma cluster of oases. To ensure their continued role as
windbreak and microclimate regulator, minimum densities of 60-100 palm trees were to be
retained, depending on their original density (some 350/ha in parts of El Hamma oasis). The
proposed lower densities of date palms would minimize their competition for light, water and
nutrients with the proposed more profitable intercrops. Similarly, in certain oases where olives
were the dominant crop prior to irrigation intensification, their density would be decreased in
favor of higher value intercrops. The financial benefits of lower palm tree densities and
corresponding higher intercrop intensities are demonstrated in the farm models.
7.        Although aware of many farmers' reluctance to date palm and olive tree removal
in favor of other crops, the Government retained this basic approach to date palm thinning,
which was in turn adopted at appraisal. To enable the earliest possible benefits stream resulting
from Project investments, orchard renovation was to be carried out more or less simultaneously
with irrigation rehabilitation. In order to ascertain the highest possible participation rate by
farmers and orchard owners, an intensive public relations campaign was to be carried out from
the start of Project execution. Mechanized uprooting through contract was adopted as the most
efficient and speedy method wheirever tree density and other accessibility factors would allow
it. The World Bank loan would finance part of the cost to be repaid by the farmers. In 1987
and 1988, some 3,000 date palms were uprooted in the Mareth area as part of this program.
Extension agents were assigned to the area to assist in the reconversion program on a farm to
farm  basis, giving advice to farmers on farm  development plans.  Subsequent to the
amalgamation of OMVGM with the CRDAs of the concerned Governorates, the orchard
reconversion program was reconsidered and an updated survey was carried out to reduce the
number of trees recommended for thinning. The new criterion applied was to retain 100 date
palms in the interior oases and 80 per hectare in the coastal oases. Moreover, based on the new
criteria uprooting would be limited to date palms, whereas the approach described in the SAR
also included thinning of olive trees and removal of unproductive or other old fmit tree species.
The outcome of the updated inventory and the application of the revised criteria resulted in a
reduction of the estimated number of trees to be uprooted to about 1/3 of the original estimate.
However, no detailed breakdown of the new inventory could be obtained by the Mission. To
date, some 23,000 date palms have been uprooted, out of a total of some 50,000 according to



- 30 -
the new estimate (uprooting of some 20,000 date palms was financed through Government
subsidy).
8.        The SAR projection that the total program of tree thinning could be executed during
the six years of Project execution, in order to enable part financing from the loan, seems to have
been highly optimistic".  Farmers' resistance to uprooting had been experienced in the
Southern Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, notably in the old oasis near Tozeur.  The
Govermment had also experienced considerable delays in olive renovation programs in the Sousse
area due to farmers' often psychological rather than financial attachment to olive trees.
Moreover, when the date palms still provide a certain yield, even at a low level, farmers often
try to retain this low level of income until income from the newly established intercrops has
reached a certain level.
9.        Apart from farmers' reluctance due to psychological or financial reasons, a major
factor which slowed down the renovation program is the high degree of joint and absentee
ownership in some of the oases. The Mission was informed that in some oases a number of
previously absentee owners have returned after irrigation water became available, and that
thinning of dense stands of trees on such properties is expected to take place as farmers are
establishing increasing amounts of intercrops. Moreover, there is an increasing interest among
farmers to plant young date palm offshoots of higher market value where space is available.
10.       It is understood that the discrepancy between the CNEA estimates and the updated
inventory is largely due to the inclusion of young offshoots and "spontaneous" date palms (often
in the form of clusters of seedlings rather than the planted offshoots used for productive trees)
as well as other unproductive fruit trees in the CNEA survey, whereas the updated survey is
based mainly on adult single date palms. In addition, since the CNEA survey of 1983, a certain
amount of spontaneous uprooting of trees has been going on without Government assistance or
without having been otherwise recorded.
11.       At appraisal, three alternative approaches could have been used to avoid tying up
credit funds from the loan for orchard renewal, which were ultimately cancelled when it became
clear that they were not needed for this purpose. One would have been to exclude from the
Project all old, partly abandoned oases with a high salinity level, high date palm densities and
complex land tenure problems (notably El Hamma, and parts of other oases, grouped in farm
model A), and to limit the Project to areas with lower date palm densities. This approach
presumably would have been difficult to accept by the borrower. Another possible approach
would have been to include all the oases in a long or medium term rehabilitation program, of
a duration of e.g. 25 years, whereby financing would be made available in successive 5-year
slices. National staff would then have been able to make a more detailed socio-economic
scrutiny of each slice, enabling more accurate cost calculations and assuring a larger degree of
"  While the disbursement projections (COSTAB) in the SAR include the full cost of uprooting during the life
of the Project, the phasing of Farm Model A (SAR implementation volume, Annex 7) imply that for part of
the farms uprooting would continue, beyond the 6 years of the Project.



- 31 -
farmer participation as the benefits were becoming more tangible. Farmers could then have
played a larger role in the planning and execution of the program. This approach, however,
would have had the following two disadvantages: a) a more rapid and accelerated abandonment
of the oases to be rehabilitated in the later stages of the program, due to the steady decline of
the Jefara aquifer which provides about 50% of the Project area's water supply; and b) the loss
of economies of scale in bidding and contracting for drilling, irrigation and drainage network
construction, other works and equipment. Moreover, several knowledgeable spokesmen doubted
that a more detailed socio-economic scrutiny would have made much difference in the
achievement of the goals of orchard renovation.
12.       A third possible approach could have consisted of the exclusion of the financing of
tree removal through the loan altogether and to seek alternative sources of financing. This is
what is happening now, whereby the farmers are receiving Government subsidies for tree
removal. The subsidy level of D. 11 per date palm covers roughly 50% of the cost of tree
removal (including removal of the stump).
13.       While mainly in the older oases, delays in date palm and other fruit tree thinning
has contributed to a slower than projected intensification process, in areas with relatively low
tree densities, farmers embarked on tree planting and intercropping at a relatively fast pace. In
1992, the total number of fruit trees exceeded the number prior to project-generated irrigation
improvements by about 50%, thereby reaching about 60% of the SAR estimate at full
development. Similarly, intercrops increased by almost 1,000 ha or 70% of the SAR's estimated
increase at full development.
Research and Extension
14.       The Project aimed at strengthening regional research and extension to provide the
farmers with technical and farm managerial information adapted for local conditions. Moreover,
channels would be strengthened to inform the Research Institutes of the major problems
confronted by the farmers, to enable these Institutes to consider including such topics in their
programs.
15.       Prior to the Project, OMVGM had already established a network of extension staff
for the irrigated areas under its responsibility. The Project would strengthen this network in the
Project area through the appointment of 22 additional extension workers, 4 subject-matter
specialists, the purchase of vehicles and light motorcycles, extension equipment, and the
construction of additional extension centers. Detailed work programs would be prepared and
the work would be organized using management elements of the "T & V" system. A total of
7 man-months of consultant services were foreseen to assist with the organization of the program
and with training of local staff. Special attention would be given to periodic evaluation and
monitoring of the effectiveness of the program.



- 32 -
16.       OMVGM would enter into an agreement with the Research Institute responsible for
applied research in the region (Institute for Research in Arid Zones=IRA) to establish an
experimental program aimed at resolving priority problems confronted in agricultural
development during project execution. Agreements were also to be established with the
specialized Departments concerned on salinity monitoring and the monitoring of water resource
availability and quality.
17.       A consultant was recruited to assist with staff training, mainly in technical aspects
such as irrigation water management. The duration of this mission was shorter than foreseen,
and no communications specialist was recruited. Moreover, OMVGM was unable to recruit
additional extension staff, and no systematic work program using T&V management elements
was established. Moreover, existing staff continued to be in charge of various support activities,
such as orchard renovation, input distribution (e.g. seed and seedlings, fertilizers) and plant
protection. OMVGM provided seasonal credit in kind, and credit recovery was among the tasks
of the field staff. After the amalgamation of OMVGM with CRDA in 1989, input distribution
ceased to be among its responsibilities. Staff re-assignments took place and extension staff
became responsible for both the irrigated and adjacent rainfed areas.
18.       The Gabes Governorate is affected by the extension component of the World Bank
assisted national Research and Extension Project for training, and guidelines on methodology and
organization, including the use of audiovisual and other communications means, and monitoring
and evaluation. Extension is no longer the responsibility of the Plant Production section within
the CRDA, and in some cases field extension units have both Plant Production and Livestock
Production oriented staff. The Director of Agricultural Production has overall responsibility for
extension. His directorate includes eight specialized regional bureaux, including extension, plant
protection, vegetable and fruit crop production. The former chief of agricultural development
in OMVGM is entrusted with the task of extension coordination. The program has a strong
emphasis on plant protection for the main fruit tree crops (pomegranates, apricots, apples) and
vegetables. Demonstration plots are established at contact farmers' fields, with free provision
of pesticides, and the provision of spraying equipment on loan. Treatment of epidemic
infestations is often provided free of charge, in the expectation that farmers in the future will
carry out such treatments on their own account. The Project area is served by the Gabes
Governorate's 5 regional extension centers (CTV) at Gabes, Mareth, Methioua, El Hamma and
Matmata. Each CTV covers a number of local extension units (CRA, "Centre de Rayonnement
Agricole"). Of the 34 CRAs in the Gabes Governorate, 12 are at present vacant, their area
being temporarily served by adjacent CRAs. The national extension project has embarked on
a program of staff selection and training at the national level. Each selected extension agent
would get specialized training in extension methodology as well as in technical subjects, for
several weeks a year over a 5-year period. Extension in the Governorate is benefiting from the
physical support (extension centers, vehicles) which was provided under the Gabes Irrigation
Project, and from the national Project for training, organization and management.
19.       At the field level the main weakness of extension in the Project area is the large
amount of time spent by field agents on administering various assistance programs, such as the



- 33 -
tree planting program (PAAF) and various financial encouragement programs available at the
governorate level, in addition to the collection of statistical data and surveys (including surveys
in the framework of the Project). However, starting from early 1993 ten field staff have been
exclusively assigned to extension duties. In some cases, extension staff are restricted by the
shortage of transportation, which in principle is made available 2-3 times a week. In other
cases, extension staff have been able to have regular contacts with over 50 % of the farmers of
their area, largely as a result of the proximity of the CRAs to the farmers, and to commercial
and social centers. These regular contacts, as well as field days and regular meetings with input
distribution salesmen, have led to an increased demand for fertilizers and plant protection
support.
20.       Initially, OMVGM had assigned a special role in technology transfer to the Zerkine
Agricultural Development Support Station ("Station d'appui"). Almost all OMVs in Tunisia had
established such centers, to develop adapted cultural practices and test varieties of vegetables and
fruit trees under irrigation. The Zerkine Station carried out a number of trials, mostly on under
cover vegetables. It also carried out the first trials on the use of geothermically heated water
for heating of greenhouses in winter and early spring. This technique was subsequently further
developed for the use of other geothermic well water in the El Hamma area and elsewhere in
Southern and Central Tunisia with bilateral and multilateral cooperation. The Zerkine Station
also produced large numbers of disease free seedlings and rooted cuttings for farmers in the
area. Such tree propagation material initially was not readily available from other sources.
21.       During the early stages of project execution large numbers of farmers visited the
Zerkine Station. Observers agree that the field days held at this station were in particular
instrumental in promoting out-of-season covered vegetable production. In the late 1980s early
vegetables from the project area were exported to France under the trade name "Oasis de
Gabes".
22.       Upon the amalgamation of OMVGM with CRDA, and in partial compliance with
the relevant WB loan covenants, trials and demonstrations at the Station were discontinued, and
nursery propagation was scaled down. The Government has hired a consultant to determine the
future use of all the OMV support stations in the country. Some may be fully or partly
incorporated in the regional research networks, others may be retained for training or transferred
to the private sector as part of the young technician settlement program.
23.       On Research, the Project aimed at engaging the responsible research institute in
establishing practical objective-oriented applied research. Two agreements were established; one
with IRA and the other with the Soils Department for salinity monitoring. Equipment was also
provided to the Water Resource department to expand its program of water resource monitoring.
The salinity monitoring program faced some initial delays, and needs to be strengthened to allow
timely analysis and interpretation of data. The agreement with IRA resulted in a number of
trials on winter forage crops, but no more elaborate applied research program was established
for the project area due to shortage of research staff and the orientation towards pastures and
livestock production of most existing research staff. With bilateral cooperation, IRA has



- 34 -
established a research centre at Kebilie, an adjacent Governorate, where research and testing is
done, interalia, on plant protection of crops grown in the region. Due to the above constraints,
the agreement with IRA was subsequently cancelled. No new attempts to involve other research
institutes were made because a selection process of priority research at national and regional
level had meanwhile been initiated through the WB-supported Research and Extension Project.
24.       The importance of water resource monitoring by DRE should be emphasized in view
of the need for data on well head output and its relation to maintenance of sustainable aquifer
levels. DRE also monitors the artesian pressure in existing wells and assists in projecting the
need for additional pumping or lowering of pumps. It is also the agency entrusted with the task
to advise the Government on the risk of aquifer pollution, which is particular relevant in the
Gabes area due to the existence of chemical industries. For example, it advised against the
deposit of chemical residues at locations where there would be a risk of seepage into the Jefara
aquifer.
25.       In conclusion, it can be stated that the Project was unable to accomplish the
extension and research tasks in the manner envisaged at appraisal. However, the Project was
able to provide important support to agricultural development through demonstrations on covered
vegetables, plant protection, water and salinity management. The subsidized distribution of
fertilizers and other inputs, previously considered an essential component of extension by local
staff, has been successfully taken over by private and cooperative sales outlets. The quality of
fruit tree propagation material from private sources, however, remains a source of concern.
Farrm Models
26.       Farm models were developed which to a large extent are similar to the models in
the SAR. One new model was included to demonstrate the viability of out-of-season vegetable
production in greenhouses heated with warm water from deep wells in the El Hamma area
("geothermic" greenhouses). Areas under crops and yields were adjusted in the light of the farm
surveys carried out by the Project monitoring and evaluation unit in 1991 and 1992, and field
observations. Except for the geothermic greenhouses, full development is projected in year 12
in each model, while the phasing of the benefit stream is projected to have a delay of 2-3 years
as compared to appraisal projections. A summary description of each model is given below and
more detailed information has been put in the project file.
27.       Farm Model A (1 ha). Without Project, this model represents neglected and
partially abandoned stands of date palms with soils of increasing salinity, low and decreasing
water availability and decreasing production. The assumed date palm density without Project
(250) has been adjusted downward to 183 and the number of trees retained was adjusted upward
to 125 from the SAR estimate in view of CRDA's updated survey. Similarly, the total area
represented by this model was adjusted downward to 860 ha. With Project, improved irrigation
and drainage would enable intercropping between wider spaced date palms which would include
some 15 newly planted date palms of higher than average market quality. Fifty other fruit trees



- 35 -
would be planted, and intercropped summer and winter vegetables, forage and industrial crops
would cover about 0.5 ha.
28.       Farm Model B (0.5 ha) represents 3,030 ha or 60% of the Project area consisting
of oases, mostly in the coastal area, where date palm density was already lower (124 trees/ha)
and intercropping already takes place without Project. However, a slight decrease in production
would take place due to deteriorating irrigation and drainage. With Project, adequate water
would be available for a higher crop intensity: date palms, olives and other fruit trees (100, 20
and 120 trees per ha respectively, winter and summer vegetables, forage and industrial crops
covering 0.26 ha).
29.       Farm Model C (1 ha, total 500 ha or 10% of project area) represents oases which
consist of olive plantations with little or no supplemental irrigation without Project. With
Project, the density of olives (for oil production) would be decreased from 100 to 60 per ha and
intercropping would take place with other fruit crops and vegetables (0.5 ha).
30.       Farm Model D (1 ha, total 230 ha or 4% of project area) represents those oases
where old olive trees (30/ha) are intercropped with vegetables. The development with Project
would consist of a further intensification, including the planting of 80 fruit trees per ha and the
production of out-of-season vegetables including some greenhouses: 0.07 ha.
31.       Farm Model E (1 ha, total 230 ha or 4% of project area) represents areas newly
equipped for irrigation by the Project. Contrary to SAR expectations, no newly introduced crops
would be grown (such as autumn potatoes, due to market constraints and non-availability of seed
potatoes for the local farrners). Higher-value date palms would be planted on the borders of the
farms.
32.       Farm Model F (1 ha, total 260 ha or 5 % of project area) represents a few areas
where vegetables are grown without Project, partly irrigated from shallow wells. Lack of
drainage and insufficient water thus far prevented establishment of fruit crops, which would be
planted at a density of about 90 per ha. Winter and summer vegetable cultivation would also
be intensified.
33.       Farm  Model G: Geothermic greenhouses (0.05 ha), total 25 ha. Deep wells
rehabilitated in the El Hamma area produce water of a high temperature. Following experiments
carried out over several years, private investors have established greenhouses adjacent to these
wells and adjacent to the oases irrigated by these wells. The warm water circulates through the
greenhouses and is subsequently used for irrigation in the oases concerned. In the cases of high
artesian pressure, certain amounts of water in excess of the winter irrigation requirements is lost.
The out-of-season vegetables (cucumbers, tomatoes, watermelons, peppers and others) are to a
large extent exported. The cropping sequence used as demonstration in this model consists of
autumn tomatoes followed by early melons. Full development is expected to be reached in year
5, when some initial problems (e.g. seed or seedling use for autumn tomatoes, nematode
problems) are expected to have been resolved through research efforts.



- 36 -
Agricultural Production
34.       Based on the estimates in the farm models and the areas they represent, the total
incremental production of the Project at full development (year 23) would amount to some 7,000
t of dates (including 6,000 t of better quality dates), 11,000 t of fruit, 24,000 t of vegetables and
8,600 t of out-of-season vegetables, including 4,500 t, produced in geothermal warm-water
greenhouses. The main difference in the estimates of the SAR consists of a considerably higher
incremental production of out-of-season vegetables, no decrease in olive production, and an
incremental production of better quality dates.
35.       Due to a slower than anticipated completion of irrigation and drainage works (2-
3 years), slower orchard reconversion and the persistent land tenure constraint, the phasing of
benefits is retarded with full production being projected for year 23 after the start of the Project.
Unless efforts towards land consolidation are made, it is likely that even at full development
some 10-15% of the Project area, especially in the old oases (model A), will not be intensively
cultivated as a result of land fragmentation, absentee ownership or joint family land ownership.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Financial Analysis
0.1       The seven farm models prepared in the PCR are described in Annex 1 and more
details are available in the documentation put in the project file. Internal Financial Rates of
Return (FRR) have been calculated for all the models. The farmgate prices used are given in
Table 1 of this annex. All the investments (mainly uprooting/planting) and production costs have
been included at their full value, to reflect the real financial viability over the long-term, ie.
when the Government does not subsidize uprooting and planting any more. The FRR for each
model, as well as the net incremental income per ha and per year at full development, are shown
in Table 5 of Part m.
0.2       The SAR simply indicated that the FRRs for all models were above 50%. The
FRRs for all the PCR models are also quite high (above 50% over 20 years), except for dates
intensification (20%) which was a cropping pattern meant to be phased out in the SAR, precisely
because of its low potential value and its longer gestation period. The FRRs were calculated
using an 0&M cost for the irrigation infrastructures which is the mid-point between with
artesianism (D 0. 15/m3) and fully pumped water (D 0.40/m3). Roughly half the deep wells in
the project area are now operated with pumps and this proportion is naturally increasing. Other
things being equal, the FRR for each model will decrease as artesianism runs out and pumping
becomes a necessity. Farners will gradually adopt the cropping patterns implicit in the most
profitable models. Although the FRR for the geothermal greenhouses is relatively low at 29 %,
the net incremental income per ha/year at full development is of the order of $53,000. But the
investments necessary are of the order of $190,000 per ha which is out of reach for most small
farmers.
Economic Analysis
0.3      In the SAR, the project's internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated
at 21% over 20 years. The ERR has now been recalculated at 16% over 30 years, mainly
because of the seven-year delay in the full development of the benefits compared to the SAR (see
Table 2 and documentation in project file). However, the negative impact of the delay is partly
compensated by the fact that the total project costs are lower by 40% (estimated to be US$ 34.9
million compared to US$ 58.3 million in the SAR) and that the market prices for the products
are higher in constant terms (after inflation) than expected at appraisal. For the off-season
exports, the revenues in dinars have also increased due to the depreciation of the currency vis-a-
vis the clollar.



- 38 -
0.4       The exchange rate of the Dinar has been allowed to depreciate from US$ 1.33 in
May 1985 (date of SAR) to US$ 1.01 in September 1993. Furthermore, most of the protective
customs duties and taxes in force in 1985 have now been substantially reduced. In these
conditions, much of the economic distortions existing at appraisal time are no more present. In
line with recent SARs" produced by the Bank, international prices have therefore been
converted in dinars at the going commercial exchange rate. Exported goods have been valued
at their CIF import prices. The project's total incremental benefits are the summation of all the
incremental benefits for all the seven models when phased over the first twelve years of project
life. These benefits are net of the farmers' on-farm investment and production costs - whether
in cash or credit through the BNA - and shadow-priced on the basis of the conversion factors
shown in Table 6 of Part III.
0.5       The project's total incremental costs include the reduced loan amount ($19.2
million), a rough estimate of the Government's counterpart funds (mainly the financing of few
additional staff plus the O&M of the additional buildings and vehicles), and all the
recurrent/replacement costs after the investment period. No residual value is assumed at project
end.
0.6        The calculated ERR does not include other tangible benefits which are also
important. Before project start, a number of farmners - reportedly around 1,200 families
exploiting some 800 ha - had abandoned their lands, following the problems of water shortages,
salinity and aging of their trees. It is now said that about 25 % of them have returned with more
families expected to follow in the years to come. The return of these families will no doubt
contribute (although modestly) to the economic growth of the Gabes region. This is in line with
the overall objective of the project which was to stop the decline of agriculture in the southeast
of Tunisia. Although the "without project" situation on the lands which were half-abandoned
and abandoned is reflected in the farm models, the families' overall economic impact on the
project area, through an income/job multiplier, is not.
0.7        The project also served to establish the principle and practice of the water users
(AICs) paying the O&M of the irrigation infrastructures put at their disposal, thereby helping
guarantee the sustainability of irrigation. It is estimated that about 80% of the needed O&M is
now being financed by the AICs. The remaining 20% is either not carried out or is taken care
of by the CRDA. In retrospect, the SAR cost-recovery target was too ambitious, ie. 100% of
the O&M costs plus 5 % for the constitution of a reserve fund to finance the replacement costs.
On the other hand, only 3,000 date palms were uprooted under the project approach calling for
the farmers' payment of 50% of the cost (either cash or by credit). The cost of the other 20,000
trees uprooted was entirely subsidized by the Government but, in any event, farmers' resistance
to uprooting (see main report) has been the bottleneck rather than the financing of it. The
benefits derived from (and the cost of uprooting) these 20,000 trees are included in the
calculation of the ERR since this would not have taken place without the project.
"  For example; Second Forestry Development Project, April 1993.



- 39 -
Table 1. Financial Prices (Farmgate)
Dinars/Ton
Dates, Low Quality                                    400
Dates, High Quality                                   600
Pomegranates                                          278
Olives                                                220
Apricots                                              450
Apples                                                660
Henne                                                 2,500
Peppers                                                500
Carrots                                                120
Green Onions                                          266
Marrons, early (tunnel)                               700
Tomatoes (early, greenhouse)                          330
Tomatoes                                               190
Melons                                                250
Alfalfa                                                80
Autumn Tomatoes                                       520
Spring Melons                                         950
NB. Given the absence of noticeable trade distorsions (including in the exchange rate), the financial prices of the
outputs have been used as approximations of the economic prices, for the purpose of this PCR. The economic value
of the main inputs has been calculated on the basis of the conversion factors given in Table 6 of Part RI.



- 40 -
Table 2. Economical Benefits and Costs
(in thousands of Dinars)
Year       Incremental        Incremental           Net
Benefits"           Costs            Benefits
I                  0                37                -37
2                 -31             3,005             -3,036
3                 -74             4,907             -4,981
4                -123             3,518             -3,641
5                 -83             2,418             -2,501
6                 54              5,786             -5,732
7                372              1,642             -1,270
8               1,015               613               402
9               1,853               330              1,523
10              3,115             4,548             -1,433
11              4,586               330              4,256
12              6,045               330              5,715
13              7,354               330              7,024
14              8,431               330              8,101
15              9,354               330              9,024
16             10,128               330              9,798
17             10,833               330             10,503
18             11,456               330             11,126
19             11,915               330             11,585
20             12,244               330             11,914
21             12,446               330             12,116
22             12,563               330              12,233
23-30            12,610              330              12,280
ERR = 16%
The incremental benefits are net of the famers' investment and production costs.






IMAGING
Report No;       14444
Type: PCR



