L S s ~~~~-             -  .        D; u  n    of
The World Bank
FOR OM-ICI4L USE ONLY
10K.~~~~~~~~~~~ 
* * ,<t ~a, *;> 6 E) ,-L
Report No. Ms-.N
STAF? APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 30, 1985
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
l-d  smmuha a resiuidm diuibe._ md  ay be wad by redplet only In the peifezee d
~~~brsfMdd l-.:- ;.mt ma ow  odme be Alsd  _ibu W dd Bak



CURRENCY E-QUIVALENTS
Currency Tuit   Tunisian Dinar (D)
US$1.00   D 0.75
D 1.00-= US$1.33
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF TUNI;IA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
AIC      Association of Common Interest
(Association d'Interet Collectif)
BNDA     : National Bank for Agricultural Development
(Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole)
BNT :   National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CNEA     : National Center of Agricultural Studies
(Centre National des Etudes Agricoles)
CRGR     : Research Center of the Rural Construction Department
(Centre de Recherche du Genie Rural)
CRDA     : Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Regional ae Developpement Agricole)
CTV :   local Extension Unit
(Cellule Territoriale de Vulgarisation)
DGR :   Department of Rural Engineering
(Direction du Genie Rural)
DGPC     : Highway Department of the Ministry of Public Works
(Direction CGnerale des Ponts et Chauss6es)
DPSAE    : Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analysis
(Direction de la Planification, des Statistiques et des
Analyses Economiques)



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
DRE    :  Department of Water Resources
(Direction des Ressources en Eau)
DRS    :  Department of Soil Resources
(Direction des Ressources en Sols)
FOSDA      Agricultural Development Fund
(Fonds Spiciaux de D&veloppeuent Agricole)
GIN    :  Group of Hydraulic Interest
(Groupement d'Intqr&t Hydraulique)
GAF :  Association of Fruit and Citrus Growers and Traders
(Groupement Interprofessionnel pour les Agrumes et les Fruits)
GIL    :  Association of Vegetable ?roducers and Traders
(Groupezent Interprofessionnel pour les LAgumes)
MiRAT      Tunisian National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Institut National de Recherche Agronomique Tunisien)
IRA    :  Arid Zone Institute
(Institut des Regions Arides)
MOA    :  Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'Agriculture)
MOF        Ministry of Finance
(Ministere des Finances)
OC         National Cereal Board
(Office des Cereales)
OFP        National Livestock and 2ange Agency
(Office de 1'Elevage et des Piturages)
OR         Vegetable Oil Agency
(Office des Kuiles)
OMVGM      Gabes and Medenine Irrigation Development Office
(Office de Mise en Valeur des Perimetres Irrigu6s
de Gabes et MNd6nine)
PPI    :  Public Irrigated Perimeter
(Perimetre Public Irrigue)
SONEDE     National Society for Water Supply
(Societe Nationale d'Explaitation et de Distribution des Eaux)
STEG       Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company
(Societe Tunisienne d'Electriciti et du Gaz)
STIL       Tunisian Milk Processing Company
(Societe Tunisienne d'Industrie Laitiere)
WUA        Water User Associations
This document has a restricted distribution and nmy be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial dutie Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUSIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Bor-rower     ;                Republic of Tunisfa
Amount        :                US$27.7 million equivalent
Terms                          17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:           The proposed Project would rehabilitate
42 selected oases of the Gabes Governorate,
expand three existing oases and create a new
one. To this end, the Project would include of
(a) replacement of deep wells and provision of
pumping equipment, and construction of piped
water distribution systems; (b) orchard and crop
reconversion and intensification; (c) provision
of equipment and staff to the executing agency,
the Gabes and Medenine Irrigation Development
Office (OMVGM); (d) provision of technical
assistance to OMVGM and to existing farmer
associations; and (e) provision of credit to
farmers for onfarm development. The Project
would directly benefit about 7,700 farm
families, amoog the poorest in Tunisia. The
principal risk related to slow adoption by
farmers of new cropping patterns are minimized
by provision of suitable extension services.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
-    --(US$ million)--
Buildings                                       0.6       0.4        1.0
Irrigation and on-farm works                   10.9      14.1       25.0
Equipment                                       2.0       3.1        5.1
Studies, training, technical assistance         0.1       0.1        0.2
Onfarm development (credit)                     1.7       1.4        3.1
Incremental Operating Costs                     4.2       2.1        6.3
Total Base Costs                          19.5      21.2       40.7
Physical contingencies                   2.0       2.5        4.5
Price contingencies                      7.2       5.9       13.1
Total Project Costs                       28.7'a    29.6      58.3'
/a Includes $14.3 million of taxes and duties.



Finwnelum Pkan                                      Local    F            Total
':     (USS  million)-
World Bank                                           _         27.7       27.7
BNT                                                  1.0        1.9        2.9
Beneficiaries                                        5.0        -          5.0
Government                                           8.4        -          8.4
Net Project Costs                               14.4       29.6      44.0
Taxes and Duties                                14.3         -       14.3
Total Project Costs                             28.7       29.6      58.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
-(US$ million)
Annual                    1.0    2.0    3.0    6.7    8.5    4.5    2.0
Cumulative                1.0    3.0    6.0   12.7   21.2   25.7   27.7
Eeononmic Rate of Return      21X
Staff Appraisal Report:       No.. 5111-TUN, dated May 30, 1985
M>ap No.                      IBRD 18405
USRD 18490



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TEThNISLA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INrTRODUCTION         ............................................        1
II.   YTHE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR   ............. .. .............                  2
A.  Place of Agriculture in the Economy  .................                2
B.  Previous Bank Involvement in Agricultural Projects ...                3
C.  Sector Issues Relevant to the Project ...............       .        4
III. DTHE PROJECT AREA ...7
A.  Introduction  ......................................                  7
B.  Location, Climate, and Soil Resources  ................               7
C.  Water Resources  ..........................................          8
D.  Population Structure and Trends  ................                     9
E.  Land Tenure and Cropping Systems  ........... .........             10
F.  Agricultural Support Services              ........ ..........      11
G.  Infrastructure  .................... ..................             13
IV.    1THE PROJECT' ........          ..................................       14
A. Concept and Objectives                    ....    14
B. Components                     .....15
C.  Detailed Features .............          .      ...........         16
D. Status of Engineering                 ....18
E. Costs                     ......                                     18
F. Financing                     .....20
G. Procurement                     .....21
H.  Disbursement   . ........               .........................   22
V.     PROJECT B&PILEMENTEATION  ....            ........................       24
A. Organization and Management    ..24
B. Project Implementation Strategy    .               .25
C. Execution of Project Works    ..26
D. Agricultural Support Services    ..27
E. Monitoring and Evaluation    ..28
F. Accounts and Audit..                                                 29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Tunisia in November 1984 composed of Messrs. C. Gois
(Mission Leader), P. van der Veen (Agriculturalist) and Ms. T. Riley
(Economist). The appraisal team was assisted by Mr. B. Dussert
(Financial Analyst).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                                  No.
VI.    BENEFrIS AND JUSTIFICATIONS  .          .........................  29
A.  Production         ..........................................  29
B.  Marketing    .................*a...................            31
C.  Beneficiaries and Distribution of Benefits  ..........        31
D.  Cost Recovery          .......................................  32
E.  Financial Impact on Government  ...................  ...      36
F.  Economic Analysis  .......     ............................   37
G.  Risk and Sensitivity Analysis  ....................  ...      40
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .........                  42
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1.  Project Components by Year      ..44
Table 2.  Project Costs Summary ..........................        45
Table 3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan         47
Table 4.  Major Procurement Packages        . .       .48
Table 5. Vehicles           ..                                    49
Table 6.  List of Oases - Characceristics, Works,
Costs, Cropping Pattern   .          .50
Table 7.  OMVGM's Income Statement (1981-1985)                     51
Table 8.  Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Praject File ............                      52
Table 9.  Rent Recovery (Dinar 1985 constant prices)               53
Table 10. Farm Budgets:
(a) Model A - Date Intensification .54
(b) Model B -- Fruit and Vegetable Intensification      55
(c) Model C - Olives Intensification .56
(d) Model D - Olives and Crops Intensification .        57
(e) Model E - New Irrigation .58
(f) Model F - Fruit Development in Vegetable Farms    59
Table 11. Conversion Factors for Project Costs  .       .60
Table 12. Economic Price of Fertilizer                            61
Table 13. Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analysis          62
Table 14. Project Related Cash Flow       ..........              63
"able 15. Economic Cost and Benefit Streams   .       .64
CHARTS
1. Implementation Schedule .65
2. OMVGM - Organization Chart .66
3. Irrigation Development .67
MAPS
IBRD 18405 - Gabes Irrigation Project
IBRD 18490 - Gabes Irrigation Project: Project Area
691E/p51



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     During the 1970s, Tunisia experienced an impressive economic growth.
Gross Domestic Production (GDP), in constant prices, increased by about 7X
p.a. and GDP per capita more than doubled to US$1,420 in 1981. Boosted by
high revenues from petroleum exports and a substantial improvement in its
terms of trade, the country managed to sustain a massive increase in
investments and a rapid growth in public and private consumption without
endangering its balance of payments situation. In 1982 and 1983, the economic
situation suffered set-backs. Adverse weather conditions depressed
agricultural and agroindustrial output and recession in Europe affected
Tunisian exports. The fall in petroleum revenues affected the balance of
payments and domestic savings.
1.02     The medium term outlook for investment and growth, to a large extent,
depends upon future development in the oil and natural gas sector. Current
exploration programs are not encouraging, and it is expected that domestic
production will stabilize at present levels. Therefore, net export earnings
from hydrocarbons are likely to decline over the coming years, the country
becoming a net importer by the early 1990s. As a consequence, the main factor
of growth which allowed Tunisia over the last 10 years to simultaneously
expand public expenditures and private consumption, will disappear
progressively.
1.03     Given this macro-economic environment, the Government is giving more
importance to maximizing benefits from existing assets.'  The proposed
Project would support these efforts by providing for the rehabilitation of
some 5,000 ha of irrigated oases in the underdeveloped Gabes region in the
southeast of Tunisia where a sharp deterioration of agricultural production is
underway caused by soil salinization mainly due to water shortage. The
Project would aim at slowing down the population exodus from the area by
making possible the re-occupation of abandoned or partly abandoned farm
lands. The Project is the second phase of execution of the Tunisian Master
Plan for the development and use of water in the south. The first phase was
also financed by the Bank (Loan 1796-TUN, see para. 2.06). It was identified
by a Bank mission in October 1983 and prepared by CNEA, a Government
consulting body. It was appraised in November 1984 by a mission composed
of Messrs. C. Gois, P. van der Veen, and Ms. T. Riley.
1/ Investment Strategy. Country Economic Memorandum on a Mid-Term Review of
the Sixth Development Plan (1982-1986), Report No. 5328-TUN.



EL THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Place of Ariculture in the Economy
2.01     Background.  Tunisia has a total land area of 16.4 million ha of
which 8.4 million ha are suitable for agriculture and grazing. The country
can be divided into three main ecological zones. The northern 25% of
Tunisia's land area is the most fertile, receiving adequate rainfall
(400-1,000 mm). The central zone (15% of total land area) receives between
200 and 400 mm of rainfall. The southern part (60Z of total land area) is a
predesert zone receiving less than 200 mm of rainfall with very extensive
grazing and some irrigated agriculture. Of the 5.0 million ha of cultivable
land, 34% is planted in cereals, 35% in fruit trees and the remainder in
forage crops, vegetables, grain legumes and industrial crops; 201 is normally
left fallow. Given the high variability in rainfall, important efforts have
been made to develop irrigated agriculture. However, water resources are
scarce and the total irrigation potential is estimated at about 250,000 ha or
some 5% of total arable land. About 205,000 ha are presently equipped for
irrigation of which about 160,000 ha are irrigated effectively. This
relatively small area currently accounts for some 252 of the Agricultural GDP.
2.02     Past Performance.  Tunisia's agricultural sector performed well
during the 1970s. The value of production grew at 4.4% p.a. in real terms
between 1970 ane 1979, compared to 31 p.a. for middle income countries as a
group. However, the pace of growth slowed down considerably near the end of
the period and early 1980s (0.5% p.a. for 1977-82), mostly because of drought
which has repeatedly affected the country. While the more rapid growth in
other sectors, particularly petroleum and tourism, induced a decline in the
relative role of agriculture, it still represents 13% of Tunisia's GDP and
employs about one-third of the labor force. The continued growth of
agricultural production and rural migration has resulted in an increase in
average per capita income in agriculture (from US$173 in 1960/62 to US$380 in
1979, measured in 1979 US dollars) and a reduction in the percentage of the
rural population living below the absolute poverty level (from 171 in 1975 to
13% in 1980).
2.03     National Development Plans and Government Strategy.  Under the Fifth
Development Plan (1977-81), the Government's main objectives for the sector
included a balanced agricultural trade and increased rural employment and
incomes. Partly due to the drought, Plan targets were in most cases not fully
met. Agricultural value added increased at an annual rate of 1.0 between
1976 and 1981, well below the plan target of 2.5%. Potential exports were
diverted to local consumption, and imports in particular of cereals,
increased. As a result, the ratio of food imports to exports increased from
1.2 in 1976 to 1.8 in 1981. The basic objectives for agriculture under the
Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) have not changed. The need to resolve key
issues such as employment, regional income disparities as well as increased
efficiency of investments has become even greater due to the necessity of
adjusting the economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation. The Government is
attempting to achieve this adjustment through inter alia: (a) a shift toward
smaller, less capital intensive investments, including rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure, thereby generating employment opportunities; and
(b) the creation of an economic environment more favorable to agriculture,
including the introduction of a more realistic price structure for



-3-
agricultural products. Investments in agriculture are planned to increase
from 132 of total investments during the last Plan to 19L. Some 40S of
investments would be for irrigation.
B. Previous Bank Involvement in Aieultiwa1 Proecs
2.04     Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and
to date 15 projects have been approved for a total of US$358.2 million of
Bank/IDA funds. Of these, eight are ongoing including three irrigation
projecta and the recently approved Northwest Agricultural Production Project.
Performance under these projects has been mixed reflecting the institutional
constraints in the sector. The First Fisheries Prolect (Credit 270-TUN) was
completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delays and low loan recoveries
for boats. These problems were addressed under the Second Fisheries Proiect
(Loan 1746-TUN) and this project is now progressing well. The First and Second
Agricultural Credit Proiects (Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN and Loan 1340-TUN)
financed BNT lending for onfarm development. While the projects achieved good
rates of return, the continuing problem of higher interest rates on Bank funds
than on Government-supplied credit and the lack of decentralization of RNT
caused disbursements to be slower than anticipated. The Third Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN) is addressing priority credit problems. Action
has been taken to decentralize BNT's operations and raise interest rates
(para. 2.09), and the Government is preparing a plan of action to improve loan
recovery ratios. The physical implementation of the poverty-oriented Northwest
Rural Development Project (Loan 1997-TUN) is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Grain Storage Project (Loan 2052-TUN) is also progressing well after initial
delays and the recruitment of new consulting engineers. Under the Technical
Assistance Proiect (Loan 2197-TUN), strategies have been or are being
developed for several subsectors including farm input distribution, farm
mechanization, produce marketing, research and extension and improved
operation and maintenance of existing irrigation infrastructure. These
strategies will contribute to increasing the efficiency of investments
under the Sixth and Seventh (1987-91) Development Plans.
2.05     Experience with Past Irrigation Lending.  Implementation of the
irrigation projects - First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-TUN).
Sidi Salem Project (Loan 1431-TUN), Southern rrrigation Proiect (Loan
1796-TUN), Medierda/Nebhana Irrigation Proiect (Loan 2157-TUN) and Central
Tunisia Irrigation Project (Loan 2234-TUN) -  has generally been satisfactory
and on schedule. The Irrigation Development Offices (OMVs), the public
enterprises which manage the projects, have demonstrated their ability to
carry out construction works efficiently, but their management still needs
improvement and their performance on operation and maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure has been mixed. OED's audit of the first Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-1UN), dated November 5, 1984, determined
that the economic rate of return of the project was highly satisfactory (32X).
A major finding was that the increased reliability of water supply brought
about by rehabilitation works carried out under the project had a major impact
on farm production and incomes in the project area, by increasing farmers'
willingness to take higher risks by planting higher value crops.  The recently
negotiated Irrigation %anagement Improvement Project (President's Report
No. P-4082-TUN of May 13, 1985) is designed to support nationwide improvements
of the operation and maintenance of existing irrigation systems as well as
policy and institutional reforms to increase the efficiency and self-financing
of the OMVs. The Project would inter alia (a) reduce the need for major costly



-4-
investments for the rehabilitation of irrigation systems; (b) ensure the
sustainability of agricultural development in public irrigation schemes; (c)
aim at eliminating OMVs' operating deficits.
2.06     The Southern Irrigation Project covering the implementation of the
first phase of the Southern Tunisian Water Master Plan is expected to be
completed on schedule, in December 1985. The project provides for the
rehabilitation and new construction of desert oases in the south of the
country as well as some oases in the Gabes area similar to those proposed
under the present Project. Initial results are already encouraging and
indicate that benefits will be in line with expectations. On the cost side,
however, some cost overruns have been experienced for the desert oases due
mainly to the unexpected need to strengthen sand barriers and wind breaks.
However, costs in the Gabes area have been in line with estimates and useful
experience has been obtained for the design of the proposed Project.
C. Sector Issus Relevant to the Projet
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
2.07     In Tunisia, the size of holdings is a constraint to the
intensification of irrigation. Studies carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture have indicated a strong inverse correlation between the size of
holdings and irrigation intensities. To rationalize the use of available
water resources and ensure fuller exploitation of its investments in
irrigation infrastructure, the Government has enacted Agrarian Reform LawsL1
providing for (a) land ownership limitation; (b) land consolidation;
(c) inducement to irrigate; and (d) farmers' contribution to investment cost.
While some progress has been made, particularly in the area of consolidation
in some PPIs, farmer resistance and inadequate penalties have limited
implementation of the Agrarian Reform Laws. A study on land issues is being
carried out under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN), and an
internal Government Commission has been established to review this matter.
The lack of a proper National Cadaster has affected the Government's ability
to address land issues, and the Government therefore envisages a National
Cadaster and Cartography Project. Project strategy to deal with the land
issue is discussed in paragraph 3.10.
Extension and Applied Research
2.08     Since 1973/74, OMVs have made considerable efforts to set up effective
extension services, supported by Applied Research Stations, to cater to the
specific needs of the farmers in their sphere of influence. Although their
impact on production is difficult to assess, OMVs' extension and research
services seem to have performed reasonably well. They have been instrumental
in selecting and introducing new high yielding varieties, in particular tor
vegetables, and promoting fodder crops with pure-bred milk cows. However, the
present system still has drawbacks: (a) applied research by OMV8 lacks
linkages and coordination with other existing research services and programs,
and concentrates mostly on providing advice on specific crops, without taking
into consideration the whole farm system or farmers' different needs,
1/ The Law 58-53 of June 11, 1958 as amended by Law 60-6 of July 26, 1960
concerning the Lower Nedjerda Valley (LMV) and the Law 63-8 of May 27,
1963 as amended by Law 71-9 of February 16, 1971 for PPIs outside LMV.



motivations and capabilities; (b) little attention has so far been given to
improved water management at farm levzl; and (c) OMVs' extension agents are
burdened by additional tasks (input supply, credit, marketing, collection of
statistics, etc.) that have diverted them from their principal role. The
Goverwment is preparing a National Extension and Research Master Plan under
the Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project (para. 2.04), which wiLl
propose the measures necessary to improve Tunisia's extension and research
systems, including irrigated agriculture and is planned to be implemented in
1986 and beyond. In the meantime, measures are underway to facilitate the
introduction of an improved system nationally. Under the Bank-financed
Northwest Agricultural Production Project, the Training and Visit (T&V)
system is being introduced in a large rainfed area on a pilot basis. The
proposed Project would introduce the T&V system on 5,000 ha of irrigated
areas (para. 4.09). In addition, under the Irrigation Management Improvement
Project, measures would be taken to divest OMVs of some of their commercially-
oriented activities, which will facilitate the future reform of the extension
system by allowing OMVs' extension agents to devote more time to their primary
function. Under the proposed Project, the Gabes and Medenine Irrigation
Development Office (OMVGM) would particularly transfer to the private sector
activities related to production of seedlings (para. 5.13) and marketing
services (para. 5.14). OMVGM would also conclude with the regional research
agencies agreements to carry out selected research programs essential for the
Project (para. 4.15), thereby, contributing to better coordinated and more
meaningful research efforts.
Agricultural Credit
2.09     The institutional structure of formal agricultural creult in Tunisia
is complex. The principal vehicle for medium- and long-term investment credit
is the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT). The main sources of short-term credit
are BNT (in the case of larger farmers, generally clients of long standing)
and the Mutual Guarantee Societies (SCMs). SCMs grant seasonal credit, using
BNT funds but with Government guarantee, to small- and medium-size farmers.
Supervised credit is also offered by a number of agricultural development
projects financed by external donors. Some Government-owned enterprises
operating outside the financial sector (e.g., Offices) provide credit in
kind. A new agricultural bank (BNDA) was recently created to finance
investments by large farmers or agricultural enterprises. While access to
credit is not a problem in the Project area, use of credit is constrained by
the farmers' lack of appreciation of investment opportunities because of,
inter alia, the ineffective extension system. The improvement of extension
services provided by OMVGM in the framework of the Project would motivate
farmers to better understand and participate in credit activities. The
ongoing Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN) is addressing
priority credit problems, especially interest rates and loan recovery levels.
As part of the 1985 general interest rate reforms. the interest rates of
commercial banks for short-term credit to agriculture were raised from
5.5-8.75 to 6.75-9.5S. for medium-term credit from 6.25 to 7S, and for
long-term credit from 7.5 to 9Z (the latter rates after deduction of a 3-point
Government subsidy). Interest rates of development banks increased by 0.5
percentage point more. In addition to these base rates, borrowers must pay a
tax to the Government which adds about another point to the cost of borrowing.
With an inflation rate of about 8.4S in 1984, many of these rates have now
become positive in real terms. Some, however, remain somewhat negative, and
the Government has indicated its intention to follow more flexible interest



6
rate policies in the future, with more frequent interest rate adjustments
based on, inter alia, inflation. The Government is also preparing a plan of
measures to improve loan recovery levels.
Prices and Subsidies
2.10     In an effort to provide food at low cost, most consumer prices are
fixed by Government. Traditionally, farmgate prices in Tunisia have also been
fixed artificially low compared to world prices, discouraging the use of more
productive but higher cost techniques and investment. Farm input subsidies,
which the Government has seen as a means of compensating farmers for low
producer prices, benefit only a minority of farmers-and tend to be provided
for the most modern inputs (purebred cows, feed concentrate, irrigation water,
fertilizer, pesticide, etc.). While this encourages use of these inputs, it
also causes excessive use by farmers fortunate enough to obtain the subsidies.
The Government recognizes the negative resource allocation and income
distribution effects of its present pricing and subsidy policies and one of
its objectives is to move towards a pricing system that more closely reflects
the real costs and benefits of inputs and outputs to the economy. Some
agricultural producer prices (milk and cereals) have thus been increased more
rapidly than average price inflation in the recent past, thus improving
agricultural incentives. As a result, current producer prices are now for the
most part reasonably in line with world prices (94%, 89X and 92X for durum
wheat and l00X, 103Z and 107Z for bread wheat in 1981/82, 1982/83 and 1983/84
respectively). Consumer prices for milk, beef and cereal products have also
been increased recently. The Project's main outputs, fruits and vegetables,
are not subject to price regulations and therefore would not require any
special price policy recommendations. In the sector, the input which so far
has received considerable subsidies is irrigation water (para. 2.11).
Irrigation Cost Recovery
2.11     Government policy for recovering investments in PPIs is embodied in
the land reform legislation (para. 6.07), which calls for betterment levies
aimed at recovering part of the increase in land value due to irrigation.
Actual recovery of farmers' contribution to investment costs has, to date,
been very limited. As regards irrigation O&M costs, Government policy is to
achieve lO0Z cost recovery. Water charges have been substantially increased
since 1980, with average annual increases in various OMVs ranging from 15-36%
in current terms, or from 3-24X in constant terms. Despite this major effort,
water charges currently cover on average only about 40% of O&M costs. In the
Gabes area, however, farmers do pay the full O&M costs for their irrigation
systems through their water user associations (para. 3.14). Bank-financed
irrigation projects have followed a consistent approach to cost recovery based
on (a) the recovery of investment costs according to land reform legislation,
(b) the recovery of 100% of O&M costs within a reasonable time frame, and
(c) recovery levels consistent with farmers' ability to pay. The Irrigation
anagement Improvement Project will introduce comprehensive measures,
consistent with those already taken under ongoing projects, to achieve full
repayment of irrigation O&M costs nationally within 5 to 10 years, thus
increasing the financial autonomy of the OMVs and encouraging a more rational
use of available water. The proposed project, in addition to maintaining the
current arrangements for full O&M cost recovery by farmers, would aim at
achieving sustainability of the investments by creating from farmers' payments



7-
a reserve fund for replacements and by recovering part of the investment cost
of new perimeters within the framework of the Land Reform Law
(paras. 6.10-6.14).
2.12     Input Supply and Output Marketing.  Public marketing and input supply
enterprises exist for cereals, grain legumes, olives, wine, meat, fertilizer,
seed and farm machinery. Several Government development authorities (Offices)
participate in the collection of milk, fruit and vegetables. All these
institutions require improvements in their efficiency. They are slow to
respond to market signals and to introduce cost-cutting efficiencies. Farm
inputs are frequently not available in the quantities and at the time required.
However, in the context of the Irrigation Management Improvement Project, the
Government has indicated its intention to start divesting the Offices of many
commercial activities, and as noted in paragraph 3.18, the private sector is
already active in the Gabes area in supplying basic fertilizers and small-scale
mechanized equipment. An input supply study financed under the Technical
Assistance Project has already led to urgently needed increases in fertilizer
distribution margins, and an agricultural marketing study, also funded from
the Technical Assistance Project, is expected to lead to a series of output
marketing measures for implementation during the Seventh Plan period.
IIL THE PROJECT AREA
A. Introduction
3.01     Until the seventies the economy of the Gabes Governorate was
essentially based on agriculture (oases) and fisheries. Since then, industrial
development has been gradually taking place particularly related to maritime
commerce and tourism. The traditional date palm plantations started at the
beginning of the century have been replaced by other fruit trees and vegetables
to meet changing demand patterns which are largely influenced by the growing
tourist flow. Agriculture is still the most important sector of the
Governorate's economy.  Given the dry conditions of the area, irrigation is a
necessity. In the past, water was obtained either from natural springs or
from artesian wells. However, with increased water development, the springs
have dried out and the artesian pressure has been decreasing drasticallv
causing shortages of water for irrigation.
B. Location. C;:mate. and Soil Resources
3.02     The 5,000 ha of oases to be rehabilitated under the proposed Project
are situated on the coastal strip of the Gabes Governo-ate called the Djeffara
Region. This area is characterized by a Saharan climate, tempered by the
maritime influence which increases average humidity and precipitation, and
cuts extreme temperatures.  The Project zone of influence is about 5,100 Km2
which represents some 3S of the country's total land area. The population
averages about 210,000 or 3% of the Tunisian total.
3.03     The land in the Djeffara slopes gently from the El Hbamma and Matmatas
Mountains in the interior across the coastal plain to the sea. The soils are
either alluvial with yellow and red sandy clay, or hydromorphic with a crust
of a variable depth. The deeper the crust, the better for agricultueal
development. Soils generally show good infiltration rates and drainability



-8-
characteristics. However, in most cases natural drainage or existing drainage
networks need to be improved to avoid salinity problems. Soil capability
analysis indicates no major problems for growing fruit, forage, and vegetables
on over 802 of the soils provided sufficient water is available for leaching
while on some 20Z of the soils forage and vegetables are the best crops
(Annex 10).
3.04     The average annual rainfall is about 180 mm in the plains and 230 -m
in the inland mountains.  However, its distribution is irregular and is
concentrated in the fall (40Z). Average monthly temperature in the summer is
271C and in winter 11*C. In June, the temperature is close to 400C. Strong
winds and sand storms (from north, northwest, and southwest) which average
30 per year predominant between December and April. Frost may occur between
10-11 days per year. and as late as in April which makes it difficult to grow
out-of-season crops without cover. Potential evaporation averages 1,470 mm of
which 40% occurs during the three summer months. Hydrometric measures show
relatively high figures with an annual average of 67.5S, ranging from 632 in
February/March to 71S in May.
C. Water Resources&'
3.05     Groundwater resources of Southern Tunisia are in two major aquifers:
the Complex Terminal (CT), called Djeffara in the coastal area of Gabes, and
the deeper Continental Intercalaire (CI). The Djeffara aquifer is fed from
the CI through the geologic fault of El Hamma.  The general groundwater flow
is towards the sea where it outcrops a few kilometers from the coast.
Traditionally surface water in the Djeffara has been available for use from
naturally occurring springs with substantial flow rates at the outcrops. With
the introduction of deep well drilling techniques, numerous wells were sunk
close to these existing springs in order to increase the volume of water
available for traditional date palm, fruit and vegetable cultivations;
subsequently wells were also sunk outside the traditional perimeters for the
development of modern date palm plantations. A consequence of this increased
exploitation of the water resources has been a decrease in the flow or drying
out of natural springs and a decrease or disappearance of the artesian flow of
the deep wells indicating a need for a more carefully planned approach to
water development.
3.06     The water resources development potential of the Project area has
been assessed in various studies financed by UNDP, starting with a study of
the Algerian and Tunisian Northern Sahara region by UNESCO in 1968-1972 which
included mathematical simulation models of the aquifer and an electrical
analogic model of the coastal Djeffara aquifer. In 1976, a Master Plan for
Water and Soil Resources Development in Southern Tunisia was subsequently
prepared and updated simulation models defined the limits of exploitation of
the aquifers within acceptable salinity levels. Water resource estimates of
the 1976 Master Plan have since been systematically updated and refined as more
detailed data became available.   This has confirmed that the finding of the
basic studies are robust. A conservative estimate of the potential available
resources that can be developed in the Project area is 4,450 1/s while present
use of groundwater in the area is estimated to be some 2,670 1/s. Current
agriculture uses are 2,050 l/s and the balance used (620 1/s) is for domestic
and industrial purposes (SONEDE). Future planned uses by agriculture and for
domestic and industries supplies are within allowable limits.  The following
table gives details of the present and future water balance:
1/ Detailed analysis of water resources is made in Annex 6.



-9-
WATER BALACE ZN TNE POJECT AREA
Potential                                  Planned
available Resources    Present Water Use   Reauirents (year 2010)
Area (Aquifer)    CT   CI   Total   AGR   SON   Total   AGR   Son   Total
El Hama/Chenchou/
Chott El Fedjej   900  1.000 1.900   470   200    670    750   950  1.700
Gabes North     1.600     - 1.600   950   340   1.290   1.100 l    00  1.600
Gabes South      950    -     2M   .1 630           Z 710    900    -    90
Total       3.450  1.000 4.450  2.050   620   2.670   2.750  1.450  4.200
floe: CT: Conplex Terminal: CI: Continental Intercalaire; AGR: Agriculture;
SON: Urban/Industry.
3.07     Ground water abstractions and its quality are being closely monitored
by DRE which publishes yearbooks with the data collected from every deep well
under exploitation. Water table levels of shallow aquifers are also monitored.
Water from the deep CI aquifers have a salinity ranging between 2.7 and 3.1 g/l
and a high temperature (60-70'C). Water from the Djeffara is much cooler
(23-37'C) but salinity reaches as high as 4.1 g/l in the northwest part of the
Project area.-'  The Master Plan (para. 3.06) ensures that water resource
use in the area can be carefully planned to avoid depletion and increased
salinization of the water table. In 1975, the Government promulgated a new
set of laws (Code des Eaux, Loi No. 75-16) regulating water resource
exploitation, water use and water conservation. These laws are satisfactory
and are being strictly enforced. In order to guarantee the availability of
water for the Project and to assure a balanced water use for agriculture and
urban/industrial purposes, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
adequate monitoring of the use of water resources would be provided and that
currently planned limits on water use in the region would not be exceeded.
Government would keep the Bank informed of the situation annually.
D. PopuLation Structure and Trends
3.08     The total population of the five administrative zones of the Gabes
Governorate is about 210,000 people or an average density of 42 inhabitants
per kmz. About 91,000 people or 43Z of the total lives in the zone of Gabes
2
which has a density of 292 inhabitants per km .  The standard of living in
the region is lower than in other parts of the country. Nearly all farmers
have outside farm income either from jobs within the region, from temporary
out-migration, or from the migration of sons to Tunis or Europe. It is
estimated that the majority of farmers in irrigated perimeters receive 3a-50%
of their total average income from outside sources.
3.09     The population pyramid is characterized by a large stratum of young
people which puts an additional pressure on the present unemployment situation.
The development of industry, tourism, and services around the town of Gabes
has drained part of the labor force of the surrounding oases, but this has
been offset by influx of labor from other nearby oases and from inland.
1/ Salt tolerance of palm trees and alfalfa is over 7 g/l and vegetables
generally cultivated in the oases can tolerate up to 4 g/l without a
substantial decrease in production.



- 10 -
E. Land Tenure and Cropping Systems
3.10     Land Tenure.  The Project area consists of about 4,800 ha of
agricultural land in 42 existing oases and 200 ha additional land to be
brought under cultivation. Of the existing area under irrigation command, 365
ha is state domain, of which 100 ha is used for the professional training
center (CFPA Zerkine) and 265 ha is leased to a dairy company (STIL). The
remaining 4,435 ha are owned by about 7,500 farmers. Generally, the small
size of holdings in the Project area is conducive to intensive development of
irrigation and, in addition, cropping systems (vegetables and fruits) are such
that land tenure is not a major constraint to agricultural development. Size
distribution of holdings shows a predominance of smallholders:
Size of holding (ha)       0-0.25        0.25-0.5        0.5-1.0      1 and over
Z of farmers                 35               27            27            10
v of area                     8               17            38            37
An additional characteristic, in several oases, is the large degree of farm
fragmentation, found especially in oases close to Gabes where each hectare is
typically fragmented into 3-4 parcels owned by different owners. In some
cases absentee ownership is a problem or extreme fragmentation is a cause of
inefficient farming. For example, the 2,291 parcels of the Oudhref oasis
covering 263 ha belong to 1,200 owners, 74Z of whom own between 2 and 15
parcels. Options available to improve land ownership through land
consolidation are described in Annex 10. Although available legal provisions
would permit the enforced execution of a land reform program on the new
developed areas, their application in the Project area would be resisted by
the local farmers. Therefore, and because of the relatively small area where
land reform would be legally applicable (200 ha) the Project strategy for land
improvement focuses on the extension services to motivate farmers in promoting
the necessary arrangements for grouping farms into more manageable sizes
(para. 5.11). Recent experiences made in this sense have proved to be
satisfactory.
3.11     Irrigation and Land Use.  In the Gabes Governorate area there are
approximately 8,500 ha of irrigated land (oases) of which 7,700 ha get water
from deep wells and 800 ha from shallow wells. Shallow wells are all privately
operated. Out of the 7,700 ha about 6,150 ha are operated by the water user
associations (AIC), which are grouped at the Governorate level in the GIH
(Group of hydraulic interest); 800 ha are "state domain" and the remaining 750
ha correspond to 3 public irrigated perimeters (PPI) operated by the OMVGH.
The total number of oases in the Governorate is 52, and there are 47 AICs.
3.12     The oases of the Project area can be subdivided in four different
types: (a) the oases of El Hamma region which are mainly occupied by common
varieties of date palm trees, olive trees and forage; (b) the oases of Gabes
where vegetable production predominate; (c) oases of Gabes South where fruit
trees (pomegranate) predominates; and (d) the oases of Ghannouche M'Ziraa



- 11 -
where there is only production of vegetables. There is direct connection
between the availability of water and the willingness of farmers to use
inputs. Because of shortage of water, use of agricultural inputs is
relatively low. The use of farm machinery is very limited and was introduced
only in the seventies. Most farmers still use animal traction or hand labor.
Due to shortage of water and insufficient use of fertilizers and other inputs,
yields are low (para. 6.01).
F. Agricultral Support Services
Main Institutions
3.13     For the construction and assistance in the management of publicly
financed irrigation facilities in the region, the Gabes and Medenine
Irrigation Development Agency (OMVGM) was created by the Law 80-32 of May 26,
1980. In the irrigated perimeters developed by Government in the region the
OMVGM is responsible for (a) the provision of extension and other services
required to motivate farmers to participate in and reach the objectives of
high agricultural production and efficiency; (b) assistance to farmers in
obtaining agriculture credit and in creating storage and marketing facilities;
and (c) assuring the O&M of irrigation networks. OMVGM is also responsible for
providing support to farmers in privately built irrigation schemes. The OMVGM
has its headquarters in Gabes and has jurisdiction over four governorates
(Kebili, Gabes, Medenine, and Tataouine). Its area of intervention covers
18,500 ha of irrigation of which 14,100 ha are supplied by deep wells and the
balance by surface wells. At the present time it comprises three regional
directorates (Nefzaoua, Gabes and Medenine); two others (Tataouine and Mareth)
are foreseen in the future. Separate from OMVGM, The Regional Agricultural
Development Committee (CRDA) in the town of Gabes represents the several
services of the Ministry of Agriculture at the provincial level. It is
responsible for studies, statistics, credit evaluation and the coordination
of agricultural development activities.
3.14     The Associations of Coumon Interest (AIC) are one of the four types
of water users association (WUA) existing in Tunisia and it is the only one
present in the Gabes region. The AICs are responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation systems in the project area. The AICs are ruled
by Decree of April 7, 1936. Their management is assured by a Director and a
Coamittee composed of four elected members. The revenues of the AICs are from
membership fees, sales of water, subsidies, and loans. Their expenditures are
related to executing new works and maintaining and renovating the existing
ones, and to operating the water distribution system. The updating of water
allocation by users is ar; important role of the AICs. In principle, the
Government provides any necessary technical assistance to the AICs and may
execute new works or large repairs when necessary.
3.15     The Group of Hydraulic Interest (GIl) are apex institutions for the
AIC's which (a) carry out studies for the execution of hydraulic works of
common interest; (b) associate the AICs involved in these works; and
(c) coordinate the management of those &ICs. The GIH have a Board of
Directors with representatives of the interested parties and Government
departments. The Code des Eaux - CE (Water Law), dated March 31, 1975,
specifies that GIHs are created in each Governorate as consultative bodies
(a) to prepare programs for the best use of the water resources; (b) to review
water management projects; and (c) to coordinate the WUAs of the Governorate.



_ 12 -
Extension and Research
3.16     Extension.  Until 1980 extension services were provided by the CRDA
through its Directorate of Crop Production. After the creation of the OMVGM,
extension services were centralized in the Extension Directorate of OMVGM
which comprises three sections - credit, nursery and extension which has
separate divisions for livestock, tree crops and vegetables. At the regional
level OMVGM provides extension services through 31 CTVs of which 12 are in the
Project area. However, the lack of staff (1 extension officer for about
450 farmers), facilities and equipment makes it difficult for OMVGM to provide
adequate extension services. The Project would address this issue by financing
the construction of buildings, the supply of equipment and vehicles, the
provision of demonstration plots, and incremental staff salaries (para. 4.09).
Extension work on forage crops is carried out in cooperation with staff'of OEP,
who also carry out extension work on animal production. OEP has 4 technicians
stationed in Gabes, and additional staff at Chenchou in charge of an alfalfa
pellet plant. Agricultural training is provided at the Professional
Agricultural Training Center (CFPA) at Zerkine which offers a two-year course
for farmers' sons, oriented toward irrigation and animal production.
Specialized courses are also provided in special subjects such as tractor
operations, greenhouse cultivation, grafting and pruning. The staff consists
of 10 instructors and one coordinator for 59 students in the two-year program
and 28 students in the greenhouse and tractor courses.
3.17     Research.  The Arid Zone Institute (IRA) at Medenine is in charge of
agricultural research in the Project area. It has a limited research program
at its substations at Gabes and Chenchou. At the latter, research is carried
out on milking goats, table olives, pistachios and other fruit trees. Under a
recent bilateral agreement with the Government of Italy, IRA will establish a
substation at Kebili which would cover some of the research requirements of
the Project (para. 4.15). In addition, the Water Resources Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture (DRE) has a regional laboratory in Gabes for soil and
water analysis. This laboratory would expand its program to include systematic
salinity testing for the Project (para. 4.16). Furthermore, OMVGM has
conducted some applied research on greenhouse vegetables.
Input Supply and Distribution
3.18     In contrast to mobt other parts of the country, basic fertilizers are
sold by private retailers in the Project area. The proximity of the fertilizer
production plants and the consequential savings in transport c'sts, makes it a
more viable operation than anywhere else in the country. Similarly, small-
scale mechanized equipment for orchard and vegetable production is available
on the private market, because many development activities in the Gabes, most
non-agricultural, have attracted the private sector. OMVGM, meanwhile, does
provide inputs to farmers as credit in kind, especially for tunnel and
greenhouse vegetables. In 1983, 13Z of the total number of seedlings used for
orchard establishment in the Gabes Governorate was distributed by OMVGM (7,000
seedlings). In 1984, the Office distributed seed, plant protection chemicals,
fertilizer, plastic and other material for covered vegetable production, and
agricultural tools with an estimated value of D 144,000. The share in value
of each component being respectively 14, 7, 21, 55 and 3Z. Farmers make a
down payment and are required to repay the remainder over two years.



- 13 -
Government policy is currently to reduce the role of the Office by relying
increasingly on the private sector for input distribution. This policy would
be continued during the Project period.
Agricultural Credit
3.19     BNT is the main agency responsible for providing agricultural credit
in the Project area from branches in Gabes. In 1983, a total of about
D 600,000 in loans was approved in the Gabes Governorate. rr. addition, for
greenhouse establishment in 1981-1984 OMVGM provided farmers with loans in
kind amoanting to D 843,440, of which D 238,400 was onlent from a BNT loan.
In 1983, OMVGM distributed inputs for a value of D 126,000 as credit in kind.
Marketing
3.20     The GIL "Groupement Interprofessionnel des Legumes" (Association of
vegetable producers and traders) promotes vegetable exports in various ways.
It has established 14 packing and sorting plants, has a marketing agency in
Marseille and sends reports on the customer's reactions to Tunisian produce.
A 1Z charge on all vegetables passing through the Tunis wholesale market
serves to defray its costs. It provides all packing stations participating in
its export program with boxes and packing material, provides training, assists
with purchase and installation of sorting and packing machines. It has
seedling nurseries in Sfax, Monastir, and Bizerte, which can provide support
to the Gabes area. SODEPRINE is a private company financed by local investment
banks for the marketing of out-of-season fruits and vegetables. It has
established a packing plant at Monastir and is offering to farmers production
contracts for selected crops, including crops for export. I. has contacted
OMVGM as a first step to promote farmers' interest in the Gabes area.
The "Groupement Interprofessionnel des Agrumes et des Fruits (GIAF) is an
association of fruit and citrus growers and traders, aimed at promoting
and supervising exports. It provides technical information, assists in
establishing grading and packing plants, supervises quality, and produces fruit
tree seedlings in three nurseries. It also assists farmers with pest control.
A 2 mill/kg tax was levied on marketed citrus and apricots to enable GIAF to
assist farmers with spraying. These agencies would be associated with Project
development (paras. 6.02, 6.03).
3.21     A network of 22 marketing cooperatives exist in the Project area with
about 6,000 members, 10X of the agricultural population of the region. Only
three of these cooperatives are functioning adequately to provide service to
farmers. In order to improve the situation, the project for the Promotion of
Small and Medium Agricultural Enterprises (PROPEM) is being financed in the
Project area by the Tunisian Government and the European Economic Community,
with the objective of providing technical assistance for the organization and
management of service and marketing cooperatives. Given the activities of
this project, the proposed Project would need to only offer limited further
marketing assistance to the OMVGM to satisfy the marketing requirements of the
Project (para. 5.14).
G. Iufrastructure
3.22     The Project area is relatively well provided with economic and social
infrastructure. Paved highways connect Gabes to Sfax, to Medenine and to
Kebili and serve most of the oases to be rehabilitated. Those oases which are



- 14 -
located away from these main axes are interconnected with them through roads
which are regularly maintained by the DGPC. However, some minor rehabilitation
works are needed on access roads. The national railroad network serves Gabes
with a daily train to and from Tunis. Runways in Gabes, Medenine and Yebel
Melab can be used by small planes and in the island of Jerba an international
airport provides regular flights to Europe. Telephone, telex and radio network
services are available in the urban centers and in some rural areas. Four
hospitals, mobile clinics, and some 60 dispensaries and similar medical
facilities form the health network. The Project area is also well provided
with educational facilities. The Naticnal School for Engineers (EMG) for
civil engineering and chemistry and a training center for specialized labor
are located in Gabes. In Mareth there is an agriculture school. The important
urban centers have high schools (6) and there are some 20 primary schools
spread over the area. The national electricity grid provided by STEG connects
Gabes to Medenine to the south, Sfax to the north and Kebili to the west.
Side branches serve the rural population. Every existing oasis is provided
with electricity. The urban water supply is based on the main conduit
Fedjej-Gabes which brings water pumped from the CI in a series of deep wells
in the Ben Chilouf area, west of El Hamma. Side branches supply the
population along the way.
TV. THE PROJECT
A. Concept and Objectives
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01     The Project is a follow-up to the successful pilot operations in the
Gabes region financed under the Southern Irrigation Project. Bank involvement
during preparation of the second-phase Project has been instrumental in causing
a careful review and optimization of proposed investments and significant
reductions in investment costs, which is especially important in the present
Tunisian context of austerity and rigorous selection of investments.  The
proposed Project will also support the Bank's dialogue, already underway in
the context of the Irrigation Management Improvement Project, on key irrigation
subsector issues such as (a) improving the efficiency of the public (Irrigation
Development Authority for Gabes and Medenine - OMYGM) and private (local
farmers' organizations - AICs) organizations connected with the provision of
irrigation services and with the production and marketing of agricultural
goods, and (b) establishment of proper systems for the O&M of hydraulic
structures.
Project Concept
4.02     The growing industrial development of the Gabes area in recent years
is in contrast with the decreasing agricultural production of the formerly
prosperous oases. This is due mainly to (a) shortage of water (lowering of
artesian head of wells, deteriorating irrigation networks as the irrigation
systems have been abandoned or partly abandoned; increasing water losses and,
aging of existing deep wells); (b) increasing salinity (poor drainage and
insufficient leaching); and (c) aging of trees and subsequent partial
abandonment by farmers. Unless corrective and rehabilitative measures are
taken within a short period of time to upgrade the situation there will be a



- 15 -
further rapid deterioration and the area will become almost totally
unproductive from an agricultural viewpoint sometime in the 1990s with a
seriously negative social impact on the Gabes Region. In order to relieve
this situation, the Project would focus on resolving two main issues - water
availability and improved crop production - and would provide the physical
infrastructure, the institutional support and the assistance to farmers
required for this.
Proiect Obiectives
4.03     The objectives of the Project would be to reverse the sharp decline
of agriculture in the southeast of Tunisia, to ensure its sustainability
through the rehabilitation of the oases of the Gabes Governorate where
intervention is economically and socially viable, and putting into place
adequate financial and institutional arrangements to ensure maintenance is
achieved in the future. It would cover about 5,000 ha in 43 oases gathered
in four groups with similar characteristics. In particular, the Project
would aim to:
(a) provide more and better distributed water;
(b) increase and diversify agricultural production;
Cc)  strengthen public (OMVGM) and private (AIC) organizations directly
connected with the production and marketing of agricultural goods;
Cd) set up durable arrangements for the O&M of the hydraulic structures;
and
Ce) stop the exodus from the area, get farmers back to their land and
improve the socio-economic standards of the farmers' community.
B. components
4.04     To achieve its overall objectives the Project would implement over a
six-year period the following actions:
(a) Development of Infrastructure:
-   rehabilitation of 42 oases totalling some 4,800 ha located in the
Gabes Governorate,
-   expansion of irrigation over new areas totalling 200 ha (1 new
oasis and expansion of 3 existing oases);
(b) Institutional Development:
-   strengthening of the central and regional administration of OMVGM;
-   strengthening of the extension services of OMVGM,
-   increasing the development of applied research,
-   support to marketing,
-   strengthening the financial and technical capacity of the AIC's;
(c) Support Action:
-   promotion of credit and input supplies,
-   strengthening of services to supervise the execution of the works
and to monitor and evaluate project impact, and
-   provision of technical assistance and training.



- 16 -
C. Detailed Features
4.05     Rehabilitation of Existing Oases.  The Project would provide for the
rehabilitation of 42 oases covering 4,800 ha. Rehabilitation aims at
(a) improving or renewing water abstraction systems by digging new deep wells
or by installing pumps where artesianism is insufficient to allow for gravity
flow; (b) diminishing water losses and improving water management in general
by setting up a conduit distribution system; (c) improving soil structure and
decreasing salinity by improving the drainage network and by applying adequate
leaching procedures; (d) changing cropping patterns to obtain higher yields
and to orient production toward more valuable crops by uprooting old and low
productive trees and by planting others according to practices which can make
the best use of the available water.
4.06     Rehabilitation works, which would be implemented over a period of four
years, would include: (a) digging of 21 new deep wells and their equipment
with pumps; (b) installation of submerged pumps in 32 existing wells;
(c) electrification of all new installed pumping equipment; (d) execution of
3 artesian wells, one being provided with a water cooling system; (e) branching
to the SONEDE pipeline Chott Fedjej/Gabes for the supply of El Hamma with
150 lls; (f) execution of a buried piped water distribution system provided
with regulating reservoirs, valves, flow control devices and hydrants on
4,870 ha; (g) improvement of the drainage network and outlets by cleaning and
deepening or increasing the density of the existing system; (h) rehabilitation
of the farm access roads inside the oases; and (i) uprooting and removal of
about 240,000 palm trees and 30,000 olive trees which are old or unproductive.
4.07     Creation of New Oases.  The Project would provide for a minor
expansion of the irrigated area by about 200 ha by using available extra yield
of newly equipped wells and by digging one more well: Oued Nakhla (30 ha),
Ben Chilouf (70 ha), Limaoua (70 ha) and Zrig El Ghandri (30 ha). Works also
include the conveyance and distribution water pipe system, drainage network
and internal access roads.
4.08     Reserve Tubewells.  The Project includes financing for five reserve
wells totalling some 1,500 m which are expected to be needed to replace aging
boreholes over the Project period. The number of tubewells was determined
after examining all existing wells, their performance and yield particularly
those which are approaching the end of their expected useful life.
4.09     Extension Services.  The Project would strengthen the extension
services of OMVGM to achieve an average ratio of about one extension agent per
100 ha. This would require the recruitment of 22 agents, the construction of
10 extension centers and three regional offices, the purchase of 9 cars and
10 mopeds. During four years, 750 demonstration plots would be established
at farm level. The principles of "training and visit system" (T&V) would be
applied by the extension services of the OMVGM (para. 5.11 and Annex 9).
The Project would also finance the recruitment of other technical (two
agronomists and two associate engineers) and administrative staff (secretaries,
accountants) to help restructure the extension services department of OMVGK
and provide technical support in specific subjects. The Technical Assistance
and Extension Support components of the Project (paras. 4.12, 4.15) will also
include investments having a positive impact on extension. The Project
Management Unit (para. 4.14) to be established in OMVGM would measure the
impact of the extension services in achieving Project objectives.



- 17 -
4.10     Marketing Support.  The Project would finance equipment for an
existing Government cold storage (300 m3), grading and packing facility
(3,000 t/year) to complete this installation in Gabes and two 10-ton and one
1-ton truck to provide for improved collection of produce from farmers and to
transport the products to the storage and market facilities. After an interim
period and according to the agreed time frame to be provided by the Office by
June 1986 facilities would be rented to the private sector under contract
(para. 5.14). The Technical Assistance Component (para. 4.12) would also
contribute to improvement of marketing performance at the OMVGM and farmer
levels.
4.11     Strengthening of OMVGM.  The strengthening of the regional infra-
structure of the OMVGM to provide adequate extension services (para. 4.10) has
to be accompanied by a supporting effort at the headquarters level in Gabes.
This component takes into account the restructuring activities foreseen in the
Irrigation Management Improvement Project for OMVGM.  The Project would finance
the recruitment of additional technical (three mechanics) and administrative
staff (four secretaries and typists), the construction of houses (4), and the
provision of workshop equipment, and of cars (4). Details of equipment and
vehicles to be provided by the Project are given in Table 5.
4.12     Training and Technical Assistance.  Training would aim at providing
OMVGM staff with the skills required to assist the AICs in dealing with water
management and maintenance of pumping and water distribution structures.
OMVGM would organize study tours and attendance at seminars and workshops on
electromechanics, hydromechanics and water management for a total of
11 man-months. The Project would also finance the training of a financial
analyst to assist the DGR in the monitoring of the execution of works (cost,
disbursement, administrative aspects). In addition, consultant services
totalling 25 man-months would also be financed by the Project to review and
give recommendations on specific fields like marketing, organization and
management, extension, and hydromechanics. Terms of reference for these
services are included in Annex 8.
4.13     Onfarm Investment-Credit.  The Project would provide for credit to be
made available through BNT for the acquisition and planting of new trees
(450,000), small farm machinery, reservoirs and other small structures aiming
at making the best use of the available water and at improving production
conditions. OMVGM would function as a channel for the partial financing of
greenhouses (20 ha) and plastic tunnels (80 ha) (see para. 2.09 for current
interest rates structure). Farmers would make a 20% equity contribution to
the proposed investments.
4.14     Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.  In addition to the monitoring
of procurement and of contracts for execution of works to be done by the
supervision team and DGR headquarters, the Project would finance a management
and monitoring unit to be set up in OMVGM. This unit would be provided with a
full-time agroeconomist and an assistant whose qualifications and experience
would be approved by the Bank prior to their appointment. This unit would be
assisted by the expert to be financed in the context of the Technical
Assistance component. Basic indicators to be monitored during project
implementation are listed in Annex 3. The creation of this unit and the
appointment of its chief would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan.



- 18 -
The DPSAE of the Ministry of Agriculture would also carry out the role of
periodically supervising and evaluating the Project. The DPSAE is adequately
staffed and routinely evaluates investment projects in the agriculture sector
for the Ministry.
4.15     Extension Support.  The Project would provide for assistance to OMVGM
in pursuing ongoing experimentation ir. those themes specifically related to
the Project objectives, particularly in the fields of producing good quality
seedlings, testing and disseminating water saving practices and controlling
water and soil sa'linity (in close collaboration with DRE). In order to help
improving the technical messages of extension agents and providing farmers to
easy access to regionally tested technological innovations, the Project would
finance the construction and equipment of plastic greenhouses (nursery), other
miscellaneous structures (shades, etc.) and the equipment of a emall soil and
water laboratory. Four technicians would be recruited and they would work in
close contact with the OMVGM extension services to ensure that their applied
research programs are the most suitable ones, to obtain the feedback and to
improve the use of messages resulting from their research activities.
The Government, through its research program in the south, under the
responsibility of IRA, would carry out the selected research programs
essential for the Project according to a protocol to be agreed between
OMVGM and IRA. Assurances for the inclusion of these programs in the
IRA's activities were obtained at negotiations (para. 5.12).
D. Status ofEnineenny
4.16     Standard architectural plens and specifications are available for
most Project buildings. The Government through DGR has hired consultants to
prepare the detailed design and bidding documents for the rehabilitation works
and for the new oases (irrigation and drainage network and roads). Detailed
specifications and bidding documents for the first year of works execution and
for the supply of goods are being completed and bid results for deep well
execution confirm Project cost estimates. Particular attention is being paid
to the definition of the permeability characteristics of the soils for the
design of the drainage networks, which will permit proper leaching and salinity
control. The remainder of the documents for the other three years of the
Project would be completed before December 1985.
E. Costs
4.17     Over the six-year implementation period (1986-1991), the total cost
of the Project is estimated to be US$58.3 million (D 43.8 million) with an
estimated foreign exchange component of US$29.6 million (D 22.2 million) or
51X of the total Project cost. The cost estimates include taxes and duties,
totalling US$14.3 million (D 10.8 million) or 25% of total Project costs.
Project costs are summarized in the following table and shown by year in
Table 1 and by summary account in Table 2.



- 19 -
PRO3ECT COST SUIMARY
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total   X Foreign  X Total
Costs    Costs       Costs     Costs      Costs     Costs   Exchange  leas  Costs
----- (O 000)-----                     (US$000)---------
EEI4AOLITATIOA OF EXISTING
=rCIATION SYSTESS
Civil works                  4."91.3   7,550.6  12.S41.9   6.655.0  10,067.5  16,722.5            60          42
Onfarm works                 2,701.7   2.270.1   4,971.8   3.602.2   3.026.8   6,629.0            46          16
Irrigation equipment         1,073.5   1.821.8   2,89S.3   1.431.4   2,429.1   3,860.S            63           9
Operating costs             1.848.4   12.41.1  _2.LJA        2.46A4.    1,654.C   4112.3          la          1Q
Subtotal                 10.614.8  12,883.6  23.498.4  14,153.0  17,178.2  31.331.2            55         77
NEW rRRTCATXOU SYSTEM5
Civil works                    396.4      688.9   1.085.3      528.5     918.5   1.447.0          64           4
Onfarm works                    88.8       63.2      1S2.0     118.4       84.3     202.7         42           -
Irrigation equipment            78.7      132.9     211.6      105.4      177.2     282.2         63           1
Operating costs                .i9Z        47.2      117.0      92.9       63.0     155.J                     Ia
Subtotal                    633.6     932.2   1.565.8       844.8   1.243.0   2,087.7          60          s
ONFAUR DEVELOPMENT              1,33S.2   1.015.3   2,350.5   1,780.2   1.353.8   3.134.0            43           8
IWSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Construction                   412.7      329.3     742.0    5S0.3       439.0      989.3         44           2
Vehicles                        94.0      167.1     261.1      12S.3      222.8     348.1         64           1
Equipment                      211.4      221.S     432.9      281.9     291.4      S77.3         S1           1
Studies. Tech. assistance       64.8       9S.0      159.8      86.4      126.7     213.1         60           1
Operating costs              1.241.5      738L4   17           655.1       17.9   l972.0          12          Is
Subtotal                  2.024.3   1.051.3   3.075.7   2.6"9.1   1,401.8   4.100.9            34         10
Total Base Line Costs       17,607.9  1S,882.6  30,490.4  19,477.2  21,176.7  40,653.9            S2         lO0
Physical contingencies       1.538.6   1.871.9   3.410.S   2.051.S   2.495.8   4.S47.3            SS          11
Price contingenctes          5-412.7   4L441.3  9.ZS4.D  72.216 29   5S21.7  13138.6              _5          12
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         21.ss9.2  22.19S.8  43,7SS.S  28.745.6  29,S94.2  58.339.8            S1         144



- 20 -
4.18     Base costs expressed in June 1985 prices were derived from recent
bidding and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies have been allowed in
general at the rate of 15 for civil works and 10% for equipment. No physical
contingency allowance was provided for operating costs, studies, technical
assistance and credit requirements.  Price cantingencies have been calculated
on the basis of the following annual percentage rates, applied to local and
foreign costs, including physical contingencies:
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Local costs        10      10      10     9      8       7
Foreign costs       7.5     8      8      8      8       5
F. Finaneixw
4.19     A Bank loan of US$27.7 million to the Government of Tunisia is
proposed to finance 100% of the foreign exchange component of the Project,
including the foreign exchange component of incremental operating costs but
excluding the agricultural credit component, which would be financed by BNT
through the available lines of credit. The balance of funds required would be
financed by the Government and Project beneficiaries. The Bank loan would
cover 48Z of Project costs (63X of Project costs net of taxes) and 94% of the
full foreign exchange component. The Project costs would be shared in the
following amounts and proportions.
Local     Foreign      Total     Z of Net
(US$ '" equivalent)-    Project Costs
World Bank                   -          27.7       27.7          63
BNT                          1.0        1.9         2.9           6
Beneficiaries                5.0        -           5.0          11
Government                   8.4        -           8.4          20
Net project costs        14.4       29.6        44.0         100
Taxes and duties         14.3        -          14.3
Total project costs      28.7       29.6        58.3
4.20     The proposed Bank loan would be for 17 years, including four years of
grace. The Goverrment would earmark about US$7.5 million (27%) of the loan
proceeds to OMVGM through its annual budgets to finance proposed Project
activities. US$20.2 million would be included in GR's annual budget. The
Government would also cause BNT to provide investment credit to farmers
(US$2.9 million). Beneficiaries would share the Project cost through their



- 21 -
downpayments for the credit component, and, through their quotas to the AICs
to pay full O&M costs during the Project implementation period, and by paying
their share of the tree uprooting operation (US$5.0 million). Government
would finAnce the remaining Project costs (US$8.4 million).
G. Proeurement
4.21     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Method                      Total
Project Element               ICB         LCB         Other        NA        Cost
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Deep wells              5.1 (3.4)    -            -            -        5.1 (3.4)
B. Supply of conduits     13.4 (8.2)    -            -            -       13.4 (8.2)
C. Execution of irrg.
and drainage works,
roads                   -          11.2 (7.0)    -            -       11.2 (7.0)
D. Supply of pumps, pipe
accessories and
hydromechanic equip.   5.0 (3.2)    -                         -        5.0 (3.2)
E. Electrification                       -          0.4 (0.3)    -         0.4 (0.3)
F. Buildings and Minor
Civil Works             -           1.1 (0.6)   0.3 (0.1)    -         1.4 (0.7)
G. Tree uprooting            -          6.2 (3.8)    -            -        6.2 (3.8)
H. Vehicles and other
equipment               -           0.7 (0.5)   0.6 (0.4)    -         1.3 (0.9)
I. Studies, T.Asst.,
Training                -            -          0.3 (0.2)    -         0.3 (0.2)
J. Onfarm investments       -               -        -           4.7 (-)   4.7 (-)
L. Incremental staff
and other op.costs      -            -           -           9.3 (-)   9.3 (-)
Total                 23.5(14.8)  19.2(11.9)   1.6 (1.0)  14.0 (-)  58.3(27.7)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
4.22     Procurement would be carried out by DGR (irrigation infrastructure
and supply of major equipment) and by OMVGK (buildings, tree uprooting,
vehicles, and miscellaneous equipment). Table 4 lists contracts to be
awarded, methods of procurement, timing and responsibility of processing.
4.23     International Competitive Bidding.  The drilling of deep wells
(US$5.1 million), the supply or conduits (US$13.4 million), the purchase of
pumps and hydromechanic equipme- (US$5.0 million) would be procured by '-CB in
accordance with Bank guidelines published in August 1984. When bulking is not
feasible, equipment contracts which do not exceed the equivalent of US$150,000
each, and totalling no more than US$1.0 million in aggregate may be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding p'rocedures. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods or the actual custom duties and import
taxes whichever is lower.



- 22 -
4.24     Local Competitive Bidding.  Local competitive bidding procedures are
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution
of the Project. Laws and regulations regarding local procurement procedures
and practices in Tunisia are being reviewed in the Bank in order to reach a
judgement as to whether local procedures are acceptable for Bank-financed
contracts. The findings of that review will be discussed with the Tunisian
authorities and agreements would be sought regarding any changes needed to
make the procedures acceptable to the Bank. Tree uprooting (US$6.2 million)
and civil works (US$11.2 million) comprising the laying of pipes, the
construction of buildings, the construction of the drainage networks and roads
would be procured under local competitive bidding. Due to the scattered
nature of these works they would not be of interest to foreign contractors.
Similarly, the construction of buildings (U$1.0 million) such as offices,
houses, CTVs (small lots scattered all over the project area) would not be of
interest to foreign contractors and they would also in principle be awarded on
the basis of LCB. The supply of vehicles or miscellaneous equipment, such as
minor farm machinery and tools and research equipment (US$0.4 million), would
also be subject to LCB. Representatives of importers are well represented as
are local manufacturers.
4.25     Other procedures.  Small dispersed civil works such as drainage
improvements, construction of windbreaks small isolated buildings, and minor
civil works would not be suitable for contracting and would be carried out by
OMVGM by force account under standard Government procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank, up to a total amount of US$800,000. Contracts for
electrification and related equipment (US$0.4 million) would be negotiated
with STEG, a public company, solely authorized to execute rural electrification
works. Office and extension equipment, furniture and other similar goods which
are easily obtained off-the-shelf, and whose contract cost does not exceed
US$20,000 individually or US$500,000 in aggregate, would be procured through
local shopping based on at least three price quotations. Because it is
advantageous to standardize the existing park and spare parts, small vehicles
(US$0.06 million) would be procured through direct contracting with the local
assembling plants following procedures currently used by Government.
4.26     Contract Review. All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$500,000 or more and bidding packages for goods costing
the equivalent of US$150,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 80Z of
the total estimated value of contracts for both goods and works. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract
award. The first bidding document of each agency for works or goods below
those limits would also be reviewed prior to the start of the bidding.
Assurances that the above procedures would be followed were obtained at
negotiations.
4.27     Consultants for technical assistance (US$0.3 million), with
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Bank, would be appointed following Bank guidelines on the use of consultants
published in August 1981.
H. Disbursement
4.28     The disbursement profiles for Bankwide area development projects,
EMENA agricultural projects, Bankwide agricultural projects and all Tunisia
Projects show that full disbursement has taken an average of eight years.



- 23 -
In the case of the present Project, full disbursement is expected to take place
over seven years (Table 3).  The reasons for deviating from the disbursement
profiles are: (a) the existence of standard plans and designs and bidding
documents for all major disbursement items (buildings, supply of conduits and
accessories, execution of deep wells, irrigation and drainage civil works,
supply of pumps and equipment); (b) the advanced stage of preparation of
technical specifications and execution plans which will permit early
procurement of key project items; (c) the fact that major investments are
scheduled for the first four years of the Project period; and (d) the provision
of a special account which would permit expediting payment procedures locally.
4.29     Disbursements would be made after receipt of full documentation,
except in the case of works by force account and goods and services provided
under contracts valued at under US$50,000 equivalent for which disbursements
would be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE).
The SOE would be certified by the Project implementing agency incurring the
expenditure. Supporting documentation would be retained by the implementing
agency and made available for inspection during Bank supervision missions and
by external auditors. Except in the case of direct payments, no reimbursement
application for less than US$20,000 would be accepted. Should STIL continue
to rent the oasis El Aouinet, disbursements for work in this oasis would be
conditioned to the signing of an agreement between STIL and OMVGM related to
repayment of investment costs (para. 6.19). Disbursement categories, amounts
allocated and the share of expenditures to be financed would be as follows:
Amount of the      Z of Expenditures
Category                               Loan Allocated    to be Financed
(US$ million)
1. Civil works for irrigation and              11.4     60% of local and 100%
drainage, agricultural and                          of foreign expenditures
institutional development
2.  Equipment, materials and vehicles          11.4     65% of local and 100l   of
foreign expenditures
3.  Consultants, and training                   0.2     70% of local and 1001 of
foreign expenditures
4.  Unallocated                                 4.7
Total                                27.7
4.30     To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the Project, the
Bank would deposit after loan effectiveness an initial sum of US$1.0 million
to set up a revolving fund to finance eligible expenditures corresponding to
the Bank's share of the average three months' Project needs. The Bank funds
would be deposited in US dollars in a special account at the Central Bank of
Tunisia (BCT) and would be channeled as needed to the Project through the



- 24 -
Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT). For this purpose, a Project account would
be opened by the DGR at BNT in Tunis, and the OMVGM would have a similar
Project subaccount at the BNT branch in Gabes. Government counterpart funds
would be secured through appropriate budget allocations. Assurances were
obtained that the Project's annual budgets and financial plans, as proposed to
the Ministries of Planning and Finance would be presented to the Bank for
information not later than September 30 of each year.
4.31     The Bank would replenish the revolving fund as requested upon receipt
of satisfactory evidence that expenditures made from it were eligible for
financing out of the fund. A replenishment request would normally be sent to
the Bank when 50Z of the revolving fund has been disbursed, i.e.  about every
two to three months. Should any disbursement made from the special account
not be acceptable to the Bank, Government would be required to deposit the
corresponding ineligible amount into the special account, or if the Bank so
requests, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount not eligible.
4.32     No further deposits into the special account would be made by the Bank
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the part of the loan that is expected to
be disbursed at loan closure would be equal to US$2.0 million. If it is
determined that any amount outstanding in the special account is not required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Government would
refund to the Bank such amount outstanding in the special account. Assurances
on the above points were obtained at negotiations.
V. PROJECT EMPLEMENTATION
A. Organizaion and blanagement
5.01     The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
the execution of the Project. OMVGM would be the primary executing agency
operating through a Project Management Unit (PMU) set up under the Project.
The MOA Planning Department (DPSAE) would monitor Project activities at the
central level, supervise the allocation of counterpart funds and would be in
charge of Project evaluation.
5.02     Major Project civil works would be managed and supervised by the
Rural Development Directorate of MOA (DGR). The DGR would be responsible for
preparation of bidding documents, procurement and supervision of the execution
of the important works related to the hydraulic infrastructure, including
internal roads and purchase of hydraulic and electric equipment, and vehicles
for the supervision team. The OMVGM would be responsible for procurement and
supervision of the works related to tree uprooting and removal, extension
buildings and miscellaneous construction, acquisition of miscellaneous
equipment and vehicles connected with support activities. The regional office
of the DGR in Gabes has experienced technical staff who would be strengthened
and organized into a special supervision team for the Project. This local
team would be supported by the technical assistance of DGR headquarters in
Tunis to which it would be accountable. Works and supplies to be procured and
executed by OMVGM are of minor importance and are well within the scope of its
present capabilities.



- 25 -
B. Project Implementation Stra
5.03     The major objective of the Project is to stop the gradual degradation
of the existing oases. This objective would be achieved through Project
activities which would be supportive of private sector investment in the use
and maintenance of the new irrigation and marketing infrastructure. The
Government through the executing agencies would promote the necessary
infrastructural changes, but the private sector - the traditional water
user associations (AICs) - would be responsible for the adequate use and
maintenance of the new infrastructure. The OMVGM would continue to play an
important role in assisting the AICs in their activities by providing extension
services, including the dissemination of inter alia, special themes of applied
research for which it would be responsible, and other services not readily
available in the area from the private sector. As for marketing, the Office
would eventually cede the management of the collection and refrigeration
centers to the AICs and marketing cooperatives while continuing to provide
technical assistance as necessary.
5.04     The issue of the reorganization of the AICs and the creation of the
legal framework to improve their operating procedures and to make them simpler
and more flexible is being dealt with 4n the context of the Irrigation
Management Improvement Project; thus the Project would only address in
particular the following issues: (a) the organization of OMVGM support
services to AICs and marketing cooperatives; and (b) definition of the
framework under which both the OMVGM and the AICs would share responsibility
for agriculture development.
The Organization of Support Services
5.05     OMVGM is already providing agricultural support services.  To avoid
the creation of inefficient state monopolies and unnecessary involvement of
the Office in activities which could be provided by the private sector, the
following principles would guide the Office's expansion of agricultural support
services: (a) the OMVGM would only provide those services which due to their
nature, the private sector cannot (extension, research); (b) services not
readily available to farmers or farmers' associations by the private sector
(marketing, special repairs and maintenance works) would be provided by the
OMVGM at cost; the Office would encourage the private sector or farmers'
associations to progressively take over this type of services. Consistent with
agreements to be reached under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project,
full costing would be achieved by the end of 1988, with interim arrangements
to start in 1986. Acceptance of these principles was obtained at negotiations.
Agreement between the OMVGM and the AICs
5.06     An agreement defining the division of responsibilities between the
OMVGM and the AICs with respect to water management and general agricultural
development would be signed before the completion of the irrigation works. The
major stipulations of these agreements would focus on the following principles:
OMVGM would commit itself (a) to provide free extension services; (b) to advise
and help on marketing of crops; (c) to help the AICs in preparing their annual
programs of activities and budgets and in collaboration with the regional
representative of the Ministry of Finance, monitor these budgets; (d) to
provide free technical assistance and advice for the maintenance of works and



- 26 -
of equipment and in establishing water distribution rules; (e) to provide any
other service related to agricultural development at cost and at the request
of the AICs; and (f) to monitor the annual budgets, and the income and
expenditure statements of the AIC's. The AICs would commit themselves (a) to
maintain and operate the pumping systems, the irrigation and drainage networks
and to pay the respective costs; (b) to follow OMVGM's technical advice and to
participate in the extension and training efforts made available to them;
(c) to promote land consolidation; (d) to facilitate the reconversion program,
in particular tree removal; (e) to pay for the services to be asked from and
to be provided by the OMVGM in the fields of repair and maintenance, marketing
and others; (f) to include in their annual budgets the repayment by associated
farmers of loans and of the cost of uprooting and removing trees; (g) to
contribute to a fund to pay for major repairs and replacement of equipment;
(h) to levy special assessments for major repairs which would be performed by
the OMVGM; and (i) to permit the OMVGM to monitor the adequacy of O&M efforts
and to pay OMVGM for services provided to bring the state of O&M up to
standard, if necessary. The above principles were incorporated in a model
draft agreement which was reviewed at negotiations and would be presented and
discussed with the AICs before starting of works; specific agreements would be
negotiated with each AIC before completion of the irrigation works; the first
five agreements would be sent to the Bank for approval.
C. Execution of Project works
5.07     Irrigation Infrastructure.  Bidding documents for the equipment of
deep wells and supply of conduits, and accessories are under preparation in
the DGR which nas already sufficient experience and is acquainted with Bank's
procurement requirements in this field. Consultants have been hired by the
Government to prepare topographic maps and execution plans for the
rehabilitation works (irrigation and drainage networks, internal roads). Bid
invitation for the rehabilitation works to be executed in 1986/87 is foreseen
for the third quarter of 1985. Separate bids would be invited for the supply
of pumps, conduits, hydromechanic equipment and conduits accessories, and for
execution of the irrigation and drainage networks, and other related civil
works. Bids have already been invited for the execution of deep wells.
5.08     Supervision of Works.  The execution of works will be supervised by a
team of DGR staff specially appointed for the purpose. This team would operate
out of its regional office in Gabes.  This team, to be headed by an experienced
engineer, will consist of two brigades with one technician and two surveyors each.
The Project would finance the provision of vehicles for this supervision team.
5.09     Other works. The OMVGM is carrying out a detailed study of the
reconversion program which would include the identification of the trees to be
removed. Bidding documents for tree uprooting and removal would be prepared
by the Office with the assistance of the Forest Department. Wind breaks would
be executed by force account following methodology and procedures common in
the region and under the guidance of the Forest Department. Construction
(CTV, houses, workshops, warehouses, etc.) would be executed following
available standard designs already accepted by the Bank for other on-going
projects. Procurement of vehicles or other miscellaneous equipment does not
raise particular problems for the OMVGM which has already sufficient
experience gained in the context of the Southern Irrigation Project.



- 27 -
5.10     Maintenance of the Irrigation Infrastructure.  Whereas the irrigation
networks will not require important maintenance works, drainage systems and
equipment in general will demand routine cleaning and service. The AICs are
already carrying out these maintenance activities on a small scale in the
existing oases but the new infrastructure will require an additional technical
and financial effort. The OMVGM would provide this necessary assistance and
the Project would address in particular (para. 4.12) the training of staff in
the most critical related fields (pumping and hydromechanic equipment). In
the framework of the agreement to be signed with the AICs (para. 5.06), the
Office would help them to prepare annual maintenance programs and woulld give
technical advice during execution of works. Maintenance and repair activities
requiring higher level of expertise would be the responsibility of the Office
which would be paid at cost by the AICs. In constant 1985 prices annual
operating costs at full development (1991) will average 103 D/ha, and full
O&M costs would average 160 D/ha of which pumping represents 34X.
D. Agricultural Support Services
5.11     Extension.  Extension in the past has not been effective due to
organizational deficiencies and to the uncertainty of water supplies. The
Project would reorganize and strengthen the extension services of OMVGM in
order to achieve and maintain regular contact with farmers using the principles
of the T&V system which the project authorities have already agreed to use.
The individual farmer would be the ultimate beneficiary of the extension
efforts.  However, the extension services would also assist the AICs in those
fields which are related to the organization of water distribution, preparation
of budgets and financial control, and technical assistance for operation and
maintenance of equipment and works. Particular attention would be devoted to
motivate farmers in regrouping their plots into more manageable units within
the spirit and in support of the application of the existing land reform law.
Extension agents would visit farm groups on a regular basis, on one specific
day of every other week. This would be posted and made known to farmers and
extension supervisors. Extension agents would assist farmers and the AICs not
only on technical matters, but they also would provide information on crop
planning, marketing and water requirements, would disseminate the results and
recowmendation of the applied research, etc. These additional extension
agents would be recruited from the various training stations, which graduate
sufficient candidates to meet the Project needs. They would benefit from
annual two-weeks training sessions and they would attend monthly briefings and
refresher courses by subject-matter specialists (SMS), conducted in the field
according to a program established by Project management. Those sessions would
be crop specific and relevant to the stage of the growing season. Since the
OMVGM is short in SMS, the Project would provide for the recruitment of four
specialists. In the framework of the technical assistance component, the
Project would also provide necessary support for the OMVGM to carry out these
training activities. Details and proposals of the methodology and guidelines
for extension services are given in Annex 9.
5.12     In order to assess how the extension services would be dealt with
after the Project implementation period, by December 31, 1990, OMVGM would
prepare and submit to the Bank a plan for the organization and operation of
the extension services covering the three years subsequent to the Project.
This plan would include the staff and methodology adjustments resulting from



- 28 -
the Project experience. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that this plan
would be submitted to the Bank for coment, and that it would be provptly
implemented thereafter.
5.13     Extension Support.  This component of the Project focuses essentially
on providing for the supply of good quality seedlings, for promoting adequate
water use, for monitoring soil and water salinity, and for carrying out
research on themes of particular importance for the area. The Project would
finance the execution of minor constructions (greenhouses, shades) and the
acquisition of equipment (water distribution systems, laboratory). The OMVGM
would be responsible for managing the nursery for the production of seedlings
and for carrying out the ongoing water management and water saving tests.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) OMVGM would, by December
31, 1986, establish with IRA, DRS and DRE agreements to assure that the
applied research which is required by the Project and the soils and water
salinity monitoring would be carried out within their programs; (b) OMVGM's
role in the production of vegetable and fruit seedlings would be handed over
to specialized producers by Project completion; and (c) adequate arrangements
be made to transfer its applied research activities to the appropriate
research organization by Project completion.
5.14     Marketing Services.  Given the ongoing marketing activities in the
Project area by other donors (para. 3.21), the responsibility of the OMVGM
with respect to marketing under the Project would therefore be as follows:
(a) to develop a marketing intelligence service and inform farmers, before
planting, of potential marketing constraints based on an analysis of the
intention to plant various crops; (b) to organize on behalf of farmers the
assistance of GIL and GIAF (para. 3.20); (c) to operate for a limited period
the existing collection center and the refrigeration and transportation
facilities financed by the Project; and (d) to continue ongoing activities to
assist and train cooperatives, which would eventually take over the management
of these facilities and the collection center. Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the Office will prepare an action plan defining the marketing
strategy and its support role for the marketing cooperatives by June 30, 1986.
This action plan would include (a) a timetable for the signing of a letter of
understanding between itself and GIL and GIAF or other marketing organization;
(b) agreement that they will operate the collection and refrigeration centers
and charge fees which will progressively cover their real costs of transport
and of running the centers; and (c) agreement that they will, not later than
June 30, 1989, transfer the management of the marketing facilities to
cooperatives or lease them to private operators.
E. Monitoring and Evalution
5.15     Management and Monitoring.  The Project would be managed by a special
unit (PMU) to be created in the OMVGM directly dependent on its President
Director General, headed by an expert whose qualifications would be acceptable
to the Bank and whose appointment should be a condition of loan effectiveness.
The PMU would be responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring of
Project activities, but it would not be directly involved in carrying out
specific Project activities which would be the responsibility of existing
OMVCM departments.  The PMU would collect the necessary information from the
supervision team of the major hydraulic works (DGR) and from the several
departments of the OMVGM involved in Project execution (extension, accounting.



- 29 -
engineering, research). Early in the beginning of Project implementation, and
within the framework of the technical assistance component, the PMU would
receive assistance from an expert in management and information in order to
set up the Project management information system. In addition, the DGR would
also set up a supervision control unit in Tunis which would be responsible for
monitoring the financial execution of the large contracts connected with the
irrigation infrastructure. This unit would report periodically to the PMU.
The Project would provide funds for training a financial analyst who would be
assigned to the DGR control unit.
5.16     Reporting and Evaluation.  The DPSAE would be responsible for
evaluating the Project. It would focus in particular on the impact of the
Project on farm income, the distribution of benefits among farm beneficiaries
and progress in attaining self-reliance of farmers associations. The PMU
would prepare the semi-annual Project progress reports in accordance with
mutually agreed guidelines and would submit them to the Bank. The DPSAE would
also prepare a Project completion report within six months of the closing date.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.17     OMVGM, in designing and setting up its new cost accounting system
under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project (para. 2.05), will also
establish separate accounts for the Project. These accounts would be
maintained in accordance with the same sound and acceptable accounting
principles and practices that will be adopted by all OMVs by December 31, 1985.
OMVGM would establish its operating financial statements as of December 31,
1985 according to the new standard accounting principles. These statements
including the project financial position would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank along with the Statements of Expenditures sent
to the Bank for disbursements under the Bank Loan. The auditors will be the
same for this project as those to be selected for the Irrigation Management
Improvement Project to avoid double auditing. The auditors' annual long-form
reports, and audited OMVGM's and Project's financial statements would be sent
to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.18     Assurances were also obtained at negotiations (i) that OMVGM would
provide assistance for the design and installation of an appropriate accounting
system for the AICs, and training of local bookkeepers capable of running the
system, and (ii) that at least three randomly selected AICs would be chjsen
every year starting in the first year after loan effectiveness to have their
accounts audited by an independent auditor. The accounting system to be
proposed for the AICs will include a chart of accounts clearly distinguishing
between costs of operation and maintenance, reserve accounts for the renewal
of equipment, investment expenses and revenues.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Production
6.01     Through increased water availability, decreased salinity, and
thinning of dense date orchards, the Projeot would enable farmers to intensify
production of fruits, vegetables, dates and forage. Due to the Project area's



- 30 -
comparative ecological advantage, production is expected to be oriented towards
early and late season fruits and vegetables mainly for the domestic market.
In about 20% of the Project area, intensification would be achieved by thinning
of dense and low productive date orchards, combined with leaching following
drainage and irrigation improvements, and subsequent development of inter-
cropped fruit trees and vegetables. In about 60X of the Project area, date
palm density has already been reduced; a more secure and adequate supply of
irrigation water and better drainage would enable farmers to achieve higher
yields and cultivate more demanding crops. Part of the olive trees in certain
areas now mainly under this crop (about 16S) would be grafted with table olive
varieties and intercropped with vegetables, fruit trees and forage crops once
irrigation conditions have improved. Fruit trees and vegetables will be the
main crops of the new irrigation areas while fruit trees would be iutroduced
after drainage works have been carried out in an area now predominantly under
vegetables. Apart from traditional crops such as dates, pomegranates,
apricots, summer and winter vegetables, the Project would promote some
recently introduced crops such as table olives, pistachios and late season
potatoes. Only a limited expansion of greenhouse vegetable production is
foreseen. Estimated production of the main crops in the Project area without
and with project at full development is given below:."
ESTIMATED CROPPED AREA, YIELD AND PRODUCTION
Without Project                With Proiect
Area   Yield   Production   Area   Yield   Production
(ha)   (t/ha)   ('000 t)    (ha)   (t/ha)   ('000 t)
Dates                       977    7.2         7         977   13.3        13
Pomegranates                300   10           3         615   13           8
Apples, Pears, Peaches      100   10           1         230   13           3
Apricots                     64    7           0.4       200   20           4
Olives                      250   12           3          67   15           1
Table Olives                  -    -           -          83   12           1
Pistachios                    -    -           -          83    1.2         0.1
Summer Vegetables           700   10           7       1,000   15          15
Winter Vegetables           570   14           8         900   20          18
Potatoes (late)               -    -           -         167   12           2
Marrow (tunnel)              40   25           1         114   35           4
Cucurbits                   125    8           1         150   20           3
Greenhouse Tomatoes           2   60           0.1        20   80           1.6
Henna                       192    1.2         0.2       330    2           0.6
Forage                      500   30         15          860   50          43
Total Cropped      3,820                         5,796
1/ Yields are based on the CNEA preparation report (Table 8) and on data
collected by appraisal mission among the farmers in the Gabes region.



- 31 -
B.  l
6.02     The Project is based on the expectation that incremental production
resulting from the Project wiil be absorbed by the internal market. With a
projected nation-wide increase of stone fruit consumption between 22 and
37,000 tons over the next 16 years, and the Gabes production being earlier
than the other main producing areas (Kairouan, Cap Bon), the internal market
would easily absorb the Project's expected 4,000 t incremental production of
apricots between 5 and 11 of projected incremental demand. However, it is
expected that amounts produced before April could also be exported due to lack
of competitors on the European market at this time. To ensure a homogeneous
and quality product acceptable for export, GIAF technicians will collaborate
with OMVGM extension staff to advise farmers on the varieties to be established
and provide guidance to ensure adequate care during harvesting, transport and
handling. GIAF would handle any possible export to France by refrigerated
semi-trailers from the grading and packing center to be established by the
Project.
6.03     With an estimated national increased demand for tomatoes of some
60,000 tons by year 2000, the Project's incremental output of greenhouse
tomatoes would also basically be sold on the national market. OMVGM has been
promoting greenhouse vegetable production for about four years. It has
established a grading and packing center in collaboration with GIL, which
handles exports. In 1983, the Gabes area supplied about 50 tons or 9Z of
total exports handled by GIL. In addition, a new private company, SODEPRINE,
established with financing from several Arab investment banks, has been
established in 1983 for the marketing and export of vegetables and fruits.
Production contracts will also be made with farmers in the Gabes area for
other products required by foreign markets, and contacts have already been
made with OMVGM for this purpose.
6.04     Similarly, the incremental production of pomegranates, miscellaneous
other fruits, and late season potatoes is expected to be marketed nation-wide.
A large part of the Gabec incremental production is expected to be transited
through the Tunis wholesale market due to the comparative advantage of the
Gabes area as regards earliness. With a projected incremental consumption of
seed fruits over the next 16 years estimated at between 227 and 468,000
tons,'' the incremental production of 7,000 tons in the project area should
be easily absorbed, being between 3 and 1.52 of the projected incremental
demand. In-season (summer and winter) vegetables, however, are expected to be
marketed mainly in the Gabes and Sfax areas and in the urban centers of the
southern governorates of Gafsa, Tozeur, Medenine and Tataouine, which now
receive some of their vegetables from such distant locations as Cap Bon. An
important relatively nearby year-round market is the island of Jerba with its
flourishing tourist industry.
C. Benefieiaries and Distribution of Benefits
6.05     Irrigation rehabilitation would benefit about 7,500 farm families in
the 42 oases, while irrigation expansion would benefit some 200 farm families.
1/ 'La demande interieure des produits alimentaires en Tunisie : evolution
et perspectives". Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Planning,
Statistics and Economic Analysis, May 1984.



- 32 -
Support services, such as applied research, nurseries and marketing facilities
are expected to benefit an additional 3,000 farm families in other oases and
in areas served by shallow wells.
6.06     Farm budgets have been developed for six representative groupings of
oases which have common situations as regards soil and ecological conditions,
estimated irrigation water availability, present and expected future density
of date palms and fruit trees, farm size, and estimated farmers' uptake of
improved farm technology. The estimated changes in income resulting from the
Project are:
Farm Income
No. of    Farm      Without     Farm Income        X
Farm Model           Farmers   Size      Project     With Project   Increase
(ha)       (D)            (D)
A.  Dates intensification       920      1.0        201          1,952          871
B. Fruit and vegetable
intensification          5,568     0.5         493         1,049          112
C.  Olives intensification      422      1.0        231          1,838          695
D. Olives and crops
intensification            311     1.0         949         3,412          259
E.  New irrigation              200     1.0           -          2,655           -
i. Fruit tree development
in vegetable area           231     i.0       1,007         2,475          145
The above incomes per farm do not include off-farm income, income from adjacent
rainfed land, rangeland and livestock. A survey conducted in 1984 shows 121
of farmers having off-farm income ranging from 50 to 1,440 D/family. The
survey, however, did not include the largely abandoned oases of El Hamma and
the oases with a high degree of land fragmentation, where most farmers are
obliged to seek off-farm employment. Income from rainfed agriculture varies
greatly between oases; an average of 25Z of the farmers in the area carry out
rainfed farming. Due to high inter-annual variability of rainfall and run-off
needed for dryland crops, annual farm income from dryland crops varies much
from year to year. The farm budget analysis shows that farmers will have a
substantial capacity for repayment of Project costs.
D. Cost Recovery
Current Cost Recovery Policy
6.07     Government policy for the recovery of investments in new public
irrigation perimeters is embodied in the Land Reform Legislation (Annex 10).
Benefitting farmers are charged a betterment levy fixed by decree at the time



- 33 -
a perimeter is officially established. The levy is based on investment cost
per hectare. soil productivity, proposed cropping pattern and projected income
and other socio-economic factors. Betterment levies aim at recovering from
benefitting farmers part of the increase in land value due to irrigation.
Recovery levels have been fixed at 25-70S of estimated land value-added in
the Lower Medjerda Valley (LMV) and much less (about 20Z) for other PPIs.
The procedures for recovering farmers' contributions include payment in kind
(transfer of land to the State) for farmers owning more than the ceiling
imposed on holdings by the Agrarian Reform Legislation, and cash payments
(over a 10-year period, at 5X interest with a 2-year grace period). Although
there is no explicit framework for the recovery of irrigation operation and
maintenance costs, Government's stated policy is for volumetric water charges
paid by farmers to cover at least 1001 of irrigation O&H costs. So far
Government has had limited success in enforcing the application of capital
cost recovery for new irrigation projects in PPI's. Actual recovery of
investment does not generally exceed 1-8% of costs. For rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems Government has been considering it as deferred
maintenance costs creating no new income sources for farmers and therefore
no provision is made for recovering investment costs.
6.08     In addition and particularly for already existing irrigated
developments, the "Code des Eaux" of 1978 is a key piece of the Tunisian
legislation which governs "Le domaine public hydraulique". Some important
provisions of that legislation which relate to the cost recovery issue refer
to water property rights, water user rights and to integrated water development
programs. It establishes that expenditures resulting from the provision of
hydraulic installations for those programs should be covered by the State and
that operating costs are the responsibility of beneficiaries on a prorata basis
to the water volumes distributed.
6.09     Irrigation projects financed by the Bank in Tunisia (para. 2.05) have
adopted a consistent approach to cost recovery based on (a) the recovery of
investment costs according to Agrarian R form Laws; (b) the recovery of 100X
of O&M costs; and (c) recovery levels consistent with farmers' ability to pay.
The two most recent Bank-financed irrigation projects provide, in particular,
for full O&M cost recovery of the water distribution network beOore December
31, 1987 in the PPI of the Nebhana in the Medjerda Nebhana Project (Ln. 2157),
and for full O&M cost recovery by December 31, 1989 in the PPIs of the Kairouan
and Kasserine OMVs included in the Central Tunisia Project (Ln. 2234). The
Irrigation Management Improvement Project introduces comprehensive reforms,
consistent with the measures already taken, to increase the financial autonomy
of the Offices and encourage a more rational use of water available.
Proiect Cost Recovery
6.10     The proposed project goes beyond existing cost recovery achievements
in Tunisia and would aim at immediate recovery of 100X O&M costs of the
irrigation schemes in the Project area; and recovery of an average of
approximately 50% of the tree uprooting investments. Cost recovery would
be implemented in the proposed Project as follows.
6.11     Operation and Maintenance and Replacement Investments.  Operation and
maintenance costs consisting of the cost of pumping, personnel (ditchriders
and pump assistants), maintenance of hydromechanical equipment and maintenance



- 34 -
of the irrigation and drainage network would be borne directly by the farmers
through their membership in the AICs. The AICs would be responsible for the
financial and technical management of O&M with the assistance of the GIH and
the OMVGM. O&M charges would be established in a yearly budget for each AIC
from which individual farmer levies for O&H would be determined depending on
their ownership of irrigated land.
6.12     Included in O&M charges would be a charge approximating 5Z of total
O&M costs which would finance a reserve fund to be held in th.e AIC's bank
account to accumulate to provide for replacement pumps and for the replacement
of other equipment and accessories. Future responsibility for major
investments not adequately financed by the reserve fund would be financed by
special assessments to be paid by farmers and/or by BNT credit available to
the AICs for such purposes. The annual budgets to be established would also
include provision for emergency major repairs which would be carried out by
the OMVGM at cost. These provisions would contribute to long-term
sustainability of project investments and Govenment should be relieved of
future financial responsibility for irrigation rehabilitation investments in
the Project area. Assurances were obtained at negotiations: (a) that the
agreements to be negotiated between the AICs and OMVYM (para. 5.06) would
provide for repayment of 100X O&M costs and for suitable levies to be used to
establish reserve funds to be used to pay for emergency repairs and replacement
investments; and (b) that OM-VGM would provide the necessary assistance to
ensure the preparation of the annual AIC budgets, which would reflect these
provisions.
6.13     Repayment of Project Investment Costs.  Farmers would be expected to
repay a portion of investment costs for new perimeters consistent with
existing legal provisions for cost recovery (para. 6.07). As a guideline for
the establishment of the betterment levy foreseen in Land Reform legislation,
the farmer's capacity to pay for investments has been assessed. It has been
estimated that if up to 35Z of the farmers' project rent were recovered from
direct charges for both O&M and investment cost recovery, this would allow an
average repayment of the full O&M cost and 40% of investment costs, i.e.,
3,600 D/ha of total average per ha investment of 9,000 D in 1985 prices. It
was confirmed at negotiations that for new perimeters measures would be taken
within the framework of the Land Reform Law to establish the betterment levy
which would determine farmer contribution for repayment of investment cost
before completion of work.
6.14     In addition, present tax legislation provides for a 4X agricultural
sales tax. The revenues which would be collected on incremental project
production would result in the indirect recovery of an average of 2Z of
investments in all perimeters, new or rehabilitated.
6.15     The following table summarizes the impact on farmer rent of cost
recovery. Calculations show the case of maximum payment following the
affordability criteria. Tables 9 and lOa through LOf at the end of the report
summarize the derivation of the rent recovery analysis and present the
incremental cash flows of each farm model to demonstrate the affordability of
the cost recovery.



- 35 -
RECOVERY IDOICES
FARM MODEL
A         B        C       D        E       F
1,089 ha  2,800 ha  418 ha  283 ha  200 ha  231 ha
Rent Recovery
(a) From 100% cost
recovery for O&M          15        21%      141     101       71     181
(b) From 100% cost recovery
for O&M plus 40%
investment cost recovery
for new perimeters                       -        -       -      25Z       -
(c) From 4X sales tax            91         8%       71      7Z       71      7X
Cd) Total at full
development                 24X        291      211     171      391     25%
6.16     The above table and the cash flows show that 1001 O&M cost recovery
and the indicated levels of investment cost recovery are acceptable objectives
in terms of farmer affordability. Between 7 and 211 of farmer project rent
would be recovered if 1001 O&M recovery with provision for a reserve fund were
established [line (a)]. In addition, if the indicated level of investment
cost recovery were practiced for new perimeters and the sales tax were
considered an indirect method of recovery of investment costs for rehabilitated
perimeters, between 17 and 391 of farmer rent would be recovered. The cash
flows (Tables lOa - lOf) indicate that even after cost recovery that net
income remaining to service debts, consumption and other on-farm costs is
substantially above the Tunisian rural poverty level of 300 D/family as
estimated by the "Enquete sur le budget et la consommation des mnaages, 1980".
6.17     Monitoring of Cost Recovery Performance. Cost Recovery would be
monitored as follows: (a) AICs would establish yearly budgets covering O&M
and investment costs as described; and (b) income and expenditure statements
would be prepared annually by the AICs and submitted to the OMVGK. These
income and expenditure statements would be prepared according to the
requirements of an accounting system that will allow the different financial
responsibilities of the AICs to be tracked (para. 5.18). The income and
expenditure statements would be audited annually or a random sample of 3 AICs
per year end by the same independent auditors who would audit OMVGM accounts
(para. 5.17). The income statements would be monitored by the OMVGM and by
the regional representative of the Minister of Finance to ensure payments to
provide for adequate O&M and investment cost recovery. The budgets and income
statements would be made available to Bank supervision missions for review.



- 36 -
6.18     Cost Recovery for Tree Uprooting Investments.  Present legislation
provides for a subsidy for tree uprooting in order to encourage the upgrading
of production. Uprooting of palm trees will be carried out by contract on
behalf of farmers by the Office in order to assure prompt and efficient
execution of these activities. The total cost per uprooted tree is estimated
at 10 D for palm trees and 5 D for other trees. The farmer would pay lOZ as
an initial downpayment and would subsequently repay 40% of the total cost of
tree uprooting under a repayment schedule to be agreed with OMVGM and
satisfactory to the Bank. Principles of repayment to be followed in the draft
contracts between the OMVGM and farmers for tree uprooting were agreed at
negotiations.
Cost Recovery from STIL
6.19     STIL, a public enterprise involved in the production of dates and
the processing of dairy products, has a long-term rental agreement with the
Government for use of the El Aouinet oasis. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that should STIL continue to rent the oasis, an agreement would
be signed between OMVGM and STIL by which STIL would repay all investment
costs for works at El Aouinet. STIL would submit an investment plan for
review by the Bank, contribute 20X equity as an initial downpayment, and
firnance the remaining investment cost with medium-term credit from a bank of
its choosing. The signing of an agreement along the above lines between STIL
and OMVGM would be a condition of disbursement for works at El Aouinet.
E. Fimncial Impact on Government
Project Related Cash Flow
6.20     Inflows due to the proposed project will accrue from incremental tax
revenues on agricultural production, import duties on equipment, income taxes
on salaries, loan disbursement, farmer's direct contributions to project costs
through payment for O&M costs, investment cost recovery, downpayments and
credit repayments, equity contributions for tree uprooting, repayments of
advances for tree uprooting, and payment by STIL for the full cost of
rehabilitation of the El Aouinet oasis. Outflows include Government financing
for project costs, and debt service on the Bank loan.
6.21     Government's net cash flow (Table 14) attributable to project
activities would show a negative balance, due to the partial repayment
of investment costs as well as concessional repayment terms for credit
and investment costs. By PY7 the cumulative negative balance would be
D 16.0 million (US$21.4 million).
Impact of the Project on the OMVGM
6.22     The proposed project would have very little financial impact on OMVGM
because it is not involved in the collection of water charges nor does it have
financial responsibility for O&M of the irrigation systems financed by the
Project. The OMVGM would be responsible for managing advances and repayments
for tree uprooting under similar terms and conditions as advances which are
made for input supplies. OMVGM would also handle on a fee for service basis
major repairs done at the request of the AICs.



- 37 -
6.23     Currently, the Office's main Project responsibility is to manage the
Southern Irrigation Project (Ln. 1796). This project will be completed by
June 30, 1986 at which time the Office would be expected to undertake the
proposed project. Thus, the investment budget to be managed by the Office
would not change substantially. The operating budget of OMVGM would, however,
have to expand by about 35% by the end of the project and this would be due
mainly to the transfer to OMVGM of 22 additional extension staff under the
OMV's staffing plan of 1987-1991.
F. Economic Analysis
General
6.24     The overall economic rate of return is estimated to be 21% over a
period of 20 years which is the estimated average life of the investments.
The economic analysis has been done in two parts. First, the investment and
recurring costs for the rehabilitation works, the on-farm investment costs and
the resulting benefits for the 43 oases were grouped into six characteristic
farm model types. General Project costs such as extension, supervision,
extension support, etc., were allocated on a hectare basis to each of the
models. An economic rate of return was calculated for each of these farm
model types. Second, all net incremental benefits for the 6 farm models were
aggregated and a rate of return was calculated for the total project. Since
the economic rates of return of the farm model types were highly satisfactory,
separate rates of return were not calculated for each one of the 42 oases.
However, for those whose investment costs per hectare equalled or exceeded 25X
of the average cost per hectare or those which faced special development
constraints due to land tenure issues were selected for individual rate of
return analysis. The analysis indicates that all of the oases included in the
Project would have satisfactory economic rates of return. All benefits and
costs have been converted to economic prices based on a set of integrated
conversion factors calculated for Tunisia during sector work carried out in
1980 and 1981, and updated as necessary for key products. A detailed
discussion of the methodology used in the anlaysis is found in Annex 8 and
is briefly summarized here.
6.25     The large range of conversion factors reflects a substantial amount
of distortions in the economy many of which result from the high protection of
the local market. As a result, potentially exportable fruits and vegetables
are overvalued relative to world prices. Most project costs, except for farm
inputs such as fertilizers and machinery services, have a low accounting
ratio, i.e., financial prices higher than their economic costs, due largely to
the effect of protective customs duties and tariffs. The low ratio for labor
reflects the fact that the minimum wage overstates the opportunity cost of
unskilled labor. Tables 11-13 presents the economic and financial prices used
in the economic analysis.
6.26     Proiect Investments.  A conversion factor of 0.63 has been applied to
most equipment and vehicle costs reflecting protective custom duties (25X) and
indirect taxes (10%). A conversion factor of 0.55 has been used for civil
works reflecting distortions in the cost of unskilled labor (0.45), equipment
(0.63) and materials (0.65).



-38 -
6.27     Recurrent Costs. The principal recurrent costs in the Project are
salaries and energy costs for pumping irrigation water. Thus the economic
cost of water has been derived by valuing project costs of operating and
maintaining the irrigation works at economic prices.
(a) Pumping was valued using the conversion factor of approximately 1.38
for energy costs. Energy costs were valued for diesel fuel at its
bulk border price and for electricity at its long-run average
incremental cost of supply, as estimated by EMENA's Power and Energy
Development-Division in mid-1983.
(b) A conversion factor of .8 is used for labor to reflect the oversupply
of unskilled labor and the growing oversupply of technical manpower
in Tunisia.
(c) Network maintenance was valued using the conversion factor for
general expenses (0.75).
This yields an overall conversion factor of 0.87 for water. As for the
conversion factors used for key inputs, those for fertilizer are notable and
represent the substantial divergence between farmgate and world prices.  This
is despite large increases in domestic fertilizer prices relative to the world
market since 1980 which has been more than offset by the depreciation of the
dinar vis-a-vis the dollar. The net effect has been an increase in the level
of subsidies for phosphate and nitrogen-based fertilizer. The conversion
factor for urea (46%) is 2.5, for phosphate (TSP) is 2.7 and for potassium
chloride is 0.56 (Table 12).
6.28     Project Benefits.  Project benefits result separately from two types
of project actions, namely: (a) the provision of increased availability of a
reliable supply of water which would allow expansion of the irrigated area to
the full irrigable potential and which would also allow higher, more consistent
yields; and (b) the efforts of the research and extension services which would
be essential to changing cropping patterns from those which are less productive
and remunerative to those which are more so. It is estimated that 60-70% of
Project benefits would result from the availability of water and that the
remaining benefits would result from the activities and the quality of
technical advice of the extension service which would promote more profitable
cropping patterns and improved techniques of production. The benefits
included in the Project consist mainly of increased production of fruits,
vegetables and forage. The net present value of incremental production of the
rehabilitated perimeters is D 16.1 million and on new perimeters is D 0.74
million. The projected build-up in net incremental benefits is considered to
be conservative due to: (a) a relatively modest projected pace of increase in
yields; (b) the use of conservative assumptions of expected farmers' adoption
rates (full development attained after 16 years; for oases with potential land
tenure problems participation rates have been assumed to be 501 of the normal
Project participation); and (c) only for about 201 of the area do incremental
benefits include the effect of a decrease in production in the without project
situation. Such a decrease would be certain for most of the Project area if
the present deterioration of the irrigation schemes would continue. Since the
Project rate of return is favorable, it is considered that not having used the
additional net incremental benefits of a deteriorating without project
situation gives additional insurance against project risks.



- 39 -
6.29     Fruits and vegetables have been valued using the wholesale domestic
market prices to derive economic and financial farmgate prices.  The economic
value of fruits and vegetables is on average about 30% higher than the
financial prices reflecting the impact of taxes and commissions and the low
accounting ratios for marketing.
6.30     At full development in Year 16 incremental production would represent
a 1.7 fold increase in the value of production. The Project would create
directly some 567,000 man-days or 1,890 additional full time jobs in
agriculture (about 10% of the present available agricultural work force).
6.31     The overall estimated economic rate of return of 21% is consistent
with the related high rates of return obtained in general for irrigation
rehabilitation projects which have substantial sunk costs and which do not
have large investments in new perimeters. It is estimated that the project
investment cost of new perimeters is approximately 50% higher than the average
project investment cost of the rehabilitated perimeters (including 21 new
wells). This 501 represents the amount of sunk costs in project rehabilitation
investments which is 951 of the project area. The economic rate of return
estimated for the individual farm investment models are as follows:
Economic          Net
Rate of Return Present Value
(D Million)
Farm Model A: (most saline, needs drainage, date
palm uprooting and replacement
with fruits and vegetables; 920 ha)         17              1,989.9
Farm Model B: (fruits and vegetables
intensification; 2,762 ha)                 23             8,940.4
Farm Model C: (rainfed olives to be irrigated
with addition of fruits and
vegetables; 422 ha)                         19              1,284.5
Farm Model D: (olives/vegetables intensification;
includes substantial greenhouse
investments; 311 ha)                       43              3,015.5
Farm Model E:  (new perimeters; 200 ha)                     17                740.7
Farm Model F: (introduction of fruit trees into
existing vegetables; 231 ha)                24                899.7
Given the high degree of divergence of economic prices from financial prices,
the issue of farmer financial incentives to invest in the project was verified
through cash flow analyses on each of the farm models (Tables lOa through lOf).
Even including the proposed levels of investment cost recovery, the proposed
Project offers substantial net incremental benefits to the farmers. The



- 40 -
financial rates of return to the farmer on all farm models are in excess of
502. The incremental compensation per incremental man-day of labor averages
about 13 Dlday and is far above the rural wage of 2.8 D/day. This level of
financial return to the farmer is considered fully adequate to ensure far er
participation in the Project.
G.Ri  a  Sensitity Analysis
6.32     The principal risks are those related to increased investment or
operating costs or to delays in investments resulting in delayed realization
of production benefits. Other risks are: (a) the possibility of a fall in
the price of some Prolect production. In general, however, prices have been
estimated conservatively on the basis of a five-year average of Gabes wholesale
market prices for 1977-1981 and inflated forward using an inflation factor of
8Z. This methodology yields financial and economic prices which are in some
cases significantly below current wholesale prices. The use of a five year
average is considered appropriate because of large fluctuations which can be
experienced in the price of fruits and vegetables from one year to the next;
(b) inadequate response of marketinR channels to the increased supply.
However, consumption and overall production forecasts for the region and the
country as a whole indicate that the Project output would fill a substantial
deficit (Annex 10). The increased export of apricots is an additional
possibility although the Project would not rely on this export for its
success. GIAF has a program to train farmers, in collaboration with the
Office, in techniques of production, harvesting and packaging to ensure export
quality produce. In general, with the modest project investments in
refrigeration and packing houses, adequate market infrastructure exists to
respond to increased project production; (c) slow adoption by farmers of new
cropping patterns due either to lack of interest or to adherence to
traditional habits. This would be the case particularly with regard to
grafting table olives onto producing oil olive trees and with regard to the
uprooting of unproductive date palm trees to make way for new fruit and nut
tree plantations. However, neither of these risks is substantial and
arrangements have been made in the project design to minimize this risk. For
example, uprooting of palms will be done by contract under the guidance of the
Office and later partly reimbursed by the farmers. Palms to be uprooted are
mostly unproductive offshoots or low productive palms on very saline soil.
Grafting can be done on half of an oil olive tree without disturbing
production on the other part of the tree. Further, cash flow analysis
indicates the high financial profitability to farmers of participation in the
Project, thus reducing the likelihood of their reluctance to participate.
6.33     Nevertheless, several sensitivity tests were done to analyze the
robustness of the project with respect to (a) price assumptions; (b) farmer
participation in investments recomuended for farm Model A which contains the
highest level of farmer financial participation and risk; (c) possible lags in
participation and project benefits; and (d) cost overruns. The results of the
switching value analysis on the project as a whole confirm the general
robustness of the Project. Switching values represent the percent change in
the relevant variable which would reduce the project rate of return to 12%,
the estimated opportunity cost of capital.
Variable                                        2 Change
Overall Benefits                                  -  53
Investment Costs and General Project Cost         + 114
The results of the sensitivity tests are as follows:



- 41 -
Variable                                   Rate of Return
Base Case                                        21
Prices''
reduced by 20X                              18.45
reduced by 50%                              12.75
Farm Model A Participation
reduced by 502                              20.5
lagged by 2 years                           20
lagged by 3 years                           19.5
Variable                                   Rate of Return
Project Benefits
reduced by 50S                              13.0
lagged by 1 year                            19.0
lagged by 2 years                           17.2
lagged by 3 years                           15.7
Investment Costs
up 20X                                      18.9
up 50S                                      16.1
Project Benefits down by 50S and
Investment Costs up by 50%                   8.52
Additional rates of return were calculated on some individual oases which
faced land tenure problems due to severe fragmentation and resulting
abandonment of plots. For the three oases with land tenure problems the risk
of lower farmer participation rates were tested by reducing expected benefits
to half of what would be expected under ideal conditions.
Rate of Return
Oudref                                             122
Metovi.a                                           14X
Chenchou                                           302
A separate sensitivity analysis was run on the effect of poor maintenance
which would reduce the life of the irrigation infrastructure investments. The
result of that analysis indicates that although this is an important risk
which deserves special attention, the Project is sufficiently robust to remain
viable, even if project life is reduced to 10 years in place of the 20 years
assumed in the base case analysis.
Rate of Return
Poor maintenance reducing the life of PPI's
to 15 years                                   172
to 10 years                                   152
/1 Historical trends from L977-1981 on prices indicate that
average price drops have not exceeded 35S.



- 42 -
VIL AGEEMENTS REACHEED AND RECONMENDATIONS
7.01     At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) Government would monitor and annually inform the Bank of the use of
water resources in the area, and that current planned limits on water
use would not be exceeded (para. 3.07);
(b) Government would cause BNT to provide credit funds to meet Project
needs (para. 4.13);
(c) The Project annual budgets and financial plans would be presented to
the Bank for information, not later than September 30 of each year
(para. 4.30);
(d) A revolving fund with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million would be
set-up (para. 4.30);
(e)  The OMVGM would encourage the private sector to take services over
where and when feasible; services provided by OMVGM would be paid at
cost (para. 5.05);
Cf) The OMVGM and the AICs would establish agreements to define their
share of responsibilities in operating and maintaining the works.
Principles to be agreed at negotiations, contract agreements to be
signed prior to completion of irrigation works, and first five
agreements to be sent to the Bank for approval (para. 5.06);
,g) OMVGM would prepare and submit to the Bank a plan for organization
and operation of extension services covering three years after
Project completion (para. 5.12);
(h) Government would give assurances that Ci) selected applied research
and salinity monitoring considered essential for the Project would be
included in the IRA, DRE and DRS work programs by December 31, 1986;
and (ii) production of seedlings and applied reseaxch program by
OMVGM would be transferred to specialized producers and proper
research organizations by Project completion (para. 5.13);
(i)  The OMVGM would prepare an action plan defining the marketing
strategy by June 30, 1986 (para. 5.14);
(j) The Project Management Unit (PMU) would prepare and send to the Bank
semi-annual Project progress reports in accordance with mutually
agreed guidelines (para. 5.16);
(k) The DPSAE would prepare a Project completion report within six months
of the closing date (para. 5.16);
(1) Separate Project accounts would be kept by PMU and Government would
hire independent auditors and transmit their reports to the Bank
within six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.17);



(m) the OMVGM would assist AICs to set up appropriate accounting system
and a few AICs would be selected to have their accounts audited by
independent auditors (para. 5.18);
(n) Farmers would be responsible for repayment of part of the tree
uprooting and removal costs in accordance with draft contracts.
following principles to be agreed upon (para. 6.18);
(o) The AICs budgets would contain provisions to assure full payment of
O&M costs by the AICs and OMVGM would have the right to inspect work
and execute repairs at the AICs expense if needed (para. 6.11 and
para. 5.06); and
(p) Prior to execution of rehabilitation works STIL would (i) submit an
investment plan and (ii) make credit arrangements to finance the full
costs of investments in the El Aouinet oasis. These would be
conditions of disbursement for El Aouinet oasis. (para. 6.19).
7.02     As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, Government
would be required to create the PMU and appoint its chief. The Project
Management Unit would be created in the OKVGM (para. 4.14).
7.03     Based on the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$27.7 million to the Government of Tunisia for a term of
17 years including 4 years of grace. The Project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 1991.
691E



- 44 -
Table 1
TUWNSIA
GAMES IRRIGTIN PRJECT
Project Coampnts bi Year
(D 'I00)
kws Cost                         TOa
1936    193    1998   1939   190   1991        I    (USI '000)
SIBILITATZUN OF EXISTIN IRRIOATnIO SYSTEMS     59302.4 9,150.2 3w652.O 3,169.6 1,342.2  892.1 23m499.4  319331,2
j W  IRRIGAIIION mmSIE                              - 1,257.3  126.1  110.2   33.2   3B.9  1,5S5.8   2W087.7
UWMA  DE PEINEMT                                311.9   514.1  592.0  602.9  318.6   21.0  2,350.5   3,134.0
ZMSTITUTIUWI IEELOPNT                           715.5    21.9  511.1  390*0  321.2  315S9  3,075.7   4P100.?
Total DUIE COSTS                                  6,329.8 11P743.6 4,371.2 4,272.7 2015.1 125B.0 30,490.4  40,453.
flucal Cmntinimnies                             767.8 1,482.5  563.3  460.2  123.9   13.0  3,410.5   4547.3
Pticu Contin ncie                               893.7 2,973.4 1433.0 2,14&8 1236.98  37.3  9v84.0  13,133.6
Total PROJC CSIS                                  7,991.3 16099.5 7267.3 6391*7 3375. 2,14.2 43,754.9  53,339.3
vmzu                  -- _ u  -,- -ca        uuin      uu---
Tames                                           29161.2 4,494.4 1,576.6 1473.8  639*2  363.1 109758*2  14.344,3
Forsi*n Exdhl                                   4,778.3 9.195.2 3,184.4 2p929.9 1.315,7  802.3 229195*7  295942
NMt 1. 15B5 15:51



- 45 -
1  1141 PawCr                                                     Table 2
cm mm                                                 Page 1
to 140111                CI. 'U6                       t IdO
1.~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                                                   Fmls ahn
Lieu   F*uig   Total    Locl  ftmuo iiToW           Eaghai     Cinst
2. mI con
A. CUUTU
1.N1011                                                  IL.7    42.0    %6.        71.4    57.1   121.7         44       0
2. WFIE                                                  61.1    43.9   110.2       1.7    65.2   146.9          44       0
3. cth 1E113I13I                                        164.5   147.2   331.7    2463   196.2   442.2            44       1
4. am        . OM  OD                                   113.3    "A.4   262.6    151.0   123.5   271.5           44       1
WkTsI u1U111UET                                            412.7   32.3   742.0    210.3   4A.0    99.4                      2
3. iJW nol IDL1761113 CM  
1. UYL          IO                                     6U2.2  19.646   24K?        We.  2.43.7  3,316.2          75       3
2. .1M113                                             244.4  3,95.3  6,2.4  3.3W.2  5,275.0 If04.2               *0      22
3 gm  P31                                               131.4    14.7   3X.l    175.2   259.7   44.9             d0       1
4.1                                                   1.5464  112.l 39102.5  2,41.2 2904.1  4.61.3               49      10
liTOW  231n"_13    u      TIn J cl      I_               4r,991.2  1,    2         6.431 10o07.1s                   do      41
C. la  331Wl CIIL _I1K
1. I1lL   JJrIWO                                        16.4    362.2   462.       133.   402.6   SA4            75       1
2.    IaTS                                              135.6   275.1   46.7    247.4    16.3   644              0        2
3.                                                      101. lel 93 .l   1"9?    114.    131.    26.6           49       1
4. g     M                                                9.3    13.Bl     .1      12.4    18.4    2.6           40       0
-Tdd  la  2       101W    CII.  IS                        396.4    M.9  1.32.3        2.!    136 1447.1            63       4
is 2313                                               I,72.1   0494  1,746.3  1,431.13   926.  227.A            3        6
2. 41U                                                  136.    133,1   2706.    112.4   1.4   240.3            49        1
3. U      IIm                                         14.2  1945.9  2,93.1   1.A  114.5  3612.1                 49       10
4. IDUIU                                                 23.2     1.      21.      3.9       7.5    36.4        i9        0
lTdd  MM  1115  ULITUllUl                                2.7026 2.210.1  4,971.6  3.612.2 32.9 6,629.              46       16
E.  =vm                  =_ zulNM
1.  -um                                                  3.3     3.1    %.9    7MA           0.1   129.2        3t        0
2.  _1                                                   24.3    23.3    43.1      32.1    31.7   64.2          49        0
3. IIIN                                                   5.4     1.3      6.?      7.4      1.3     9.2        19        0
i-ToW   MM  U    E1 WW2n P                                 0.7    U3.2   15.0    113.3    84.3   202.6            42        0
F, FEEMM
F.       NU
1. IITDI  E             I IUTATNIII
P I OS U 3S                                          274.3   25.9   73.2    365.7   674.! IO,40.3             U5       3
B.E     . EIIUIPIINWt U      3  L                     32.4    12.2   23.6    109.9   201.6   312.5            65       1
11W1_I1 EWIMIIT.  . WALE    615                       53 3L9.9 1.453.7    733.4  1.19.9  1.930.3              6        5
P373 "M142.9   264.8   427.7    27.3   353.0   570.3                                                    6        1
Si-Totl 1310=101 ECUIET    UIW 4An1                   1,073.5 1.22.9 2,W5.3  1.431.3 29429.0  3660.4             a        9
2. IIDII E171fW/ MM M314m11
Pam  1N1711                                           14.4    26.9    41.5      145    352.      35.3         65       0
rU1 . SWMWT 7LUIUU                IIES                 a.3    16.1    22.0       U.?    21.5      3.3         as       0
1111m       . EWIPEN    M.WII 31 11                   46.6    75.7   122.3      42.1   161.0   163.1    U      2       0
t43 ?W1                                                3.7    14.1    22.6      11.6   1.O    30.4           62       0
iT    a 1MAITI5 141   on 0   M33116                      73.7    12.t   2114       104.9   177.2   22.1          a        1
3. .ama
CW 13NR3D                                             49.3      7.    1369         .J   116.    112.5         64       0
iDI3*~ *U                                              9.3    14       29        12A.4    22.1   X35          64       0
33.9    40.3      42      45.2    3.4   13.6           64        0
NInu        rOB1                                       1.5     2.6      4.1      2.      3LI      5.5         64       0
SOW    Im l9 ".0   167.1   261.1   1233    m.    343.                                                            64       1
4. 013 II01



-46-
-46-                                                             Table 2
Page2
W=                                               11.9  1n4    23         11.9    JJ      1.4       4        0
a    5                                           V.      '.u   la.    11.4    U4       US         4        6
_        1                                       I,    W       217.7     WJ    27.   1.9           49 
wmum                                             ,.4  a .t 4uJ un .a eJ                                     s
3.4    n.9      .3     3163    3.1S   0.3         49
=740    724   141.5                                                       W7    %.   S9            4 
4.0 n   1.4 .S 4 .9    3       2       17.1    4           I
1h4a m        F                                    17.5s  73.1-.42 1.13  17.904   .344  1.37.7           2      2
N. RIMs  iAmmim  iinin   mWuu
1.m.Au            . 3Z U.9    71.   11.1    3S.   11.   174.1                                         19      0
2.L                                                  1.9   17.4   27.2    1a       2562    3.6        N       0
M4i.1 AM II ID.36331 m                                44.    11.0   13.,      MA4   23.    212.2        N        1
1    4fl                                          719.0    0.S   62    1.63 l   h47  11.  S1.5        N       I
UI1WI                                             3.I    3.9   15.9    92.    14.1  1S1.9           44       S
hTd  u  U1  m  3111                               ,now  wi1.22,11.  1.36.2 1934.9364136.                 42     a
II.  _   nom
mIn   =  t 3                                       3.6 M          76.4    9442       -    ".2
-|4                                                4."a    n      44.      E.0            got 39 
$NEW  11113K                                    IRA.           it14.    MA.            IW1.$         
TEN "  1W  24                                     4.7              4.   SPA    -9.4    *7 
N        I   SW141_111m                           1MA               .S    4.1             4.2        U       0
amok I1T                                            4.       -    0m4    173  4d, 1.9     3.9                0
VNIVMmcmi INU319.2319.2401CI.2
_*1-"  j                                          2..           - 2.4 -.45.2    -                               7
-- a .    wa. -*
C160=3                                           IL1    12.1    V.2      2642   16.1  132           44      S1
-334013 3K                                        166.9 344      - 25     1SW    1C6 - 2.3           a       I
13K (361                             ~~~~~~ ~~~~~123.J   77.9   25.2    104   161.   246.5  at   1
C00111                            Sol~~~~5.  1.    U.?    7.9    7.7    1.6        49       6
3-Tda1 M CIS3K MM3.1.3   33   4 3.    31.7   269.7  4O-.6                                               -       I
C. M 331M3
< N O17. -mm     Mm v 
INDI a       141DU oUCih.133                    44.6   61.1   15.9      3.6   1.2   31647         a6 
-32               -M1V 173   6M.6 92.9    49.7    6                                   11A.4       a
wi   Mm                                        411.9   -.7 19351.6   10.2 1.34  19.35.            is       4
me=n
M 1.                                                      Ina 121  42. .4 .I7.5        241.1         64      5
I-  Wm                                          U        4.      6.2    1.3    I 1 12.3          4a 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   s   .9 132 4                             6.U  IGA    "A    I 4
-RO  u1                                                 19.1  U32        7.2    347   13I         4        S
el14  6l3 Vl="A 42                                        4.6   12.9       2.9   61.1  3169          69      6
3. F1U
n w ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                   .    211    26.       61.. n 4    115.7   2.2   u4       1
75U1!3                                           541  6.7    144-    7.1   11Nl.6   16.           42 
311236i                                           4.1    1e.9   1e2.4     4.0DJ.   126.             4U      0
MI Ca2                                                  42.4 42  4.7 I 2    a3.    15    33       64       S
_2 _zn   m n                                       16.6   114 S   12.9 l    24   22.4   242.                 i 1
4. 93   131
364 own    con  3U24651.9 1.A54 1916.    671.2 2I17.36  2&A.V2.                                          SI    I
U141323                                          14.02.9J11.5. 1h410.  29.4742.1. *4.6                 12      6
Phlml CNAuANifu                                     2.t6.A  UMA1.  .3*41    243.5 2.4W1.4v.14.           33      Is
P"= Cutiumwe. 1.4224  4,461.3 PABLO  72.369 59.? 12.                                                    M I.  U   @
144.1     cI 6                                               ;7M.7.4.5 t .7     291.2   U                         144
Da  42-                         2D   -5 m                -4



- 47 -
STAFF *P~aISAL  UFORET
TUNISISA
CARES hgRICAT!OlU PRIJECT
Esti1ted Schedule of DiburM.nt_ ot _anak Loan
Relevant Disbursement Profile
IBRO              ank Dtihursemnts rUsS millianl /a               (Ctumlative  Dishurmedl /h
Fiscal Year      By end of                  CLmulattve   Bankwlde      ENEMA         Bankwide
Somester   Cumlative   % Disbursed   Area Dev. Agriculture   Agriculture   Tunisia
Decsnbur 1985        0           0              0            0             1             0            0
June 1986            1.0         1.0            4            2             2             2            2
Dec. 1986
(end PYl           1.5         2.5            9            S             5            6             6
June 1987           OS          3.0           11            10           11            12           20
Dec. 1987
(end PY2)          1.0         4.0           14           1S            16           17            29
June 1988            2.0         6.0           22           21            23            24           40
Dec. 1988
(end PY3)         3.0          9.0           32           29            31           32            SO
June 1989            3.0        12.7           46           37            40           41            59
Dec. 1989
(end PY4)         4.0         17.0          61            45            49           SO            68
June 1990           4.0         21.2           77           54            S7            58           7S
Dec. 1990
(cnd PYS)         3.0         23.S          85            62            65           67            8t
June 1991            1.0        25.7           93           70            72           74            86
Dec. 1991
(end PY6)         1.3         26.7          96            77            79           81            90
June 1992          OS          27.7          100           84            84           87            93
Dec. 1992                                                   89            89           91            96
June 1993                                                   83            83           95            98
Dec. 1993                                                   87            86           98          l0
June 1994                                                   99            88           100
Nu.er of Projects                    102           427           52
/a   Expected date of signing:  July 1915.
Expected date of effectiveness: December 1985.
Expected completion date: Decunber 19"1.
/I   The  ENKMA Area Developmentw protile is not an appropriate
guide because the oldest loan is only 8 1/2 years old.
691 E/p44



48
Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPUIT
= ,   .~~~~~~~~~IKU
,,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUNISII
GARES IRRIGATrON PROJECT
Major Procurement Paekages
(in thousand of Dinars)
Respon-
Method   sibility   1986    1987    1988        1989      1990
A. Deep wells                     ICB      GR         1.650   1.Soo        -         -        -
B. Supply of conduits
and accessories               ICB     GR         2.800   7.400         -         -
C. Execution of irrigation
and drainage works
and roads                     LCB     GR         1.000   1,300   3,500    2.800
0. Supply of pumps and
hydromechanic equip.          ICS     GR         1,000   2,700         -         -
E. Electrification                DC       GR           140     240        -         -
F. Buildings                      LCR      OHY6M        400     670        -         -
G. Tree uprooting                 LCB      OMYGH          -   2.200   2.500          -
H. Vehicles and other
equipment                     LCB     ONVGM        160      125      215         -
LS      OMVGM        144      172       36       48
1. Studies, technical
assistance, training          DCI     OMVGM        160      100        -         -
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
LCB:  Local Competitive Bidding
DC :  Direct Contracting
DCN:  Direct Consultation
IS :  Local or International Shopping
691E/p45



- 49 -
rable 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
nIISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROECT
Vehicles
(in thousand of Dinars)
---------- Sector -          ----_-              ----
Project
Unit                                          Strengthening  Managt.
Type             Price   Supervision  Extension  Marketing   of OVGM            Unit    Research  Total
Car Tour          7.3          1                -             -            -                        1
Car 9 CV          5.3          1          -           -              4           -          -       s
Car S CV          4.1          2          4           -              -           1          l       8
Car TT           18.6          2          4           -              -           -          -       6
Moped             0.4          -         10           -              -           -          -      10
Minibus          25.9          -           1          -              -           -          -       1
Truck 10-Ton    36.2           -           -          2              -           -          -       2
Truck I-Ton       7.2          -           -          3              -           -          -       3
691EJp1S8



STAFF APPRAISAL REPQRT
IIUA
GQRES XRRIGATIOM PROJECT
List of Oasps - Characteristics. Works. Costs. Cron.ina Pattarn
------------------- COSTS (0'000) ---------________-_____-_
Area                Pras &       Irrigation                                                            Farm Model
Jhal        Deep   Electrical   Drain  *                Tree      Spare                                   lhal
IL     Gina                  QLL    bk1   Wall i9m nL  JtxknhL    29A"   Rainal   EVartS t                   d       A       JL        c      L       .L        L
1.  HARETHS                 -       l1S     281        57          336            8     17        22       720       -      115        -      -        -        -
2.  ARRMN                   -      160      290        70          436           11     24        27       858       -      110       SO       -       -        -
3. ZARATHZ                  -      174      246        31          500           12    lJ0        24       992       -      174        -      -        -        -
4. HARETH2                   -      30      112        25          105            2     So         8       311      15       1S        -       -       -        -
5. HARETI41                  -     100      112        25          338            7    242         17      740      55       45        -       -       _        _
6. KARETH 6                 -       a8        -        25          241            6     84        13       369       -       a8        -       -       -        -
7.  MARETH 2                -      180      210        51          431           12    737        26    1,455    180          -        -      -        -        -
8.  ZRIG BARRMIA             -      71        -        27          257            5      14       14       317       -        -        -      71        -       -
9.  2ERKINE 1-3              -     116        -        27          398            5     18        23       471       -      116        -       -       -        -
10.  ZERKINE 2               -      156      112        28          556            9     48        26       777       -      156        -      -        -        -
11.  KEtTANA 4               -      125      134        28          378           10     40        la       608       -      125        -      -        -        -
12.  KETTANA I               -       98        -        26          309            7     31        16       390       -       98        -      -        -        _
13.  KITTANA 3               -      140        -        32          419           10     56        23       539       -      140        -      -        -        -
14.  AIWONE ZERKINE          -       30       67        27           85            2      -         8       18        -        -        -      -        _       30
15. CFPA                     -      100       89        27          257            7     20        14       415       -       S0       5O       -       -        -
16.  8ECHIIA 1               -      250        -        44        1,369           22    197        65    1,698        -      280        -       -       -        _
17.  ELH MAMAZIRAA           -       SO        -        22          290            6     14        IS       347      80        -        -       -       -        -
18.  EL  AMHMA OASIS         -      430       72        27        1,319          35  1,899         56    3,407    430          -        -      -        -        -
19.  EL HAA KSAR             -       aS      120        32          295            7    107        15       577      85        -        -       -       -        -
20.  IECIIIKA 2               -     270        -         6        1,598           22       -       53    1,679        -      270        -       -        -       -
21.  GLIBD OKHANE (CF2)    -         70      161         -          421            6       -        5       592       -        -       28      42        -       -
22.  KHEAIET (CFI)            -      71        -         -          639            6       -         5      649       -        -        -      71        -       -
23. TEKOURI                   -      32       24        26           103           3       -         8      163   .-          32        -       -        -       -
24. CHECIOU I                 -      57        -        22          222            5       -        12      260      36        -       21       -        -       -
25.  GEN CHILOUF (S           -      36       83        26          111            3       -         7      220       -       26        -       -.       -       -
26.  BEN CHILOUF (PI          -      34       77         -          229            3       -        12      321       -       34        -       -        -        -
27. CHENCHOU 2                -      40        -        27          125            3       -         9      165       -        -       40       -        -       -
28.  OJED NAKKLA 1            -      30       85        23          216            2       -        1S      341       -        -        -      15       15       -
29. OUEO NAKHlA 2           30        -       84        24          239           39       -        10      395       -        -        -      15        -      15
30.  BEN CHILOiJf (Ext)    70         -      161         -          608           13       -        24      806       -        -        -       -       70        -
31.  TMOJLA 2                 -      20        -        29            85        .2         1         8       124      -       1S        -       -        -        5
32. CHOTT EL FERIK            -      31        -         7          300            2       -        10      319       -       32        -       -        -       -
33.  EL MOOU                  -      40        -        22           167           4      34        10      237       -       40        -       -        -        -
34. LIMAOA                   -       78        -        34          320            7      39        17      414       -       78        -       -        -        -
35.  LIHAOUA (Ext)          70        -      144        34          273           12       -        10      474       -        -        -       -       70       -
36.  ZRIG OAKNLANSA           -      30        -        27           105           3      39         8       182      -       30        -       -        -        -
37.  GHANNOUCH M2IRAA         -     280        -        33          a85           25       -        35      951       -        -        -      84        -     196
38. TEHOULA 1                 -      40        -        28           148          35       2        10      222       -       12       28       -        -        -
39.  AIN ZRIG                 -     105        -        29          447           14       -        19      509       -      105        -       -        -        -
40.  OUCHEtU                  -     143         -       52          498           13    187         26      774      43      100        -       -        -        -
41.  ZRIG EL G/ANDRI         30        -      144       32           152          12       -        12       352       --               -       -       s3
42.  HATHATA                  -      60         -       60           245           5       -        18       328       -      33       27       -        -        -       '.
43.  EL AOUINET               -     265      144        82          839           23       -        42    1,131        -     132      133       -        -        -      0
44.  OUOREF                   -     263       48        85        1,100           23    496         55    1,80J       79     1S5       Z6       -        -        -
45.  METOUtA                _       268           -     77          407          _n       52        79   1.639       8A6    .         _       _          -        _
TOTAL                 200   4,821   2,990    1,416          19,773         489  4,632        947   30,246  1,089   2,800         418    283      200      231
691E/p61



MUISIAMTUNT 
GAMES IRRIGATION PROJECI
PmOJgToi a'iRRATION GMBE
SIAN4Y ENCOtiE STATMENT/C014EI 011XILQ!TAT!ON STIPLIFIE
1.    b
(in thousand of Dinars)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
---   M- ctual/ -    --    ----Budget/---
RMalisations            Pr6isions
Sales price of a m' of water (millimes) to PPI               a       10    10 and 14   14         14        Prix de vents du a' d'eau (f.1111ms  aux PPI
Wages and salaries                                         362      580       572      600       675        Fra1s de personnel
Other operating expenses /a                                220      271       304       310      350        Autrus frais d .xploitation /a
Total *xnensas                                             Il       ALL       AlA      21Q    l             T25A- I dtLlidhnses
Water sales                                                103      140       232       240      275        Ventes d'eau
Other revenues                                              16       31        60        70       75        Autres recettes
Operatins subsidies                                        220      435       497      600       675        Subv*ntion d'explo1tation
Tntal Inome                                               iii       ill                  i KR    1L QU        tal retates
Surplus (Deficit) /h                                      (243)    (245)      (87)        _        -        Excident C06ficit) 1k
/a  Depreciation not Included.                                                                              /A  A.ortisseeents non Copris.
/b  Deficit financed by supplier.                                                                          /1  04ficit tinanc  par credit fournisseurs.
691E/p62
.   .                     .. 1!



--:*   -52-
Table 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1. Plan directeur des eaux du Sud (2eme tranche). Projet de renovation des
oasis de Gabes, February 1984.  CNEA (3 volumes)
2. Gabes Irrigation Project Preparation Mission to Tunisia. Contribution of
L.W. Alferink (Drainage Consultant) (August 1984)
3.  L'exploitation de la Nappe du CI (Continental Intercalaire) dans le Sud
Tunisien. DRE, February 1984.
69lE/p57



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
"R.ES IRBICATION PROJECT
Rsnt Recovery lO1nars 195 constant nric.s) /g
------------------------------------------------- AFTER INVESTMET -------------------------------------------------
Farm A               Farm    -             Farm C               Farm 0 -              Fanr  I              Farm F
Year 8   Year 14    Year 8   Year 14    Year 8   Year 12    Year O   Year 14    Year I   Year 14    Year 6   Year 14
1. Net income
(CAM costs not deducted)            1,517    1.730        1.160    1.206        1.408    1,632       2.623    2,803       2,470    2.672        1.509    1,561
2. Cost of tree uprooting:
- Date pals                        130 /a   130 /A        30 /a    30/ 8//l               8  /l
- Olive trees                                              12        12
3  Allowance for risk uncertainty 102    151.7    173            116.0    120          140       163        262       260         247       267        150       156
4. Inputed return on.capital 20X            303       346        232       240         280       326        524       560         494       534        300       312
S. Depreciation for trees
(depreciation for irrigation
system is included in the OUm
charges for water) over 15 years         4        4           2.7       2.7        IS       15           7         7          17       17          12.3      12.3
6. Farm Rent/Per Hectare                    92d    1,077.0        767.3    801.3       965    1,120.0    1,830.0  1,956.0    1,712.0  1,854.0    1,047.0  1,080.7
7. 041 Costs                                158       162        166       166         154       159         183      183         124       131        200
8. Rent recovery
from 100X cost recovery for
O0H (lines 7 - 6)                      172      15X         22X       21X         16X       14X        10X         9.42        7.22      7.1X      19.1S    18.5X
9. Rent Recovery for new perimeters
at 40X cost recovery for
investments /t                          -         -           -         -           -        -                      -         27.22    25%           -         -
10. Rent recovery from 4% sales tax            -        9.2X         -        7.62        -         7.32       -         7.3S         -        7.1X         -       7.0%
11. Total rent recovery
at full developnent                      -       24.22        -        28.62        -       21.32        -        16.7X         -      39.2          -       25.52
Amount of investment per ha to be recovered for new perimeters:  3,600 0 (average).
/a  This amount Is to be paid annually for 10 years assuming 02 interest.
/6  Investment costs Including physical contingencies is 1.5 million dinars.  The annual payment per hectare assuming 402 investment cost recovery is 466
dinars per annun over a 10 year period at 52 interest. The appropriate grace period is to be decided by Governemnt.
/c The methodology used to calculate the table Is in Annex 5.
691E/p63
1-4.
t
0-'



STAFF APPRAISAL IPOQT
AIES IERfAIl  OJI
Farm Rudiak /a. SMdel A
Nat& Intensifigatian, Firm Sili._it h
(Otnars)
Years after Completion of Irrigation Rehabilitation Works
. W                W       ~      -~ I  4  a                           2       i0       L        12       J1         14
Value of Production               as      290     745    1,199   1,568   1,744   1,994   2,232   2,319   2,393    2,393    2,393    2,432    2,484
2. outflows
Tree Planting Costs               61        -                     -        -        -       -            -        -             -         -             -
Production Costs /1              416      373     457       149     6I3      654      666     661      659     691       691       691      693       693
S. Cash Flow B for. Financina (1-I) (389)   (83)   2ia            650      933   1,090   1,128   1,551   1,630   1,702    1,702    1,702    1,739    1,791
4. Flnanim
(a)  Souce  o  F1nane /l
Loan                         53      66                                                                                                                    1
Subsidy                      11      17                                                                                                                    A
Sub-total                      64      as
(b)  Loan Repanants
Principal                     -                                                   -       19       20      21   2            24        25        27
Interest                                                                                  19       Is      17        16        14       13        11
Sub-total                                                                                   35       35      38        25        33                 35
(ci  Not Finaneind ia-bh            64       83       -         -        -       -        -     (38)    (38)    (35)       (35)      (38)      (38)     (38)
5.  Cain Flaw After Financing 132cI (325)         -      286      650      933   1,090   1,325   1,513   1,592   1,664    1,664    1,664    1,701    1,753
6. Reoaynt of Advance for Tree
Uonratnia  Id                                        -       104      104     104      104     104      104      104      104       104       104        -
7. Mat Farm Benefit (cast) After
eoawant af Advance (5-61         (325)       -     288       546     629      986   1,224   1,409   1,415   1,560    1,560    1,60    1,597    11763
Total Incremental Labor Requirements:  At year a - 164.5                         Incremental Compensatian Per Handay of Incremental Labor:  At year 5 - 7.6
At full development - 205.5                                                                            At full development - * S
/A  Incremnntal
2b  Includes inputs, UNH charges, hired labor and farmers equity cost'of tree uprooting.
/e Loan and subsidy for fruit tree planting.
/d To be paid over 10 years with 3 years grace assumi"ng no Interest.
14f3E/p23
C



STAFF APPRAISAL REpORT
GABES IRRICATION PROJECT
Farm iudaet La. Model n
Fruit and Vegetable Intmnsification, firm Si2g (.5 hal
(oinars)
Years after Completion of Irrigation Rehabilitation Works
1       2        3       4        5       6        7        a       9        10-21
1. Znflmws
Value of Production              167      337     479       547      605     642      693      737     751      762
2.  QuWflws
Tree Planting Cost                41
Production Cost /b                74      121     152       166      161     165      193      200     202      202
3.  Cash Flow Beforg Fiaancing (1-2)  52        216      327       S81     424      457     5oo      537      549     560
4.  F1nancin
(a)  Raure:s of Finance /r 
Loan                         19
Subsidy                      s0                                                                                                       UV
Sub-total                      69
(b)  Loan PaLnts
Oebt Service                   -                                                           4        4        4
(c) Met finaninga (a-b)             6         -        -        -        -        -               (4)     (4)      (4)
S.  Cash Flow After Financina  (3+c)  121       216      327       381     424      457      500     533      545     556
6 *Remawant of Advance for Tree
6.Rnuatin.af/d le  frTe                -        -      37        37       37      37       37       37      37       37
WAuDrotn /d
7. Met Farm Bgnefit After
Reoavment of Advance              121      216      300      344      377     420      463      496     508      519
Total Incremental Labor Requirements:  At year S - 33.8
At full development - 33.8
Incremental Compensation Per Nanday of Incremental Labor: At year a - 14.7
At full development - 15.4
/a Incremental.
/l Includes Inputs, GIN charges, hired labor and farmer's equity cost of tree uprooting.
l; Loan and subsidy for fruit tree planting, and subsidy for tree reroval.
/d To be paid for 10 years with 2 years grace assuming no interest.
1443E/p24



STAFF APPRAISAL REPOERT
TNSIA
ClARES IRRTIQAT!N PRO3[CI
Farm Budeat la. Hadg C
Olives Intensification, Farm Size 11 hal
(1Dnars)
Years after Completion of Irrigation Rehabilitation Works
1       2        3       4      -          6        7       a        9        10        11      12-21
I. Inflows
Value of Production               170     418      732    1,025   1.445   1,524   1.657   1,815   1,894   1,969    1,994    2,044
Sale of Wood                       50
2. Outflows
Tree Planting Costs               226
Production Costs /h               102     164      232       291      383     390      407      415     421      423.0    420.0    421.0
3.  Cash Flow  ofoars Financina(1-2) (108)    254        500       734   1,062   1,134   1,250   1,400   1,473   1,546.0  1,574.0  1,623.0
4.  Fnancins
(a) Sources of Finance /L
Loan                         81
Subsidy                      53                                                                                                                  U'
Sub-total                     134
(b)  Loan Reoavnents                                                                               16       16      16        16        16
Oebt Service
(c)  Net Financina (a-b)            134                                                           (16)    (16)    (16)       (16)      (16)
5.  Cash Flow After Financina (3tc)   26         254     SOO       734   1,062   1,134   1,250   1,384.0 1,457   1,530    1,558    1,607
6.  Remawmnt of Advance for Tree
UDrOatinl /j                                          6         6        6       6        6        6        6       6         6         6
A.  aet FarMhnsfAt. After
Reaaymnt of Advane-                 26     254      494       726   1,056   1,126   1,244   1,378   1,451   1,534    1.552    1,601
Total Incremntal Labor Requirements:  At year 8 - 104.1
At full development - 107.1
Incremental Compensation Per 14anday of Incremental Labor: At year 8 - 13.2
At full develop_nt - 14.9
/a  Incremental.
/h Includes inputs, OEM charges, and hired labor.
/_ Includes loan and subsidies for fruit tree planting, and subsidy for olive grafting and for tree removal.
/d To be Paid over 10 years with 2Z grace assuming no interest.
1443E/p25
0
o



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES iRRiGATioN PRoJECT
Farm Uuduotk /a. Indal a
OliveS and CrOps Intansciecatian, FarM Siza i1 ha'
(o1nars)
Years after Completion of Irrigation Rehabilitation works
1  _ 2  3        4       5        6        7                9       1l        1L        12       4i        14
Value of Production              977   1.694   2.343    2.754  3J210   3.248   3.298   3,373   3.410   3.485    3.510    3,560    3.560    3 560
2.  DuUflns
Tree Planting Costs              673      300     315       330      615     105      105      105     105      105      673       300      s3S       330
Production Costs /a              21S      378     530       583      703     705      718      720     724      726      723       723       723      723
3.  Cash Flow Before Financing (1-2)  89   1.016  1l498    1.841   1.892   2,438   2.475   2.548   2,581   2.654    2.114    2,137    2,622    2,507
4.  Financin
(a)  Sources of Finance /a
Loan                        396                                                                                     357
Subsidy                      52        7       8         8       a        8        8       8        8       8         8         a        S         a       f
Sub-total                     448
(b) Loan Repayment
Debt service                  -        -       -                                          67       67      67        67        67       67        67
(e)  Net Financina (a-b)           448        7       8         8        8       a        8      (59)    (59)    (59)      298       (69)      (59)     (59)
5.  Cash Flow After Financina (3+c)  537   1.023   1,506    1,849   1,900   2U446   2.483   2,489   2.522   2595    2.412    2,478    2,463    2.448
Total Incremental Labor Requirements:  At year 8 - 153.1                          Incremental Compensation Per Kanday of Incremental Labor:  At year 8 - 16.3
At full development - 156                                                                              At full developnt - 11.7
/a Incremental
/b Includes inputs, OH costs and hired labor.
/_  Includes loam  for fruit tree planting, and for areenhouse establishment and subsidy for fruit tree planting olive grafting and for greenhouse crop
establishment.
1443Elp26



STAF. APPRAISAL DEPORT
GABES IRRIGATIO  PROJECT
Fare-Budiat /a. Ikdel C
Now Irreiaation. Farm S12c 1( ha I
(01nars)
Years after Completion of Irrigation Rehabilitation Works
l       2       l        4        9       6        7        a       9       1Iz21
1. Inflows
Value of Production              313      644     995    1.314   1,751   2,075   2,598   3,069   3.293   3,293
2. Dukflaws
Tree Planting Costs              256
Production Costs /a              184      289     346       450      545     S68      589     597      611     611
3.  Cash Flow Before Financina(1-2) (1273    355         649      864   1,203   1,507   2,009   2,472   2,682   2,682
4. Financina
(a)  Sources of Finance /, 
Loan                        123      46       23                                                                                     U'
Subsidy                      62      25       16         9      11       11       11      11       11      11
Sub-total                     1M5      71       39         9       11      11       11      11       11       11
(b)  Loan Remavments                                                                              24      33       36
Debt Service
Cc)  iet FlnatnIn  (a-b)           1S5       71      39         9       11      11       11      (13)    (22)    (27)
5.  Cash flow After Financing (3+c)   58        426      688      873   1,214   1,611   2,020   2,469   2,660   2,65S
6.  Investmnt Cost Recovery /d            -       -      466       466     466      466     466      446      466     446
7.  Not Farm laneift After
Investmnt Cost Recoverv (5-6)   58         426     222       407      745   1,02   1,554   1,993   2,194   2,189
Total Incremental Labor Requirements:  At year 8 - 161.9
At full development - 166.9
Incremental Compensation Per Ianday of Incremental Labor:  At year 8 - 13.1
At full development - 11.1
/_ Incremental *
lb  Includes inputs, 081 costs, and hired labor.
/_ Includes loan and subsidy for fruit tree planting, and tunnel crop planting.
/d  40% of investment costs.
1 443E/p27                                                                                                                                  0



STAFF APPRAISAL REPOfT
TUNIS
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm BLudet Ia. Model F
Fruitz D.vuloamnt Jim Vegetable aM. farm SJ28 (I hi)
(Olnhrs)
Years after Completion of Irrigation Rehablittation Works
1J-     2~      1       A         S~      i        7        8       9        10       11-21
1. InLlnwi 
Value of production              428      823   1,173    1,340   1,611   1,565   1,673   1,606   1,660   1,660    1,860
2. Outf1dwm
Treo Planting Costs              184
Production Costs /a              151      256      334      370      367     395      401      408     410      410      410
3.  Cash Flow BRfgrm  Finaneina          93     567      639      970   1,124   1,170   1,272   1,396   1.450   1,450    1,430
4.  tinansin
(a) foureas of Financg /r
Loan                         95
Subsidy                      25        7       7         7        7       7        7       7        7        7        7
(b)  Loan *amnants                   -        -        -        -        -                        11      11       11        11
(c) Not Fjnancna                   120        7        7        7        7        7       7       (4)     (4)      (4)       (4)
5.  Cash Flow After Financin. (3+c)  213        574      646      977   1,131   1,177   1,265   1.394   1,44G   1,446    1.446
Total Incremental Labor Requirenets:  At year 8 - 77.6
At full devolopment - 77.6
Increrental Compensation Per Handay of Incremental Labor: At year 8 - 16.1
At full development - 16.8
/I Incremental
/l Includes inputs, OLM costs, and hired labor.
/a Includes loan and subsidy for fruit tree planting, and tunnel crop planting.
1443E/pz2



- 60 -
Table 11
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
GARES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Conversion Factors for Proiect Coats
Investment Inputs
Construction (other than roads)                     0.54
Road construction                                   0.74
Agricultural machinery                              0.77
Vehicles (locally assembled)                        0.40
Vehicles (imported)                                 0.36
Trucks (imported)                                   0.63
Miscellaneous manufactures                          0.65
Miscellaneous non-tradeables                        0.60
Operatina Expenses
Road transport (and vehicle operating costs)        0.85
Gasoline                                            0.60
Diesel                                              1.38
Electricity                                         0.77
Marketing                                           0.45
Skilled labor                                       0.80
Unskilled rural labor                               0.75
General expenses                                    0.75
Spare parts                                         0.63
Sources: Except where indicated. conversion factors are taken from Gordon
Hughes' 1980 study of shadow prices in Tunisia. These factors were
calculated to reflect medium-term price relationships, included
projected trends in world market prices for tradeables; where these
relationships have substantially changed since the study, the factors
have been adjusted accordingly.
691E/p64



- 61 -
Table 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Price of Fertilizer
(Potassium)
Urea (46% N)   Phosphate (TSP)    Chloride
International price FOB (US$)Y          250                  -            100
Tunis FOB (US$)                            -              170
Tunis CIF (US$)                         257                  -            107
Tunis CIF (D)Y                          205               136              86
Unloading and local port charges         11                11              11
Export parity price (phosphates)           -              125
Inland transport (average)yA             12                12              12
Marketing costs'" 30                     18                14
Economic price at faragate              258               155             123
Financial price at far.gate             104                56             220
Accounting ratio                        2.5               2.7            0.56
In  1990 prices in 1984 constant prices (Source: World Bank Commodity Price
forecasts, September 1984).
lb Exchange rate used in US$l a D 0.8.
Jc  D 14/ton adjusted by the service conversion factor (0.75).
/d D 0.07/ton-km on an average distance of 200 km, adjusted by the road
transport conversion factor.
/e 131 of total costs.
691E/p65



- 62 -
Table 13
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
GAIES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analysis
(Dinars)
Financial    Economic
Price       Price
-   (per ton)
Production
Olives                                            125         159
Table Olives                                      250         317
Dates                                             130         165
Apricots                                          221         281
Pomegranates                                      125         158
Pears                                             432        .549
Pistachios                                      5,000       6,350
Peppers                                           215         273
Green Onions                                      103         131
Carrots                                            58          74
Squash (marrow)                                    24         284
Alfalfa                                            30          38
Green Barley                                       30          38
Henne                                           2,500       3,175
Melon                                             156         198
Potatoes                                          200         254
Greenhouse Tomatoes                               215         273
Inputs
Seed Potatoes 'ton)                             240           240
Carrot Seed (kg)                                  6             6
Squash Seed (kg)                                 55            55
Alfalfa Seed (kg)                                 2             2
Green Barley Seed (kg)                            0.2           0.2
Melon Seeds (kg)                                 25            25
Pomegranate Seedlings (seedlings)                 0.3           0.3
Apricot Seedlings :seedlings)                     0.5           0.5
Pear Seedlings (seedlings)                        0.9           0.9
Apple Seedlings (seedlings)                       0.9           0.9
Pistachio Seedlings (seedlings)                   2             2
Table Olive Graft                                 0.3           0.3
Manure (ton)                                      7             7
Tomatoes Seedlings (1,000 seedlings)             20            20
Pepper Seedlings (1.000 seedlings)                6             6
Green Onion (1,000 seedlings)                     5             5
Henne (1,000 seedlings)                          70            70
Anonnium nitrate (ton)                           77           192.5
Potassium sulphate (ton)                        235           131.6
Triple superphosphate (ton)                      56           151.2
Animal Traction (animal/day)                      6             .6
Mechanization (tractor/hour)                      4.8           4.9
Irrigation Water ('000 a)                        15            13
691E(p66



STAFF APP3A!SAi REPMT
AU :, IRDIaATION PE.1E.T
Prglact Relatad Cash Flgaw/a
(D0 000)
1986                                                              1992
A. S.ur.cfasnfla. 
ZINC Loan                           750      1,500      2,ZSO       5,025      6,375      3,370       1.500
Farmers Direct Contributions:
Payumnts for GIM
and Reserve fund lb              174.2      452.0      779.7       968.6   1,146.3   1,333.3
Investament Cost Recovery /P
New Perimeters                                                                                        93.2        93.2        93.2        93.2        92.2      93.2
Tree Uprooting /d                   50.4      107.0       38.1        34.1        8.8        1.5
Repaym nts for Tree Uprooting                 201.6      428.2       152.4      136.2       35.5         6.04
2ownDaynients for Credit            61.0      110.8      127.7       115.1       59.0        6.1
Credit Repa3imnts /a                                     69.2       150.0      240.7      342,8       281.0       359,6       347.3        316.5       264.6    245.8
Repayments by STIL                   5.7
Taxes
Agricultural lax If                             1.7       11.3        37.0       83.5      143.2       207.3       261.4       307.3        344.9       397.5    421.9
ialtosale Market Tuaes /a                       3.6       22.5        74.0      180.1      309.6       414.5       522.8        514.5      689.7        795.0    842.7
Other TaxeS /h1                  2,161.2   4,494.4   1,576.6    1,473.8         689.2      263.1       120.0        120.0       120.0       120.0       120.0    120.0
8. Analiaations/Outflows
ProJect Cost /a                   7,981.3  16,099.5   7,267.5    6,681.7   3,375.7   2,149.2            600.0       600.0       600.0        600.0       600.0    600.0
Debt Service
18RD Loan                                     100.0      300.0       600.0   3,87996   3,899.6    3,899.6    3,399.6    3,899.6    3,899.6    3,899.6
Total Anal Icat ians           7,f81.   16199.J   7.I5Z7L5    7,A1812   7.275.3   LI04Ll    &J14994            .499,6    4,49LA    4L4MJ.    4.4ILh    .60.
C.  uralusJn.ftCoit /A/
Anwal                            (4,778.8) (9,127.4) (2,264.2)        588.3   1,674.0    (142.7)  (1,777.6)  (3.142.6)  (3,117.2)  (2,935.3)  (2,829.3) 1,123.6
Cumulative                       (4,778.8)(14,106.2)(169360.4) 115.772.1)(14.098.1)(14,240.8) (16,018.4) (19,161.0) (22.278.3) (25.213.6) (28,042.9)
/a In current terms until PYI a,%d in constant terms thereafter.
Al As this is a Project-related cash flaw there is no provision in Project coat.s fnr 08  of irrigation works after ti  Project period, and similarly no
provision In the table for 08M payments after the Project period.
I    C For new  erJkgter:  40% of total investment cost (including contingencies) of 1.8 million dinars, repaid over 10 years at St interest.
For rehabilitated perimeters: an average of 50% of distribution network investments (including contingencies) of 11.2 million dinars, repaid over.
10 years at 5% Interest.
/A Farmer equity contribution to tret uprooting.
/a The terms and conditions for various types of credit is defined In para. 4.13.
/f 4% of the estimated value of agricultural production.
Ag 8% of the estimated value of marketed agricultural production. -21
/h General taxes and duties.                                                                                   I.
/j Including all investment, operating and tax costs of the Project (see Table 1).  After Year 6 the recurrent costs are for DWVGM salaries and Can of   .a
facilities other than the Irrigation system..                                                                                                                       (3  w
1B  This also represents the Goverrment cash flow.
1312E, Page 16



- 64 -
Table 15
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
(in thousands of Dinars)
Total             Total               Net
Incremental       Incremental        Incremental
Periods         Benefits             Costs           Benefits
1                0.0             3,920.0          -3,920.0
2               53.1            8,551.3           -8,498.2
3               314.2           2,706.4           -2,392.3
4               956.3            2,245.6          -1,289.3
5             1,995.8             661.4             1,334.3
6            3,164.4               175.3           2,989.1
7            4,236.5                 0.0           4,236.5
8            5,343.0                0.0            5,343.0
9            6,281.2                 0.0           6,281.2
10            7,048.7                0.0            7,048.7
11            7,681.8                 0.0           7,681.8
12            8,204.6                0.0            8,204.6
13            8,552.0                0.0            8,552.0
14            8,627.7                0.0            8,627.7
15            8,805.0                 0.0           8,805.0
16            8,704.4                0.0            8,704.4
17            8,612.1                0.0            8,612.1
18            8,625.5                0.0            8,625.5
19            8,593.5                0.0            8,593.5
20            8,594.0                0.0            8,594.0
1312E/pI8



Chart lI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GASES IRRIGATION PROJECT
Inlmmieentati on Schedule
PYl        _     PY               PY                 Y                Y
_         t    '915-T-1-81 1986  r-               le               1918  1          zTsr              17 
1. IrrtqatIon Works and Eguioment
Tube wells (+)                     ... ... ...
Tube wells (3+4)
Supply of conduits (1+2)           ... ... ...
Supply of conduits (3.4)                                     ... ...
Puwps and hydroequipment (1+2)             ... ... ...
Pumps and hydroequipment (3+4)
Electri fication                                    -
Works (1) - 847 ha                          ... ...
Works (2) - 836 ha                                           ... ...       _
Works (3) - 1,769 ha                                                          ... ...
Works (4) - 1,469 ha                                                                                                                                    U
Tree uprooting (1+2)                                         ... ...     .                     
Tree uprooting (3+4)                                                          ... ... ... _ _
2. gutldinas
3. VAhicl-s
4. Technical Assistance
S. Tra1nina
Procuremmnt
Execution
(1, 2, 3, 4) ProJect years.
691E/p46
t1H



- 66 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA                            Chart 2
GABES IR3XGA=TION PROJECT
OMI GAZES-MEDENE - PROJET D'ORGANIGRAL2E
PRESIDENT OIRECTEUR GENE.RAL
CELLULE DE GESTION                            .  PLANIFICATION ET
ET SUIVI DES                     _               CONTROLE GESTION
|~~~ r-     - - - - -r- --- - - - - - 
DIRECTION ADMINISTRATIVE            DIRECTION MISE                      DIRECTION
ET FINANCIERE                       ENB VALEUR                          IRRIGATION
SERVICE ADMINISTRA-               SEVICE  GONOMIUE                    StRVICE
_ TIF (PERSONNEL, JU-  l      _ ' Er STATION O'APPUI                 EXPLOET,ATGCN
RIDIQUE,  DOMANIAL)I__________1__________ 
SERVICE FINANCES       ISERVICE" COOPERATION                      SRIE-A           I
BUDGET (ET CREDITS)    IET APPUI A LIA ET APPU  AUX AIC
___________________COMJ'ERCI-ALISA 71ON_                     _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
SERVICE COMPTABILITEI               SEqvrc-                        sEvrcE MMES
GENERACLE EC,                       YULGARISATION                   El ET l=JAUX
IANALYTTOUE                            __
SERVICE ACHATS         I
IMARCHE
Liaison hlierarchiaue       /      DIRECTIONS RESIONALES
SERVIICES IAC.MjI*STRA77F
Liaison fo  tionnelle                                       FI=ANC7 ZER
EXPLO r,ATION        I
I M'AINTENANCE-                                              UARSTOI
APPUI AUX AIC        I                                  L__UL_ _      _I_AT_GN_I
SUTION U INTEMIENTION                                                CENTRES DE VUL3 R:-
IEW I PES D1E.NTR ri  tENI                                           SATTRES DE VULSAh3'R::
PARC  -ATEIERI                                                       SATOAuETAE Pols.c      |
&MAGASIN - rRANSPCq-j   I'A SCNEIET IIPRO:



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNIStA
GiAmES IRRIGATION4 PROJECT
Irrigation Develonient
1           ~~~~2             3                4                 56
Sector            Area                   1986         -   1987    - |       1988    -   -   1989    - |        19901            1981
1  ~~~847--~iI~~
2   836                      ... ... xxx ~~~~xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx   xxx       i        7    
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX XXX XXX XX XX XXX XXXXX XXX         XXXXXX===-===        ===
3             18769.... -   -   -    - -                                                   xxx -              I-
XXX XX XXX x   XXX  xxx XXX  x    x   x   x    XXX   XXX XXX-
3             1,769                                        .*.....
XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX
Partial Irrigation                          1,683             4,174            3,338             1.569                -
Full Irrigation                                  -              847            1,683             3,452            5,021            5,021
Under Reconversion                                              560           1672              1,674             ,113                 -
Area Reconverted                                                  -               560            2,234            3,908             5,021
.. ...... Pumps operational.  No new distribution network.
_Full operation of the irrigation system
xxxxxxxx Reconversion period
======== Full reconversion
0691E, p.45
I F



IBRD 18406
GABES       ~TUNISIA
GABES IRRIGATION  PROJECT
\       , /    GA, 7UDA                                                  ..PROJECTIOUNOARIS      LANORNI FILDS
TI                                                                           _____~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~     ~      ~~~MAIN ROADS  ..  oDWANonATR
A                                                         -    :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECONDARY ROADSat  GUOtAJARImX
0'            ~~~4444 RAILROADS                         SPOT Z&WVAnom
4. INTERNATIONAL AINFORT            wy.sms
0 ATIONAL APITAULI
I7N!ERNATIOIINAL IOLOOAHIII
In~~.
m<Wt:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r A 2 -:
*.  MEDITERRANEN       s  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 :IL,. iRS             'h



1ORD 18490
_ 472 156 h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                     /                 A  -A R AT              11
TUNISIA  ....                                                                                        ..
ArA OR                                                                                                                   MARETH~ |F74h
N3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
TOUI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~OTO3R18
BECHIM   An ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 17 
~iCHENC           EF                                        
KHE AE            .HAAN
DOKH4ANE      71 ha                       TKOURI
70 ha                                       32ha10 
30h            13BENG 4LOUF                                                      HL  VI
3Oha R  b.         aTsh.                                            24             3 I
30 ha ex              0 aR.
TMO                  -
ELMD      ~TE  JUA       AT       
a    ~ ~ 4ha          *ZR        
0 at.
ZERtO           KETTANA      -
boi                                                                                             Lmao    ARRANIA               KETTAN 
MAOUA                ~~~~ZERKIINE 
60 ha                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~22h 
472                         ZERKINE II                      PkRATI
AIOUN ZEIR KINE 30 ha                   14h
MARETH
MTs nlW A.s b.. a-a-.-d h TNe Wi a-a 0"' $Ulf 4%do*. bw cof ug                         I tCIvV
V*fmd        .*..  i.e   TV.  i m *'Cl a-513  ha
OCTOBER 1964



