Report No. PID10434
Project Name                     India-Karnataka Economic Restructuring...
Loan/Credit
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project                          INPE55490
Borrower                         GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Beneficiary                      State of Karnataka
Implementing Agency              GOVERNMENT OF KARNATAKA
Contact Person                   Mr. S.C. Khuntia
Secretary, Project Monitoring Unit
Finance Department
Phone 91-80-225 7336; Fax 91-80-225 3731
Date PID Prepared                May 14, 2001
Appraisal Mission                April 18-24, 2001
Board Date                       June 21, 2001 (tentative)
1.      Country and Sector Background
Notwithstanding a decade of relatively rapid economic growth and strong
macroeconomic performance following the sweeping economic reforms implemented
in response to the balance of payments crisis of 1991, India faces critical
challenges in reversing the secular fiscal deterioration by both the central
and state governments, and in accelerating structural reforms in trade,
financial sector, simplification of rules governing business activities and
foreign direct investment, privatization of public enterprises, labor
legislation, and deregulation of agriculture.
There is a consensus that many of the reforms required to accelerate India's
growth and poverty reduction need to be implemented by the states. These
include not only fiscal reforms to address resource constraints which are
increasingly circumscribing the states' developmental role, but also power
sector reforms to address a fundamental source of fiscal pressure and
constraint to growth, and governance reforms to make the government smaller,
more accountable and effective in the delivery of services. The momentum for
reforms is growing at the state level as an increasing number of states
embrace fiscal, governance and sectoral reforms.
State of Karnataka
Karnataka is a state with a population of some 53 million in the south of
India. Karnataka has a number of strengths, including a good growth record
(7.5% per annum average for the last five years), a fiscal position that has
been stronger than that of many states, a capable bureaucracy, and strong
political leadership and stability. But Karnataka's poverty levels are
average or above by Indian standards; its social indicators are about
average. Statewide figures mask significant disparities: parts of Karnataka
are quite developed; others, especially in the north, are backward. Karnataka
is India's second most arid state: drinking water is scarce and of low
quality, and agriculture is mostly unirrigated. Growth prospects may be
dimming due to: (i) a rapidly deteriorating fiscal position; (ii) a loss-
making power sector (as in most Indian states); (iii) other infrastructural



bottlenecks; and (iv) excessive and complex regulations which deter private
investments.
Karnataka's Comprehensive Reform Program
The Government of Karnataka (GoK) has launched a comprehensive reform program
with focus on the "eradication of poverty through economic growth tempered
with equity." This vision has been followed over the last 18 months by the
development of a comprehensive reform program developed through a
consultative process in partnership with the private sector and other
stakeholders.
Sectoral reforms are being implemented in the power, roads, water, education,
health and agriculture sectors. The power reforms are particularly important
given the sector's significance for both growth and fiscal sustainability.
Here, the reform strategy is to privatize power distribution, promote retail
and bulk supply competition, and improve the finances of the power utilities
through tariff adjustments and improvements in operational performance.
Karnataka has also embarked on a major program of fiscal and governance
reform, and has quickly established itself as one of the leaders in these
areas in India with pioneering and wide-ranging measures. (For example, it is
the first state to commit to introducing fiscal responsibility legislation,
and to start taking actions against premature transfers; also the first to
legislate for transparency in procurement, to legislate a cap on guarantees,
and the first to publish monthly accounts on the Internet. Karnataka has also
passed the most liberal Right to Information Act of any state). GoK's overall
strategy is two-pronged: (i) to rationalize and refocus the role of the
state; and (ii) to enhance the effectiveness, transparency and accountability
of the state in carrying out its more focused role. Karnataka's fiscal and
governance reforms consist of: (a) fiscal and public expenditure management
reforms; (b) administrative reforms; (c) reforms to promote private sector
development; and (d) poverty and human development monitoring.
2.      Project's Objectives and Description
The proposed Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERL) would
support GoK's efforts in developing and implementing multi-year reforms that
are designed to stabilize the fiscal situation, improve governance, and
foster an enabling environment for structural reforms and sectoral
investments.
KERL is a single-tranche loan, the first in a proposed series of adjustment
loans to support Karnataka's reforms. KERL is the World Bank's first sub-
national adjustment loan for Karnataka and the second in India. The proposed
operation would support GoK's comprehensive set of reforms in the following
areas. First, the fiscal and public expenditure reforms of the KERL include a
multi-year framework for fiscal adjustment and include reforms to improve
fiscal transparency, tax and expenditure policies, public expenditure
management, financial accountability, and procurement transparency, with the
objectives of restoring the state's financial health, creating additional
fiscal space for high priority expenditures, and promoting more efficient and
transparent management of the government's financial resources. Second, the
KERL's administrative reforms focus on civil service reforms, freedom of
information, service agency reforms, anti-corruption strategy,
decentralization, and e-governance, with the objectives of improving the
efficiency and transparency by which government conducts its business and
delivers services. Third, the private sector development component focuses on
improving the business environment through deregulation and
privatization/closure of public enterprises. Finally, the KERL supports the
establishment of a poverty and human development monitoring system to enable
the state to better track the impact of its services, policies and reforms on
- 2-



poverty and social indicators.
3.      Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Support for reforming states is an important part of the India Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The new CAS (April 5, 2001) documented the
substantial progress being made in the implementation of this strategy. The
proposed operation has been structured to support growth-oriented fiscal
adjustment and structural reforms, with a focus on governance. The state-
level reforms will contribute to overall macroeconomic stability in India and
complement the reforms initiated by the central government.
The's Bank's backing for the reform program in Karnataka helps provide
support for implementation based on the lessons of international experience.
Success with respect to the Government's fiscal and governance reform program
will improve the enabling environment for Bank-supported and other sectoral
investments in priority social and infrastructure spending such as roads,
rural water and sanitation supply, and education.
The additional financing which the Bank can provide will help ensure that
high-priority expenditures are protected and expanded rather than crowded out
at a time of fiscal stress. It also provides financial backing for the
state's reform program, and in particular helps fill the financing gap which
arises from fully funding the power sector deficit on budget, an important
component of the state's power sector reforms.
4.      Financing
Total                      US$150 million
IBRD                     US$75 million
IDA                        US$75 million equivalent
5.      Implementation Arrangements
The overall program will be coordinated by the Chief Secretary of GoK. The
nodal agency for the fiscal and public expenditure management reforms is the
Finance Department. Administrative Reforms are the responsibility of the
Departments of Personnel and Administrative Reform - a number of other
departments are also important in this regard and overall coordination for
this component will be provided by the Additional Chief Secretary. Under the
private sector development component, business deregulation is the
responsibility of the Department of Commerce and Industry, while the
Karnataka State Bureau of Public Enterprises is the nodal agency for public
enterprise reforms. Finally, the Planning Department is responsible for the
newly-created Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System.
6.      Sustainability and Poverty Impact
Karnataka's strengths include a capable bureaucracy and good growth
potential, and its Government has established a credible track-record in
reforms. These strengths would mitigate risks associated with the reforms.
Given its traditionally strong fiscal and governance position and its
already-established position as a reform leader in these areas, Karnataka has
the potential to set precedents in many difficult areas, and thereby to
generate competition and reform momentum across states in India. The success
of Karnataka's reform programs would have a considerable demonstration effect
in India.
Karnataka's reforms are expected to have a strongly positive impact on
poverty reduction through various channels. Specifically:
? Karnataka's deregulation will improve the investment climate especially
for small and medium enterprises. This will help generate non-farm
employment, of great benefit to the poor, but where performance has been
lagging in Karnataka.
? Karnataka's governance reforms seek to improve the delivery of public
services at local levels (e.g., through citizen charters, user surveys,
- 3-



performance monitoring of rural drinking water and primary education in
rural areas). The governance reforms should also reduce corruption and
harassment, which tend to hurt the poor disproportionately.
? Karnataka's fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources to be
focused on poverty-related expenditures, in particular health, education
and rural infrastructure. The Medium-Term Fiscal Plan seeks to reorient
public spending towards high priority development spending (primary and
secondary education, health care, drinking water, basic infrastructure)
that will provide basic social services to the poor and help agricultural
growth.
? The emphasis being given to improving poverty and human development
monitoring will help the government to better track poverty, and to adjust
its policies and programs accordingly. This includes the Poverty and Human
Development Monitoring System, as well as sector-specific studies such as
the social assessment being undertaken in the power sector.
7.      Environment Aspects
Given the nature of the reform components of the proposed operation, there
are no major environmental issues identified under this loan/credit. However,
there are certain environmental issues relating to the proposed divestment or
closure of public enterprises (PEs) and privatization component of the
operation: (i) potential environmental liabilities associated with past
pollution; and (ii) environmental compliance by each PE. In this context,
the proposed operation envisages that at the time of privatization or closure
of each PE, an environmental screening should be carried out which would then
determine if an environment audit would be needed to assess the current
environmental compliance and liabilities of the PE, and to recommend
corrective measures to ensure that the divestment and closure process will be
environmentally sound.
8.      Contact Points:
Task Team Leaders:
Stephen Howes and Lili Liu
The World Bank
Lili Liu
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-7694
Fax: (202) 522-3408
Stephen Howes
70 Lodi Estate
New Delhi 110 003
Telephone: (91) 11 461 7241
Fax (91) 11 461 9393
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 4 -



