Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7453 IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION AND THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.9 MILLION (US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
A LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR THE KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING
May 25, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Rupees (Rs) as of May 21, 2001
$1 = Rs 46.96
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA          Analytical and Advisory Activity          KERL         Karnataka Economic Restructuring
AusAID       Australian Agency for International                    Loan/Credit
Development                              KPTCL         Karnataka Power Transmission
C&AG         Comptroller & Auditor General                          Corporation Limited
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy               KSBPE        Kamataka State Bureau of Public
CDF          Comprehensive Development                              Enterprises
Franiework                               MoU           Memorandum of Understanding
CM           Chief Minister                            MTFP         Medium Term Fiscal Plan
DANIDA       Danish International Development          NGO          Non Government Organization
Assistance                               O&M           Operations and Maintenance
ERC          Expenditure Review Committee              PE           Public Enterprise
FDI          Foreign Direct Investment                 PEM          Public Expenditure Management
FRP          Financial Restructuring Plan              PHC          Primnary Health Center
GDP          Gross Domestic Product                    PHDMS        Poverty and Human Development
Got          Government of India                                    Monitoring System
GoK          Government of Karnataka                   PRI          Panchayati Raj Institution
GSAP         Governance and Strategy Action Plan       PSAL         Progranmnatic Structural Adjustment
GSDP         Gross State Domestic Product                           Loan/Lending
HDR          Human Development Report                  PSU          Public Sector Unit
HUDCO        Housing and Urban Development             PWD          Public Works Department
Company                                  QRs           Quantitative Restrictions
IDFC         Infrastructure Development Finance        TA           Technical Assistance
Corporation                              VAT           Value Added Tax
IMF          International Monetary Fund               VRS          Voluntary Retirement Scheme
IT           Information Technology
KERC         Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission
The World Bank
Vice President                   Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director           :     Mr. Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director            :     Mr. Roberto Zagha
Task Managers              :     Mr. Stephen Howes
Ms. Lili Liu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING LOAN/CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.    SETTING: ECONOMIC SITUATION AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN INDIA ...................                           I
II.   KARNATAKA AND ITS REFORM  PROGRAM  ..................................................................2
A. The State of Karnataka ..................................................................2
B. Kamataka's Reform  Program ..................................................................4
III.  WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY                          ......................................................9
A. Country Assistance Strategy ..................................................................9
B. The Bank's Assistance Program  in Kamataka .................................................... 10
IV. KARNATAKA'S FISCAL AND GOVERNANCE REFORMs   .                                        .12
A. Overview .12
B. Fiscal Reforms and Public Expenditure Management .13
C. Administrative Reforms .22
D. Private Sector Development .25
E. Poverty and Human Development Monitoring .27
V.   THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT ........................                   ........................................ 28
A. Kamataka's Financing Needs ..................................             .............................. 28
B. Actions Activating the First KERL ................................................................       29
C. The Second and Subsequent KERLs ................................................................   30
D. Implementation Arrangements, Performance Monitoring and Outcomes ........... 33
E. Loan/Credit Administration ................................................................          35
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .35
A. Benefits .35
B. Risks .36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A.      Karnataka Letter of Development Policy
B.      Kamataka Economic Restructuring Program Matrix
C.      Kamataka Medium-Term Fiscal Plan
D.      Kamataka Govemance Strategy and Action Plan
E.      Karnataka Policy on State Public Sector Reforms and Privatization
F.      Kamataka Deregulation of Business Environment
G.      Poverty in Karnataka
H.      Kamataka Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System
I.      Fiscal Annex
J.      Statistical Annex
Map
Task Team
Task Managers:             Lili Liu; Stephen Howes (Senior Economists)
Advisors:                  Edgardo Favaro (Lead Economist); Sanjay Pradhan (Regional Advisor, Public
Sector Management and Governance)
Fiscal/Public Expenditure
Management:                Trichur K. Balakrishnan (Financial Analyst); Vikram K. Chand (Public Sector
Management Specialist); Kanishka Ghoshal (Research Analyst); Stephen Howes;
Sanjay Pradhan; Vinod B. Sahgal (Lead Evaluation Officer)
Administrative Reforms:    Robert Beschel (Senior Public Sector Specialist); Vikram K. Chand; Sanjay Pradhan
Private Sector Development: Sameer Akbar (Environmental Specialist); Paramita Dasgupta (Economist); Sunita
Kikeri (Lead Private Sector Development Specialist); Lili Liu
Poverty Monitoring:        Monica Jain (Research Analyst); Valerie Kozel (Senior Economist)
Salman Zaidi (Econorist)
Sectoral Inputs:           Lucio Monari (Senior Economist), Djamal Mostefai (Lead Energy Specialist), Judith
K. Plummer (Senior Financial Analyst), Sumeer Shukla (Financial Analyst) (energy);
Guang Zhe Chen (Senior Economist, roads); Sajitha Basthir (Senior Education
Economist, education); Hnin Hnin Pyne (Public Health Specialist), Tawhid Nawhaz
(Lead Human Resources Specialist) (health)
Legal Counsel:             Syed I. Ahmed (Senior Counsel)
FMS/Disbursement Officer: Hyacinth D. Brown (Senior Financial Management Specialist)
Team Assistants:           Shunalini Sarkar; Rita Soni; Juliet Teodosio



INDIA
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING LOAN/CREDIT
Loan and Credit Summary
Borrower:             Govemment of India.
Implementing Agency: Government of Karnataka.
Beneficiaries:        State of Karnataka.
Amount:              Credit: SDR 58.9 million (US$75 million equivalent)
Loan: US$75 million
Terms:               IDA: Standard with 35 years maturity and 10 years grace period
Loan: Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace and annuity
principal repayment; at six-month LIBOR for USD plus variable spread
for Variable-Rate Single Currency Loans.
Onlending Terms:     Standard terms of central resource transfers for state developmental
budgets.
Description:         Karnataka is a state of 53 million people in the south of India.
Karnataka's poverty and social indicators are about average for India,
but there are significant disparities within the state. Karnataka's growth
record is good, but its prospects may be dimming due to: (i) a rapidly
declining fiscal position; (ii) a bankrupt power sector and other
infrastructural constraints; and (iii) policies and regulations which deter
private investment. To meet these challenges, Karnataka has embarked
on a major reform program, and has already emerged as a leader among
Indian states with respect to fiscal and governance reforms. The
Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERL) would support
the government's reform program in four areas. First, the fiscal and
public expenditure reforms of the KERL include a multi-year
framework for fiscal adjustment and reforms to improve fiscal
transparency, tax and expenditure policies, public expenditure
management, financial accountability, and procurement transparency,
with the objectives of restoring the state's financial health, creating
additional fiscal space for high-priority expenditures, and promoting
more efficient and transparent management of the government's
financial resources. Second, the KERL's administrative reforms focus
on civil service reforms, freedom of information, service agency
reforms, anti-corruption initiatives, decentralization, and e-governance,
with the objectives of improving the efficiency and transparency by
which government conducts its business and delivers services. Third,
the private sector development component focuses on improving the
business environment through deregulation and privatization/closure of
public enterprises. Finally, the KERL supports the establishment of a
poverty and human development monitoring system to enable the state



to better track the impact of its services, policies and reforms on
poverty and social indicators.  The proposed loan/credit will be
disbursed in one tranche, and is the first in a proposed sequence of
about four operations. The actions triggering the presentation of this
operation to the Board have all been completed.
Benefits:              The operation would support and help finance the reform program of
the Government of Karnataka. Expected benefits for Karnataka from its
comprehensive reforms include: (a) restoration of the state's financial
health; (b) improved governance and service delivery; (c) higher levels
of investment; and (d) higher economic growth, reduced poverty and
improved social indicators. The operation reinforces recent initiatives
by the Government of India to stimulate reforms in the states, and it is
expected that Kamataka's reforms will encourage similar reforms in
other Indian states.
Risks:                 The major risks are: (a) non-adherence to the agreed fiscal framework;
(b) delays in implementation of key sectoral reforms, especially in the
power sector; and (c) resistance to institutional and governance
reforms.
Disbursement:          The loan/credit would be disbursed in one tranche in an amount
equivalent to US$150 million upon effectiveness.
Project ID Number:   IN-P055490.



-1-
I. SETTING: ECONOMIC SITUATION AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN INDIA
1. India has seen a fundamental economic transformation over the last ten years which has put the
economy on a higher growth path, and improved prospects for poverty reduction. Economic growth
initially surged to an unprecedented 7% for several years, with a decline to around 6% since 1996.
Inflation has fallen in recent years to around 5-6% on an annual average basis. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments has remained in the range 1-1.5% of GDP, while India's extemal debt to GDP
ratio (21% at present) and debt service ratio (20% of current account receipts) have declined continuously.
2. India's fiscal position improved in the first half of the nineties, but deteriorated in the second half, with
increases in both the central and state government deficits. Some fiscal adjustment can be observed at the
central level since 1998-99, but the Government of India (Gol) has succeeded so far in preventing a further
rise in the fiscal deficit, but not in bringing the deficit back down to the levels of the mid-nineties. Gol has
proposed a Fiscal Responsibility Act to provide legislative backing to its fiscal reform efforts. A key fiscal
challenge lies at the state level: combined state deficits now contribute almost half of India's general
government deficit, up from less than one-third in the mid-nineties. While India's system of center-state
transfers is basically sound and provides a largely transparent, predictable and rule-based framework,
certain weaknesses do exist in the fiscal federal arrangements. In particular, weak linkages between
resources and performance have resulted in inadequate incentives for fiscal reforms at the state level.
Building on initiatives started in 1999, and the report of the Eleventh Finance Commission, a Fiscal Reform
Facility has been established by Gol to provide grant funds (about US$2.5 billion over four years) to states
which improve their fiscal performance.
3. The pace of reform at the central level has undoubtedly slowed from the early nineties where the
impetus of a macroeconomic crisis led to quick action and a number of "stroke-of-the-pen" reforms. India's
strong performance since has significantly reduced the possibility of a macroeconomic crisis, but the
remaining reform agenda is much more difficult to implement, with significant institutional and legislative
changes required. However, reforms have continued. Significant initiatives in the last few years include:
trade liberalization, with a progressive lifting of quantitative restrictions (QRs) completed by April 1, 2001;
further liberalization of normns governing FDI flows; deregulation of important sectors from restrictive
small-scale industry reservations; the end of the public monopoly on insurance; and strengthening of
prudential regulations and enforcement in the banking system alongside with legislation presented to
Parliament to reduce to a minority holding the government stake in banks. Progress has been lacking or too
slow, however, with respect to privatization of public manufacturing enterprises, reforms in labor
legislation, and deregulation of agriculture, though the February 2001 budget speech proposed important
measures in each of these areas. The recent report of the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council
provides a road map for structural reforms to accelerate growth to 7-9% which would in turn help
accelerate the pace of poverty reduction.
4. State reforms. There is a consensus that many of the reforms required to accelerate India's growth and
poverty reduction need to be implemented by the states. These include not only fiscal reforms to address
the resource constraints which are increasingly circumscribing the states' developmental role, but also
power sector reforms to address a fundamental source of fiscal pressure and constraint to growth, and
governance reforms to make state governments smaller, more accountable and effective in the delivery of
services. The momentum for reforms is definitely growing at the state level as an increasing number of
states embrace fiscal, governance and sectoral reforms.



-2-
5. IMF perspective. In its May 2000 staff report, which was discussed by the IMF's Board in June, 2000,
the staff noted that, notwithstanding India's recent strong growth performance, there remain important
impediments to maintaining high growth and achieving the authorities' objectives for poverty reduction. In
particular, failure to address the fiscal situation and implement needed structural reform could undermine
the economy's growth potential and also leave it increasingly vulnerable to adverse shocks. On the fiscal
front, the staff stressed the need for an ambitious and time-bound program of fiscal deficit reduction, and
supported the authorities' stated objective of eliminating the revenue deficits of the central and state
govemments in order to achieve fiscal sustainability. To support this objective, the staff recommended
expenditure and tax reforns, buttressed by fiscal responsibility legislation and reforms in center-state
relations. On the structural side, a broad range of reforms was considered needed in order to enable India to
benefit from the increased globalization of trade and investment flows. These measures included
liberalization and reform in the agricultural and power sectors, regulatory reforms to increase labor market
flexibility, improvements in the legal mechanism for debt recovery, continued financial sector reforms and
trade liberalization. The IMF Board consideration of the 2001 Article IV consultation is scheduled for late
June.
6. Growth and poverty. Despite data inconsistencies and limitations, there is a growing consensus that
poverty did fall over the nineties, though whether the decline has been as rapid as suggested by recent
official statistics is a matter of debate. It seems that there is a rise in regional disparities, with the faster-
growing southern and western states leaving the slower-growing northem and eastem states behind. Some
increase in regional disparities may be the inevitable result of greater policy responsibility passing to the
states, and a more direct link between state government performance and state development.
7. Recent political developments. India saw three elections in three years during 1996-99. The election
of September 1999 led to a relatively more stable coalition govemment, its members being elected on the
basis of a common program. On balance, this has led to some acceleration on the reform front. However,
expectations of rapid reform have given way to the realization that the pace will still be gradual because of
the political cost of reforms, coalition politics, and the diversity of opinions within the country. A number
of recently elected state govemments have begun to speak the language of reform and initiate important
changes, with some outpacing the reforms of the central govemment. Several state governments have
shown considerable determination in backing reforms in the face of opposition and strikes.
II. KARNATAKA AND ITS REFORM PROGRAM
A. The State of Karnataka
8. Kamataka is India's 8th largest state with a population of about 53 million. It is one of India's states
which has most benefited from the liberalization of the nineties. As Table 1 shows, average growth in the
1980s at 4.8% was below the all-India average of 5.4%; but growth in the 1990s averaged 6.9%, above the
all-India figure of 6.1%. Agricultural, industrial and services growth in the 1990s were all up on the 1980s
and exceeded all-India averages for the 1990s.
Table 1. Sector-Wide Growth of Real GSDP in Karnataka and All-India, 1980-81 - 1998-99 (%)
Agriculture & Allied    Industry    Services      Real GSDP
Services
1980s   1990s  1980s  1990s  1980s  1990s  1980s  1990s
Growth
Kamataka            2.1      3.8    6.0    7.7    7.1    8.8    4.8    6.9
All India           3.1      3.4    6.9    6.6    6.4    7.5    5.4    6.1
Share in GSDP
Kamataka             40      32      25     27      35     41    100    100
All India            36      30      25     27      39     43    100    100



-3-
9. Despite this progress, Karnataka's per capita income (at US$410)is still slightly below the national
average. The state is heavily dependent on agriculture, more so than India as a whole (Table 1). Literacy is
at average levels for India. Infant mortality is lower than the India average, but above the more relevant
comparator of South India (Table 2). There are various estimates of poverty in Karnataka: poverty levels in
the state seem to be either at or above the all-India average. (Annex G, on poverty in Kamataka, provides
more detail.) Intra-regional disparities are sharp in Karnataka with the northern regions of the state having
the highest concentration of poverty. There are also social divides: women and the population comprising
scheduled castes and scheduled tribes appear to be disadvantaged in accessing opportunities in the non-
farm sector and on average suffer lower welfare outcomes.
Table 2. Selected Indicators of Economic and Social Development
Unit   Karnataka   Southern   All India
States*
Rural Poverty Headcount Index ('93)     %            41.0         34.4       36.7
Urban Poverty Headcount Index ('93)     %            29.7         28.7       30.5
Infant Mortality Rate('97)           per '000          53           45        71
Overall Literacy ('97) \a               %              63           70        62
Female Literacy ('97) \a                %              50           61         50
Per capita income ('97) (1980-81 prices)  Rs.        3073         3016      3251
lafor population of age 7years and above   * Average ofKarnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala
Sources: Infant Mortality Rate - Sample Registration System Bulletin, Oct '98; Overall Literacy and Female Literacy
- National Sample Survey Press Brief 1997; Poverty Headcount Ratio - India: Achievements and Challenges in
Reducing Poverty, World Bank 1997.
10. Karnataka faces several developmental challenges:
*    The first is to sustain growth. Karnataka's high growth rates hide a number of serious problems.
The fastest growth sector over the last five years has been information technology, with
Bangalore known as one of the top ten high-tech cities in the world, and accounting for over 35%
of India's software exports. However, many other industries are stagnating with an increasing
number of sick firms. Karnataka's future growth will be within a more competitive environment,
due to the phasing out of QRs on imports in April 2001 and the expected phasing out of the Multi
Fiber Agreement (MFA) by 2005, and the expected further reduction in import tariffs which
remain high. Improving the climate for investment in Kamataka - through, inter alia, improving
infrastructure, deregulating, and reducing bureaucratic harassment - will be critical to improving
growth prospects.
*    Accelerating growth and employment in rural areas is key to poverty reduction. Increasing the
area under irrigation is vital, but at most 1/3 of Kamataka's arable land can be brought under
irrigation, so improving dryland productivity is just as important. The rural non-farm sector in
Kamataka is relatively underdeveloped, contributing only 20% of rural income, compared to an
India average of 30% and 46% in neighboring Tamil Nadu. A massive expansion in rural
infrastructure and connectivity will be needed to broad-base economic growth.
*    Human capital and social infrastructure are still sadly lacking. A large percentage of the rural
population in Kamataka has virtually no education. Some 74% of poor rural household heads are
illiterate. Another 13% are educated only up to some level below primary. The rural poor are
also almost entirely unserved by modern sanitation infrastructure and reside in homes with
earthen floors. Expanding social infrastructure and improving service delivery throughout the
state is the third challenge facing the Government of Karnataka (GoK).



-4-
B. Karnataka's Reform Program
11. A Congress Party government was elected to power in Karnataka in November 1999 with a
comfortable majority (132 out of 224 seats). The new Government's reform agenda for the "eradication of
poverty through economic growth tempered with equity" is set out by the Chief Minister in his March 2000
and 2001 budget speeches (Box 1).
Box 1. Karnataka's 10-Point Reform Program: Chief Minister's Budget Speech, March 2000
1 . The topmost priority, to eradicate poverty, empower women, and provide food and nutritional security
for vulnerable sections.
2. To achieve a minimum 7-8% growth per annum for the next five years.
3. To strengthen the foundations of agriculture and give it a new momentum.
4. To expand irrigation and utilize irrigation potential created more effectively.
5. To expand the state's infrastructure, through more resources but, equally important, through better
management, and innovative organizational mechanisms.
6. To mount an assault on social backwardness.
7. To provide a conducive climate for new investments.
8. To provide the people of Kamataka with a transparent, responsible, responsive and decentralized
government.
9. To mainstream the backward regions, particularly in the north, into the development process.
10. To develop a fiscal system that serves the needs of the poor, a pattem of public expenditures that
addresses pressing socio-economic concerns, and that keeps the state away from a debt trap.
Fiscal and Governance Reforms
12. Karnataka has always been one of India's better managed states. Its fiscal indicators are among the best
of any Indian state, and its bureaucracy among the more capable. Law and order is not a serious issue.
Nevertheless, Karnataka faces serious problems. Its fiscal position is rapidly deteriorating, and its power
sector is hurtling towards bankruptcy. The Government of Karnataka is by no means immune from the
governance problems which afflict both state and central governments in India. "Non-transparency, limited
accountability, ... and inadequate performance appraisal weaken the civil service's administration, as do the
standard problems of political interference in specific situations and government's widespread and intricate
interventions that delay actions, create unwarranted power and provide opportunities for corruption."'
13. Karnataka has therefore embarked on a major program of fiscal and governance reform, and has
quickly established itself as one of the states leading reforms in these areas (Box 2). On the fiscal front,
after two years of successive rises, the budgetary fiscal deficit is estimated to have fallen in 2000-01 as a
percentage of GSDP on the back of strong revenue growth and expenditure restraint. The Government is
now building on this correction, to tackle off-budget sources of fiscal weakness, and to achieve its
announced medium-term fiscal goals through a Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP). Creation of an
Administrative Reforms Commission has given rise to a new Governance Strategy and Action Plan, which
sets out the govemment's goals for improved service delivery through civil service reform, greater
transparency, less official discretion, and a campaign against corruption. The Government has also started
to rid itself of the burden of state-owned commercial enterprises, and has launched a business deregulation
drive to improve the investment climate. The proposed loan/credit is designed to help broaden and deepen
the government's fiscal/governance reform program (Section IV provides more details). The following
paragraphs briefly outline Karnataka's sectoral reforms.
1    "India: Policies to Reduce Poverty and Accelerate Sustainable Development," World Bank, January 2000, also referred to
as the Social and Structural Policy Review (SSPR), 2000.



-5-
Box 2. Karnataka: One of the leaders in fiscal and governance reform among India's states
oI First state to enact a Transparency in Public Procurement Act - 2000.
Q  Has enacted India's most progressive Right to Information Act - 2000.
E  First state to introduce a legislative cap on government guarantees - 1999.
o Leader in fiscal transparency (first state to publish monthly financial accounts, to release to the public
information on tax expenditures and tax arrears, and to introduce an "Action Taken Report" on
previous year's budget commitments; one of the first to publish an accessible fiscal overview) -
2000/2001.
Li The most advanced state in terms of institutionalizing a medium-term budgetary perspective (e.g., the
first to establish an Expenditure Review Committee) - 2000/2001.
o  First state to commllit to introduction of Fiscal Responsibility Bill - 2001.
o  One of the leading states in respect of preparation for VAT introduction - ongoing.
o  One of the first states to publicly monitor and take measures to reduce premature transfers of civil
servants - 2001.
Power Sector Reforms
14. Power sector reforms are critical to Karnataka's growth and to the success of fiscal reform. Serious
power shortages, unreliability, and losses and theft (officially estimated at 37%, but possibly much higher)
have made the power sector the leading infrastructure constraint for the state. High-tension industrial
consumers have already started to leave the utility's grid. 80% of industries have back-up power,
substantially reducing their competitiveness, particularly that of small and medium firms, and seriously
reducing the opportunities for off-farm employment and broad-based growth. Half of the rural population
still does not use electricity at home.
15. In addition, Karnataka's power sector deficit is increasing rapidly and poses the most serious threat to
fiscal sustainability in the state. From about 1% of GSDP for the first half of the nineties, the power sector
deficit has more than doubled (reaching about 2.1% of GSDP in 2000-0 1). Losses in the power sector are
mainly due to high theft and losses and a heavy subsidy to agriculture, estimated at Rs 18 billion, only part
of which is met by cross-subsidies from industry. The causes for the recent financial deterioration in the
power sector include: increased reliance on thermal generation, and purchases from new and relatively
expensive private power producers; higher fuel (coal) costs; and the departure of high-paying industrial
consumers from the grid. Tariffs were not increased from 1998 to January 2001.
16. Reforming the power sector has thus become an important part of GoK's comprehensive reform
efforts. The ultimate objective of the power sector reforms is for the Government to withdraw from the
power sector as an operator and regulator of utilities. Consumers would be provided with reliable, high-
quality and cost-effective electricity supply by creditworthy and commnercially operated, largely privately-
owned utilities functioning in a competitive and appropriately regulated power market. The power sector
would cease to be a drain on public finances, and a constraint on growth.
17. First Phase of Reforms Completed. Several key reforms have already been implemented:
*    The Karnataka Electricity Reforrn Act, which embodies the above vision, was enacted in 1999,
and the Cabinet has recently approved various amendments to this Act to strengthen it.
*    The Cabinet approved in December 2000 a power sector reform policy based on the privatization
of distribution.
*    An independent Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has been established and
in December 2000 awarded Kamataka's first tariff increase since 1998.



-6-
*    The Cabinet has approved a new policy to rationalize its generation expansion consistent with
financial viability. A decision not to provide any escrow cover for new independent power
producers (IPPs) has been announced.
*    Various policies to crack down on power theft have been introduced (a collection drive, use of
profit centers), and collections have improved in recent months.
*    GoK has commissioned environmental and social assessments of power sector reform, and has
developed a reforms communications strategy.
*    The Cabinet has approved a Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) for the power sector, to map out
a path towards reduction, and eventual elimination, of the power sector deficit, and the Board of
Kamataka's main power sector utility, KPTCL, approved a budget for the utility for 2001-02
consistent with this plan.
18. The FRP for the power sector has important implications for GoK's objective of restoring fiscal health
in the state. The FRP sets out a gradually declining path for the power sector deficit - from 2.1% of GSDP
in 2000-01 to 0.8% of GSDP in 2004-05. This would significantly contribute to reducing the fiscal deficit
over the medium term - from 7.2% of GSDP in 2000-01 to 3% of GSDP in 2004-05, as set out by the
MTFP (see paras. 54-55 and Table 3). The declining power sector deficit as articulated by the FRP is
predicated on several important reform measures. Eliminating the power sector deficit is a challenge that
can only be met in the medium term. In the near term, the FRP focuses on improving the sector's
operational performance based on expanding metering, improving billing and collection, tariff adjustments,
and preparing for privatization.
19. Specifically, the measures underlying the FRP include: (i) a reduction in losses and theft from 37%
currently to 28% over 5 years; (ii) an improvement in collection efficiency so that receivables fall from 95
days currently to 85 days over 5 years; (iii) universal metering within three years; and (iii) annual tariff
orders from the KERC so that the average tariff approaches cost recovery. The FRP also limits power
supply to agriculture below available levels, assumes limited new generation capacity, and contains capital
investment in transmission and distribution to about Rs 52 billion over five years all in line with the
sector's financing capability. The FRP for the power sector is a rolling document which is realized through
the annual budget of KPTCL. The Govemment plans to monitor the power sector deficit on a monthly basis
so that it can take prompt action to keep the deficit within the prescribed limits.
20. Next Phase of Reforms. The 2001 budget confirms the Government's commitment to the next phase
of power sector reform, mainly via commitments to:
*    The govemrnment meeting in full its financial obligation to the power sector, as set out in the
MTFP.
*    Universal metering within the next three years - this is a crucial step to capping the massive
power subsidy to agriculture (most farmers are currently not metered) and reducing theft of
power.
*    Introduction of new legislation in 2001 to curb the theft of power, including severe punishment
and the establishment of special courts to deal with such crimes.
*    The privatization of distribution in 2002.
21. Near Term Outcome. By the end of calendar year 2001, significant progress in these areas is
expected:
*    Progress towards privatization as measured by the adoption of a privatization strategy and the
unbundling of KPTCL into separate transmission and distribution companies.



-7-
*    Submission of a tariff application by KPTCL and the implementation of KERC's second tariff
order.
*    Loss and theft reduction as measured by (i) substantial progress in implementation of the 3-year
universal metering program, with a target of 150,000 meters installed, and (ii) an anti-theft
legislation enacted and anti-theft program intensified, with the aim of reducing loss and theft
from the current 37% to 34% by the end of the fiscal year.
Other Sectoral Reforms, and Interlinkages
22. Reforms in the road sector. Inadequate road infrastructure and its deterioration have adversely
affected the spread of growth beyond Greater Bangalore. The Government plans to expand spending on
roads and bridges with increased reliance on the private sector for construction, maintenance and financing.
Important institutional reforms are planned for the sector. An institutional strengthening action plan for the
sector has recently been approved by GoK. The plan aims to transform the Public Works Department
(PWD) from a traditional public-sector roads department to a performance-oriented and user-responsive
modem road agency. Major changes outlined by the Plan include:
*    Separation of the roads and buildings function of PWD into two separate departments (Highways
and Buildings).
*    Expanded private sector participation in the road sector through outsourcing and oversight of
road sector management by a Road Users Board.
*    Improvements to financial management, audit and accountability, and a computerization program
to support the modernization of road management.
23. Water Supply and Sanitation. A major thrust is being given to improving water supply and
sanitation, now recognized as a maj or health determinant. Currently, only 72% and 24% of households
have access to safe drinking water and toilets, respectively, with high costs in terms of both public health
and the environment. Both urban and rural water supply and sanitation sectors in Karnataka suffer from
chronic inefficiencies, unreliable service quality, limited coverage, and low cost-recovery.
e    In the rural sector, the Government is turning to greater community participation and cost-sharing
as the solution. Its new Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Policy (2000-2005) targets an
increase in rural areas in drinking water availability from 40 litres of water per capita per day to
55 litres for all households by 2005, as well as improved quality (fluoridation is a major
problem), and Total Village Sanitation through provision of better paving, drainage, solid waste
management practices and smokeless cooking fuels, as well as the construction of household,
group and community latrines, and information campaigns. The strategy relies on a participatory,
demand-driven approach with a target of 100% paymnent of O&M and 15% of capital costs by
users, organized into village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees.
*    In urban areas, the Government is implementing private sector solutions. GoK is in the process of
preparing a policy paper on Urban Water and Sanitation, which will serve as a basis for urban
water reforms, including the introduction of private sector management, recently approved in
principle by the Cabinet.
24. Education sector. GoK's target is to ensure that by 2007 all children in the age group 6-14 years are in
school and complete 8 years of elementary schooling. To achieve this goal, Government has taken up a
number of actions, including: hiring of additional teachers (15,000 in 2001-02); a large school and
toilet/drinking water construction program; and a new program to bring drop-outs back to school. In 2003,
Karnataka will increase the elementary cycle from 7 to 8 years. Teacher quality is expected to improve



-8-
with the introduction of a transparent exam-based recruitment system. Looking beyond elementary
education, GoK has established an Education Task Force, and is the first among Indian states to undertake a
sector study of education covering all levels of education. The report will provide recommendations for
policy and institutional reforms to improve the effectiveness of public educational services as well as the
management of government support to private educational institutions.
25. Health. GoK has set health and nutritional goals including reductions in infant and matemal mortality/s
and malnutrition, and better control of communicable diseases, such as TB and HIV/AIDS. To achieve
these goals, the recommendations of the Task Force on Health have already begun to be implemented,
including the filling up of vacant posts of doctors and para-medics, and increased supply of essential
equipment to and enhanced budgets for Primary Health Centers (PHCs). As in education, transparency has
been introduced into the recruitment of medical personnel. Service delivery is being improved by greater
reliance on performance monitoring and user feedback. The Govemment has already begun to invite NGOs
and the private sector to manage PHCs. To improve the supply of doctors to rural areas, compulsory rural
service for post-graduate medical students is being introduced.
26. Agricultural productivity. An Agricultural Commission has been established, led by extemal experts,
to recommend measures to boost agricultural productivity. GoK has also established a Global Advisory
Networking Group on Agriculture to draw on expertise from outside of India. 750 Farmer Contact Centers
have been set up across the state to disseminate scientific and technical advice to farmers. New seeds are
being developed and tried. A multi-disciplinary Watershed Development Department has been established
to improve agricultural productivity in drylands. Programs for attracting private sector investment into cold
storage, agribusiness, barren lands, and biotechnology, with adequate safeguards, have been introduced,
including a plan for the development of 5 agro-processing parks. A reform program has been initiated in
the irrigation sector, with a new ordinance to establish water-user groups, and increased funding being
made available for O&M (matched by a more than doubling of water charges on the revenue side).
27. Public-private partnerships. Underlying all of these initiatives is a strong emphasis on consultations
and public-private partnerships. To promote private sector participation in infrastructure, the Infrastructure
Development Corporation of Karnataka has been established as a joint venture. Some 10 task forces have
been established covering topics from health and education to infrastructure, IT and biotechnology to
provide the government with outside thinking. The Bangalore Agenda Task Force has been particularly
effective in providing private-sector solutions for the Bangalore municipal government. The Govemment's
partnership with the Confederation of Indian Industries has resulted in, among other things, the Global
Investors Meet, which attracted firms and publicity around the world, and resulted in US$6 billion of
investment proposals. The Govemment has been consulting the business community in the formulation of a
medium-term strategy for business deregulation. The Government has also sought partnerships with a
number of financial institutions, chief among them the World Bank, but also, from within India, IDFC and
Hudco for infrastructure financing.
28. Interlinkages. While the Government's reform program is most easily described under the various
fiscal, govemance and sectoral heads, the linkages between the various elements of the reform program
cannot be over-emphasized. The inter-relationships between fiscal and power sector reforms were
articulated by the Kamataka Chief Minister in his 2001 budget speech: "We cannot attack poverty and we
simply cannot invest more in social and physical infrastructure if we do not improve the state 'sfiscal
position. And without a fundamental change in the way the power sector is organized, managed and
financed today, fiscal improvement will be impossible. " Links between govemance reforms and
improvements in service delivery are equally important. Core governance reforms to promote transparency
in procurement and recruitment will result in practical benefits of better teachers and cheaper schools.
Likewise, governance reforms piloted in individual sectors can be scaled up to benefit all sectors. This can
be seen through the transparency in recruitment initiative which began in the education department.



-9-
29. Link to poverty reduction. Poverty reduction is GoK's central objective (para. 11). Overall, the
Government's program appears to be well-designed to achieve this goal, based on the following policy-
poverty links:
* The focus on improving agricultural productivity is well-justified given that 69% of Karnataka's
poor live in rural areas, and that 80% of rural income in the state is derived from agriculture.
* The Government's regional emphasis on investments in northern Karnataka derives strong support
from the large inter-district disparities in the state's poverty profile.
*  The focus on expanding social and physical infrastructure is consistent with the poor's greatly
reduced access to such infrastructure (Annex G).
* The Government's fiscal and governance reforms hold various potential benefits for the poor,
including a more pro-poor expenditure pattern, a better business environment for small business,
greater opportunities for off-farm employment, and a lower burden of corruption on the poor (see
para. 123).
30. Implementation of the Government's reform agenda has been impressive, but difficult at times.
Unpopular and controversial steps have been taken, in particular the hiking of various user charges. In
January 2001, GoK, while accepting the electricity regulator's tariff rulings for other customer categories,
decided to provide another subsidy to agricultural customers rather than increase the agricultural tariff, thus
"buying down" the tariff increase from 17% to 12%. Attempts to increase higher education fees and to
reduce government support for private higher education institutions have also been partially rolled back
after protests. While the financial impact of these decisions is individually relatively small, the decisions
themselves are significant, though not unusual for a reforming Indian state.
III. WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Country Assistance Strategy
31. The Country Assistance Strategy (discussed by the Board on April 5, 2001) aligns Bank Group
assistance with India's poverty reduction strategy, as defined by its Ninth Five Year Plan, the main themes
of which are strengthening the enabling environment and supporting pro-poor interventions. This proposed
Loan/Credit is aligned to the CAS theme of strengthening the enabling environment by improving
government effectiveness and promoting private-sector led growth. The CAS highlights three strategic
principles to guide the Bank Group's assistance program, namely, selectivity, reliance on partnerships, and
adoption of a programmatic approach. Based on the selectivity principle, the strategy focuses on reforming
states, something which started with the previous CAS, and which has been endorsed by the recent Country
Assistance Evaluation for India.
32. Lessons learnt from state reforms. The Bank has been supporting comprehensive reforms at the state
level for about three years, beginning with Andhra Pradesh, then Uttar Pradesh, and most recently
Karnataka. The Bank's state-focus strategy is viewed as successful within India and by the donor
community. There has been growing competition by states for Bank support, which in turn has helped
create incentives for reforms. By focusing on reforming states, the Bank can use its resources more
effectively by forging deeper, more focused, and longer-term partnerships for reforms and development.
The use of programmatic adjustment lending in Uttar Pradesh for the first time (in April 2000) proved very
useful for supporting reforms in that state. At the same time, state-level reforms have in general been more
difficult to sustain than expected. From three years of Bank support to state reforms the following lessons
have emerged:



-10-
*    A long-term perspective is needed both because the structural and institutional reforms facing
the states are long-term in nature and because the adjustments needed are so large that economic
and political economy considerations imply that they be introduced in a phased manner.
*    Correction of the distortions and fiscal excesses of several decades touches on many vested
interests, and is often met with strong resistance, including strikes and riots. Government
ownership of the reform program is essential. Flexibility on the part of the Bank is also
important, including the ability to intensify support when reforms build momentum, or to
disengage when reforms go off track.
*    Many of the reforms carry large short-term costs, and gains only in the longer run (e.g., utility
tariff increases before improvements in service delivery). Much needed increases in development
spending, on deferred maintenance and health and education, and improvements in governance,
all of which can have immediate effects on delivery of services, help bring forward the benefits
of reform and increase their acceptability.
33. While support for individual reforming states is central to the India CAS, it is only one part of that
strategy. At the state level, in collaboration with the Planning Commission and other Indian institutions, the
Bank is trying to spread the lessons of reform across all states and to broaden and deepen the momentum
for reform. The Bank continues to engage with Gol on a range of national issues via a large AAA program.
It also supports Gol initiatives to link central resources and performance (para. 2), which will strengthen
incentives for reforms. Areas where joint action is needed by central and state governments are the reform
of indirect taxes and modernization of financial management. The Bank can be effective in such areas by
working at both the state and national levels, by bringing in lessons from other countries, especially other
federations, and by encouraging learning across states, and between the center and states.
34. The India CAS also reflects an increased emphasis on fiscal and governance reforms, the former
following from India's fiscal deterioration in the second half of the nineties (para. 2), and the latter from an
emerging consensus in India that without better performance, governments will have neither the credibility
to persuade their citizens to pay taxes, nor the capability to convert public resources into growth. As the
Secretary of India's Planning Commission has recently remarked: "[S]tates will be neither able to end the
fiscal crisis nor to restore growth unless they are able to address problems of governance."
35. The final aspect of the CAS relevant to this operation is an increased reliance on programmatic
adjustment lending. Programmatic budgetary support combines the flexibility necessary in the Indian
political environment with a medium-term approach required to implement India's deep and difficult
structural reform agenda. It allows for a tighter focus on policies, a better link between Bank support and
the budget, and provides important financial backing to state-level reform programs. Under the CAS base
case scenario, US$500-900 million per annum is envisaged for use in adjustment lending to support
reforming states.
B. The Bank's Assistance Program in Karnataka
36. Karnataka approached the Bank through the Government of India for support in late 1999. Since then a
substantial program of assistance has been developed. In line with the CAS, it has a number of
distinguishing characteristics: (i) it is aligned to the government's reform program; (ii) it is focused on
poverty reduction, with a particular geographical focus on the poorer, arid regions of the state; and (iii) it is
programmatic in nature, with a sequence of interventions designed to further government reforms and
goals.
37. As mentioned (para. 32), working at the state level allows the Bank to take a CDF-approach, cutting
across sectors and individual operations, in a way that is both comprehensive and integrated. The size and
sequencing of the program depends on the extent and pace of overall reforms in the state. In particular, the



-11-
experience of other states shows that power and fiscalgovemance reforms are critical to the Govemment's
poverty reduction efforts (para. 29). Progress with respect to these twin pillars of reform will determine the
size and scope of Bank assistance to Karnataka. Given the close link between the power sector deficit and
the success or otherwise of fiscal adjustment (paras. 15, 18), progress in power sector reforms (paras. 16-
21) will determine the state's capacity to efficiently absorb Bank financial support, and thus will be a key
determinant of the size and scope of Bank assistance to Kamataka.
38. Instruments. The program of support being provided by the Bank to Kamataka consists of analytical
work, technical assistance, adjustment lending, and investment lending:
*    Analytical work has informned the Bank's assistance and dialogue, and helped build consensus
for reform. In 1998, the Bank conducted a comprehensive economic report/public expenditure
review of Kamataka, Karnataka: Economic Reforms for Sustained Growth. More recently, the
Bank has completed a number of policy notes, including: a fiscal assessment; a poverty note; a
note on growth prospects and the business environment; a prelimninary financial accountability
assessment; and a draft rural policy review. A procurement assessment will commence shortly,
and a State Financial Accountability Assessment will be undertaken this year. Two background
studies on the financing of education, and on labour market and training needs are underway. A
report on rural decentralization in Kamataka has been completed.
*    Technical assistance is being provided through the India Technical Assistance for Economic
Reform Credit to support VAT introduction and power sector reforms. In the future, technical
assistance is expected to support civil service reform as well, and the govemment's poverty
monitoring. Technical assistance from AusAID will be used to strengthen public expenditure
management.
-    Programmatic adjustment lending (PSAL) is proposed to support Kamataka's core fiscal and
govemance reforms (i.e., Kamataka Economic Restructuring Loans/Credits - KERLs). The
KERLs are envisioned to be a series of one-tranche loans/credits based on up-front fiscal and
govemance reforms. They would help provide financial backing to the state's reform program,
and protect high-priority development expenditure. Because the pace of reforms determines the
state's capacity to use resources efficiently, each KERL will follow the adoption of reforms and
be based on the need for financing. This approach takes full advantage of the flexibility which
the PSAL framework offers, with an expectation of annual or biannual loans/credits depending
on the pace of reforms and financing needs.
*    Investment lending is also proposed to support Kamataka's reforms, including sectoral reforms
in the power, infrastructure and social sectors and priority pro-poor rural interventions. The
reforms supported by these investment projects complement and deepen in each sector the fiscal
and govemance reforms to be supported by the adjustment lending. Three loans/credits are at a
relatively advanced stage: Kamataka State Highways Improvement Project, negotiated in April
2001, the Kamataka Watershed Development Project and the Second Karnataka Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project.
39. Sectoral priorities. The Bank's support in Kamataka is spread over a number of priority sectors:
*    In the power sector, the Bank is supporting reforms through the provision of technical assistance
and dialogue. Discussions are currently underway conceming a possible investment loan to help
the rural sector adjust to commercial electricity pricing, by enhancing rural power supply and
possibly other infrastructure facilities, and accelerating metering (paras. 20-21).



-12-
*    In the urban sector, the Bank is supporting the government's policy shift towards private sector
participation in urban water: an urban water project under preparation will support private sector
management of urban water delivery in poorer northern towns (para. 23).
*    A state highways project is underway to improve highway capacity and maintenance and
support important institutional reforms in the roads sector (para. 22).
*    A number of Bank-supported health projects are already underway in Karnataka, including for
infectious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, for reproductive health, and for strengthening of the
state's health system. A follow-up health system project is under consideration to assist the
government implement its new health reform agenda (para. 25).
*    In education, the Bank is helping Karnataka universalize education through the District Primary
Education Program, targeted at districts where female literacy is low (para. 24).
*    Three community-based rural projects are under preparation to improve rural livelihoods
especially in the poorer and arid north - rural water supply and sanitation, irrigation tank
rehabilitation, and watershed development. The Bank also has a dialogue on rural policy and
have completed a draft rural policy review. Karnataka participates in the Bank-supported Rural
Women's Development and Empowerment Project.
-    Environment. Kamataka participates in the Bank's Industrial Pollution Prevention Project
which is supporting institutional strengthening of the Karnataka Pollution Control Board.
40. Partnerships. The Bank is providing its assistance in partnership with other institutions. In the power
sector, GoK has signed reform-based MoUs with both Government of India and the Infrastructure
Development Finance Corporation. In the watershed project, the Bank is collaborating with other bilaterals
who have supported similar projects, including the Swiss Development Corporation and Danida. AusAID
(Australia) is arranging technical assistance for public expenditure management reforms and is supporting
water sector reforms in Bangalore. The Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC) is carrying out a
large amount of analytical work to support the Government's reforms.
IV. KARNATAKA'S FISCAL AND GOVERNANCE REFORMS
A. Overview
41. Main issues. As mentioned (para. 12), Karnataka is one of India's better managed states, with a
stronger fiscal position and more robust and effective institutions than many states. However, a fiscal
crunch together with weaknesses in governance have undermined government effectiveness. In Karnataka,
as in many other Indian states, critical problems that have undermined the quality of public administration
and service delivery include the politicization of the transfer process, the lack of openness in government,
corruption in the tendering process, a weak performance evaluation system for government schemes and
operations, over-regulation of private businesses, and the failure to adequately prioritize and program
expenditures over time because of the absence of a medium-term fiscal framework.
42. Yet Kamataka also holds the promise of real improvement in public sector management. It is already
one of the leaders among Indian states with respect to fiscal and governance reforms (Box 2). The
challenge is to deepen and broaden those reforms already underway, and thus ensure their success and
sustainability.
43. Reform objectives. Karnataka's fiscal and governance reform strategy is two-pronged. As articulated
in the Governance Strategy and Action Plan, the strategy aims to: "(i) Rationalize the role of the state to
focus on the most critical public goods and services which the private market cannot effectively supply, and
(ii) Enhance the effectiveness, transparency and accountability by which the state performs this role."



-13-
44. Strategy formulation. The Govemment has invested heavily in analytical work to inform and shape its
reform program. In addition to work undertaken by the Bank (para. 38), the Government has received
extensive reports from the Tax Reforms Commission and the Administrative Reforms Commission both of
which the Chief Minister established a year ago. The Govemment has also commissioned various
background papers and convened workshops in areas such as: subsidy targeting and management; poverty
monitoring; governance reforms; improving the accuracy of budgetary estimates and forecasts; public
expenditure management and business deregulation. On the basis of this work, the Government has
prepared a number of policy papers. The two most important ones for this operation are:
*    The Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP), the first version of which was approved by the Cabinet
in September 2000, and a revised 2001 version of which was approved by the Cabinet in March
2001 and will be laid in the Legislature as soon as it reconvenes (expected June 2001). The
MTFP sets out the government's medium-term fiscal policy (Annex C).
*    The Governance Strategy and Action Plan (GSAP) has also been approved by the Cabinet and
will also be laid in the Legislature when it reconvenes. The GSAP sets out the Government's
policies for improving governance and administration (Annex D).
45. Reform components. As per the Government's Letter of Development Policy, the various
components of Karnataka's fiscal and governance reform program can be conveniently summarized under
four headings:
*    The Government'sflscal and public expenditure reforms include a multi-year framework for
fiscal adjustment as well as reforns to improve fiscal transparency, tax and expenditure policies,
public expenditure management, financial accountability, and procurement transparency. The
common objective of these reforms is to restore the state's financial health, create additional
fiscal space for high priority expenditures, and promote more efficient and transparent
management of the government's financial resources.
*    The Government's administrative reforns focus on civil service reforms, freedom of
information, service agency reforms, anti-corruption strategy, decentralization, and e-
govemance, with the objectives of improving the efficiency and transparency by which
government conducts its business and delivers services.
*    The private sector development reforms focus on improving the business environment through
deregulation and privatization/closure of public enterprises.
*    Finally, the Government is establishing a poverty and human development monitoring system to
enable the state to better track the impact of its services, policies and reforms on poverty and
social indicators.
The sub-sections which follow provide more detail, as does the Government's policy matrix (Annex B).
B. Fiscal Reforms and Public Expenditure Management
Fiscal Analysis
46. Understanding Karnataka's fiscal position requires looking well beyond conventional budgetary
deficits. Karnataka is one of several Indian states which, in order to gain access to additional sources of
finance, make extensive use of off-budget borrowing for which debt servicing reverts fully to the budget. In
1999-00, the budgetary fiscal deficit was 4.5% of GSDP. Consolidating on- and off-budget borrowing
brings the 1999-00 fiscal deficit to 5.6% of GSDP. In addition, Kamataka, again like many states, has a



-14-
significant and rapidly growing liability in the power sector which is only partially funded by the budget
(the remainder being financed by arrears and/or utility borrowings). In 1999-00, Karnataka's power sector
deficit was 1.5% of GSDP, and the consolidated fiscal and power deficit 6.2% of GSDP (Table 3).
47. Kamataka's fiscal position has traditionally been stronger than that of many states. Its fiscal indicators
have been well above average. Karnataka has not, unlike many states, run out of cash and been forced to
resort to overdrafts with RBI or liquidity support from Gol. However, the state's fiscal situation has
deteriorated sharply in recent years. It is now reaching close to crisis proportions, with rapidly mounting
debt, and accumulating unpaid liabilities. For example, comparing 1990-91 with revised estimates for
2000-01, the interest/revenue ratio has almost doubled from 12% to 20%, a revenue balance has become a
deficit of 2.6%, and the debt stock (including off budget borrowing) has increased from 20.0% to 26.8% of
GSDP. This deterioration has come in the second half of the nineties: the state's public debt stock actually
fell in the first half of the nineties.
48. The sources of fiscal decline in the second half of the nineties include a large and growing power
deficit (see para. 15), other expenditure pressures, and a declining revenue-GSDP ratio:
*    Apart from the power sector, there have been a number of other expenditure pressures on the
state. The overly generous national pay settlement of the late nineties undid the beneficial impact
of Kamataka's hiring restraint through the nineties. It brought the salary bill back to the level of
the early nineties as a percentage of GSDP, and also pushed up the pension bill. The combined
salary and pension bill was 7.0% of GSDP in 2000-01 up from 6.5% in the mid-nineties. Interest
payments grew through the nineties by a percentage point of GSDP (up to 2.7% of GSDP in
2000-01) due to the growing debt burden and higher interest rates. Finally, the increasing reliance
by Kamataka on off-budget borrowing has prevented the compression of capital spending seen in
many other states (para. 53). While arguably good for the state's development, this has also
pushed the deficit up, as well as average interest rates, as the off-budget borrowing has been
relatively expensive.
*    On the revenue side, Karnataka is one of India's two or three highest-taxed states. However, the
tax/GSDP ratio fell from 9.0% during the first half of the nineties to as low as 8.2% in 1999-00,
on account of low buoyancy of Kamataka's two most important taxes, the sales tax and excise.
The low sales tax buoyancy reflects in part the industrial recession of the late nineties, but also
inter-state competition, which drove down rates, and the proliferation of tax incentives. Non-tax
revenue has fallen by about half a percentage point over the nineties. The fall in non-tax revenue
is partly due to less lending to public enterprises, and so lower interest receipts, and partly due to
falling cost recovery.
49. Fiscal outcomes for 2000-01. Revised estimates for 2000-01 indicate a reversal in the trend of
increasing deficits over the late nineties, with a fall in the budgetary fiscal deficit from 4.5% of GSDP in
1999-00 to 4.0% in 2000/01 (Table 3), corresponding to the deficit staying approximately flat in nominal
terms at Rs 42 billion.2 However, Kamataka did not tackle off-budget sources of fiscal weakness in 2000-
01. Net off-budget borrowing rose sharply in 2000-01 (from 1.1% to 1.8% of GSDP), as did the power
sector deficit (from 1.5% to 2.1% of GSDP). As a result the consolidated fiscal deficit including power
rose in 2000-01 to 7.2% of GSDP from 6.2% in 1999-00. Bringing these off-budget items under control is
2   It is important to note that the 2000-01 figures are revised estimates. Revised estimates are often unreliable,
though scrutiny in this case gives some comfort. Actuals will be available by December 2001, and will be used
to confirm progress. The financial management and reporting reforms are intended, among other things, to
improve the reliability of budget and revised estimates.



-15-
critical to the state's fiscal health, and central to the govemment's fiscal reform strategy (see paras. 53 and
54).
50. Fiscal reform and public expenditure management strategy. The strategy of the government aims to
regain fiscal sustainability, improve the composition of expenditures, and strengthen the fiscal and financial
architecture of the state. As a first step, a White Paper was issued in March 2000 to build a consensus for
fiscal reforms. The Government's fiscal reform and public expenditure management strategy includes the
following elements outlined below: (i) development of a medium-term fiscal framework; (ii) promotion of
fiscal transparency; (iii) revenue reforms; (iv) expenditure restructuring; (v) improvements in public
expenditure management; (vi) strengthening of financial accountability; and (vii) reforms in procurement.
Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP)
51. The Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) is a rolling 4-year fiscal forecast. The first MTFP was
approved by the Cabinet in September 2000 and was used to prepare the 2001-02 budget. This has now
been updated, approved by the Cabinet in March 2001, and will be presented to the Legislature when it
reconvenes, expected in June 2001. Subsequent MTFPs will be presented with successive budgets, along
with reports on performance against previous MTFP targets. GoK intends to provide the MTFP with
legislative backing - the March 2001 budget speech announces the intention of the state government to
table a Fiscal Responsibility Bill. This is a first for an Indian state government (GoI has tabled such a Bill,
but it has not yet been enacted), and could set a precedent which would significantly enhance fiscal
discipline not only in Karnataka, but in all of India's states.
52. Medium-term objectives. GoK's fiscal objectives, as articulated in its MTFP, are to reduce the fiscal
deficit to 3%, the revenue deficit to zero, and to stabilize debt as a percentage of GSDP by 2004-05. In
terms of composition of expenditures, the MTFP aims to reduce the share of wages, pension, and non-merit
subsidies and protect and promote high-priority development expenditures, particularly social sector and
infrastructure spending (para. 68). The MTFP assumes real growth of 7.5%, the average for the second half
of the nineties, and inflation of 6%.
53. Off-budget borrowing. The MTFP consolidates off-budget borrowing (defined in para. 46) with
budget borrowing, and sets targets for the consolidated figures. This is important given the sharp rise in off-
budget capital outlays (para. 48), which now exceed on-budget capital outlays. The major use of such off-
budget borrowing is for major irrigation investments on the Upper Krishna River, completion of which in a
time-bound manner is forced on the state by an inter-state water award. But the Government has since
extended the use of off-budget borrowings to include other irrigation investments on the Krishna River, and
other investments such as for roads and housing. These borrowings are actual rather than contingent
liabilities, as it is expected from the start that debt servicing will fall on to the budget. Off-budget
borrowing is non-transparent, and distorts and damages the integrity of the budget process. GoK has
decided to reduce reliance on off-budget borrowing over time, and to eliminate it completely by the end of
2004-05. The MTFP sets specific annual, declining nominal caps on off-budget borrowing. In addition, to
restrict and discipline access to off-budget borrowing in the course of the year, the Government's March
2001 Budget Overview for the first time sets out "budget estimates" for off-budget borrowing during 2001-
02 - not only an aggregate cap, but itemized by borrowing agency.
54. MTFP and the power sector. The MTFP includes allocations for the power sector sufficient to fully
meet subsidy obligations and to reduce past arrears. As mentioned earlier (paras. 17-18), a Financial
Restructuring Plan (FRP) for the power sector has been approved by the Government. The MTFP and FRP
are fully consistent in that the amounts allocated for the power sector in the MTFP are those assumed as
government inflows in the FRP. Just as the MTFP sets a declining path for the fiscal deficit to follow, so
the FRP defines a declining path for the power sector deficit.



-16-
55. Adjustment path. The fiscal adjustment path set out in the MTFP is summarized in Table 3, which
shows the various relevant definitions of the fiscal deficit. The consolidated fiscal deficit (including the
power sector deficit), the broadest measure of fiscal health, falls annually starting in 2001-02. The fiscal
(budgetary) deficit also falls annually, except in 2001-02 on account of a deliberate change in strategy
towards funding the power sector deficit on budget, rather than funding it off-budget as in earlier years.
Bringing the power sector deficit on to the budget and financing it in full, as against allowing the build up
of arrears and maintaining budgetary support at its current inadequate level, represents a major claim on the
budget, one which is essential to enable the government to push through privatization and thus tum the
sector around (paras. 14-21, 66). To abstract from this distorting impact, it is also useful to track the non-
power fiscal deficit, which is the fiscal deficit less budgetary support to the power sector. This is estimated
to have fallen from 3.7% in 1999-00 to 3.2% of GSDP in 2000-0 1, and is projected to fall further to 2.4%
in 2001-02.3
Table 3. Aggregate Fiscal Indicators for Karnataka, 1999-00 to 2004-05
(% GSDP)
1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05
RE      BE       Proj.    Proj.    Proj.
Fiscal Deficits
Fiscal deficit including off-budget borrowing and  6.2     7.2      6.4      5.2      3.9     3.0
power sector (KPTCL) deficit
Fiscal deficit including off-budget borrowing     5.6      5.8      5.9      5.1      3.8     2.8
Fiscal (budgetary) deficit                        4.5      4.0      4.3      4.2      3.7     3.0
Non-power fiscal deficit                          3.7      3.2      2.4      2.5      2.4     2.2
Debt Stock
Debt stock (including off-budget borrowings)     23.2    26.8    28.9    30.3    30.4    29.5
On-budgetdebtstock                               19.9    21.9    23.1    24.4    25.1    25.0
Memo Items
Net off-budget borrowing                          1.1      1.8      1.5      0.9      0.1    -0.2
Power sector (KPTCL) deficit                      1.5      2.1      2.0      1.4      1.1     0.8
Notes: Figures calculated/taken from GoK MTFP / power sector FRP. The non-power fiscal deficit excludes gross budgetary
support to the power sector. The fiscal deficit including off-budget borrowing adds net off-budget borrowing to the fiscal deficit.
The fiscal deficit including off-budget borrowing and the power sector deficit adds to this the off-budget (unfunded) portion of the
power sector deficit, i.e., the power sector deficit net of budgetary support to KPTCL. The power sector deficit is the cash deficit of
KPTCL, Karnataka s main power utility. For more detailed definitions see Annex L
Fiscal Transparency
56. Karnataka is a leader among Indian states in terms of fiscal transparency. Steps taken to date include:
publication of a White Paper on state finances; a Budget Overview, which, for the first time, makes
available to the public summary fiscal indicators as well as data on public debt, guarantees, subsidies, off-
budget borrowing and tax expenditures (i.e., the cost of tax incentives) and tax arrears; posting of monthly
financial accounts on the Internet; and publication of an "Action Taken Report," which reports on actions
against commitments made in the previous year's budget speech. Publication of the MTFP and annual
reporting against it will also improve fiscal transparency.
3   In 2002-03, only a small fall in the fiscal deficit is projected. This is for two reasons: (i) an assumed temporary
drop in revenue associated with the introduction of VAT (para. 110); and (ii) an increased debt-servicing burden
for off-budget borrowing which is counted above the line in the budget. The more relevant consolidated deficits
show substantial decline in 2002-03: from 5.9% to 5.1% excluding the power sector deficit, and from 6.4% to
5.2% including the power sector deficit.



-17-
Revenue Reforms
57. Although Kamataka has one of the highest tax/GSDP ratios in India, this ratio has fallen since the early
nineties (para. 48). The goals of tax reform in the state are twofold: additional revenue mobilization, and
reduced compliance costs. The strategies, covering both policy reforms and tax administration, are:
rationalization, base broadening, simplification, and computerization. GoK has established a Tax Reforms
Commission, chaired by a former Chief Minister, with an internationally renowned membership. Based on
wide consultations with, and a survey of, tax-payers, the Commission has issued its first report which calls
for a revamping of the tax system.
58. Sales tax reforms. The sales tax is Karnataka's most important tax, accounting for 57% of the state's
own tax revenue. In line with the all-India agreement, sales tax incentives for new investments in
Karnataka were abolished and floor rates for all commodities introduced in January 2000. These two
reforms attack the two main sources of low buoyancy in the sales tax. Kamataka is also one of the first
states to computerize its sales tax department. The above reforms, however, mark only a start. India has
probably the most complex indirect tax system in the world. Rationalizing and simplifying it will require
effort at both the central government and state level. At the state level, there is widespread agreement that
states should convert their sales taxes into Value Added Taxes (VATs). VAT introduction, and associated
administrative reforms, will have several benefits for Karnataka's tax payers:
*    The Government proposes to base VAT on self-assessment, so that most businesses will be able
to file returns without direct interaction with government officials. The Government has
announced an ambitious self-assessment scheme to start this year, with provision for random
audit.
*    The Government will also move to a functional VAT administration, which will reduce
opportunities for official discretion.
*    The VAT eliminates distortions caused by input taxation.
*    The VAT will replace not just the sales tax, but also the smaller turnover and entry taxes, thereby
reducing the burden of compliance and the likelihood of harassment. Simple forms of the VAT
will be used for small businesses.
59. A target date of April 2002 has been agreed on by the states for VAT introduction. No Indian state has
yet successfully introduced a VAT.4 While the target date is ambitious, Karnataka is expected to be one of
the first to introduce VAT. Although much more work remains to be done, including in coordination with
other states and Gol on interstate and national issues, preparations in Karnataka are at a relatively advanced
stage. The first phase of VAT introduction, now complete, included a number of administrative actions,
namely the setting up of VAT working groups and a full-time VAT team, the selection of consultants to
assist with VAT introduction, and the issuance of a VAT discussion paper. In addition, Karnataka has also
made important policy progress towards VAT, in particular via the introduction of self-assessment. This
now applies to 90% of tax payers, putting Karnataka ahead of other states, significantly reducing dealer-
official interaction, and freeing up staff time for audit and enforcement. Self-assessment has been
introduced on a retrospective basis, with the aim of eliminating the three-year scrutiny backlog within a
matter of months.
60. Other taxes. Karnataka's second most important tax is the excise on alcohol. This has been growing
rapidly over the last three years after an earlier period of policy uncertainty (concerning possible moves
towards prohibition) came to an end. The third and fourth most important taxes are the two weakest
4   Maharashtra introduced a VAT in 1997, but withdrew it in 1999.



-18-
performing taxes in recent years, namely stamps and registration, and the motor vehicle tax. The Tax
Reforms Commission has come out with detailed plans for reform of these two taxes, and the Government
has decided to implement these starting in 2001-02. Reforms in stamps and registration concern the closing
of various loopholes; those with motor vehicle taxation, rationalization and a shift to ad valorem rates.
Implementation of these reforms is expected to yield substantial revenue, to improve transparency, and
reduce compliance costs. Payment of the motor vehicle tax, and associated vehicle registration, is one of
the pilot services GoK is re-engineering and releasing citizens' charters for (para. 87).
61. Tax administration. The above reforms include a number of important administrative reforms to
improve compliance, and reduce compliance costs. The Government has launched an initiative to upgrade
tax collecting departments via computerization, modernization of facilities, and additional manpower for
enforcement and intelligence. Physical checkposts of the different tax departments will be integrated and
computerized to combat evasion, and to cut down on the repetitive stoppage of goods vehicles.
62. Non-tax revenues and user charges. The main avenue open for increasing non-tax revenues is by
increasing user charges for services such as higher education, tertiary health, irrigation, water supply, and
buses, which are very low in Kamataka and have declined over the years. The MTFP envisions rate
increases for these services and cost recovery according to a pre-determined schedule over the medium
term. Initial steps have already been taken (e.g., increases in user charges for canal irrigation; automatic
linking of bus tariffs to the cost of service provision). Higher education fees have also been increased,
though the increase was reduced after protests.
63. Revenue performance in 2000-01. After four years of low tax growth (between 8-12%), analysis of
the first eleven months of 2000-01 suggests tax growth for the year of about 18%. Consistent with this, the
revised estimates show an increase in the tax/GSDP ratio in 2000-01 of 0.6 percentage points to 8.8%, the
first increase in the tax/GSDP ratio in about four years. While partly attributable to the economic recovery,
this rapid tax growth is also attributable to improved compliance in sales tax, and a more stable
environment in excise, as well as rate increases in excise duty.
64. Medium-term revenue path. The MTFP assumes that the reversal of the decline in the tax/GSDP
ratio seen in 2000-01 can be sustained. Own-tax revenue increases in the MTFP as a percentage of GSDP
from 8.8% of GSDP in 2000-01 to 9.4% in 2004-05 (Table 4). This is caused by rapid growth in sales tax
from improved compliance, though it is also assumed that in the first two years of VAT introduction there
is a temporary dip in revenue owing to possible teething problems and to the end of tax exporting which
will be associated with VAT introduction. Improved performance for motor vehicle tax and stamps is
projected. In 2001-02, an increase in total own-tax revenue of 0.4 percentage points of GSDP is targeted.
This is based on the reforms in stamps and motor vehicle tax mentioned above (para. 60), as well as
improved compliance and selective increases in sales tax rates. The MTFP also assumes an increase in
resources from the central government, in line with the Gol 2001-02 budget, and the recommendations of
the Eleventh Finance Commission.
Table 4. Karnataka: Revenue Receipts in the Medium Term Fiscal Plan, 1999-00 to 2004-05
(/o GSDP)
1999-00  2000-01   2001-02  2002-03   2003-04  2004-05
RE       BE       Proj.     Proj.    Proj.
Revenue Receipts                  13.1      14.0     14.7      14.6      14.7     15.0
OwnRevenue                       9.3      9.8      10.3      10.0     10.1      10.4
Tax                           8.2       8.8      9.2       9.0       9.0      9.4
Non- Tax                       1.2      0.9       1.1      1.1       1.0      1.0
Central Resources                3.7      4.2       4.4       4.6      4.6       4.6
Shared Taxes                  2.2       2.5      2.6       2.7       2.8      2.8
Grants                         1.5      1.7       1.8      1.9       1.9      1.7
/a Figuresfrom GoK MTFP (Annex C) except that the infrastructure cess has been included under non-tax revenues.



-19-
Expenditure Reforms
65. Controllng the wage bill. GoK does not appear to be over-staffed in the aggregate owing to a long-
standing policy of hiring restraint (see Table 7). 20,000 vacant posts were abolished in 1999-00 and GoK is
now abolishing another 55,000 vacant posts - about 9% of the current size of the civil service. However, all
vacant posts in priority departments (education, health, police and forestry) are being filled - the state plans
in 2001-02, for example, to hire 15,000 new elementary teachers. As people retire through attrition,
vacancies for front-line staff in priority departments will continue to be filled, but only two-thirds of such
vacancies in other departments will be filled. Restrictions on hiring are enforced by requiring that clearance
from the Finance Department be obtained for all recruitment. The overall impact of these policies is a very
gradual reduction in civil service size of about 0.5% per year. If Government is successful in its
administrative rationalization (in terms of both functions and processes - see paras. 85-86), the rate of
decline in the civil service size will be higher.
66. Power subsidy. Reduction of Karnataka's power sector deficit is crucial for the state's fiscal
sustainability. The Financial Restructuring Plan for the power sector (para. 18) shows a turnaround in the
sector starting in 2001-02 and a decline in the power sector deficit over time. Achieving this reduction in
turn depends on the reforms described in the Cabinet-approved power sector reform policy (paras. 16-21).
Even with these reforms, the decline in the power sector subsidy will be at best gradual - indeed the first
challenge is to reverse the trend of rapid increases in the deficit. Even with an aggressive reform program,
as assumed in the FRP, it is estimated that the Government will need to provide some Rs 90 billion of
financial support for the power sector over a five year period. If power distribution is to be privatized in
Karnataka, it will have to be privatized with a government subsidy, which means that government must be
able to credibly commit to payment of the power sector subsidy. The MTFP budgets for full payment of the
power sector subsidy and payment of arrears starting in 2001-02. A monthly payment schedule will be
adhered to, and matched by monthly monitoring of KPTCL ' s adherence to its budget. Part of the remit of
the power sector privatization consultants is to establish a subsidy mechanism for use after the distribution
companies are privatized.
67. Other subsidies. Other explicit subsidies are smaller than that for the power sector by an order of
magnitude. GoK has already taken measures to contain the food subsidy, its second largest, within a
nominal cap of Rs 3 billion, via tightening household eligibility requirements. Government support for
small industries which had led the accumulation of some Rs 3.4 billion in liabilities has been virtually
withdrawn. The Government has announced a policy of reducing subsidies to private higher educational
institutions, but has run into opposition on this, and has only been able to take mild action to reduce this
subsidy. Housing subsidies for disadvantaged households are being expanded. GoK has commissioned a
study to quantify all implicit and explicit subsidies and suggest reform measures, and the March 2001
budget speech announces the govemment's commitment to implementation of its recommendations.
68. Priority development expenditures. The MTFP protects and promotes certain priority developmental
expenditures - elementary and secondary education, health, roads and rural water supply, and non-wage
O&M for irrigation and public buildings. However, the full increase will have to be spread out over several
years in accordance with government's deficit targets. The priority in the early years is to protect priority
sectors from being cut. Spending in these priority areas is expected to rise gradually from 4.75% of GSDP
in 2000-01 to 5.62% of GSDP in 2004-05 (Table 5).



-20-
Table 5. High Priority Development Expenditures in the Medium Term Fiscal Plan
2000-01 to 2004-05 (% GSDP)
1999-00   2000-01   2001-02   2002-03   2003-04   2004-05
RE        BE       Proj.      Proj.     Proj.
High Priority Development Expenditure        4.80      4.75       4.74      4.99      5.14       5.62
Elementary & Secondary Education           2.60      2.62      2.48       2.66      2.69      2.82
Health                                     1.01      1.01      1.07       1.10      1.11      1.20
Roads *                                    0.38      0.45      0.46       0.48      0.52      0.60
Water Supply *                             0.64      0.48      0.56       0.57      0.62      0.77
Irrigation **                              0.07      0.07      0.07       0.08      0.09      0.10
Public Buildings **                        0.09      0.12      0.10       0.11      0.11      0.12
* non-wage O&M and capital spending only
** non-wage O&M only
69. Medium-term expenditure path. As a result of the above measures, expenditure (including that
financed by off-budget borrowing) is forecast to fall from 18.6% of GSDP in 1999-00 to 17.7% in 2004-05
(Table 6). The greater part of the fall is due to salaries and pensions which decline by 1.6 percentage points.
The budgetary support to the power sector is brought back under control and falls to less than 1% of GSDP,
despite the shift in policy to fully fund the power sector deficit on budget. Non-wage O&M increases by
0.5 percentage points. Capital outlays return to their earlier level of less than 3% of GSDP, as the large
irrigation projects now underway come to an end, and are only partially replaced by expenditures in other
infrastructure sectors.
Table 6. Karnataka: Expenditure in the Medium Term Fiscal Plan, 1999-00 to 2004-05
(% GSDP)
1999-00  2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05
RE      BE      Proj.   Proj.   Proj.
Total Expenditure                              18.6    19.9    20.6    19.8    18.5    17.7
Revenue Expenditure                            15.9    16.5    17.5    17.1    16.2    15.1
Interest Payments                            2.5      2.7     3.0      3.1     3.2      3.2
Salaries & Pensions                          7.3      7.0     6.8      6.5     6.0      5.7
Subsidies & Transfers                        1.9      2.0     3.2      2.9     2.5      1.9
Gross Budget Support to the Power Sector  0.8      0.9     2.0      1.7      1.3     0.8
Non-Wage O&M                                 1.9      2.2     1.9      2.2     2.3      2.4
Other Revenue Expenditure                    2.3      2.7     2.6      2.4     2.2      2.1
Capital Expenditure & Net Lending               2.6     3.3      3.1     2.6      2.3     2.6
Note: Figures are after consolidating off-budget borrowing, and are all taken from GoK MTFP (see Annex C). Subsidies and
transfers include transfers to urban local bodies; non-wage O&M aggregates major and other non-wage O&M in the MTFP. For
more detailed definitions see Annex I.
Public Expenditure Management (PEM) Reforms
70. Strengthening the budgetary process. A main aim of Kamataka's public expenditure management
reforms is to institutionalize the Medium Term Fiscal Plan (para. 51), and with it bring a medium-term
perspective and fiscal discipline to the budgetary process. This has already started through use of the MTFP
to prepare the 2001-02 budget both to set aggregate resource envelopes and fiscal targets and to set
departmental spending limits. GoK has also established an Expenditure Review Committee (ERC),
comprising Finance, Planning and a few key spending departments, to identify the medium-term costs of
new and existing policies and make recommendations on departmental hard budget constraints.



-21-
71. Three departments have been selected as PEM pilots (PWD, Elementary and Secondary Education, and
Health) and have prepared policy notes on their medium-term objectives and policies consistent with
MTFP resources. This process will be deepened in the coming year, and expanded to other departments.
72. One weakness is proliferation and insufficient screening of schemes. New schemes are now screened
by the ERC before inclusion in the budget. In the coming year, line departments will be given greater
flexibility to prioritize spending within their budgetary ceilings with scope to retain a significant portion of
any identified savings. To deepen performance orientation, impact and performance evaluation of ongoing
programs and schemes will be more widely used.
73. The accuracy of budget estimates is poor in Karnataka - actual deficits often exceed budget estimates
by a large amount. Tax forecasts are typically over-optimistic resulting in cash rationing during the year,
and either under-spending or an accumulation of arrears. This both limits departmental flexibility and
makes any forward planning of limited value. Revised estimates, prepared at the end of the year, are often
also inaccurate, reflecting a lack of up-to-date financial information. The financial management reforms
detailed in the paragraphs following will help improve the situation, and GoK has also contracted a study to
develop forecasting tools to reduce the discrepancies between budget and revised estimates and actuals -
this will be one of the important performance indicators for the proposed operation.
74. Reforms in liability management. In the past, Karnataka has, like most if not all Indian states,
borrowed as much as it could rather than as much as it could afford, at the cost of delaying needed policy
reforms. It now plans to reverse this strategy, and in particular to reduce reliance on high-cost formns of
borrowing. GoK is also cutting its costs on bond issues, by auctioning its own bonds separately from the
general RBI issue of state bonds, and obtaining lower interest rates. There is a legislative cap on
guarantees, and guarantee fees have already been introduced. Guarantee management will be improved
over time, with the introduction of better reporting and allocational rules.
Public Financial Accountability and Management
75. A preliminary public financial accountability assessment has been carried out for Karnataka, including
review of the state's latest external audit reports. This indicated that GoK has reasonable foundations for a
satisfactory public financial accountability system. Major strengths of the system include: (i) the well-
established role of the legislature as the principal watchdog over public finances; (ii) existence of detailed
guidelines for budgeting and monitoring of the use of public funds, and legislative approval of annual
budgets; (iii) regular preparation and compilation of accounting information, and presentation of annual
state accounts which provide comprehensive information on expenditures and revenues - public debts,
guarantees, loans and advances, investments, etc. are also presented with varying quality; (iv) good
procedural controls over expenditures; and (v) the well established independence of the public auditor
(C&AG) from the executive and its broad mandate. However, there is also need to significantly strengthen
and modernize the system to improve transparency, enable better financial and operating performance
measurement and reporting, more effective legislative oversight and follow-up on audit observations, and
address identified weaknesses in internal control and public accountability. Actions to address these have
been initiated. In 2001-02, the Bank and GoK plan to jointly carry out a State Financial Accountability
Assessment (SFAA, covering Government departments, rural and urban local bodies, public enterprises,
and other government entities), whose findings and recommendations will be used to develop GoK's
medium-term public financial accountability modernization strategy and program, and define medium-term
benchmarks.
76. Accounting and audit. Karnataka's published accounts are compiled not by the Government of
Karnataka but by the Accountant General of the C&AG. Karnataka plans to develop its own accounting
capability to improve the timeliness and ownership of financial management and public reporting. To do
this, it has identified two pilot departments to prepare parallel accounts and related financial statements.



-22-
Work has also begun in a number of critical areas to strengthen the accounting function, such as clearing
the backlog of accounts and responses to external audits of government agencies, and plugging key internal
control weaknesses (e.g., reconciliations). Audit is the responsibility of the C&AG, which also publishes
the audit reports on its web site. The 1999-00 audit was received from C&AG in March 2001, and will be
made public as soon as the Legislature reconvenes (expected June 2001). In future years, GoK will
continue to table in the Assembly and make available the annual audit reports as soon as possible after
receipt from C&AG (usually within 12 months of the fiscal year end, as has been the case for the last four
years). GoK plans to improve its responsiveness to audit observations, and in particular to cut down on time
lags in this regard.
77. Financial reporting has traditionally been slow, at the cost of both financial management and fiscal
transparency. However, GoK has now become the first state to publish annual and monthly financial
statements on the Internet. The monthly statements are produced within two months of the end of each
month, while GoK aims to make available its annual Finance Accounts and Appropriation Accounts within
9 months of the end of the fiscal year, rather than 12 as previously: while the compilation of accounts are,
as mentioned, a C&AG responsibility, achieving this goal will require the active collaboration of GoK
Treasuries and Departments.
78. Computerizing key accounting functions is key to improving the timeliness of financial reporting
and to reducing opportunities for fraud, waste and abuse of public resources. Computerization of treasuries,
through which most government payments are made, is the top priority. This is now under implementation
and the pilot phase is expected to be completed by March 2002.
79. Karnataka is completing the first phase of its public financial accountability and management
improvement program with the following actions: establishment of a 'Controller's Office' and task force to
lead the program; posting of monthly financial accounts on the Internet; and initiation of treasury
computerization.
Procurement reforms
80. GoK has passed an important Transparency in Public Procurement Act, requiring all government
departments to follow more transparent procurement practices. For instance, details of all tender
applications received and accepted are now required to be published in a Tender Bulletin maintained by
departments at both the state and district levels. The Rules, notified in October 2000, also lay down clear
procedures for Tender Inviting and Tender Accepting Authorities, and provides for an appeals process and
penalties for officials who contravene the provisions of the Law. GoK is now starting to place its Tender
Bulletins on the Internet, and to undertake sample audits of selected procurement processes and contracts.
Further procurement reforms will be identified based on the state-level procurement assessment the Bank is
initiating in Karnataka as part of its Country Procurement Assessment Review.
C. Administrative Reforms
81. The medium-term objectives of GoK's administrative reforms are: (i) a smaller but more effective
public administration; (ii) a higher level of transparency and accountability, accompanied by fewer
opportunities for corruption; and (iii) more efficient and responsive delivery of essential public services.
GoK is approaching this exercise in a phased manner in order to build consensus for the overall reform
process. To this end, the near-term actions focus on curbing politicization in the transfer process,
enhancing transparency through the adoption of a pioneering Right to Information Act, and introducing
pilot service delivery reforms through the use of e-governance, citizen charters, and improved feedback
mechanisms.



-23-
82. The Administrative Reform Commission's first report (para. 44) provides detailed analysis and
recommendations for the government to improve govemment efficiency and transparency. Building on this
report, the Govemment's own strategy, the Governance Strategy and Action Plan, is designed to provide a
road-map for reforms in the coming year and beyond.
Civil Service Reforms
83. The Kamataka civil service is not overstaffed in aggregate terms relative to other Indian states (Table
7). Kamataka's civil service appears to have avoided many of the problems that have beset other states.
Staffing norms allocate fewer support staff to secretaries and section officers. Department of Finance
clearance is required for all recruitment. This relatively good starting point notwithstanding, Karnataka's
civil service is nevertheless performing well below potential.
Table 7. Civil Service Size in Different Indian States
Core               Total Gov.           Total Gov. & PE
State           Population     Civil Service    Ratio   Employees*    Ratio    Employment    Ratio
Andhra Pradesh           73,000,000       553,972     0.76    1,052,055     1.44    1,369,721      1.88
Karnataka                53,000,000       296,315     0.56     639,331      1.21     801,593       1.51
Orissa                   35,000,000       510,000     1.46      581,400     1.66     658,178       1.88
Rajasthan                 51,000,000      607,240     1.19      631,240     1.24     672,440       1.32
Uttar Pradesh            162,000,000      880,000     0.54    1,242,000     0.77    1,390,500      0.86
*Total Government employees combines the core civil service with local government employees and employees at government-
aided institutions.
84. Civil service transfers. The most important immediate priority is to drastically reduce the politicized
and premature transfers of civil servants that disrupt the functioning of public administration, undermine
the ability of civil servants to commit themselves to the job, and lead to significant opportunities for
corruption. The Chief Minister publicly announced in his March 2001 budget speech that there will be no
general transfers in 2001-02, and this has since been put into effect through the new transfer policy for
2001-02, approved by the Cabinet in April 2001. A new system is in place to monitor and publicly report
on the number of transfers and average tenure by key positions by department and district. In addition, the
Govemment has decided to opt for a system of civil service boards to control transfers, and to introduce a
requirement that reasons for premature transfers be publicized in Transfer Orders. The Govemment also
plans to enhance the transparency of recruitment via mainstreaming recent departmental initiatives to
reduce the importance of interviews, and thus the element of discretion, in the recruitment process.
85. Over the medium term, reforms will focus on the rightsizing and rationalization of public
administration, and the institutionalization of more effective performance monitoring and accountability
measures. GoK also intends to begin the process of reducing overlapping and duplicating organizational
structures, and streamlining business processes. A start has already been made in this regard with the
announcement of a merger between the Departments of Finance and Institutional Finance, and with the
announcement of the abolition of all Divisional level posts by July 2001 (divisions are an intermediate
layer between districts and the state). The Administrative Reforms Commission has commissioned
functional reviews of 15 major departments to be conducted by outside agencies. These will be ready by
the end 2001 to provide guidelines for reducing staff size and rationalizing the functioning of key
departments.
86. Speeding up internal transactions. The government plans to improve the efficiency of its operations
by reducing the number of layers through which a file passes for approval by introducing new procedures
such as the single-file system, which allows for field Heads of Departments to send a file directly for action



-24-
by the relevant Secretary, as well as the desk officer system in the Secretariat, which eliminates section
officers from the chain of file movement which will now stop at the higher Under-Secretary level. These
reforms will be introduced on a pilot basis this year. Changes in human resources policies to bring out
greater flexibility for redeployment, and creation of a human resource database are also part of the
Government's medium-term civil service reform strategy.
Service Delivery
87. Citizen charters initiatives. Improving the delivery of services to the public both delivers large
welfare gains and builds support for the reform program. GoK has initiated the public dissemination of
citizen charters for a number of agencies, and has ambitious plans to extend citizen charters to much of
government. To ensure that citizen charters are credibly implemented, GoK is focusing first on pilots in
Bangalore involving three services with a large public interface (such as vehicle registration and
licensing). These services have engaged in a process of seeking user feedback through surveys and/or
consultations, carrying out business process re-engineering and/or computerization to meet stipulated
service standards, and specifying improved standards and a grievance redressal mechanism through the
publication of citizen charters. Report cards or beneficiary surveys from users of public services - such as
those pioneered by the Bangalore Public Affairs Center (an NGO) - will be subsequently undertaken by the
participating departments to see if customer satisfaction with the pilot services has increased. Over the
medium tern, GoK plans to roll out its initial pilot agency reforms to other parts of the state, and introduce
these reforms in other services that have wide impact, such as primary health care and the public
distribution system.
88. Parallel to this, efforts are underway to mainstream cross-cutting fiscal and governance issues into the
design of sectoral projects to improve the delivery of essential public services. Examples include:
institutional reforms in the Public Works Department (para. 22); enhanced service delivery through the
application of better performance monitoring standards and feedback from user groups in the health sector
(para. 25); and efforts to promote grass-roots participation and strengthen accountability mechanisms in
participatory rural projects, such as for watershed development, rural water supply, and irrigation (para.
23).
Freedom of Information
89. Improving the access of public to governmental information is increasingly recognized in India as a
critical reform for reducing corruption and improving service delivery. The freedom of information
movement began in Rajasthan as a result of NGO agitation. Rajasthan was the first state to pass freedom of
information legislation and now several other states are following suit. The Government of Kamataka has
recently enacted and notified India's most far-reaching Right to Information Act. The Act is striking in the
very limited number of exemptions, and represents a major step towards a more transparent form of
government in Kamataka. The key next step now required is the formulation of rules under this Act so that
it can be made effective. GoK is also starting to catalogue and index its records, and plans to conduct public
surveys to identify the specific forms of information that the public would most like to see.
E-governance
90. GoK has launched a number of initiatives in the area of electronic governance for public transparency
and for better functioning of departments. These include the computerization of agricultural titles and
tenancy information, treasury computerization, and computerization of the sales tax department. A number
of GoK departments now have web pages. The scope for e-governance is much greater, however, and GoK
will prepare a status report and action plan on e-governance initiatives.



-25-
Anti-corruption strategy
91. The enforcement dimension of Karnataka's anti-corruption effort is spearheaded by the Lok Ayukta
Office which is one of the best resourced institutions of its kind in India in terms of staff size and budgetary
allocations. The Government plans to computerize the Lok Ayukta Office for greater effectiveness, and to
review the Lok Ayukta Act to see how it can be strengthened. GoK also plans to establish an Ombudsman
to deal with complaints against local government.
92. The focus on enforcement is being complemented by a significant emphasis on corruption prevention
and systemic reform. A number of measures being taken by GoK will address key underlying sources of
corruption, including reductions in patronage-based transfers, strengthened financial management and
accountability, more transparent public procurement, deregulation, and right to information. To monitor
the implementation of these anti-corruption measures as well as to identify and implement other measures
on an ongoing basis, GoK plans to set up an inter-departmental Corruption Prevention Committee (CPC).
The CPC will consult with civil society, the private sector, the media and other branches of government and
the Lok Ayukta. It will oversee surveys of households, enterprises and public officials on corruption, and
will publicly report on the progress of the government's anti-corruption program.
Decentralization
93. India has separate local governments for rural and urban areas. Rules for transfer of resources to both
sets of governments are set every five years by the State Finance Commission, Karnataka's second of
which will report by end-2001.
94. Urban local governments are stronger than rural, but are nevertheless often ineffective and starved of
revenue. Their most important source of revenue is the property tax, and the most important reform for
urban local governments is strengthening of the property tax. Bangalore introduced self-assessment last
year for property taxes. As a result, property tax revenues have risen by some 30%. GoK now plans to
introduce legislation to make self-assessment possible in all of the state's urban areas. It has also
announced a new funding scheme for Bangalore and other major cities, which will provide incentives to
their municipalities to improve financial and operational efficiency.
95. GoK has a long tradition of rural decentralization stretching back to the 1870s. In 1987, GoK
implemented an ambitious rural decentralization program. A large number of staff- including all teachers
- and the largest share of public expenditures of any state have been transferred to rural local governments,
known as Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRls). The Government has announced significant initiatives to
enhance the autonomy of PRIs, with the recent annual budget announcing a 75% increase in the allocation
of untied funds, and important reforms to enhance the tax base of PRIs (doubling of land revenue rates, and
removal of property tax ceilings). The Government is also taking measures to enhance the effectiveness of
PRIs, including through computerization and capacity building. Nonetheless significant issues remain to be
clarified about the functioning of the panchayat system - including concerns that the state-level
bureaucracy and political establishment exercise a disproportionate role in panchayat governance, that the
PRIs still have a very limited amount of untied funds, and that the quality of local governance is very low.
A state study of rural decentralization in Karnataka has been undertaken by the Bank, and a workshop on
this subject is planned to better define issues and build consensus.
D. Private Sector Development
96. The importance of state governments in determining and improving the investment climate is being
increasingly recognized. Research carried out by the Bank and the Confederation of Indian Industry
suggests that the cost differential between operating in "good" and "bad" investment climate states is as
much as 30%. The same research suggests that Karnataka already has one of the better investment climates



-26-
among India's states. However, India significantly lags other emerging economies with respect to its
investment climate, and there is much Kamataka can do to improve the climate for private sector
development in the state through business deregulation and public enterprise reform.
Business deregulation
97. Business deregulation seeks to reduce excessive regulations that create impediments to private sector
investment and growth and generate significant opportunities for corruption. Surveyed investors in
Karnataka ranked the number one constraint to investment and growth as excessive bureaucratic
interference in business operations.5 The Government's strategy in this regard is contained in its policy
paper "Deregulation of Business Environment," (Annex F) which has been approved by the Cabinet. Box 3
summarizes how the Government plans to simplify the business environment in Kamataka. Implementation
of the policy paper will follow in the coming months. Progress will be tracked via use of regular business
surveys, the first of which will be undertaken in 2001.
Box 3. Simplifying the Business Environment in Karnataka
Issue                     Current Situation                     Proposed Reform Measures a/
Starting a   Investor needs to obtain many, often repetitive,  One application form for starting a
business    permits/licenses/registration from various departments and  business to be submitted to single Nodal
agencies using multiple application forms.          Agency/contact point with rules set out
in one handbook.
Prolonged process of approval.                      Streamlined and time-bound clearance
process.
Running a  Multiple rolls, registers, and returns required under various  Consolidate and combine (in some cases
business   acts and rules.                                     abolish) rolls, registers and returns.
Frequent, excessive, discretionary inspections from various  One annual inspection combining
departments which interface with business, giving rise to   departments based on comnputer-
corruption.                                         generated random sampling. All other
inspections will be restricted to specific
complaints.
a/From the GoK "Deregulation of Business Environment" Policy Paper. The measures deal only with those
provisions of laws which are under the purview of the state.
Public Enterprise Reform
98. Based on March 1999 data, Kamataka has 78 public enterprises (PSUs or Public Sector Units), with a
total of 162,000 employees. Five are utilities (power and public transport) and are being dealt with through
separate reform programs. Of the remainder, 32 are manufacturing (ten of which are non-operational), 23
are service and marketing, 16 are development enterprises, and two are financial institutions. In 1998/99,
25 PSUs had negative net worth. Excluding the public utilities, the sector made an aggregate net loss of Rs.
1.1 billion. Reducing the PSU burden will not only help the state's fiscal position (loss-making PSUs do
not repay government loans, and many survive through salary payments from the budget) but will also help
the govemment to focus on the challenge of improving the business environment: the Department of
Commerce and Industry, whose main job this should be, has to supervise some 30 enterprises, very few of
which have a legitimate claim of government attention.
99. The GoK Cabinet has recently approved a Policy Paper on Public Sector Reforms and Privatization
(Annex E), the basic principle of which is that the state will withdraw from all commercial activities
through sale or closure. Non-commercial PSUs will be restructured through mergers and reorganization,
5   Investors' Survey, Public Affairs Center, Bangalore 1999.



-27-
including the involvement of strategic partners where feasible. Phase 1 of the program targets the sale or
closure of 10 enterprises by March 2002. Phase 1 consists predominantly of manufacturing PSUs, with a
mix of small (mostly closed), medium and large PSUs, including four with employment of over 1,300 and
three with a tumover of more than Rs. 1 billion. With the completion of Phase I, it is expected that some of
Karnataka's major loss-making public-sector manufacturing units will have been closed or sold. GoK
plans to close or privatize the remaining commercial PSUs in yearly batches of about 10 PSUs by 2005
while rationalizing and restructuring the rest. It is expected that only those PSUs providing mainly
promotional and social services will remain beyond 2005.
100. A Public Sector Restructuring Commission has been established to give recommendations on
individual firms. A High Powered Committee has been set up to monitor and coordinate the overall
program. Detailed privatization procedures and proper safeguards on social safety net and environment
have been established and are contained in the policy paper. An environmental screening process is being
followed for each of the PSUs targeted for closure and/or sale. Those enterprises which are shown to have
environmental risks are then subjected to a more detailed audit. The social impact of closures and
downsizing will be mitigated by a safety net, including retraining opportunities.
101. The Govemment also manages a large number of co-operatives, originally intended to operate as self-
managed, independent businesses. GoK has drafted, and plans to introduce shortly, a new cooperative law
which will allow cooperatives to operate with greater autonomy. Subsequent work will focus on helping
co-operatives to take advantage of this new framework.
E. Poverty and Human Development Monitoring
102. Despite its impressive growth record, poverty in Kamataka may be higher than prevailing All-India
level (see the poverty note attached as Annex G). GoK's reform program has as its over-riding objective
"the eradication of poverty through economic growth tempered with equity" (para. 11) and the links
between the overall reform program, as well as specific fiscal and govemance reforms with poverty
reduction are explained elsewhere (paras. 29, 123). This sub-section details the efforts of the Govemment
to improve its ability to monitor poverty, and to better evaluate the impact of its policies and reforms on
poverty in the state.
103. GoK has taken important steps recently both to enhance its poverty and human development
monitoring capacity as well as to demonstrate its willingness to leam from and act on the basis of the
information collected. The state was one of the first in India to publish a Human Development Report
(HDR) in 1999. The findings in that report conceming inter-district disparities within Kamataka are starting
to influence govemment policies and allocations. GoK is now working towards institutionalizing that one-
off effort with the creation of a Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System (PHDMS - Annex
H) to be managed by a Human Development Division within the Department of Planning, under the
guidance of an Advisory Group with outside experts. The objectives of the system are to help the
Govemment make more informed policy decisions, better determine the impact of its policies, reforms, and
services on the poor, as well as to inform public debate from the perspective of poverty reduction. The
PHDMS will do this by systematically monitoring progress, as well as any emerging problems, in key areas
related to poverty reduction and human development, and by making this information available to the
govemment and the public on a regular and timely basis. Following a public workshop in February 2001,
the Govemment has finalized the key indicators and terms of reference for the PHDMS (Annex H).
104. The PHDMS will focus on both consumption and non-consumption dimensions of poverty, including
related issues such as agricultural prices and service delivery. It will be survey-based. Kamataka made
excellent use of the 1993-94 national household survey in the 1999 HDR, and processing of data from the
1999-00 survey is now underway. The 2001 decennial census has just been completed. Other available
household surveys include: the National Family Health Survey, the Reproductive and Child Health Survey,



-28-
and the state's own recently-concluded literacy survey. As part of the PHDMS, Karnataka will strengthen
its statistical system by: quicker processing and greater utilization of data from these surveys; strengthening
of other existing data collection systems such as the Civil Registration System (CRS); improved
coordination and better linkages with data collection units in other line-ministries; and commissioning new
annual surveys, starting in 2001-02, to fill remaining data gaps, as well as to cross-check the accuracy and
reliability of existing data collection systems.
105. The PHDMS reporting system will include: (i) a new chapter on poverty and human development
monitoring in GoK's Annual Economic Survey; (ii) a comprehensive Human Development Report to be
prepared every 3-5 years - the next is targeted for 2002/03 based on the findings of the Census as well as
other household surveys recently conducted in the state; (iii) monthly reports focusing on district-level
changes in wages and agricultural prices, to track short-term indicators of deprivation and vulnerability;
and (iv) special studies. The first such special study is a district-level HDR for one of the state's poorest
districts, Gulbarga in the far north of the state. As part of this, a survey of users, facilities and public
officials in relation to key government services - rural water supply and primary education in particular -
will be carried out using the report-card approach pioneered by the Public Affairs Center in Bangalore
(para. 87). This survey - the first of its type to be carried out in rural areas - will be completed by October
2001 and will provide a diagnostic and base-line for improvements in rural service delivery.
106. Work under the PHDMS will reinforce the focus of Karnataka's governance reforms in several areas.
The production of district-level HDRs will help strengthen rural local governments (para. 95). The
emphasis on performance monitoring complements the government's public expenditure management
reforms (paras. 72-73), and the statistical strengthening will help make a performance orientation feasible.
V. THE PROPOSED LoAN/CREDIT
107. The Bank proposes to support the initial phrase of Karnataka's fiscal and governance reforms through
a PSAL (para. 38). The first Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERL) is proposed for the
amount of US$150 million. Given the Government of Karnataka's projected financing gap for 2001-02 of
about US$250 million (see Table 8), it is envisioned to submit a second KERL to the Board for approval in
the 2001-02 fiscal year, subject to satisfactory reform progress. Subsequent KERLs would likely be on an
annual basis, again subject to satisfactory reform progress.
108. This section presents: (i) Karnataka's financing needs, (ii) activating actions for the first two KERLs,
and themes/benchmarks for subsequent KERLs; (iii) implementation arrangements; (iv) performance
monitoring and outcomes; and (v) details of loan/credit administration.
A. Karnataka's Financing Needs
109. Total Bank support to Karnataka is based on the state's ability to absorb resources, as measured by
the strength of its reforms (para. 37). Bank assistance in the form of budgetary support depends on the
states' financing needs and availability of other sources of finance. The state's financing needs over the
next few years will be influenced by the financing needs of the power sector, the costs of reforms such as
retrenchment or tax reform, and the need to bnrng developmental spending to a level consistent with the
state's poverty reduction and growth objectives. The current forecast embedded in the Government's
MTFP is that Kamataka will need about Rs.47 billion (about US$1 billion) of Bank budgetary support over
the next four years to close its financial gap.
110. The power sector's claim on the budget over the four year period starting in 2001-02 is about Rs 81
billion. This is some Rs 44 billion above historical levels, reflecting the decision of the Government to fully
fund the power sector deficit on budget (paras. 55, 66). Implementation of VAT may lead to an initial loss



-29-
of sales tax revenue (para. 64). The MTFP assumes about 95% recovery of sales tax estimates for the first 2
years following VAT introduction (2002/03-2003/4), resulting in a loss of revenue of Rs 8.5 billion.
Voluntary retirement (VRS) payments to help closure/sale of public enterprises will also constitute a major
reform cost. VRS payments to an estimated surplus employment of 35,500 over four years would cost
about Rs 4.5 billion. In total, the above claims come to about Rs 57 billion (about US$ 1.2 billion) over the
next four years, or about 1% of GSDP a year.
111. For the first year of the program, 2001-02, the key financing challenges facing GoK are to shift the
power sector deficit on budget and to reduce reliance on off-budget borrowing. Table 8 shows how this is
proposed to be achieved. Off-budget borrowing in 2001-02 falls marginally from Rs 20 billion (25% of the
gross borrowing requirement) in the previous year to Rs 19 billion (22% of the gross borrowing
requirement), while financing by the power utility, previously mainly through accumulation of arrears, falls
dramatically from 18% to 7% of the gross borrowing requirement. Reliance on conventional on-budget
borrowing sources increases, but still leaves a financing gap of about Rs 12 billion (about US$250 million
or 13% of the gross borrowing requirement).
Table 8. Karnataka: Gross Borrowing Requirement and Sources of Financing, 1999-00 to 2001-02
(Rs billion)
1999-00 % of total 2000-01  % of total 2001-02 % of total
actual             RE                 BE
Gross borrowing requirement /a                   6450              8083               8635
Gross borrowing requirement as a % of GSDP        6.8                7.8               7.3
Sources of Financing                             6450      100     8083      100      8635      100
Off-budget borrowing                             1047       16     1987       25      1885       22
On-budget borrowing                              3771       58     4230        52     4613       53
Government of India                           1878       29     2276        28     2502       29
Small savings                              950       15      1205       15     1200       14
State Plan loans etc. (excl. World Bank    928       14      1072       13     1302       15
adjustment loan)
Market borrowing                               904       14       826       10      826       10
Loans from fmancial institutions               391        6       358        4      438        5
Provident fund (net)                           599        9       770       10      847       10
Change in reserves and deposits & cash balances   996       15      435         5      417        5
Net financing by KPTCL (the power utility)        636       10     1431        18      570        7
Borrowing                                                         630        8      900       10
Change in working capital                                         801       10     -329        -4
World Bank adjustment loan                          0        0        0         0     1150       13
la Adjustedfrom fiscal deficit to include principal repayments, 30% grant component in pass-through of Bank adjustment lending
from Gol, off-budget borrowing and power sector deficit financing.
B. Actions Activating the First KERL
112. The Govemment of Karnataka has already taken a large number of important reforms, many of them
controversial, such as increasing irrigation charges and other user fees. It has improved the state's fiscal
position over the last year (2000-01), and has launched a wide-ranging program of govemance reforms,
including specific measures such as business re-engineering and release of citizens' charters for pilot
agencies to improve service delivery, the introduction of procurement sample audits, the publication of
information about individual procurement processes, and the introduction of a general ban on premature
transfers of civil servants. A listing of actions taken by the Govemment to date in its fiscal and govemance
reform program is given in the policy matrix (Annex B) - see also Table 1 of the Govemment's Letter of
Development Policy "Kamataka's Economic Restructuring Programme: a summary." Of the many reforms



-30-
taken, those selected as upfront actions to activate the first Karnataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit
are shown in Box 4 below.
Box 4. Activating Triggers for the First KERL
Measures                            For details
see....
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
1. Reduction in the budgetary non-power fiscal deficit from 3.7%    Table 3 and
of GSDP in 1999-00 to 3.2% of GSDP in 2000-01            para. 55
(corresponding to stabilizing the non-power deficit in nominal
terms below Rs 35 billion).
2. Approval by Cabinet of a Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) to  Para. 51
achieve the Government's fiscal goals.
3. Presentation of a 2001-02 budget consistent with the MTFP,  Table 3 and
including a targeted reduction in the non-power budgetary fiscal  para. 55
deficit from an estimated 3.2% in 2000-01 to 2.4% of GSDP in
2001-02.
4. Completion of key steps towards institutionalization of the  Paras. 70-
Medium-Term Fiscal Plan into the budgetary process.      72
5. Completion of the first phase of preparation for VAT      Para. 59
introduction.
6. Completion of first phase of financial management         Para. 79
modernization.
7. Passage of Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act.  Para. 80
Administrative Reforms
8. Cabinet approval of a Governance Strategy and Action Plan,  Paras. 13,
including measures to reduce transfers within the civil service.   82, 84
9. Passage of Kamataka Right to Information Act.             Para. 89
Private Sector Development
10. Cabinet approval of the Policy Paper on Deregulation of the  Para. 97
Business Environment.
11. Cabinet approval of Policy Paper on Public Sector Reforms and   Para. 99
Privatization.
Poverty Monitoring
12. Establishment of Poverty and Human Development Monitoring   Paras. 102-
System.                                                  106
C. The Second and Subsequent KERLs
113. The proposed series of KERLs will be timed according to the pace of reforms, and the need for
financing, taking full advantage of the flexibility which the PSAL framework offers, with an expectation of
annual or biannual loans/credits, as articulated in the assistance strategy for the state (paras. 36-37). As
already stated, the first two KERLs have been structured to make it possible for GoK to access both within
the same 2001-02 (government) fiscal year (para. 107).
114. The second KERL focuses on implementation of reforms, and on reforms where more time is needed
for the government to develop a track record. Indicative triggers for the second KERL are as follows:



-31-
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
1. Progress towards agreed fiscal targets, as indicated by: (i) actuals for 2000-01; (ii) monthly fiscal
accounts data for 2001-02; and (iii) progress in implementation of revenue and expenditure
reforms.
2. Further development of the MTFP, including greater use of sectoral/departmental ceilings,
development of three departmental MTFPs, and greater integration of performance evaluations.
(paras. 70-74).
3. Draft Fiscal Responsibility Legislation (para. 51).
4. Wider Internet posting of Tender bulletins and additional sample procurement audits (para. 80).
Administrative Reforms
5. Drastic reduction in number of civil servant transfers (para. 84).
6. Implementation of pilot reforms to reduce elapsed time in government administrative transactions
(para. 86).
7. Completion of functional reviews for major departments to rationalize the government
administration (para. 85).
8. Establishment of the Corruption Prevention Committee to monitor and publicly report on the
Government's anti-corruption program. (para. 92).
9. Roll out of pilot agency reforms to other parts of the state (para. 87).
10. Notification of rules for, and effectiveness of, Right to Information Act (para. 89).
Private Sector Development
11. Implementation of reform measures in the Karnataka Policy Paper on Deregulation of the
Business Environment (Annex F, Box 3).
12. Closure or sale of 3 Public Enterprises (para. 99).
115. Subsequent KERLs after the first two would likely be on an annual basis. If Karnataka is able to
proceed this far along the reform path, it will have a very impressive reform track record, and the Bank
should be willing to disburse larger amounts at less frequent intervals. Depending on progress made, it is
expected that the objectives of KERLs would be met by 2004-05. Reforms intended to be supported under
these later KERLs are indicated in the Government's policy matrix (Annex B) and summarized in Box 5
below.



-32-
Box 5. Benchmarks/Themes for Future KERLs (2002/03-2004/05)
Reform Area                    Benchmarks/themes for future KERLs (2002/03-2004/05)
Fiscal and Public Expenditure Management Reforms
Fiscal       Continued fiscal adjustment as indicated by budgetary outcomes and targets.
Sustainability Annual publication of Medium Term Fiscal Plan, including reporting of results against targets.
and         Application of and adherence to new fiscal responsibility legislation.
Transparency Reduced reliance on off-budget borrowing.
Improved contingent-liability management.
Improved methodologies for budget estimation and pension forecasting.
Reform      VAT introduction in 2002. Reforms of motor vehicle tax, stamps and registration.
Revenue      Computerization of tax administration.
System      Increases in user-charges.
Expenditure  Completion of subsidy study, and implementation of sector strategies to improve subsidy targeting.
Composition  Continued reduction in power sector deficit as indicated by utility budgetary outcomes and targets.
Annual issuance of power sector Financial Restructuring Plan, with reporting of results vs. targets.
Annual increases in priority sector spending (health, education, rural infrastructure).
Public      Institutionalization of the MTFP in the context of the 2002-03 and successive budgets. including at the
Expenditure  departmental level.
Management Expanding use of performance evaluations for government schemes.
Financial    Formulation and implementation of Public Financial Accountability Improvement Program.
Account-     Departments to start maintaining/compiling parallel accounts, beginning with 2 pilots.
ability     Improved response to audit accounts.
Complete treasury computerization, and extend computerization to other accounting functions.
Public      Implementation of Transparency in Public Procurement Act.
Procurement Widespread publication of Tender Bulletins on the Internet and use of sample procurement audits.
Completion of Procurement Assessment, with additional measures arising from this.
Administrative Reforms
Governance  Annual updating of the Governance Strategy and Action Plan, including reporting of results against plans.
Strategy
Civil Service  Implementation of strategies to reduce transfers of civil servants and improve transparency in recruitment.
Reforms     Rationalization/consolidation of government activities and staffing based on functional reviews.
Measures to improve internal efficiency of government decision making.
Installation of computerized humnan resources data base.
Citizen     Monitoring of performance of pilot surveys, including through user surveys.
Charters    Expansion of geographical and service coverage of agency reforms.
Decent-     Roll out of property-tax self-assessment.
ralization  Further measures to strengthen rural local government to be identified based on studies/workshops and
second State Finance Commission Report.
E-govemance Completion of e-govemance status and action plan. Expansion of e-governance.
Freedom of  Publicizing of Right to Information Act.
Information   Use of information technology and survey of information needs to improve flow of information to
citizenry.
Anti-       Measures to strengthen anti-corruption enforcement (strengthening of Lok Ayukta, creation of
Corruption   Ombudsman for local governments).
Strategy    Inter-Departmental Corruption Prevention Committee to oversee and publicly report on progress against
corruption.
Private Sector Development
PE Reform   Progressive closure/sale of public enterprises.
Business    Implementation of the Policy Paper on Deregulation of Business Environment.
Deregulation  Institutionalization of public/private sector dialogue, including through regular surveys.
Poverty and Human Development Monitoring.
Annual Poverty and Human Development Monitoring chapters in Economic Survey.
District-level Human Development Reports.
Second Human Development Report incorporating 2001 Census Results.
Surveys of rural service provision and other special topics.



-33-
D. Implementation Arrangements, Performance Monitoring and Outcomes
1 16. Implementation arrangements for the KERL are shown in detail in the GoK Letter of Development
Policy (Annex A). The overall program will be coordinated by the Chief Secretary. The nodal agency for
the fiscal and public expenditure management reforms is the Finance Department. Administrative reforms
are the responsibility of the Departments of Personnel and Administrative Reform - a number of other
departments are also important in this regard and overall coordination for this component will be provided
by the Additional Chief Secretary. Under the private sector development component, business deregulation
is the responsibility of the Department of Commerce and Industry, while the Karnataka State Bureau of
Public Enterprises is the nodal agency for public enterprise reforms. Finally, the Planning Department is
responsible for the newly-created Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System.
117. Performance monitoring. Strengthening of monitoring and public reporting is a theme of the
Government's reform program. The Govemment's two basic reform policies, the Medium Term Fiscal Plan
and the Govemance Strategy and Action Plan, will both be published annually, and subsequent versions
will include the reporting of results against stated intentions. In addition, the following measures in the
Government's reform program will strengthen performance monitoring and reporting:
*  The establishment of the Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System (Annex H) is an
important effort to improve availability of data about poverty, and the impact of Government
policies and reforms on the poor.
*  Financial/fiscal reporting: various measures, from the regular provision of a wider range of fiscal
information to the public to the posting of monthly financial accounts on the Intemet and the
development of the Government's accounting capability, will greatly improve the extent, accuracy
and timeliness of the Govemment's public fiscal and financial reporting.
* Performance evaluations are being taken up for various government schemes and projects as part of
the public expenditure management reforms, as are a number of sample procurement audits.
* Monitoring of premature transfers of civil servants on the Internet is being introduced to promote
transparency, and as a tool to reduce the number of such transfers.
* The Government's citizen charter initiatives rely on the use of systematic feedback from users to
promote good performance.
* Karnataka's new Right to Information Act is intended to enable the public to be better informed
about and thus be better equipped to monitor the government's performance.
*  Various computerization/e-governance initiatives will greatly improve the flow of data (e.g.,
treasury computerization, human resource database).
*  Survey-based monitoring will be emphasized, with regular new surveys planned of businesses,
officials, and households.
*  A separate social assessment is being undertaken for the power sector reforms, including surveys of
consumers, to establish a base-line for monitoring the impact of this important reform on the poor.
118. In addition to these governmental initiatives, Kamataka benefits from significant NGO monitoring
both of specific services and of overall performance. For example, the Public Affairs Center has recently
completed a report card on the first year of Kamataka's new government, based on a citizens' surveys.
119. Performance indicators for the Government's reform program are included in the Government's
Policy Matrix in Annex B. Box 6 below summarizes the key outcomes sought and performance monitoring
mechanisms that will be used to assess progress under the four components of the Govemment's fiscal and
govemance reforms, as well as under its overall economic reform program. As the various monitoring and



-34-
strengthening initiatives take root, the database for judging performance will be greatly improved, and
assessments of government performance will be increasingly able to be based on achievements of outcomes
(such as education and health levels) rather than progress with respect to inputs (such as policy changes).
Box 6. Outcomes and Performance Indicators for Karnataka's Fiscal and Governance Reforms
Reform Area                 Outcomes Sought                   Performance Indicators/Monitoring Mechanism
Overall      7-8% economic growth                           Administrative data.
Government  Universalization of elementary education (by 2004, all Census data.
Reform       children aged 6-10 years to be in school; by 2007, all  National Accounts Statistics.
Program (see  children aged 6-14 years to be in school.)    Household survey data.
Section ILb)  55 litres per day drinking water availability for all    Traffic surveys.
rural households by 2005, up from 40 currently.
Health targets (IMR, MMR, nutrition, infectious
diseases (including <3% AIDS infections),
immunization, client satisfaction).
Improvements in state highway quantity and quality.
Fiscal and    Fiscal deficit less than 3%.                  Annual publication of Medium Term Fiscal Plan, and
Public       Off-budget borrowing and power sector deficit to be   power sector Financial Restructuring Plan including
Expenditure  brought under control, reduced over time and   reporting of results against targets.
Management  eliminated in the medium-term.                  Monthly and annual monitoring of fiscal performance
Reforms      Improved revenue performance.                  and of cash-flow position, including of the power sector
More effective pattems of government expenditure.   and off-budget borrowings.
More transparent, public and timely financial/fiscal   Tax/GSDP ratio.
reporting.                                     Feedback from taxpayers via regular surveys of
More transparent and competitive procurement.  business.
Expenditure allocation figures, as well as regular
surveys of households to gauge progress on the ground.
Timeliness and frequency of financial reporting, and
auditing cycle; reduction in defined financial
irregularities.
Number of published Tender Bulletins, and sample
procurement audits.
Administrative A smaller but more effective public administration.   Annual publication of Govemance Strategy and Action
Reforms      A higher level of transparency and accountability,    Plan, including reporting of results against intentions.
accompanied by fewer opportunities for corruption    Size of the civil service, number of departments and
More efficient and responsive delivery of essential   layers, average time taken for administrative
public services.                               transactions.
Regular surveys of public officials to gauge changes in
perceptions of corruption, quality of administration, etc.
Systematic feedback for individual services as part of
the citizen's charter initiatives.
Household surveys to provide regular feedback for both
state and local-government provided services.
Greater reliance on e-governance, especially in delivery
of services.
Private Sector Withdrawal of state from direct involvement in  Number of public enterprises closed or privatized.
Development commnercial activities.                         Quality of Kamataka's investment climate as judged by
Reduction in administrative and fiscal burden of  regular surveys of business.
public enterprises.
Improved business environment, with less bureaucratic
interference.
Poverty and   A better information base for pro-poor policy making  Functioning of the Poverty and Human Development
Human        and program design.                            Monitoring System.
Development                                                 Use of its results by policy makers.
Monitoring



-35-
E. Loan/Credit Administration
120. Funds flow arrangements for the Loan/Credit are as follows. Upon effectiveness, GoK through Gol
will submit to the Bank a withdrawal application. The US Dollar proceeds of the Loan/Credit will be
transferred from the Bank to GoI's account held at the Reserve Bank of India, into which all Bank
disbursements are deposited. The account is controlled by the Office of CAAA (Controller of Aid,
Accounts and Audit) of the Department of Economic Affairs, GoI, and is part of GoP's general foreign
exchange reserves. The Rupee equivalent funds will be promptly transferred by GoI to the Consolidated
Fund of the GoK in one tranche on standard terms for central resource transfers for state developmental
budgets (30% as grant and 70% as loan, with Gol bearing the foreign exchange risk). GoK will promptly
confirm to the Bank the receipt of these funds, and its credit to the Consolidated Fund of the GoK.
121. Procurement. Disbursement of the loan/credit proceeds will not be linked to specific purchases.
However, GoI will not use the loan/credit proceeds to pay for certain expenditures included in the Bank's
standard negative list which includes expenditures on military hardware, luxury goods as defined in the
Standard International Trade Classification, and environmentally hazardous goods.
122. Financial accountability environment. In preparing this project, the Bank supplemented the 1998
public expenditure review of Karnataka (para. 3 8) with a preliminary public financial accountability
assessment for the state. The results are described in para. 75 and show that, although there are weaknesses,
the foundations of Karnataka's public financial accountability system are reasonable. Key actions for
improvement and strengthening are included in the policy matrix (Annex B). Procurement and financial
accountability assessments of the state will be carried out later this year, leading to the adoption of a
medium-term action program by the government. The funds flow arrangements for the Loan/Credit
described in para. 120 above are satisfactory to ensure that the proceeds of the Loan/Credit are used for the
intended purposes.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
123. Impact on poverty. Kamataka's reforms are expected to have a strongly positive impact on poverty
reduction through various channels. Many of the links between the state's overall reform program and
poverty reduction (para. 29) lie in the benefits Kamataka's fiscal and governance reforms will have for the
poor. Specifically:
* Karnataka's deregulation will improve the investment climate, especially for small and medium
enterprises. This will help generate non-farm employment, of great benefit to the poor, but where
performance has been lagging in Karnataka.
* Karnataka's governance reforms seek to improve the delivery of public services at local levels (e.g.,
through citizen charters, user surveys, and performance monitoring. The governance reforms should
also reduce corruption and harassment, which tend to hurt the poor disproportionately.
* Karnataka's fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources to be focused on poverty-related
expenditures. The MTFP seeks to reorient public spending towards high priority development
spending (primary and secondary education, primary health care, drinking water, basic
infrastructure) that will provide basic social services to the poor and help agricultural growth.



-36-
*  Increasing user charges is also a progressive, though controversial, policy. In the case of electricity,
about 50% of Kamataka's rural households make no use to electricity at all. There is also a life-line
tariff, which about 20% of Kamataka's consumers benefit from, and which is expected to remain in
place. (Out of a total of about 8 million households with electricity connection, there are about 1.6
million electricity consumers with a single-bulb connection. These households pay a charge of
equivalent to about 20% of the cost of supply.) Regarding the farming community, and the impact
on marginal and small farmers, Bank research conducted in other states suggests that the negative
impact of tariff increases would remain limited and is expected to be mitigated by an improvement
in the quality of power supply.
*  The emphasis being given to improving poverty monitoring will help the govemment to better
track poverty, and to adjust its policies and programs accordingly. This includes the Poverty and
Human Development Monitoring System (Annex H), as well as sector-specific studies such as the
social assessment being undertaken in the power sector (para. 17).
124. Support for reforms. Bank backing for the Government's reform program helps provide support for
implementation, and the lessons of international experience. Success with respect to the Govemment's
fiscal and govemance reform program will improve the enabling environment for Bank-supported and
other sectoral investments in Karnataka (paras. 38-39). The additional financing which the Bank can
provide will help ensure that high-priority expenditures are protected and expanded rather than crowded-
out at a time of fiscal stress. It also provides financial backing for the state's reform program (para. 109),
and in particular helps fill the financing gap which arises from fully funding the power sector deficit on
budget (paras. 55, 66) - an important component of the state's power reform strategy (para. 16).
125. Impact beyond Karnataka. Kamataka is a state with a considerable potential demonstration effect.
Given its traditionally strong fiscal and govemance position and its already-established position as one of
the states leading reforms in these areas (Box 2), Karnataka has the potential to set precedents in many
difficult areas, and thereby to generate competition and reform momentum across Indian states.
B. Risks
126. Non-adherence to the agreed fiscal framework could worsen Kamataka's deteriorating fiscal position.
Experience in some other states shows the difficulties in adhering to agreed medium-term frameworks. This
risk is being mitigated by institutionalization of the MTFP (paras. 70-72) and the announced provision of
legislative backing to the MTFP (para. 51). Nevertheless, both the fiscal and power sector deficits can
easily be larger than planned due to developments outside the state's control, such as reduced resource
transfers from the center, or, in the case of power, accidents and weather. These risks will be mitigated by
close monitoring. There is a particular risk in the coming year that a growth slowdown in India will mean
that GoK's ambitious revenue targets are not achieved. This will possibly require adjustments on the
expenditure side to ensure that deficit targets are not breached.
127. The planned introduction of the VAT also carries with it substantial risks. Successful introduction
will require co-operation from Government of India and other states, and good planning and
communication within Karnataka. The consultancy GoK is engaging should reduce risks within the state,
while the Bank will need to highlight state VAT issues which require a national solution.
128. The political commitment to reform could weaken due to resistance to institutional and governance
reforms which tackle vested interests. This risk is mitigated by broad ownership of key institutional
objectives among senior political leaders, bureaucrats and civil society. Careful consideration has been
given in the design of the reform programs to broaden public support for the reforms. Some key
government services with wide interface with the public have been chosen to improve service delivery in a



-37-
visible manner to help generate public support for the reform process, particularly as these pilot initiatives
are extended to other parts of the state (para. 87).
129. Challenges remain regarding the government's capacity to fully implement deep reforms across a
wide range of sensitive areas. Although Karnataka has a competent bureaucratic apparatus, the reforms
proposed are complex and the government's capacity for managing reforms is limited. To address this,
close attention is being paid to sequencing issues in the context of a flexible, medium-term programmatic
framework, and trying to avoid an over-loaded agenda. Provision of technical assistance is also critical in
this regard. GoK is using about $10 million of TA for its fiscal, governance, and related power sector
reforms (para. 38), and this amount is expected to grow. The infusion of the lessons of intemational
experience will strengthen the government's capacity for managing the medium-term reform programs.
130. Finally, the achievement of fiscal sustainability is conditional on sustained and successful sectoral
reforms (paras. 14-28), but there are risks associated with these, especially with power sector reforms - for
example, tariff increases are politically controversial, and foreign investors are increasingly cautious about
investing in the India power sector. The measures the govemment is taking in each sector (e.g. in the power
sector, the launch of a communications campaign and the use of highly experienced advisers), as well as
the close links between GoK's sectoral and core fiscal and governance reform programs will help mitigate
these risks, as will the integrated, comprehensive approach the Bank is taking in Kamataka (paras. 36-37).
131. For all the mitigating measures built in to this operation, and mentioned in the above paragraphs, this
is nevertheless a high-risk operation, primarily on account of the controversial nature of some of the
reforms the government is pursuing. If some of the risks identified above become a reality then the
development impact the operation seeks to achieve may fail to materialize. In this case, the program of
Bank support will have to be re-assessed. However, at this juncture, Kamataka's record to date and promise
for the future clearly warrant Bank support.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Zhang Shengman
Washington, D.C.
May 25, 2001



Annex A
Letter of Development Policy
(A signed Letter of Development Policy is forthcoming)



Annex B Page I of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy                   Actions Already         |               Future Milestones (Indicative target dates)                  Performance
l-                                      I           Taken                December 2001T           April 2002            April 2003.2005            benchmarks
I. FISCAL REFORMS & PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
A. Establish        Develop a Medium-Term Fiscal Plan to guide  White Paper on State's Fiscal  Revised MTFP to  Medium-term fiscal plan to  MTFP to be issued    Fiscalperformance
Framework for      fiscal adjustment to avoid a debt-trap, and  Position issued and medium-term   provide basis for  be issued with 2002-03    annually including reporting  Annual deficit reduction
Fiscal Sustainability  issue it annually with the budget, including  fiscal targets announced.  2002-03 budget.  budget, including reporting  of outcomes against targets  targets derived from
& Transparency     reporting of outcomes against targets.   Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP)  Draft Fiscal       of 2001-02 outcomes     Off-budget borrowing to be   Government's MTFP for
Objective           Provide legislative backing to the MTFP  approved by Cabinet and made    Responsibility    against targets.        eliminated after 2004-05.   both budgetary deficits and
through a Fiscal Responsibility Act.    public.                        Legislation to be    Fiscal Responsibility                            including off-budget
Fiscal adjustment to  Identify and consolidate all off-budget                              prepared.           Legislation to be tabled in                       borrowing and the power
avoid a debt trap.  sources of borrowings into fiscal indicators;                                              the House.                                        sector deficit; monthly
Fiscal transparency   move away from reliance on off-budget                                                                                                      reduced disparities
to promote public   borrowing, and develop a Financial                                                                                                           between budget revised
debate and          Restructunng Plan to reduce the power sector                                                                                                 and actual estimates.
awareness.         deficit.                                                                                                                                      Cash /hiabiCity management
Number of days of overdraft
Adhere to contingent liability cap and better   Legislation on capping contingent          Guidelines for sectoral                           with RBI (target of zero);
manage contingent liabilities.         liability passed, Guarantee fees                    allocations of guarantees.                        reduced borrowings from
made mandatory.                                                                                      public account; borrowing
Make as much fiscal information as possible   Overview of Budget expanded to                                        Further expand the       based on fiscal targets
available to the public.                include information on off-budget                                          information released in the  rather than availability.
borrowing, tax expenditures and                                            Budget Overview.          Contingent liability
tax arrears. Publication of monthly                                                                  management
accounts on the internet                                                                             Compliance with Ceiling on
commenced.                                                                                           Guarantees Act; low/zero
Improve estimation and forecasting of key                             Completed study on    Complete study on      Improved methodologies for devolution of guarantees to
variables (major taxes, pensions, other                                budget estimation and  pension forecasting.  budget estimation and    GoK.
expenditure items)                                                     forecasting (fiscal                          pension forecasting in
marksmanship)                               place.
B. Reform Revenue  Establish Tax Reform Commission to set out   Tax Reform Commission first  Tax Reforms                                                         Growth in tax revenue and
System             road map for tax reforms - both on policy and  report submitted.        Commission to submit                                                 tax/GSDP ratio.
administrative arrangements.                                           final report.                                                         Reduction in tax arrears.
Objective:
Policy and         Replace sales tax, entry tax and tumover tax   Sales tax concessions for new  Draft VAT legislation.  Approve VAT legislation.  Introduce VAT (2002-03)    Positive feedback from
administrative     by Value-Added Tax based on self-        investments abolished and floor                    Complete VAT                                      taxpayers.
reforms to raise   assessment and a functional organization.    rates for sales tax introduced.                preparation.
additional revenue,                                         VAT preparation: VAT working
improve efficiency,                                         groups functional; full-time VAT
and reduce                                                  team in place; VAT consultants
compliance costs.                                           selected; VAT discussion paper
issued; self-assessment and
partial rebating of inputs.



Annex B Page 2 of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy                    Actions Already                         Future Milestones (Indicative target dates)                   Performance
Taken                December 2001            April 2002           -Apnil 2003-2005  _          benchmarks
B. Reform Revenue  Overhaul stamps & registration, and motor  Changes in stamps & registration   Implement reforms and modernization
System (Cont.)      vehicle tax to close loopholes, boost    and motor vehicle tax announced.
buoyancy, as well as to improve service to
customers/tax-payers.
Improve cost-recovery for 'non-merit'    Rates increased for canal                           Continue to increase user charges.
government services, such as irrigation,  irrigation, higher and technical
transport, higher and technical education,  education. Automatic indexation of
hospital services, and water supply.     bus fares introduced.
C. Improve          Control wage bill while staffing-up in high-  Recruitment strategy established,              Find opportunities for tighter control of wage bill.  Wage bill and civil service
Composition of     priority areas (education, health, police,  including high-level control                                                                        size.
Public Spending    forestry).                                procedure.                                                                                            Spending in priority sectors
Shift spending towards high-priority areas:  Spending in priority sectors                    Further increases in     Additional annual increases  Power sector deficit
health, elementary & secondary education,    protected in the 2001-02 budget.                priority sector spending in  in priority sectors.  (monthly monitoring).
rural water supply, roads; and maintenance in                                                2002-03 budget.                                   Spending on subsidies.
irrigation and public facilities.
Shift spending from salaries & subsidies to
non-wage O&M.
Protect capital spending during fiscal
adjustment.
Make power sector less dependent on      Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP)                  Revised FRP issued, with  Annual issuance of FRP for
government, develop and implement a      for the power sector approved by                    consistent utility budgets   power sector.
Financial Restructuring Plan to reduce the  Cabinet.
power sector deficit over time,          KPTCL budget consistent with
FRP approved,
Reduce and better target subsidies via   Study commissioned to develop    Study on subsidy   Implement recommendations of subsidy study
individual reform strategies.           individual subsidy reforms      reforms completed
Food subsidy redesigned to
improve targeting, and funding
capped in nominal terms.



Annex B Page 3 of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy                    Actions Already                         Future Milestones (Indicative target dates)                   Performance
Taken                December 2001            April 2002             April 2003-2005            benchmarks
D. Strengthen      Institutionalize the Medium Term Fiscal Plan    FY02 expenditure ceilings  Revised MTFP       Further institutionalize  Fully institutionalize rolling   Shifts in expenditure
Public Expenditure  into the annual budgetary process.       allocated to line departments  available to guide   MTFP in context of 2002-  MTFP process in          priorities over the medium
Management          Establish up Expenditure Review Committee   consistent with MTFP.       budget preparation for 03 budget              government's policy      term.
(ERC) to debate priorities and rigorously  Three pilot line departments  2002-03.                                     making, planning and      Closure or restructuring of
Objectives:         review any new schemes for consistency with  (Health, Education, PWD) initiated                                       budgeting process        schemes following
Institutionalize a  MTFP before inclusion in budget.         expenditure programming        Three pilot line                                                       independent evaluation
medium-term                                                  consistent with MTFP, including    departments (Health,                                                Better delivery of
perspective into the                                        identification of objectives,   Education, PWD) to                                                     expenditure programs as
budgetary process                                            priorities and monitoring.     prepare                                                                 measured by beneficiary
Tighten the link                                             Expenditure Review Committee    comprehensive                                                          assessments in evaluations
between expenditure                                          set up, and made operational.  departmental MTFPs                                                      and household surveys
composition and                                              New proposals scrutinized by ERC                                                                       Expenditure savings
policy priorities                                            before presentation to Cabinet for                                                                    identified by line
Greater focus on                                            inclusion in the budget.                                                                                departments
performance of                                               2001-02 budget consistent with
expenditure                                                  MTFP.
programs.           Subject an increasing number of schemes and  Govemment Order issued to  Initiation of        Completion of evaluation   Institutionalize performance
projects to independent evaluation, and create  institutionalize independent  Independent pilot  pilots.              monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms for acting on the findings of  evaluations of Government     evaluations of       Evaluation findings      system in all government
these.                                   projects and schemes.          schemes across       reflected in budgetary   departments.
major departments.    submissions.
Increase the flexibility of spending     Committee for Elimination and                       Complete scheme/budget
departments to provide them with incentives   Rationalization of Redundant                   head merger/
to seek efficiency savings.              Schemes created                                     rationalization for at least
2001-02 budget eliminated,                          10 Departments in the
merged or rationalized many                         2002-03 budget.
schemes of several departments.                     Strengthen incentives for
Departments to identify
budgetary savings as part
of the budgetary process.



Annex B Page 4 of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy                    Actions Already                         Future Milestones (Indicative targetdates)                    Performance
Taken                December 2001            April 2002             April 2003-2005            benchmarks
E. Strengthen       Develop accounting capability            Controller's Office established to   Complete State  Approve                 2 pilot departments       More timely GoK financial
Public Financial                                            lead the public financial       Financial            Public Financial         maintaining/compiling     statements
Management and    Improve timeliness and disclosure of financial  accountability improvement  Accountability     Accountability           parallel accounts (April  Reduction in backlog of
Accountability     reporting                                 program.                       Assessment (SFAA)   Improvement Program,    2003).                      accounts and audits of local
Study               Clear baklo of aconsDemonstrate capacity to    bodies and PS Us.
Objective:                                                   Published  summarized  budget Study                 Car backlog tof acou   handle own accounting and  Modies and PSUs.
Improve                                                     information  (based on monthly controls in priority  of PRIs (ZPs, TPs, GPs),  payroll functions        More timely and complete
transparency, enable                                         accounts) on Internet.         areas:  rioritiof PsU s, KGI           P)   (mainstreaming of           responses to audit
beKter financial                                                                            areas: reconciliations, PSUs, KGID.           departmental accounting).   observations prepared and
performance                                                  Clearing of backlog of accounts for Personal Deposit                         Further clear and eliminate  disclosed.
measurement and                                             local governments  and  PSEs Accounts,
repoureming  anddres                                         initiatgoved mentsandP         loans/advances, and                           backlog of accounts and   Reduction in audit
weaknesses in                                                                               guarantee/debt                                audits.                   qualifications.
intemal control and                                                                         recording/ reporting.                         GoK to prepare financial    Better internal controls
public accountablity                                                                                                                      statements according to   demonstrated through
and enable better                                                                                                                         accepted public sector    reduction in un-reconciled
legislative oversight.                                                                                                                    accounting standards; and   items, reduction in
disclose timely financial  magnitude of Personal
statements.              Deposit account.
Robust internal control
system operational.
Transparency and
accountability of local
bodies improved.
Improve audit responsiveness             Provide official response to the                    Implement measures to    GoK and all government
CAG's letter on the 1998-99 Audit                   ensure timely responses   entities to take timely
Report.                                            to audit findings.       follow-up on audit findings,
Prepare GoK's response   including disclosure
to 1999-00 audit report,
Computerize key accounting functions     Computerization of treasuries                       Complete pilot           Computerization of payroll
initiated.                                          computerization of       and DDOs.
Treasuries.             Complete computerization
Award contracts for ZP  of Treasuries, ZPs and
and TP computerization.   TPs.
F. Reform Public    Legislate to enforce transparency in     Transparency in Tenders and                                                  Review efficacy of        Increased number of
Procurement         procurement                              Procurement Law passed.                                                      Procurement Act and take   Tender Bulletins on
Objective More                                                                                                                            corrective action        Intemet. Increased number
transparent and                                                                                                                                                    of procurement audits.
competitive
procurement                                                                                                                                                         Perception of reduced
processes that                                                                                                                                                     corruption in procurement,
improve efficiency,                                                                                                                                                as measured by survey of
lower costs and                                                                                                                                                    offcials and public.
reduce corruption.



AnnexB Page 5 of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy                   Actions Already                         Future Milestones (Indicative target dates)                  Performance
Taken               December 2001  F         April 2002            April 2003.2005             benchmarks
F. Reform Public    Make procurement decisions public by use of  First Bulletins on Net by KBJNL    Expand number of departments/agencies  All departments/agencies
Procurement        Tender Bulletins, also to be placed on   and KNNL.
(Cont.)             Intemet.
Undertake sample procurement audits by  First sample audits in pilot   Expand sample audits  Extend sample audits throughout Government
independent agencies in a widening range of  departments and PSUs (KBJNL    to other PSUs and
government agencies.                    and Minor Irrigation).         Departments,
including KPTCL.
Further measures to strengthen procurement                                                 Introduce further procurement reform measures based
on the Karnataka Procurement Assessment.
11. ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS
A. Define           Articulate Government strategy to define the   Administrative Reforms  Final ARC report to be  Second GSAP approved   Continue updates of GSAP, Monitoring of action taken
Govemance           role of Govemment and for improving     Commission established.        received.           by Cabinet, with action  monitor and publicly report  against proposals in
Strategy            efficiency and transparency of govemment    First ARC report received,                     taken report on the first    on progress.         successive GSAPs.
operations.                             Governance Strategy and Action                     GSAP.
Plan (GSAP) approved and made
public.
B. Reform the Civil  Reduce and rationalize transfers of civil  Governments public commitment   Approval of new rules  Public reporting on  Monitor progress in  Drastic reduction in number
Service and Public   servants through (i) a monitoring system; and  to reduce transfers drastically.  under the Civil  progress in implementing  reducing transfers and take  of transfers, starting in
Administration      (ii) putting in place new institutional  Monitoring system introduced and   Service Act to reduce  transfer policy, including   corrective actions  2001-02.
mechanisms.                            placed on the intemet.         transfers.           number of transfers,                              Stability and increase in
Objective:                                                  General Transfers for 2001                         average tenure by                                tenure for key positions in
Improve                                                     banned                                             department, district and                          monitoring system
transparency, reduce                                        bne.positions, against targets                                                                       Reduced corruption in
corruption, rationalize                                     New government policy on                                                                             recruitment and transfers,
departments and                                            transfers included in GSAP.                                                                           and improved employee
functions, improve    Increase transparency in recruitment.                                Weight given to                                                       and motivation, as
internal efficiency,                                                                       interviews to be                                                      measured by survey
strengthen human
reduced vis-a-vis                                                     Elimination and
resource                                                                                   competitive/ qualifying                                               consolidation of
management.
examinations.                                                         departments
Rationalize the civil service, and reduce it in   Functional reviews for 15  Completion of  Announce and begin     Revise CSR terms and      Reduction in size of civil
size, by restructuring and reducing the size of departments initiated.  functional reviews for  elimination and    conditions to promote     service, particularly in areas
major departments.                      Mines & Geology Department    major departments.    consolidation of       restructuring and         where functions are
consolidated with Major Irrigation                 overlapping functions and  redeployment           eliminated and consolidated
Department. Announcement made                      departments based on    Complete rationalization  Greater meritocracy in
to merge Institutional Finance                     findings of functional   based on functional      recruitment, promotion and
Department with Finance                            reviews.                 reviews.                 personnel evaluation.
Department.



Annex B Page 6 of 9
______                      KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform  Area              Government Strategy                     Actions Already                           Future Milestones (Indicative target dates)                     Performance
Taken                December 2001              April 2002             April 2003-2005              benchmarks
B. Civil Service and   Speed up Government administrative                                       Introduction of desk    Introduction of single file
Public              transactions/decision-making time.                                         officer system for    system on a pilot basis.
Administration                                                                                  selected departments
(Cont.)                                                                                        in Secretariat.
Monitoring of
reduction of time
taken for
administrative
transactions.
Human resource reforms:                                                   Initiate computerized   Initiate participatory  Installation of computerized
*   Improve personnel review (ACR)                                        HR database project.  personnel review process   HR database.
processes                                                                                  - supervisors meet with
employees and review
*   Survey public officials to benchmark and                                                    their ACR.
monitor CSR.
monitor CSR.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Public officials' surveys to
*   Install computerized human resource                                                         benchmark and monitor
database                                                                                   progress
C. Citizen Charters   Improve services in a widening number of  Agency reforms, up to issuance of  Roll out pilot reforms   Monitor and provide report Carry out independent  Improved service delivery,
& Agency Reforms   agencies through agency reforms             citizens' charters for three pilot  to cover broader  on the performance of the  evaluation of pilot agency    as measured by user
to Improve Service   consisting of: (i) user surveys or        services with large public interface  geographical areas.   three pilot services,  reforms.               surveys and reduction in
Delivery             consultations to identify problems and   in maternity wards of Bangalore,                       including user surveys.                             time to deliver services
benchmark progress; (ii) improvement in   police, and motor vehicle                             Expand coverage of
Objective            business process/ computerization; (iii)  registration, driving license and tax                 agency reforms(e.g., PDS,
Improved service    establishment of grievance redressal       payment                                               stamps and registration).
delivery in services    mechanisms; (v) publication of citizen
with large public    charters.
interface Use
demonstration effect
for scaling-up.
D. Enhance           For urban local govemments, increase their Self-assessment in property tax                      Roll-out self-assessment   Extend self-assessment to  Increase revenue base at
Effectiveness of     revenue base                             introduced in Bangalore                                to 5 major cities.        all municipalities.       local levels.
Decentralization                                                                                                                              Strengthen other tax bases
for Municipalities.       More efficient delivery of
Objective                                                                                                                                                                local services, as measured
More effective local                                                                                                                                                     by household surveys.
govemments by
strengthening        For rural local govemments, strengthen    Untied element of PRI funding                         Give Gram Panchayats responsibility for larger number
accountability       administration and financial capability.  increased.                                            of development programmes.
mechanisms at the                                              Land revenue and property tax                         Further measures to decentralize local government
local levels while   Devolve larger funds and greater powers to   rates in rural areas increased.                    based on studies/workshops
enhancing autonomy. the Gram Panchayats.
Undertake training programs for panchayat functionaries
in planning and budgeting.



Annex B Page 7 of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy                    Actions Already                          Future Milestones (Indicative target dates)                   Performance
I                                Taken                December 2001             April 2002            April 2003-2005             benchmarks
E. Enhance          Provide legislative basis to right to    Right to Information (RTI) Act  Notify rules and make                        Evaluate functioning and    Increased public access to
Freedom of          information.                             passed.                        RTI Act and Rules                             impact of RTI law.        information, measured by
Information                                                                                 effective.                                                              surveys of
Objective Greater    Make government records accessible.                                    Cataloging, indexing, and computerizing of government records           households/officials.
flow of information to                                                                      Apply information technology to improve flow of information to citizens. Make
public to increase                                                                          indices of govemment documents available on the intemet. Train information
participation,                                                                              officers.
transparency and
accountability, and to  Focus on areas of public demand for                                                      Survey on public         Put resources into making
reduce corruption.    information.                                                                               information needs        information available where
there is high public
demand.
F. Use Electronk-   Expand the use of e-governance throughout   E-governance initiatives underway                Prepare e-governance     Mainstream e-governance   Greater use of e-
Govemance to        govemment.                              in sales tax, revenue, and                           status and action plan   initiatives more broadly  governance in departments.
improve efficiency                                           treasuries.                                         Implement more far-      within and across
and transparency                                                                                                 reaching initiatives to use   departments
Objective Use IT to                                                                                              electronic governance
reduce delays &
corruption, and
enhance
transparency.
G. Implement and    Strengthen anti-corruption enforcement   Measures included in the                            Implementation of measures to strengthen Lok Ayukta.   Perception of reduced
Monitor a                                                    Govemance Strategy and Action                       Establish office of 'Ombudsman' to look into complaints  corruption, as measured by
Comprehensive                                                Plan (GSAP).                                        against functionaries of local bodies.             surveys
Anticorruption
Program             Strengthen corruption prevention measures.   Govemment's corruption     Establish inter-     Monitor implementation of corruption prevention
Objective                                                    prevention strategy included in the  departmental   initiatives, assess progress, and take deeper measures
Enhanced public                                              GSAP                           Corruption Prevention  as necessary.
monitoring, reduced                                                                         Committee, to consult  Undertake surveys to identify principal areas of
corruption and                                                                              with the media and   corruption and the scope for system-wide reforms aimed
enhanced credibility                                                                        legislators to monitor   at prevention.
of the state                                                                                and publicly report on
progress in anti-
corruption and
deepen system
reforms.



Annex B Pag 8of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy                    Actions Already          I              Future Milestones (Indicative target dates)                   Performance
Taken                December 2001            A                     _il 2002  Api 2003-2005     benchmarks
III. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
A. Restructure and   Set up policy framework and durable     Public Sector Restructuring                                                                            Number of PSUs
Privatize Public   institutional mechanism to support PSU   Commission established and                                                                              sold/closed/restructured.
Enterprises         closure/privatization.                  functional.
Objective                                                    Govemment approval of policy
Withdraw state from                                          paper on PSU Reform and
commercial activities                                        Privatization and related
to reduce                                                    procedures, with 15 PSUs
administrative and                                           identified for first phase of
fiscal burden of PSU.                                        program.
High-Powered Committee
established for implementation of
new PSU policy.
Close/privatize PSUs                    Operations closed, environmental  Close/privatize an  Close/privatize an      Close/privatize 10
screening complete, and VRS    additional 4 PSUs.    additional 5PSUs        additional PSUs by March,
payment offered in 1 PSU.                                                    2003.
Close or privatize remaining
PSUs covered by policy
paper by March, 2005.
Restructure the remaining
PSUs.
B. Deeglaio Policy reforms to improve the business  Cabinet approval of Approach  Introduction of rules    Complete implementation of proposed reform measures  Feedback from industry via
B. Deregulas on and  environment:                            Paper on Business Deregulation    and operating     of the Approach Paper.                            surveys (e.g. on number of
Busiessprocedures as per the                                                                                                                                      inspections, time to set up a
Environment         *   Reduce excessive regulations related to                             Approach Paper.                                                         business).
starting or running a business.
Objective                                                                                                                                                           Ratio of investments
Improved business    *   Reduce and rationalize inspections.                                                                                                       grounded to investment
environment; less   Get regular feedback from the private sector.  Conference on business                        Undertake and publish    Institutionalize the      proposals.
bureaucratic                                                environment with stakeholders and                    first survey of industry  public/private dialogue
interference; more                                          the private sector.                                  interface with government
private investment                                                                                               department.
and higher growth.



Annex B Page 9 of 9
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME: May 2001
Reform Area              Government Strategy             |      Actions Already          |              Future Milestones (indicative target dates)                   Performance
Taken                December 2001            April 2002        I   April 2003-2005             benchmarks
IV. POVERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT MONITORING
Objective           Develop Poverty and Human Development    Human Development Division     StafFing with                                                           Functioning of the PHDMS.
A better information    and Poverty Monitoring System (PHDMS)  constituted, and Advisory Group    consultants and                                                   Use of its results by policy
base for policy-                                             appointed.                     experts.                                                                Users.
making and program   Institutionalize the 1999 Human Development After consultations, finalize terms   District-level poverty   Human Development  Publication of second  e
design              Report with regular tracking of and reporting   of reference of the proposed  estimates to be  Monitoring Report to be    Human Development     Human development
More information in   on poverty and social indicators      monitoring system and list of   prepared based on    included as a chapter in    Report following the   targets to judge success of
the public domain.                                           indicators to be tracked (including  the analysis of the  the annual Economic  processing of data from the  overall program (including
baseline estimates where       pooled central & state  Survey published by GOK. 2001 Census Data.      health and education
A more pro-poor                                             available).                     samples of the 55m                                                     targets)
development strategy                                                                        round NSS Consumer
and better-informed                                                                         Expenditure Survey.
policy making made
possible by high-                                                                           Institute monthly
quality data being                                                                          reporting system for
available on a timely                                                                       tracking district-level
basis                                                                                       changes in
agricultural wages
and prices.
Initiate additional data
collection/
strengthening
exercises.
Undertake special studies to focus policy  Gulbarga (District) Human    Surveys of rural     Publish Gulbarga District HDR.
attention on critical poverty-related issues  Development Report initiated.  drinking water and
primary education in   Carry out other special-purpose studies as needed
I Gulbarga.



Annex C
Page I of 24
MEDIUM TERM FISCAL PLAN FOR KARNATAKA,
2000-2001 to 2004-05
I.   Introduction:
1.   Economic reforms, under way since 1991, have posed important challenges
as well as opportunities to the state governments. Accelerating economic growth
and reducing poverty call for releasing resources for strengthening infrastructure
facilities in the states and making substantial allocation of resources to rural
development, health and education. State governments have a predominant role in
the task of strengthening physical infrastructure and, more particularly, in human
development.  Besides, the greater role assigned to the private sector has
confronted the states with the challenge of creating an accommodating
environment in the wake of fierce inter-state competition. Karnataka has to
participate in this competitive environment. This calls for the creation of a climate
for realising the growth potential by attracting private investment. However, to be
a favourable destination for private investment the State government should not
only follow investment-friendly policies but also create high quality infrastructure
and finance it through an efficient tax system. The challenge is particularly severe
because the fiscal condition of the State has been deteriorating sharply. Although
the fiscal situation in Karnataka, unlike in many other states, has not yet reached
the crisis point, it will not be long before it becomes unsustainable if the present
trend continues.
2.   The State government is seized of the problem and is keen to undertake
immediate corrective measures to put its finances back on the rails. To promote
wider discussion on the fiscal health, the State government placed a White Paper
on Karnataka State finances in the last budget session of the Assembly (March
2000). The White Paper has identified the sources and causes of stagnancy in
1



Annex C
Page 2 of 24
revenues and the reasons for the proliferation of public expenditures, and has
indicated directions and guidelines for undertaking corrective measures. The
White Paper has also stated that it is necessary to calibrate the reforms carefully to
achieve the required fiscal correction.
3.    The fiscal deterioration in the State is not the result of fiscal operations in
one or two years but is a culmination of problems accumulated over several years.
Given the magnitude of the problem, fiscal correction cannot be achieved within
one or two years. Besides, fiscal decisions of one year are not confined to that
year, but have multi-year consequences. Thus, a road map for corrective measures
will have to be drawn up carefully in the medium term. The medium term
framework allows designing implementable reforms, and applying remedies
depending on changing situations and imperatives. Therefore, the White Paper
has emphasised the need to have an explicit medium-term fiscal framework for the
State Government.
4.   The preparation of Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) is part of the State
Government's commitment to greater fiscal transparency. Other important steps
already taken in this direction include publication of an "Overview of the Budget"
which provides basic fiscal data and information on guarantees. To further
improve transparency, the Govt has included in this publication information on
off-budget borrowings, tax arrears and tax expenditure (cost of tax incentives)
from the current year. The Govt has also started publishing monthly financial
accounts on the Internet (http://kar.nic.in/statebudget).
5.    The medium-term framework should set fiscal targets and detail the policy
package necessary to achieve them. These targets and policies will have to be
dovetailed to the annual budgetary exercises to operationalise the restructuring
plan.  The budgetary exercise also provides an opportunity for the State
government to update the medium-term fiscal framework every year. This
2



Annex C
Page 3 of 24
framework sets the targets for all the years up to 2004-2005 and details the
important policy measures to achieve these targets.
6.   It must be mentioned at the outset that bringing about fiscal rectitude entails
hard decisions. This has to be a rational community choice to achieve the
common good on a sustainable basis. Difficult but unavoidable measures will
have to be taken to raise revenues, to weed out unproductive expenditures,
rationalise and target subsidies, enhance efficiency and accountability in public
spending, and to stabilise debt. Postponing these measures will only compound
the problems, necessitating much harsher remedial measures in the future. After
carefully considering the available options, the State government has decided to
embark on the medium-term plan to achieve fiscal balance by reforming policies,
processes and institutions.
Il.   The Problem:
7.    The White Paper on the State's finances has brought out significant
deterioration in the fiscal position in Kamataka over the last decade particularly
since 1995-96. The fiscal position was transformed from a revenue surplus of
Rs.159 crores in 1995-96 (accounts) to a revenue deficit of Rs.2325 crores in
1999-2000 (accounts). Similarly, during the period from 1990-91 to 1999-2000,
the fiscal deficit increased from Rs. 513 crores to Rs.4276 crores. This has created
an unstable fiscal situation characterised by a vicious cycle of increasing interest
payments feeding into deficits and debt stock. The continuation of the prevailing
trend will surely land Karnataka in a crisis within the next few years.
8.   An important cause of deteriorating fiscal situation in the State is declining
share of revenues to Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The ratio of tax
revenue to GSDP has fallen from 9.3% in 1990-91 to 8.2% in 1999-2000. The
ratio of non-tax revenue to GSDP has shown a decline from 2.2% in 1990-91 to
1.17% in 1999-2000, mainly due to low and declining cost recoveries from non-
3



Annex C
Page 4 of 24
merit public services and poor performance of the public enterprises. Implicit
subsidies due to uneconomic pricing of irrigation and drinking water supply,
higher and technical education and urban health services amount to about 1.2 per
cent of GSDP. Cost recovery in irrigation in the State is only a fraction of the
corresponding figures prevailing in the neighbouring states.
9.   An equally worrisome issue of the State finances in Kamataka is the dismal
financial performance of public utilities and enterprises. In 1998-99, the State
Government paid Rs.914 crores to Karnataka Electricity Board by way of explicit
subsidy alone. The losses from Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation in
1997-98 amounted to Rs.54.6 crores (after payment of a State Govt subsidy of
Rs.41.2 crores). Besides these, there are a number of public enterprises, many of
which are of commercial nature, which have been making significant losses. Out
of 78 Govt companies, 33 made losses in 1997-98 amounting to Rs.197 crores. In
case of 22 companies, the accumulated loss exceeds the share capital, reserves and
surpluses put together.
10.  Another important reason for the fiscal problem is the fast expansion of
public expenditures within the revenue account during the last few years. The
significant increase in salary and pensions, interest payments, subsidies and
transfers has pre-empted a high and increasing proportion of borrowed funds for
meeting current expenditures. Interest payments as a proportion to GSDP
increased from 1 per cent in 1989-90 to about 2.12% per cent in 1999-2000.
During this period, the subsidies and transfers as a ratio of GSDP also increased
by about one percentage point.
11.  The problem  is accentuated by the declining productivity of public
expenditure, which in turn has come about due to a sharp increase in
administrative expenditures, poor maintenance of public assets, declining
proportion of capital expenditures and long gestation periods in completing
4



Annex C
Page 5 of 24
infrastructure projects. Moreover, increase in indebtedness has resulted in higher
and higher amount being set apart for debt servicing, leaving a relatively less
amount for productive expenditure.
III. Objectives and Targets:
12.   The medium-term  fiscal restructuring plan will have to reverse the
historical trend of the deteriorating fiscal situation in order to phase out public
dissavings in the medium term so that borrowed funds are invested to create
productive assets and shore up the fiscal situation. The strategy in the medium
term should also enhance productivity in public spending to ensure efficient and
equitable delivery of public services. Finally, increasing requirements of public
expenditure should be financed through an efficient and equitable tax system and
proper cost recovery.  Thus, the medium-term  fiscal plan, while ensuring
satisfactory levels of infrastructure should also pave the way for increased private
sector investments, which will result in accelerating economic growth and
reducing poverty in the State.
13.   The State government places emphasis on substantially achieving the above
objective in the medium term. With this in view, its main target under the
medium-term fiscal plan for 2004-05 is as follows:
(i)   Phasing out revenue deficits by 2004-05 from 1.49 per cent of GSDP
in 2000-01 (BE), so that borrowing is not used to finance current
expenditures.
(ii)   Reducing fiscal deficit from the present level of 3.66 per cent of
GSDP (2000-01 BE) to 3 per cent of GSDP during the same period to
stabilise debt stock, and prevent an ever-increasing burden of interest
payments.
(iii) Safeguarding adequate allocation to social sectors like basic health
care and primary and secondary education and for physical infrastructure
requirements, both for investment and for maintenance.
5



Annex C
Page 6 of 24
14.   These objectives will have to be achieved by initiating a concerted
programme of tax reform, reform  in the structure and management of
expenditures, levying appropriate user charges, public enterprise reform and
reform in administration and governance.  Specifically, achieving the above
objectives will require:
*  improving the revenue productivity of the taxes by bringing about
systemic changes in the base, rate structure and administration and
enforcement mechanisms. The simplification of the sales tax system
leading to the introduction of value added tax (VAT) would be one of
the major reform initiatives. This would not only rationalise the
consumption tax system, but would also improve revenue productivity;
* enhancing productivity of non-tax revenues. In case of user charges, this
is to be brought about by greater community participation in
maintenance of assets and by ensuring quality and reliability of services.
Public enterprise reforms would help to achieve productivity gains for
generating better receipts;
- reducing budgetary support to public enterprises.  This has to be
achieved by disinvesting and restructuring public enterprises. While in
some cases it may be necessary to introduce voluntary retirement
schemes (VRS) to reduce over-employment, government may have to
close down or privatise some of the enterprises;
*  drastic reduction of implicit and explicit subsidies to electricity and
transport sectors through economic pricing, improving productivity in
generation, transmission and distribution and metering the consumption
of electricity by the agricultural sector and privatisation of distribution;
* achieving significant improvement in cost recoveries and reducing
implicit subsidies in respect of services, such as drinking water supply,
irrigation, higher and technical education, and secondary and tertiary
health care, particularly those not directed to the poor;
* reducing the quantum  of food subsidies by eventually targeting it
strictly to persons below the poverty line;
* improving the efficiency of government expenditures by increasing
allocation to the creation and maintenance of infrastructure facilities and
augmenting outlay on human development;
6



Annex C
Page 7 of 24
* compressing unproductive government expenditures by reducing
government employment and re-deployment to social sectors such as
primary and secondary education and health;
* assessing expenditures in irrigation, and public works departments by
closely scrutinising the schedule of unit rates. Sequencing expenditures
on major projects to minimise time and cost overruns and improving
public expenditure management and control systems by increasing the
level of public participation and investment (e.g. through creating water
user associations);
* ensuring a careful debt management plan to reduce the composition of
high cost borrowing and to limit contingent liabilities. In particular, a
close scrutiny of contingent liabilities, moving away from borrowing at
high cost from small savings loans and from specialised financial
institutions like HUDCO, LIC and NCDC; borrowing on the basis of
repayment capacity rather than availability as in the past;
* improving governance, putting in place a sound public expenditure
management programme to improve the efficiency of expenditure and
targeting.
15.  The State government has already initiated a number of reform measures in
many of the above areas. These include establishment of the Tax Reforms
Commission, Administrative Reforms Commission and Public Sector
Restructuring Commission, initiating measures to restructure and privatise the
power sector, adoption of a new policy for restructuring of public sector
undertakings, increases in user charges for various services, hiring restraint and
abolition of positions, and initiating action towards introduction of Value Added
Tax. Revised estimates for 2000-01 already show a substantial improvement in
fiscal performance, for example a reduction in the fiscal deficit from 4.5% of
GSDP in 1999-2000 to 4.03% and a reduction in the revenue deficit from 2.45%
of GSDP in 1999-2000 to 2.11%.
16.  Since it is the responsibility of the State Government to repay the loans
contracted by two specialised irrigation finance corporations, i.e., KBJNL and
KNNL, a set of "consolidated" fiscal indicators have been worked out by adding
7



Annex C
Page 8 of 24
the off-budget borrowings and repayments to the traditional budgetary figures.
The "consolidated" figures also capture the borrowings by State undertakings, e.g.,
from HUDCO or through raising bonds, where the liability for repayment is on the
State Government. These are actual repayment liabilities of the Government and
not in the nature of contingent liabilities. MTFP assumes that such exceptional
borrowings by KBJNL and KNNL to complete the Krishna river projects will
cease by 2004-05. It is also the intention of the State Government to reduce off-
budget borrowings and to move all such borrowings back on to the budget by end-
2004-05. No additional recourse to off-budget borrowing will be made beyond the
current beneficiaries. At present, these "consolidated" figures have greater
relevance in the assessment of the true fiscal situation of the State. An important
objective of the MTFP is to stabilise consolidated debt as a ratio of GSDP, besides
reducing consolidated fiscal deficit to 3% of GSDP.
17.  One important method of limiting debt service payments is to adopt a
borrowing strategy to move away from short-term/high-cost loans to long-
term/low-cost borrowings. Admittedly, small savings loans are one of the high-
cost sources of borrowing and the State Government, in order to ease its hard
budget constraint, has been encouraging borrowing from this source. This has
been one of the factors in the fast escalation of debt service payments. As a part of
debt management strategy, the government will substitute these high-cost loans
with low-cost/long-term borrowings from agencies such as the World Bank, ADB
and bilateral donor countries. Setting these targets and deciding on an appropriate
mix of borrowings would also help in stabilising public debt.
18.   The fiscal restructuring plan should cover all contingent liabilities
including guarantees issues by the government. The State government has already
passed the Ceiling on Government Guarantees Act, has introduced guarantee fee,
will make budgetary provisions to meet the eventuality of possible discharge of
8



Annex C
Page 9 of 24
contingent liabilities, and is presently working on the rules for sectoral allocation
of guarantees every year.
19.  The next stage in working out the medium-term fiscal plan is to project the
fiscal scenario during the period on the basis of a reasonable growth of revenues
and expenditures. The target growth rates chosen for projections should take into
account the degree of fiscal correction required. These targets should be realistic
and achievable. For Karnataka, all the targets are expressed as percentages of
GSDP in the State. In order to obtain the target in absolute values, GSDP is
projected by assuming 7.5 per cent growth per year in real terms. This is in
keeping with the recent growth performance in the State, which has averaged 7.4
per cent during the 5 years ending 1998-99. The inflation rate is assumed to be 6
per cent.
20.  As already mentioned, the basic reason for the fiscal imbalance in the State
is that the growth rate of revenue receipts was significantly lower than that of
revenue expenditures. During the last decade, the average annual growth rate of
revenue receipts in Kamataka was 14.9 per cent whereas revenue expenditures
grew at 15.9 per cent per annum. The actual plan of phasing out fiscal imbalance
in the State will have to combine the strategies of increasing the growth of
revenues and compressing expenditures, keeping in view the efficiency in raising
revenues and productivity of public expenditures.
21.  In the medium-term fiscal plan worked out for Kamataka, a combination of
the strategies to accelerate the growth of revenues and decelerating expenditures
has been adopted.  Taking the baseline fiscal situation as in 2000-2001,
expenditure and revenue projections are simulated to arrive at an implementable
plan of achieving the targets. The policy package necessary to achieve the targets
for accelerating the growth of revenues as well as decelerating the growth of
expenditures has been worked out. The detailed assumptions used for making the
9



Annex C
Page 10 of 24
final set of projections of individual items of revenues and expenditures are listed
in the Annex. The policy imperatives for restoring fiscal balance in Karnataka are
discussed in the following sections.
IV.  Revenue Projections and Reforms:
22. Improvement in the fiscal situation in the State cannot be achieved unless
concerted action is taken to reform the tax system. A comprehensive package of
tax reforms will be undertaken after receiving the final recommendations of the
Tax Reforms Commission, which are due in June, 2001. The Commission's
report is expected to provide a blueprint for reforms not only to minimise
distortions, but also to enhance the revenue productivity of the tax system. The
first report of the Commission submitted to the Government in February, 2001 has
highlighted the fall in growth rate of the tax revenue from 1980's to 1990's and
also the fall in the ratio of tax revenue to GSDP. At the same time, the
Commission is of the opinion that tax rates are generally high. The crucial issues
that need to be addressed are to expand the tax base, i.e., improve coverage and
reduce exemptions, rationalise tax structure, improve tax compliance and
strengthen tax administration and enforcement. The Commission has
recommended simplification of the sales tax system with a view to introducing a
Value Added Tax and has provided a road map for the same. It has also given
concrete recommendations to improve revenue productivity in case of State Excise
Duties, Motor Vehicles Tax, stamp duties and registration fees and the profession
tax. Some of the recommendations have already been incorporated into the budget
of 2001-02. The State Government will prepare an implementation programme
based on the Commission's recommendations to improve the tax buoyancy.
23. In the mean time a number of steps have already been taken to improve the
buoyancy of commercial taxes. The recent imposition of floor rates in all the
States and Union Territories is likely to reduce revenue loss due to trade diversion.
10



Annex C
Page 11 of 24
The abolition of tax incentives for industries too will improve the revenues and
reduce distortions. A decision has been taken to bring about a phased introduction
of Value Added Tax (VAT) in 2002. The introduction of VAT, though predicated
to be revenue neutral, may result in a small decline in the revenue in the short run.
The government will have to improve the administration and enforcement of the
taxes to make sure that this decline is confined to only the initial period of 2 years.
24.  The reform measures already initiated and those that will be taken up are
expected to improve revenue productivity of the tax system. The historical
buoyancies and those that are assumed in our projection are given in the Annex.
Implementation of tax reforms in the coming years and better administration and
enforcement of the taxes are expected to improve revenue productivity at least to
the extent assumed in this exercise, and will also result in an improved tax-GSDP
ratio (from 8.15% in 1999-2000 to 9.42% in 2004-05). Tax-GSDP ratio has
already improved from 8.15% in 1999-2000 to 8.95% in 2000-01 (RE).
25.  In regard to non-tax revenues, the Government's objective is to improve
cost recovery in general and to ensure full recovery of operating costs for non-
meritorious economic services. However, it will take time to achieve this goal, and
will be attempted in a progressive manner. In order to inculcate a sense of
ownership of assets and services, beneficiaries should contribute towards the
capital costs, either at the initial stage of the project, or later during the operation
of the services. Appropriate policy measures will have to be taken to increase user
charges from higher and technical education, health, irrigation and drinking water
supply. This will be easier to achieve if simultaneous steps are taken to enhance
the quality of service provided to the users. Higher cost recoveries in respect of
these services are necessary not merely to improve the fiscal situation but also to
reflect their economic values with appropriate adjustment made for social
obligations. Thus, in the case of the health sector, proper pricing of secondary and
tertiary health care services and various clinical and other medical tests conducted
11



Annex C
Page 12 of 24
in the hospitals and dispensaries should help in achieving higher cost recovery.
Similarly, cost recovery in secondary education is estimated to increase from
0.95% (2000-01 RE) to 2.13%, in higher education from 0.3% to 2.2%, in
technical education from 3.2% to 22.5%, in major and medium irrigation from
33% to 82%, in minor irrigation from 5.26% to 20%, and in rural drinking water
supply from 0.61% to 2%. Other non-tax revenues are assumed to grow at their
historical rates. The detailed cost recovery rates in each of the five years from
2001-05 for these sectors are presented in the Annex. The State Government has
already revised the irrigation water rates during 2000-01 to about 2.5 times of the
earlier rate. In case of rural water supply and health, the improved recovery will be
used at the field level to meet part of the O&M expenditure and will not come
back to the Government. This envisages progressively greater participation of the
community in maintaining the assets.
26.  Another area where concerted effort is needed is to enhance recoveries
from the beneficiaries of housing provided by the government. While the
expenditure on housing has increased substantially over the years, cost recovery
from beneficiaries is negligible. Only when loans are recovered from beneficiaries
will it be possible for the Government to repay the loan to the Housing Finance
Agencies and obtain more loans for new beneficiaries. It is therefore proposed that
on housing loans, the recovery will be stepped up from 18% in 2001-02 to 31% in
2004-05.
27.  Karnataka state has been a pioneer in democratic decentralisation. Rural
and Urban Local Bodies receive funds from the State Government as per the
recommendations of the State Finance Commission. However, these bodies are
short of funds and are unable to provide satisfactory standards of services.
Government will explore possibilities of augmentation of revenue of these local
bodies. A system of self-assessment of property tax has shown considerable
promise in Bangalore city. This will be gradually extended to other cities.
12



Annex C
Page 13 of 24
28.  Revenue from central transfers accruing to the State depends on the
recommendations of the Finance Commission, policies of the Planning
Commission and programmes of the central ministries implemented through the
States. The Eleventh Finance Commission has already made its recommendations
regarding tax devolution, non-plan grants, and calamity relief. The State's
entitlement for the five years has been worked out on the basis of these estimates.
The second report of the Finance Commission deals with an incentive-linked
additional transfer based on the fiscal reforms undertaken by the States. Since the
present MTFP is fully consistent with such fiscal reforms, the allocation made for
Karnataka on this account has been assumed in the MTFP.
29.  The State Government recognises the importance of an accurate model for
arriving at revenue projections for each year during the budgetary exercise. To
improve revenue and expenditure forecasting, a study on fiscal marksmanship has
been commissioned. Its results will be used from the budgetary cycle of 2002-03.
V.   Expenditure Reforms
30.  Restoring fiscal health in Karnataka critically depends upon compressing
unproductive expenditures and improve public expenditure prioritisation to
enhance efficiency and effectiveness. It is also necessary to provide adequately
for maintenance of existing assets. Continuously increasing the plan expenditures
on the assumption that they are necessarily productive will only result in
negligence of maintenance, which reduces technical efficiency in spending, as has
been the case in the past. The expenditure policy, thus, will have to be calibrated
to conform closely to the fiscal targets, commitments and priorities.
13



Annex C
Page 14 of 24
31.  One of the most important components of expenditure expansion in recent
years has been wages and salaries. The government has already announced its
intention of abolishing 80 per cent of the vacant posts as per the Finance
Minister's budget speech of 2000-01. This implies that almost 10 per cent of the
posts of the State government would have to be reduced. However, while drawing
up the medium term fiscal plan, liberal exemptions have been allowed in case of
primary and secondary education, health, police, forest and wildlife protection as
indicated in the Annex.
32.  Another measure in the downsizing agenda is to leave posts vacant when
the incumbents retire. The State government intends to abolish one-third of the
retiring posts (other than primary and secondary education, health, police, forest
and wildlife protection) in each of the ensuing four years. This would require
detailed department-wise personnel planning, which will be undertaken as soon as
possible. The two measures taken together will reduce the number of government
posts by more than 12 per cent by 2004-05. Similarly, measures have already been
initiated to reduce grants-in-aid to private higher educational institutions.
33.  Unfortunately, there is not much flexibility in regard to expenditure on
pensions and interest payments. Nevertheless, in the case of the latter, attempts
will be made to reduce the composition of loans bearing high interest rates. Since
a regime of falling interest rate prevails now, efforts are on to retire high cost debts
of KBJNL by using fresh low-cost borrowings. Government will improve its
pension forecasting capability through, inter alia, establishment of a human
resources database.
34.  As already mentioned, it is necessary to improve the productivity of public
spending even while reducing expenditures. A major target of the medium term
plan is to ensure adequate investments in the creation and maintenance of physical
infrastructure. This is necessary to ensure a competitive edge to the economy.
14



Annex C
Page 15 of 24
Therefore, the medium-term fiscal plan makes adequate allocation to maintenance
of roads, buildings and irrigation works. In order to ensure this, the framework
has provided for gradually enhancing the allocation so as to match the Eleventh
Finance Commission norms. This involves significant stepping up of expenditures
in these sectors. From the viewpoint of expenditure efficiency, stepping up
expenditures in these sectors is highly desirable.
35.   Another important area of fiscal correction is in compressing subsidies.
This is an area where significant effort is necessary. As outlined in the White
Paper, the State government has already commissioned a detailed study to quantify
the volume and composition of implicit and explicit subsidies and to formulate
appropriate strategies to reduce them in a phased manner, inter alia, through better
targeting.
36. The power sector represents a huge drain on the Government's resources
and poses the biggest fiscal risk in the near future. It will be impossible to
eliminate revenue deficit without comprehensive structural reforms in this sector.
Recognising this, the State Government has set up a regulatory commission, which
has already issued its first tariff order. The electricity board has been corporatised
and generation has been separated from transmission and distribution. Key to
eliminating power sector subsidy is loss reduction, which will be done through
universal metering and privatisation of distribution, and regular tariff increases to
achieve full cost recovery. The MTFP assumes progressive decline in T&D losses
from 37% in 2000-01 to 28% in 2004-05. The power sector reforms will bring
back fiscal sustainability to the sector and make power supply more reliable for
the consumers thus spurring economic growth. In the interim period, Government
is fully_committed to meeting its financial obligations to the sector. Consistent
with the MTFP, the Government has drawn up a Financial Restructuring Plan for
the power sector, which gives a road map for elimination of subsidy over the next
10 years.
15



Amex C
Page 160of24
37.  Among explicit subsidies that need to be properly targeted is the food
subsidy being given to ration cardholders. At present there are about 65 lakh green
cards meant for families below poverty line. These cards entitle the families to buy
food grains at a subsidised rate. The total subsidy stands at Rs.300 crores in 2000-
01. The actual number of families below poverty line (BPL) in the State is much
lower than this number and is estimated at about 30 lakh. Thus there were 35 lakh
EBPL (extra BPL) cards, which could avail of food grain at BPL rate, but for
which the State Government had to pay to FCI at a much higher APL (above
poverty line) rate. Government has issued orders in July 2000 to remove 8 lakh
ineligible cards from this category. This will significantly reduce the subsidy
burden. Constant efforts will be made to target the subsidy to deserving
beneficiaries in future. With this in mind, a new category of yellow cards for only
BPL families is being introduced to target the really needy beneficiaries. For
others left over under green card scheme, average prices of commodities will be
higher requiring less subsidy per family. It is assumed that in each of the years
from 2001-02 onwards, additional cards would be removed from EBPL category,
The Government intends to cap the food subsidy in nominal terms to the level
prevailing in 2000-01 and would work out a detailed strategy to make this happen.
38.  In the case of the transport sector too, significant reduction in subsidies is
envisaged by rationalising the pricing policy and improving productivity. The cost
recovery from concessional pass holders is targeted to improve from 6% to 15%
while permitting cross subsidisation from 74% at present to 82% in 2004-05
thereby reducing the subsidy obligation. The State Government has already
permitted Road Transport Corporations to modify tariff automatically based on
change in costs of inputs like diesel and salary.
39.  Government used to give subsidies to encourage establishment of small
scale industries. It was not possible to discharge the liabilities from year to year on
this account. The liability has been discharged as a one-time measure through
16



Annex C
Page 17 of 24
raising of bonds by KSFC, where the repayment obligation is on State
Government. This has been captured in the Medium Term Fiscal Plan. From April
2000, this subsidy is limited to only tiny industries thereby bringing down the
annual liability to a large extent.
40.   Social welfare expenditure is meant to benefit the scheduled castes,
scheduled tribes, backward classes, minorities and other weaker sections of the
society. The State Government will try to ensure that assistance to these
disadvantaged sections will be continued and in some cases expanded to enable
them to access the benefits of growth. Thus, strength in social welfare hostels is
assumed to increase at the rate of 2 per cent per year. Anganwadi expenditures are
projected on the assumption of the number of children increasing at 2 per cent, the
unit rate increasing by 20 per cent in 2001-02 and the remaining at that level till
2004-05. Social pensions too are projected to increase by 2 per cent per year and
all other items of social welfare expenditure are assumed to grow at the rate of
inflation.
41.   Given that the State government has predominant responsibility in
development of human capital, while compressing expenditure growth, it is
necessary to protect allocations to the social sectors like primary and secondary
education and health.  As already mentioned earlier, 50 per cent of the vacant
posts to be filled are assumed to be transferred to education and health sectors. In
estimating the salary expenditures of these sectors, this additional employment has
been taken account of. This additional provision of posts in these sectors is
expected to ensure better spread and improvement in the quality of social services.
The non-salary component of expenditure in education and health is assumed to
increase significantly. With these projections, there would be adequate allocation
for elementary education to achieve 100% enrolment by 2006-07. Specifically,
the State Government's target is to ensure that by 2007, all children in the school
going age group of 6-14 years are not only enrolled, but are enabled to complete 8
17



Annex C
Page 18 of 24
years of schooling. Similarly, the enhanced allocation in health sector would be an
important step in ensuring universal access to primary health care, and achieving
the State's health targets.
42.   A major target of the medium  term fiscal plan is to ensure adequate
investment in physical infrastructure, which has a catalytic effect on economic
growth. In the Medium Term Fiscal Plan, reduction of revenue expenditure would
result in more funds being freed for capital outlay. In turn, better physical
infrastructure would attract larger private investment into the State to complement
the efforts of the State Government. Another important feature would be
completion of most of the irrigation works in Krishna Basin by 2003-04, which
would free resources for capital expenditure in other critical sectors. Thus the on-
budget capital expenditure (actual expenditure on capital formation) will go up to
a healthy 2.41% of GSDP, while off-budget capital expenditure will decline. It
will also ensure that the size of the annual plan grows at a healthy rate and a
greater portion of the plan is used for capital formation rather than on revenue
account. More specifically, capital expenditure on drinking water supply, roads
and bridges, education and health would receive a very significant boost.
43.   The MTFP projections will result in significant increase in high priority
development expenditures in a progressive manner throughout the five-year
period. These expenditures can basically be classified into two types: (i)
expenditure on social sectors and human capital formation, and (ii) expenditure on
creation and maintenance of physical infrastructure. The projections on this count
are given in the Annex.
44.   An important component of expenditure reform  is establishment of a
system of accountability and incentives in expenditure implementation. This calls
for a thorough overhaul of the public expenditure management system. Fixation
of responsibilities to individual agents and ensuring the establishment of a system
lX



Annex C
Page 19 of 24
to ensure effective implementation are necessary to impart efficiency in public
spending. The system should ensure that the expenditures are indeed incurred for
the intended purpose in a productive manner to ensure creation of value for money
spent. The system should create enough disincentives for rent seeking behaviour.
As a first step, the Government has already constituted an Expenditure Review
Committee with a mandate to scrutinise all new expenditure proposals and
underlying policies, particularly with reference to their medium term implications.
The policy paper on governance will consider the issue of public expenditure
management in greater detail.
45.  The policy changes envisaged when translated in terms of projection of
revenues and expenditures show phasing out of the revenue deficit in Karnataka as
a part of the set target. In fact, the projections based on the assumptions detailed
in the Annex are estimated to improve the revenue deficit from 1.49% (2000-01
BE) to a revenue surplus of 0.42% in 2004-05, and the consolidated revenue
deficit of 2.01% of GSDP (2000-01 BE) to 0.17% in 2004-05. Similarly, as per
the target, the on-budget capital expenditures are estimated to increase from the
present level of 1.66% of GSDP (2000-01 BE) to 2.41% in 2004-05. Consolidated
fiscal deficit during the same period would decrease from 5.44% of GSDP to
2.76%. The consolidated debt stock, after showing an initial increase from the
current level of 30.61% (2000-01 BE) to 32.65% in 2001-02, will decline to
31.03% in 2004-05 and will continue to fall thereafter. The main fiscal indicators
in terms of rupees and as percentage of GSDP are given in Tables 1 & 2
respectively.
19



Annex C
Page 20 of 24
TABLE - 1
KARNATAKA MEDIUM TERM FISCAL PLAN
(Rs. Crores at current prices)
1999-  2000-  2000- 2001-   2002-   2003-   2004-
Item                   2000   2001   2001   2002    2003    2004    2005
Accts.    BE      RE  BE        Proj.    Proj.   Proj.
1. Revenue Receipts                  12410  15090  14429 17328   19680   22513   26105
1 (a) State' Own Tax Revenues       7744   9399   9214  10851   12066   13854   16435
1(b)NonTaxRevenues                  1115   1239    850   1304    1419    1551    1721
1 (c) Resources from the Centre     3551   4452   4365   5173    6196    7108    7949
2. Revenue Expenditure               14735  16626  16604 19952   22036   23719   25368
2 (a) Interest                      2012   2393   2417  2849    3233    3847    4477
2 (b) Salaries                      4576   5005   4765  5290    5789    6137    6499
2(c)Pensions                        1539   1578   1569   1811    1980    2120    2410
2 (d) (i) Subsidies (Food, Housing,
Transport, & Industry)         599    624    664    756       840      831     834
2 (d) (ii) Power Subsidy             771    878    879  2300    2339    2065    1415
2 (e) Major O&M (Roads, Buildings &
Irrigation)                        342    404    468    452       545     633      740
2 (f) Other O&M (Edn, Health, RD, WS,
Agriculture & Forest)           1502   1827   1755   1835    2368    2839    3394
2 (g) Devolution to ULBs             416    537    510    676       756      863    1017
2 (h) Administrative Expenditure     470    438    441    455       487      516     548
2 (i) Other Revenue Expenditure     2509   2942   3136   3528    3701    3868    4034
3. Revenue Deficit {(2) - (1)}        2325   1536   2175  2624    2336    1206    -737
4. Capital Receipt (Non-debt)           145    168    163    202      202      202     202
5. Capital Expenditure /a             1701   1707   1612   1947    2267    2837    4210
6. Fiscal Deficit                     4276   3767   4148   5127    5670    5665    5234
7. Total Debt Stock                  26271  26545  26545 31673   35465   41130   46364
8. Debt Service                       2503   2905   2934   3555    4061    4927    5757
9.Salary+Pension-Hrnterest            8127   8976   8751   9950   11002   12104   13385
10. Consolidated Revenue Deficit      2721   2072   2525   3296    3340    2277        295
11. Consolidated Fiscal Deficit       5288   5601   6017  6926    6855    5841    4818
12. Consolidated Capital Expenditure  2712   3695   3599   3832    3738    3767    4724
13. Consolidated Interest             2407   2928   2766  3564    4218    4918    5510
14. Consolidated Debt Stock          28406  31525  31525 38497  43474   49315   54132
15 Off-budget Borrowings              1011   1987   1987   1885    1450        930     514
16 Interest/Revenue                 16.21%  15.86%  16.75% 16.44%  16.43%   17.09%  17.15%
17 Consolidated Interest/Revenue    19.40%  19.40%  19.17% 20.57%  21.43%  21.85%  21.11%
18 Debt Service/Revenue             20.17%  19.25%  20.33% 20.52%  20.63%  21.89%  22.05%
19 Salary+Pension+lnterest)/Revenue  65.49%  59.49%  60.65% 57.42%  55.90%  53.77%  50.27%
/a Capital expenditure is actual expenditure on capital formation, and excludes debt-servicing of off-budget borrowing,
which is included in capital expenditure under budgetary definitions. Thus, in this table, the fiscal deficit does not equal
the revenue deficit plus capital expenditure (net receipts).
20



Annex C
Page 21 of 24
TABLE - 2
KARNATAKA MEDIUM TERM FISCAL PLAN
(as percentage of GSDP)
1999-   2000-  2000-   2001-   2002-   2003-   2004-
Item                 2000    2001   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Accts.     BE      RE       BE     Proj.    Proj.    Proj.
GSDPatCurrentPrices(Rs.crores)    94991  102994 102994  117915  134364  153108  174467
Inflation                         7.50%    6.50%   6.50%    6.50%    6.00%    6.00%    6.00%
GSDP Annual Real Growth           7.50%    7.50%   7.50%    7.50%    7.50%    7.50%    7.50%
1. Revenue Receipts              13.06%   14.65%  14.01%   14.70%   14.65%   14.70%   14.96%
1 (a) State' Own Tax Revenues   8.15%    9.13%   8.95%    9.20%    8.98%    9.05%    9.42%
1 (b) Non Tax Revenues          1.17%    1.20%   0.83%    1.11%    1.06%    1.01%    0.99%
1 (c) Resources from the Centre    3.74%    4.32%   4.24%    4.39%    4.61%    4.64%    4.56%
2. Revenue Expenditure           15.51%   16.14%  16.12%   16.92%   16.40%   15.49%   14.54%
2 (a) Interest                  2.12%    2.32%   2.35%    2.42%    2.41%    2.51%    2.57%
2 (b) Salaries                  4.82%    4.86%   4.63%    4.49%    4.31%    4.01%    3.72%
2 (c) Pensions                  1.62%    1.53%   1.52%    1.54%    1.47%    1.38%    1.38%
2 (d) (i) Subsidies
(Food,Transport,         0.63%    0.61%   0.64%    0.64%    0.62%    0.54%    0.48%
Housing & Industry)
2 (d) (ii) Power Subsidy        0.81%   0.85%   0.85%    1.95%    1.74%    1.35%    0.81%
2 (e) Major O&M (Roads,Buildings &
Irrigation)                0.36%    0.39%   0.45%    0.38%    0.41%    0.41%    0.42%
2 (f) Devolution to ULBs        0.44%    0.52%   0.50%    0.57%    0.56%    0.56%    0.58%
2 (g) Other O&M (Edn, Health,
RD, WS, Agri, Forest)      1.58%    1.77%   1.70%    1.56%    1.76%    1.85%    1.95%
2 (h) Administrative Expenditure    0.49%    0.43%   0.43%    0.39%    0.36%    0.34%    0.31%
2 (i) Other Revenue Expenditure    2.64%    2.86%   3.05%    2.99%    2.75%    2.53%    2.31%
3. Revenue Deficit                2.45%    1.49%   2.11%    2.23%    1.75%    0.79%   -0.42%
4. Capital Receipt                0.15%    0.16%   0.16%    0.17%    0.15%    0.13%    0.11%
5. Capital Expenditure /a         1.79%    1.66%   1.56%    1.65%    1.69%    1.85%    2.41%
6. Fiscal Deficit                 4.50%    3.66%   4.03%    4.35%    4.22%    3.70%    3.00%
7. Total Debt Stock              27.66%   25.77%  25.77%   26.86%   26.39%   26.86%   26.57%
8. Debt Service                  20.17%   19.25%  20.33%   20.52%   20.63%   21.89%   22.05%
9. Salary+Pension+lnterest       65.49%   59.49%  60.65%   57.42%   55.90%   53.77%   51.27%
10. Consolidated Revenue Deficit    2.86%    2.01%   2.63%    2.80%    2.49%    1.49%    0.17%
11. Consolidated Fiscal Deficit   5.57%    5.44%   5.81%    5.87%    5.10%    3.82%    2.76%
12. Consolidated Capital Expend.  2.86%    3.59%   3.49%    3.25%    2.77%    2.46%    2.71%
13. Consolidated Interest         2.53%    2.84%   2.87%    3.02%    3.14%    3.21%    3.16%
14. Consolidated Debt Stock      29.90%   30.61%  30.61%   32.65%   32.35%   32.21%   31.03%
15 Off-budget Borrowings          1.06%    1.93%   1.93%    1.60%    1.08%    0.61%    0.29%
/a Capital expenditure is actual expenditure on capital formation, and excludes debt-servicing of off-budget borrowing,
which is included in capital expenditure under budgetary definitions. Thus, in this table, the fiscal deficit does not equal
the revenue deficit plus capital expenditure (net receipts).
21



Annex C
Page 22 of 24
46.  In the MTFP, the fiscal deficit and the revenue deficit fall every year till the
Government's targets are reached in 2004-05. The only exception is the year
2001-02, when the revenue and fiscal deficits rise. This happens because the
Government is providing full funding for the power sector subsidy, which was not
the case in the previous years. Over time, the power sector restructuring will
greatly reduce the power subsidy, but in the interim period, full funding of this
subsidy is essential to improve the quality of supply and to enable the restructuring
to succeed. If the power sector requirement had been fully met in 2000-01 (RE),
the fiscal deficit would have been Rs.5335 crores. This shows that in 2001-02, the
underlying fiscal position does in fact improve, as the fiscal deficit with full
funding of the power subsidy requirement is lower at Rs.5 127 crores.
VI.  Conclusion:
47.   As stated in the White Paper, the State government is determined to restore
fiscal balance, improve the standards of physical and social infrastructure and
ensure a competitive advantage to Karnataka. The medium-term fiscal plan
detailed above provides a blueprint for the state government to undertake
necessary reforms to move in the desired direction.
48.   The assumptions made in this exercise are realistic and the correctives
considered are feasible.  It is imperative to undertake these reforms in all
seriousness if the objective of ensuring a sustainable fiscal situation in the State
has to be achieved. In fact, if the reforms detailed above are implemented
effectively, it will also enhance the competitive edge of the State.
22



Annex C
Page 23 of 24
49.  While effective implementation of reforms on the lines explained in this
document should enable the State government to meet the objectives of achieving
fiscal rectitude, stabilising debt and creating quality infrastructure, it must be
noted that many of the reform measures can involve some cost to the exchequer in
the short and long terms. The power sector reforms will have to be calibrated
carefully, and substantial initial government support will be needed to unbundle
and restructure the sector. The beneficial results of the reform measures will only
accrue in the medium term. Introduction of a workable voluntary retirement
scheme for public sector enterprises would require initial financial support from
Government to a large extent, though a part of the cost will be recovered from the
disinvestment and sale proceeds of assets of the enterprises and the rest from the
savings of implicit subsidies being doled out to PSUs. Design of VAT will assume
revenue neutrality but in the initial couple of years there could be a loss of
revenue, which has been explicitly provided for. To achieve fiscal sustainability in
the medium term, these costs of reforms are inevitable and have been taken into
account while preparing the fiscal plan. It is expected that these costs will be more
than made good in the long run through attainment of fiscal sustainability and by
imparting greater competitiveness to the economy. The cost can also be minimised
through additional efforts in the direction of broad-basing of tax and non-tax
revenue streams and putting in place an effective enforcement mechanism and
through constant vigil on the expenditure side, particularly on compression of non-
productive expenditure and on improvement of composition and effectiveness of
expenditure.
50.  The Medium Term Fiscal Plan is an attempt by the State Government to
achieve fiscal sustainability over the next 5 years. The implementation of the plan
will create an appropriate enabling environment for higher investment in critical
infrastructure and social sectors, which in turn will spur economic growth. This
23



Annex C
Page 24 of 24
will result in a virtuous circle of higher revenue receipt and increased capacity of
the Government to spend more on desirable activities. This in turn will enable the
State to put up a relentless struggle on poverty and backwardness. Keeping in view
the objectives and targets of the Medium Term Plan, the Government will design a
matrix of reforms measures for implementation so as to achieve the desired end.
Government is also committed to tabling a Fiscal Responsibility Bill in the
Legislature, so that the MTFP can receive adequate legal backing. It is extremely
important to ensure that the contours of the plan are kept in sight while preparing
annual budgets. The Medium Term Fiscal Plan is essentially a dynamic document,
which will have to be updated every year based on the performance of the
previous years to monitor the progress of reforms. In the interest of fiscal
transparency, MTFPs from next year onwards would also include a report of
performance against targets in the previous year in addition to a summary of
economic prospects as well as a statement of fiscal policies and forward
projections. This will enable the Government to take additional measures to set the
reforms programme in course. These fiscal reforms accompanied by governance
and sectoral reforms are expected to project the State to a path of high trajectory
growth and are expected to result in substantial reduction of poverty.
24



Annex D
Page 1 of 12
Governance Strategy and Action Plan in Karnataka.
While Karnataka has made considerable progress on various fronts
since it gained statehood, and while it is cited as one of the better-
administered states in India, it is being increasingly felt that in order to meet
the legitimate aspirations of the citizens, to cope effectively with the complex
activities which the Government needs to undertake, to meet the challenges
posed by the revolutionary changes taking place in the world and to enable
Karnataka to remain in the forefront in a highly competitive environment, it is
essential for the State to evolve a strategy for governance and to implement
it in a time-bound manner.
2.      Indeed, today, all nations of the world and states in India are
taking a fresh look, inter-alia, at their goals and objectives, at the activities in
which they are involved and at the existing machinery and systems for
delivering services, in order to devise ways and means to make the
administration more transparent, efficient and responsive.
3.      From the financial point of view, there is an urgent need to see
how, by cutting down on non-productive expenditure, resources can be
found for sectors like infrastructure, agriculture, education, health, poverty
alleviation. An embarrassingly large percentage of the revenue realized is
being utilized for payment of salaries and wages at a time when more funds
are required for improving the quality of life of the common man. This
situation calls for a reorientation of the fiscal system of the state so that the
pattern of public expenditure supports the achievement of the pressing
socio-economic concerns.
4.      It is in this background that the Government had requested the
Indian Institute of Management to conduct a study on an overall framework
for the governance strategy.  The Government had also constituted the
Administrative Reforms Commission, which has submitted its interim report.
5.      Now the Government is taking the initiative of pronouncing its
governance strategy. The strategy highlights the areas, which will receive
special focus and where reforms will be introduced. While an action plan
for implementing the strategy is also envisaged, for some of the areas the
actual implementation schedule will be drawn up after the required studies
have been completed and after the final report of the Administrative
Reforms Commission is received.
6.      Government of Karnataka's governance reforms strategy is two
pronged (i) Rationalize the role of the state to focus on the most critical
public goods and services which the private market cannot effectively
supply, and (ii) Enhance the effectiveness, transparency and accountability
by which the state performs this role.



Annex D
Page 2 of 12
7.      The rationalization of the role of the state will be achieved by: -
(a)   Development and implementation of a Medium
Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP): -
The basic objective of the MTFP, which has been
initially drawn up for a period of five years, is to
introduce fiscal discipline. It will chart out how the
fiscal recovery will take place. Revenue deficit will
be brought down to zero by 2004-5 and the fiscal
deficit to 3% of GSDP by the same year. To
reinforce progress in this area, the Government
intends to bring forward a Fiscal Responsibility Bill.
Success in making the power sector commercially
viable will play a crucial role in the fiscal recovery.
Therefore a financial restructuring plan for the power
sector consistent with the MTFP has also been
drawn up. The MTFP and the financial restructuring
plan for the power sector will be placed before the
Legislature.
(b)   A review has been made of out-dated State Acts
and amendments and action taken to repeal them.
Progress has been made in this direction and twelve
Acts and more than a thousand amendment Acts
have been repealed. This process will continue.
(c)   A high level committee has already scrutinized the
existing schemes of various Departments. Based
on the recommendations of the Committee, more
than 21 schemes have been eliminated during the
budget for 2001-2002.   Over all, as a result of
merger, consolidation and outright elimination there
has been a reduction of 78 schemes during the
current year.
(d)   Public enterprise privatization and restructuring: -
The Government has already issued a Policy
Document and action plan for reforms to be brought
about in the State Public Sector.
The main ingredients of the poiicy are-
(i)   Privatizing  or closing  those  PSEs  whose
activities are commercial in nature or which
produce consumer goods and in which there is a
strong private sector presence;



Annex D
Page 3 of 12
(ii)   PSEs not involved in commercial activities would
be restructured by induction of strategic partners
or through merger and reorganization;
(iii)  While bringing about efficiency in the PSEs
providing  utilities  through  such  regulatory
authorities as may be necessary, private sector
participation in ownership and management of
utility services would also be encouraged and
facilitated;
(iv)  Voluntary retirement schemes and redeployment
will be provided for and a suitable mechanism of
social safety net would be developed to ensure
that the interests of the labour are adequately
protected.
(v)   Suitable measures would be taken to mitigate
environmental aspects.
By March 2002, action will have been taken to
privatize, disinvest in or close at least ten
enterprises.
(e)   Restructuring and Reorganization of Govemment
Departments: -
Functional reviews of Government Departments is
being undertaken to identify possibilities of reduction
or  consolidation.  The  Mines  and  Geology
Department has already been consolidated under
the Water Resources Department. A decision has
been taken to merge the Institutional Finance
Department with the Finance Department.   The
possibility of outsourcing certain services will be
examined.  All departments will be required to
identify activities from which the State can withdraw.
8.      The second major plank of the governance strategy would be to
bring in effectiveness, transparency and accountability in the functioning of
various agencies. This would include
(i)  administrative and civil service reform aimed at reducing excessive
patronage and enhancing the productivity of the civil service
(ii) sound public expenditure, financial management and accountability
systems to enable the Government to achieve fiscal discipline,
allocate resources in line with its strategic priorities and ensure
efficient and effective use of public resources. (iii) Greater public
transparency and oversight on government functioning through



Annex D
Page 4 of 12
right to information, citizen charters, service delivery surveys, public
monitoring of Government's anti-corruption programme and (iv)
simplification and decentralization by strengthening accountability
mechanisms at the local levels while enhancing autonomy.
9.      Reforms in the administrative and civil service would include: -
(a)      Drastic reduction in the politicized and premature
transfers that disrupt the functioning of the public
administration, undermine the ability of civil servants to
commit themselves to the job, and lead to significant
opportunities for corruption. Government shall amend
the rules under the Karnataka State Civil Services Act,
1978 in order to bring in objectivity and transparency
while effecting transfers. Transfers will be effected by
Committees, the constitution of which will be specified;
the maximum and minimum tenures for various
categories of officers will be prescribed and a system
will be put in place to monitor and publicly report on the
number of transfers department-wise and district-wise.
Reasons for effecting pre-mature transfers will be
clearly specified in the Transfer Order. At a subsequent
date, a legislation on the subject will also be taken up.
(b)     Merit based recruitment will be further strengthened
and transparency in recruitment increased.   In the
Medical and Health Department, the Education
Department and for some posts like Stenographers,
First Division Assistants etc., recruitment is already
made on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying
examination or the special written competitive
examination.  This system will be extended to other
recruitments  to  reduce\eliminate  weightage  to
interviews.
(c)     The relevant provisions of the Karnataka Civil
Service Rules will be amended to enable compulsory
retirement of inefficient government employees even
before they complete 25 years of service.
(d)     After necessary studies, the manpower in various
departments will be right-sized and systems introduced
to "de-layer" and ensure disposal of files within
prescribed time limits. The Secretariat Manual of Office
Procedure will be revised and amended to reflect the
new systems, which will be put in place.
10.     Reforms in the area of public expenditure, financial
management and accountability systems would cover: -



Annex D
Page 5 of 12
(a) To identify the medium-term costs of new and existing
policies and make recommendations on departmental hard
budget constraints, an Expenditure Review Committee
(ERC) has been set up comprising of representatives from
Finance, Planning and a few key spending departments.
No new major scheme will be introduced without scrutiny of
the ERC.  It is proposed to allow line departments to
prioritize spending within hard budgets with a scope to
retain a significant portion of any identified savings but with
a requirement to report on key outputs and outcomes.
Ultimately, adequate incentives will be provided for
adhering to the MTFP fiscal targets. Three pilot
Departments (Health and Family Welfare, Primary and
Secondary Education and PWD) have prepared sectoral
policy notes consistent with the MTFP.
(b) Focus on performance will be reinforced through an
impact and performance evaluation study of ongoing
programmes and schemes and through introduction of
Performance Monitoring and Improvement Initiatives. A
Government Order has already been issued earmarking
funds for evaluation of major schemes.
(c) A Controller's Office is being established in the Finance
Department to spearhead public financial accountability. A
Task Force has been established to guide the
modernization programme. Financial reporting is being
made more timely, and monthly and annual accounts are
now published on the internet. Key accounting functions
such   as  Treasury,  DDOs,  payroll,  and   Zilla
Panchayats/Taluk Panchayats accounting are being
progressively computerized.  Backlog of accounts and
audit  in  public  sector  enterprises,  local  bodies,
Departmental Undertakings and other institutions is being
cleared. Measures will be taken to provide and disclose
responses to audit observations and ensure follow-up
action, in a timely manner. Measures will also be taken to
improve internal controls in areas such as reconciliation,
Personal  Deposit  accounts,  loans/advances,  and
guarantee/debt recording and reporting.
(d) The process of public procurement will be made more
transparent.  The "Karnataka Transparency in Public
Procurement Act" has been put in place. The Act lays
down clear procedures for Tender Inviting and Tender
Accepting authorities.  Details of all tender applications
received and accepted are now required to be published in
a Tender Bulletin maintained by departments at both the
State and district levels. Some of the agencies have put



Annex D
Page 6 of 12
the tender bulletins on the Internet for easy accessibility.
Other Departments will adopt this practice.
11. The effectiveness of the state institutions will be
considerably enhanced by facilitating much greater public
transparency, participation and oversight.   Measures
include:
(a)    G.O.K. has  passed  a  far-reaching  Right to
Information Act. The Act has very limited number of
exemptions, and represents a major step towards a
more transparent form of government in Karnataka. To
strengthen this initiative, G.O.K. will initiate the process
of cataloging and indexing its records and seek inputs
from the public - through periodic surveys - to identify
the specific forms of information that the public would
most like to see. Rules under the Karnataka Right to
Information Act will be framed by November 30th,
2001.
(b)    G.O.K. has initiated the public dissemination of
citizens' charters (specifying standards of service
delivery and grievance redressal mechanisms) for a
number  of  agencies,  including  the  Bangalore
Metropolitan Transport Corporation and the Karnataka
Power Transmission Corporation Limited. G.O.K. has
ambitious plans to extend citizens' charters to much of
Government.  To ensure that citizens' charters are
credibly implemented, G.O.K. will focus first on four
public services with large public interface (e.g., stamps
and registration, maternity patients in Bangalore
Mahanagar Palike, regional transport and police),
specify improved standards through citizens' charters,
provide managerial flexibility to these service providers
in exchange for accountability to achieve intended
results; initiate business process re-engineering to meet
stipulated service standards; and conduct initial user
surveys to establish baseline data. Beneficiary surveys
from users of public services will also begin to be
initiated by Government departments themselves with
public interface to assess user satisfaction, identify
problems and take corrective actions. This will begin
with a survey for the four focus services with citizen
charters indicated above.
(c)    G.O.K. has launched a number of initiatives in the
area of electronic governance for public transparency
and for better functioning of departments.  These



Annex D
Page 7 of 12
include initiation of agricultural titles and tenancy
information computerization, treasury computerization,
computerization of the sales tax departments, and a
number of G.O.K. departments now have web sites.
The scope for e-governance is much greater, and
G.O.K. will prepare a status report and action plan on e-
governance initiatives.
(d)    Government of Karnataka has constituted  the
Human Development Division in the Planning
Department which will (i) Monitor progress in key areas
related to poverty and human development, (ii) Identify
emerging problems that may have an adverse impact
on the poor (iii) Help the Government, through its
monitoring, to take more informed decisions. The list of
poverty and human development indicators has been
finalized. Special surveys and studies will be initiated.
Strategic guidance and advice to this division will be
provided by an advisory group chaired by the Chief
Secretary.
(e)    (i) The Lok Ayukta plays an important role in the
enforcement of Karnataka's anti-corruption efforts.
Measures to increase the effectiveness of the Lok
Ayukta will be identified. The records of the Office of
the Lok Ayukta will be computerized and a review
undertaken of the procedures under the Lok Ayukta
Act.
(ii)  The  focus  on  enforcement  is  being
complemented  by  a  significant  emphasis  on
prevention  and systemic reform.   A  number of
measures being taken by the Government will address
key  underlying  sources  of corruption, including
reduction  in  patronage-based  transfers, financial
management and accountability, public procurement,
deregulation,  right  to  information  and   public
transparency. To monitor the implementation of these
anti-corruption measures as well as to identify and
implement other measures on an ongoing basis, Govt.
of Karnataka will set up an inter-departmental
Corruption Prevention Committee. The CPC will also
consult with civil society; the private sector, other
branches of government and the Lok Ayukta; undertake
baseline and repeat surveys of households, enterprises
and public officials on corruption; and publicly report on
results and progress of the anti-corruption programme.
iii) The number of local bodies is increasing. Allegations
of corruption are being received against such bodies.



Annex D
Page 8 of 12
The institution of "Ombudsman" will be created to
enquire into these allegations. The Ombudsman would
be encouraged to visit the districts for the conduct of
the enquiries.
12.  Simplification and decentralization shall be brought about
through the following measures: -
(a) Govt.  of  Karnataka  has  a  long  tradition  of
decentralization.  In  1987,  Govt.  of  Karnataka
implemented an ambitious decentralization program -
followed more recently by the 1993 reforms introduced
after the passage of the 73rd and 74th amendments by
the Central Govt. A large number of functions - and
perhaps amongst the largest share of state public
expenditure - have been transferred to Panchayat Raj
Institutions (PRIs) at the district, taluk and village levels.
Guided by the cardinal principle that what is appropriate
at a given level of the three tier Panchayati Raj system
should be done at that level and not at a higher level,
the Government is determined to devolve larger funds
and greater powers to the Gram Panchayats. The new
initiatives will include -
i. The annual untied grant to Gram
Panchayats will be enhanced from Rs. 2
lakh per annum to Rs.3.5 lakh per annum.
ii. The land revenue rates will be doubled
and 50% of the total collection will be
transferred to the Gram Panchayats.
iii. The Karnataka Panchayati Raj Act will be
amended to provide for levy and collection
of property tax at a higher rate and for
levy of development charges on use of
land for certain purposes.
iv. Gram Panchayats will be given the
responsibility of implementing a number of
development     programmes       like
management  of  primary  schools,
anganwadi centres, village irrigation tanks
etc.
v. Gram Panchayats will be empowered to
form Village extensions and, if necessary,
borrow funds for this purpose from
financial institutions.



Amnex D
Page 9 of 12
b. Government is concerned about the plethora of
clearances and approvals required for setting up
business.  This  multiplicity  of  approvals,
inspections  and   complicated  rules  and
procedures  have  impeded  private  sector
investment in the State. There is a clear need to
simplify procedures and reduce the paper work.
The Department of Industries and Commerce is
preparing a proposal, which will provide for
submission of a single form, self-certification,
minimal  statutory  returns  and   reduced
inspections.  A bill, incorporating the revised
system will be brought before the Legislature.
c. The Government recognizes that Urban Local
Bodies (ULBs) have an important role to play in
the decentralized set up. However, they need to
generate additional resources.  In Bangalore,
one of the ways identified to do this was to
introduce the Self-Assessment Scheme for
property tax. It has been well received. To give
the scheme a legal backing and in order to
introduce it in other ULBs, the necessary
amendment bills have been introduced in the
Legislature.  Further, in order to bring about a
more equitable and performance based system
for transfer of resources from the State
Government to the ULBs, the Government will
explore the possibility of entering into a
Memorandum of Understanding with the major
ULBs.
d. With the objective of achieving more efficient
service delivery and of making things easier for
the citizen, all Departments will identify areas
where decentralization can be introduced and
systems put in place for transparent, time-bound
handling of grievances, applications etc. at the
lowest level possible.
13.  The Statement at Appendix-1 summarizes the action to be taken
during the year 2001-2002 to implement various parts of the governance
strategy.
14.  The process of reforms is a continuing one. As mentioned earlier,
based on the various studies being undertaken, an examination of the
recommendations made by the Administrative Reforms Commission in its
final report and of other commissions and Task Forces set up by the



Annex D
Page 10 of 12
Government, action plans will be drawn up for implementation during
subsequent years.
APPENDIX-1
GOVERNANCE STRATEGY ACTION PLAN FOR 2001-2002
(April 2001 to March 2002)
1)     TRANSFERS:
DPAR to keep track of and monitor all transfers.
Rules to be framed under the Karnataka State Civil Services
Act.
Thereafter, action to be taken to introduce a legislation on
transfers.
2)      RECRUITMENT:
*   Weightage given to interviews to be reduced / eliminated
3)      ORGANISATIONAL RESTRUCTURING:
Functional review of 15 departments of the Government.
Manpower requirement estimation.
Rationalization of staff and redeployment.
Outsourcing of services (house keeping, horticulture,
transportation etc).
4)    CITIZENS' CHARTERS TO BE PUBLISHED FOR -
*   Stamps and Registration: Twelve Sub-registrars' offices where
computerization is being introduced.
*   Transport: All RTO offices
Police: Registration of Crimes
Bangalore Mahanagara Palike - (1) Maternity Homes
(2) Registration of Births and Deaths
Three other sectors/Departments which have a large interface
with the public will be identified for issuing Citizens Charters.



Annex D
Page 11 of 12
5)    PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
*   The functioning of the Expenditure Review Committee will be
streamlined.
*   Medium term frame work for three pilot departments, Health,
PWD, Education
Rationalization of schemes
*   Independent evaluation of ongoing programmes.
6)    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY:
Computerization of Treasury Department
Reconciliation of accounts, through a working group
Task force on modernization of financial management.
Computerization of Zilla Panchayats and Taluk Panchayat
accounts.
Fund based accounting system in Bangalore Mahanagar
Palike.
7)    PUBLIC PROCUREMENT REFORMS:
*   Tender bulletins to be placed on the Internet
*   Sample audits for selected contracts to be conducted by the
KBJNL, KNNL, PWD and Irrigation Department.
8)    FREEDOM OF INFORMATION:
*   Frame rules under the Karnataka Freedom of Information Act.
Conduct a survey of public information needs.
Begin the process of indexing, cataloging, and computerizing
data on a selective basis
9)      DECENTRALIZATION AND DEREGULATION
Increase share of untied funds to Panchayat Raj Institutions.
Empower Panchayat Raj Institutions to augment resources,
Enable Panchayati Raj Institutions to take up village level
development works
Legislation on Deregulation in industry.
Annual survey of perception of Government by Industries.
All Departments to identify areas where by deregulation and
decentralization, relief can be given to citizens.
10)      E-GOVERNANCE:
Information Technology plan for each department
Human Resource Database



Annex D
Page 12 of 12
*   Computerization of R.T.Cs. in all Taluks.
11)     ANTI CORRUPTION PROGRAMME:
*   Inter-departmental Corruption Prevention Committee to be
constituted.
*   Computerization of Lokayukta records and review of
procedures under the Lokayukta Act.
*   Ombudsman to enquire into corruption allegations against
local bodies.
12)      RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATISING PUBLIC SECTOR
UNDERTAKINGS:
*   Closure of ten units, by March, 2002



Annex E
Page I of 9
POLICY ON STATE PUBLIC SECTOR REFORMS AND PRIVATIZATION
1. EVOLUTION OF PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPIRSES IN KARNATKA
AND NEED FOR A POLICY ON PUBLIC ENTERPRISES REFORM
AND PRIVATIZATION.
1.1 The erstwhile Mysore State launched industrial ventures as Government
Undertakings to primarily exploit the available resources of raw material
and power in certain localities, thus creating pockets of industrialization
which gave rise to cumulative employment opportunities and a variety of
other economic spin-offs.
1.2 The rapid expansion in the number of variety of Public Sector Enterprises in
the State, sometimes without sufficient socio-economic justification or
adequate financial, technical and managerial resources to back them up, has
led to a situation where many became sick within a short span of time. The
Karnataka State Bureau of Public Enterprises was therefore set up in 1980
as a nodal agency for monitoring the functioning of all Public Sector
Enterprises in Kamataka and providing them with consultancy and other
support services of general nature.
1.3 Much time has elapsed since then and the economic scenario has undergone
momentous changes. In many cases, the circumstances and considerations
which provided the initial justification for setting up these ventures have
either changed beyond recognition or do not exist at all. Their raison d'etre,
after decades of economic change and development, is no longer confined
to the needs of the local economy, while the pricing and marketing of their
products are factors dictated almost entirely by national and international
market compulsions.
...... .1.2



Annex E
Page 2 of 9
- I.2 -
1.4 The policies of the Government of India in terms of Industrial Policy
Resolutions from time to time as also those of the State Government moire
or less remained unchanged until 1991-92. With the advent of liberalization
/ globalization the relative roles of the public and private sectors have
changed dramatically. The recent policies of economic liberalization have
necessitated a total reconsideration of the justification of investment in the
public sector and raised issues of the relative priorities of investment in
social sectors. In particular, the fact that the returns from the public sector
have not been commensurate with investment has induced a process of
appraisal of the Public Sector Enterprises from a different perspective in
terms of privatization, rationalization/restructuring, merger, disinvestment
or winding-up/ closure. It is now considered that investment in Public
Sector Enterprises should be restricted to strategic sectors or sectors of
social concern and that Government need not continue to involve itself in
production of consumer products and marketing enterprises, particularly if
they are not generating profits.
1.5 The State Public Sector Enterprises coming under the control of 18
Administrative Departments can broadly be grouped into seven categories
as follows:-
(i)   Public Utilities.
(ii)  Financial Institutions.
(iii)  Development Enterprises (Non-Commercial)
(iv)  Development Enterprises (Commercial)
(v)   Service Enterprises
(vi)  Manufacturing Enterprises
(vii) Marketing and Advertising Enterprises.
1.6 The State Government has taken several steps to bring about improvement
in the performance of Public Sector Enterprises to equip them to face the
challenges of the changed economic environment and globalization and to
gradually shed those products and activities that have proved to be
unproductive and unviable. In this context, the Government constituted a
....... 13



Annex E
Page 3 of 9
- 1.3 -
Committee in August 1988 under the chairmanship of the then Chief Secretary
to undertake a thorough review of the State Public Enterprises. The Committee
gave its report in October 1988. The salient recommendations were as under:-
(i)   Total privatization of 5 Companies.
(ii) Winding up of 15 Companies.
(iii) Merger of 4 Companies with other major Companies having
similar activities.
(iv) Rationalization and improvement of management of the
remaining Companies.
1.7 In September 1990 the State Government constituted a Cabinet Sub-
Committee to review the recommendations of the Committee on Public
Enterprises. The Cabinet Sub-Committee felt that those Public Enterprise
which were not serving any useful purpose and were suffering losses should
be wound up and that multiplicity of Corporations in the welfare field
should  be  avoided.    The  Cabinet generally  agreed  with  the
recommendations of the Cabinet Sub Committee but authorized the Chief
Minister to take a final decision on each enterprise. However, the follow up
action by the Administrative Departments is yet to yield tangible results
except in the case of Vikrant Tyers.
1.8 At present there are 81 Public Sector Enterprises in the State. The total
investment in the 78 PSEs existing as on 31.03.99 was of the order of Rs.
18, 331 Crores. The share of the Government of Karnataka was Rs. 6, 393
Crores. The turnover of the enterprises during 1998-99 was Rs. 8,890
Crores, contributing an amount of Rs. 506 Crores to the exchequer. Out of
the 78 PSEs only 35 Companies have shown profits amounting to Rs. 265
Crores and 33 Companies have suffered losses to an extent of Rs. 204
Crores. The remaining Companies have no profit or no loss or are defunct.
In as many as 25 Companies the accumulated losses have exceeded share
capital and reserves.
1.9 With the new policy of liberalization which envisages an increasingly larger
role for the private sector and a limited role for the State only in essential or
developmental sectors, there is need to evaluate the PSEs in terms of
productivity and other parameters. It is also necessary to evaluate the
performance of the PSEs to determine their utility or need for retention as
....... .1.4



Annex E
Page 4 of 9
- 1.4 -
Public Sector Enterprises. The State has had to commit itself to large
investments in many of these PSEs, with little benefit to the economy of tlhe
State. It is recognized that the commitment of such large funds to PSEs, has
eroded the ability of the State to provide adequate funds for essential
development activities in the Social sectors, including meeting of minimulm
basic needs.
1.10 It is in this context that the State Government considers it necessary to
evolve a policy with regard to the Public Enterprises in the State. It is
considered essential that these PSEs need to be restructured and that
Government should restrict its direct investment in PSEs from the funds of
the State to strategic sectors or sectors that involve social responsibility of
the State. It has become imperative to the State Government to have a
second look at the role and performance of the Public Sector Enterprises
particularly in the context of near nil return on huge investments, with sorme
of the PSEs having become a recurring burden on the public exchequer.
2. NEW INITIATIVE.
2.1 These issues have been under consideration of Government for some time.
It is the firm view of Government that it has become imperative to give
urgent attention to the restructuring of the State PSEs through
rationalization, disinvestment, merger, privatization or closure. With thLis
objective the Government has constituted a Public Sector Restructuring
Commission in G.O. No. DPAR, (BPE) 23 ARU 2000 dated 15th March
2000 and corrigendum  dated 30th March 2000.  The broad Terms of
Reference of the Commission are as follows.
(i) To evaluate the State PSEs and suggest measures which would promote
greater productivity and profitability in them within the next five years.
(ii) Suggest measures which would
a) reduce or eliminate budgetary support by the State,
b) promote autonomy and enhance profitability of the stronger
undertakings so as to increase their returns to the State.
(iii) Evolve a long term reform programme which would enable
........ .1.5



Annex E
Page 5 of 9
- 1.5 -
Government to identify-
a) Those PSEs which would require financial support from the
Government to enhance long term profitability and the extent to
which such support may be appropriate;
b) PSEs which would benefit by the induction of strategic partners and
the modalities of doing so;
c) PSEs for which restructuring measures would be desirable extending
to alternative systems of management including privatisation,
disinvestment, merger and the modalities of doing so.
(iv) Evolve appropriate principles of rationalisation of employment in the
PSEs, ensuring that the interests of labour are adequately safeguarded.
Such principles may include schemes relating to voluntary retirement,
creation of rationalisation fund for the purpose etc.,
(v)  Suggest measures for management of a rationalisation fund, including
the composition and procedures of a High Power Committee for the
purpose;
(vi) In making its recommendations, take into consideration the interests
of stakeholders, employees, consumers and others as may be
appropriate in the case of each PSE.
3. POLICY INGREDIENTS.
3.1  As a firm commitment towards Public Enterprises Reform through
restructuring, the Government has evolved a specific policy on public
Enterprises Reform and Privatization with the following main elements:-
(i)  The PSEs whose activities are commercial in nature or which produce
consumer goods and in which there is a strong private sector presence would be
restructured through privatization or closure. No further infusion of funds from
State budgetary resources would be made in such PSEs for the purposes of
modernization, expansion or taking up new activities.
(ii) The PSEs not involved in commercial activities would be restructured
....I.6



Annex E
Page 6 of 9
- 1.6 -
by the induction of strategic partners or other appropriate systems of
management, including mergers and reorganization, so as to eliminate
the dependence on the budgetary support of the Government. Where
joint partners are inducted the management role of the State would be
minimal and restricted to specified crucial areas to safeguard the interest
of the State and to prevent speculative activities;
(iii) Duplication of activities, if any, between PSEs, Government Agencies
and Co-operatives would be minimized by suitable rationalisation.
(iv) The improvement of the efficiency of the PSEs providing utilities would
be achieved through such regulatory authorities as may be necessary,
with the objective of providing quality services to customers at econornic
and reasonable prices. Private sector participation in ownership end
management of utility services would also be encouraged and facilitated.
(v)  No new PSEs would be established with rare exceptions of appropriate
institutional mechanisms for the expeditious execution of specific major
projects that relate to development of infrastructure where also increased
private sector participation in infrastructure activities will be encouraged
and facilitated. Even when a strong institutional mechanism is needed for
expeditious execution of infrastructure development project, first
preference will be for achieving it through private sector, failing which it
will be through joint sector of an existing PSE along with private sector
participation. Only in rare circumstances when neither of them is feasible
can a new PSE be though of.
(vi) Rationalisation of employment in the PSEs would be ensured through
implementation of schemes relating to voluntary retirement and possible
redeployment among PSEs. In this process the interests of labour would
be adequately protected and a suitable mechanism of social safety net
would be developed.
(vii) Suitable measures would be taken to mitigate environmental aspects,
particularly in the case of PSEs identified for privatization or closure so
that these processes are environmentally sound. Guidelines would
........ 1.7



Annex E
Page 7 of 9
- 1.7 -
be developed for Environmental Liability Assessment and Remediation.
(viii) The net proceeds realised from privatization or closure would be used on
infrastructure development, rural development and welfare activities.
4. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY
4.1 The Government is committed to successful implementation of the policy
within a time frame of end of March 2005. It is proposed to privatize or
close at least ten PSEs in the first phase of its implementation by end of
March 2002. Action would be taken to see that two of them are privatized
or closed by end of March 2001 itself. At least ten more PSEs would be
privatized or closed during 2002-2003. Thereafter the PSEs remaining for
privatization or closure would be covered by end of March 2005. The
restructuring of the other PSEs which are required to be continued would
also be completed well before the end of March 2005. The first phase would
cover privatization or closure of PSEs which are either no longer serving
any purpose or which are causing a big drain on the State exchequer. A list
of PSEs identified by the Public Sector Restructuring Commission out of
which at least ten would get privatized or closed in the first phase is
enclosed as Annexure II which also contains the names of four of them, of
which two will be closed by 31.03.2001.
4.2 To achieve successful implementation of this policy, the Government would
ensure that the Public Sector Restructuring Commission with its mandate
and wide-ranging responsibilities arrives at conclusions and makes
recommendations with regard to the State PSEs in an independent manner.
While doing so, it would take into consideration the views of all
stakeholders, including Government, but it would formulate its own views
independently, keeping in mind the best interests of all concerned. The
Commission would draw upon expertise both within itself and external to it
for appraisal and evaluation of the PSEs and for evolving recommendations
that would be conducive to industrial and financial strength while ensuring
equity to the employees. It would ensure that due regard is paid to social
and environmental concerns and issues of concern to the employees of the
PSEs. It would also make recommendations with regard to the constitution
.....8



Annex E
Page 8 of 9
I .8 -
and management of the fund that may be established for rehabilitation of
personnel and for meeting commitments under the voluntary retirement
schemes that may be evolved.
4.3 The recommendations of the Commission would be considered by
Government at the highest level. A system with suitable procedure for due
consideration of such recommendations would be evolved. For this purpose,
a High Power Committee would be established to examine t]he
recommendations of the Commission.   This would  expedite thne
consideration of the Commission's recommendations and assist in the
evolving of comprehensive proposals to Government for consideration at
the highest level.  The High Power Committee would submit its
recommendations to the Cabinet for its consideration, through t]he
respective Administrative Department. On receipt of the Cabinet decision
on the recommendations, the Administrative Department would
immediately initiate action to implement the process of restructuring,
privatization or closure in close collaboration with the Karnataka State
Bureau of Public Enterprises and the management of the PSE concerned. A
Core Committee in the Administrative Department headed by its
Secretary/Principal Secretary would be responsible for implementation of
the Cabinet decision.
4.4 The restructuring, privatization or closure will be executed in accordance
with detailed procedures to be prepared by the Commission on the basis of
the guidelines enclosed in Annexure-III.  Similarly the Voluntary
Retirement Scheme will be executed in accordance with detailed procedures
to be prepared by the Commission following the guidelines enclosed as
Annexure-IV.
4.5 The High Power Committee would periodically review the progress of the
restructuring process and would be empowered to take such action as mlay
be necessary to ensure expeditious and successful implementation of the
Cabinet decision. KSBPE will be the nodal agency in the Government with
regard to the policy on Public Enterprises Reform. It will function as the
secretariat of the High Power Committee.
....1.9



Annex E
Page 9 of 9
- 1.9 -
4.6 All-out efforts would be made to complete the process much earlier than the
time limits included in the implementation schedule.
(ABHAY PRAKASH)
Director General,
Kamataka State Bureau of Public Enterprises
and ex-officio Principal Secretary to Government,
Department of Personnel and Administrative Reform.



Annex F
Page 1 of 12
De-regulation of Business Environment - Reforming Measures
Part A
1.0   Preamble
The State Government is committed to provide an efficient, responsive and
transparent regulatory framework to promote growth of a market-driven, efficient
and competitive industrial/commercial sectors in the State. In the context of
economic liberalisation, industries and other establishments are facing several
challenges. Despite certain strategic advantages Karnataka provides to industries/
other establishments, a plethora of rules and procedures and the multiplicity of
regulatory departments/authorities constitute barriers to growth and new
investment.
1.1   Entrepreneurs encounter difficulties at three stages:
(a) Entry level
(b) Implementation level
(c) Operation level
1.2   With the objective of simplifying the regulatory framework, removing procedural
impediments,   reducing    maintenance   of   records,   submission    of
unnecessary/repetitive documents and of helping projects to be implemented with
ease the following measures are proposed.
1.   To make required changes in the respective rules framed under dilferent
acts providing for the proposed reform measures.
2.    Karnataka Udyog Mitra(KUM) to be made the Nodal Agency at the State
level, to guide and to provide assistance to the entrepreneurs as well as to
obtain the required clearances / allotments / consents / approvals /
permissions / registrations / enrolments / licences and the like clearance
etc. from  various departments / authorities    at the  entry  and
implementation stages of a project. Similarly, the DICs to be made the
Nodal Agency at the District level for this purpose.
3.   To reduce the multiplicity of application forms, a Combined Application
Form(CAF) for obtaining clearance / allotments / consents / approvals /
permissions / registrations, enrolments, licences and the like, to be
introduced.
4.   Industries which are in restricted list and are dangerous, hazardous and
highly polluting,  will continue to be subjected to the present normal



Annex F
Page 2 of 12
approval procedure and all other industries and establishments  not
included in the restricted list to be eligible for fast track clearances
under the simplified procedures.
5.    Under 'Fast Track Clearance', entrepreneurs will be required to complete
the CAF and submit it to the Nodal Agency - KUM / DIC for obtaining
necessary clearances etc., from various departments / authorities
concerned.
6.   The multiplicity of Registers/Records to be maintained under  different
provisions of applicable Acts/Rules, to be simplified and rationalised by
introducing Combined Registers/Records, as set out in this note.
7.   The multiplicity of periodical Returns to be filed under different provisions of
applicable Acts/ Rules, to be simplified and rationalised by introducing
Combined Monthly/Yearly Returns, as set out in this Note.
8.   Inspections, by various departments/authorities under different provisions
of law to be minimised and rationalised and to be conducted annually based
on random sampling ,with due notice. However, surprise inspections will
continue to be conducted on the basis of specific complaints.
9.    Providing for a provision   of self-certification  by the entrepreneur
conforming compliance of the extant laws and rules. Failure to comply with
the undertaking made in such  self-certification will be subjected to
penalty, prosecutions and punishment   as  provided  under different
Sections of respective Acts.
Part-B
2.0   The following measures are proposed to simplify procedures for  obtaining
clearances etc. at the entry and implementation level.
1.   At present, industries/other establishments are regulated by a large number
of Acts,  Regulations, Rules and Procedures administered by different
departments/authorities. In order to consolidate the regulations and
minimise the procedures,  the need for certain changes in the respective
rules has been felt. The proposed changes will provide for consolidation of
various rules, regulations, procedures, and other reform measures which
the Government proposes. The changes will deal with only those provisions
of laws which are within the Legislative Powers of the State Government to
make/ change rules.



Annex F
Page 3 of 12
2.   In order to guide and  render necessary assistance  to entrepreneurs at
entry stage and to facilitate in obtaining required clearances etc.at the
implementation stage, Karnataka Udyog Mitra (KUM) may be designated as
the Nodal Agency at the State level and DICs at the District level. KUM
/DICs will be single contact point for all new entrepreneurs/investors. The
KUM/DICs  will  also   be  the   single  point  contact  for  all
departments/authorities  in liaisoning, processing, issuing  the required
clearances etc.
3.   At present entrepreneurs are required to submit separate applications; under
each applicable Act for obtaining the  required clearances, allotments,
consents, approvals, permissions, registrations, enrolments, licences and
the like. With the objective of reducing the task of entrepreneurs, a
Combined Application Form(CAF) is devised. This CAF will be in lieu of
the existing different application forms, as indicated in the specimen.
Specimen CAF is given in Annexure I.
4.    Industries which are included in  Restricted list, are considered to be
dangerous, hazardous and highly polluting in nature. Such industries  will
continue to be subjected to the present normal approval procedures and all
other industries and establishments    which are not included in the
Restricted list, to be eligible for Fast Track Clearance under the simplified
procedures.
The Restricted list of industries is given in Annexure II
5.    Entrepreneurs will be provided with  a Booklet by KUM/DICs, highlighting
industrial policies, incentives and concessions; infrastructure facilities and
advantages    available   in    Karnataka;   list   of   government
departments/authorities and others concerned with the factories, business
and other establishments; list of applicable Acts/Rules along with their
salient features; check-list of requirement of each department/authority;
location, extent of availability and approximate cost of lancl/sheds
developed by the government agencies like KIADB, KSSIDC and KEONICS;
availability and cost of power; educated and trained manpower; technical
and other professional institutions etc.
6.    An application form shall be provided to the entrepreneurs enabling them
to apply to Single Window Agency(SWA) (both at State and District Level)
High -Level Committee [HLC] for clearance of the project.



Annex F
Page 4 of 12
7.      Once the project is cleared  by the SWA/HLC,  entrepreneurs will be
provided with the CAF. Entrepreneurs are required to submit two sets of
duly filled in CAF along with the required enclosures, payment of fees /
deposits  as  prescribed,  to  KUM/DICs  for  obtaining  necessary
clearances/allotments, consents, approvals, permissions, registrations,
enrolments, licences and the like. KUM/DICs will arrange for the required
clearances/licences etc. from different departments/authorities and hand
over the same to the entrepreneur within 35 days of submission of CAF
completed in all respects. However, separate time-limits to be prescribed
for each department to facilitate early stage-wise implementation of
projects. To this end the applicable Rules will be amended suitably.
8.      Since the SWA (for projects below Rs.50 crores) and HLC (for projects
above Rs.50 crores) have representation from all departments/authorities
concerned  and the  clearances etc. granted by these bodies, to be
considered as final and the required notifications/orders by individual
department/authority to be issued immediately thereafter without loss of
time.
9.      In case of failure of any department/ authority to issue the required
clearance, allotments, consents, approvals, permissions, registrations,
enrolments, licences and the like,  within the period specified, such
clearances shall be deemed to have been issued allowing the entrepreneur
to proceed with the implementation of the project.  The deemed
clearances will be subject to 'Self Certification' and commitments made
therein. The proposal of 'deemed clearance' and 'Self Certification' is to
enable the entrepreneur to implement the project without delays on
account of non-receipt of the required clearances etc. by the respective
departments/authorities.
Self Certification Format is in Annexure III.
10.    Permission for building and installation of machineries by the Grama
Panchayats/ Local Authorities.
The entrepreneurs are required to obtain approval for the site, building
plan and layout of plant and machineries from the Inspectorate of
Factories & Boilers [IFB] under the Karnataka Factories Rules 1969.
Once such approvals are obtained from the IFB, seeking permission to
construct factory building and installation of machineries separately from
the Grama 'Panchayats or other Local Authorities is duplication of work.
Therefore the entrepreneurs who obtain the required approvals from the
IFB for site, factory building plan and layout of plant and machineries, in
conformity with the prescribed provisions of the Karnataka Factories
Rules, 1969, may be exempted from seeking such approvals again from



Annex F
Paze 5 of 12
the Grama Panchayats and Town Panchayats. However in the interest of
maintaining the financial stability of Grama Panchayats and Town
Panchayats to provide and maintain basic infrastructure facilities, the
taxes and fee prescribed from time to time under the Karnataka
Panchayat Raj (Grama Panchayat Taxes & Fees) Rules will be collected by
the IFB from the entrepreneurs and remitted to the respective GPs/TPs
within 15 days of receipt of such fee.  However, IFB will ensure
compliance of building byelaws and related regulations before issue of
such approvals.  The Jurisdictional Inspector of Factories shall be
delegated with powers to approve the plans of Factory building of non-
hazardous Factories employing upto 100 persons.
11.    Approval of Factory Building Plan by KIADB
At present, in respect of KIADB land, the entrepreneur is required to
obtain approval of factory building plans from the KIADB.  Since the IFB
is responsible for approval of factory building plan, the requirement of
obtaining approval from the KIADB can be discontinued.
Part - C
3.0   At the operational stage, employers are required to maintain a large number of
Registers/Records prescribed under different Rules. In addition to this, ernployers
are also required to maintain and submit a number of Returns periodically. In most
of the cases these registers/records /returns are repetitive in nature. Factories are
also subjected to frequent inspections by different authorities under various Acts
to verify such registers/records/returns etc.
3.1   With the objective of eliminating unnecessary and repetitive  maintenance of
registers/records, the following simplification measures are proposed:
1.    At present, separate Muster Roll/ Attendance and Payment Registers are
required to be maintained under:
Form No.                Rule No.               Rules
i) Form 22 (Muster Roll)  Rule 137   of Karnataka Factories Rules, 1969
ii) Form V (Wages)      "  29(1)   of Kamataka Minimum Wages Rules, 1958
iii) Form VII (Muster Roll)  " 29(5)       -do-
iv) Form -(Wages)        "  5        of Kamataka Payment of Wages Rules, 1963
v) Form XVI (Muster Roll) "78(1) (a) (i) of Contract Labour (Regulation
& Abolition)Kamataka Rules, 1974
vi) Form XVII (Wages)     "   "             -do-



Annex F
Page 6 of 12
Maintenance of different registers of attendance and wages to serve the
requirement of each Rule, is a time consuming unnecessary and wasteful
exercise. It is therefore proposed to maintain a Combined Muster Roll cum
Register of Wages/Salary(CMR cum RWS) in lieu of above said registers.
Specimen of Muster Roll cum Register of Wages/Salary is in Annexure IV
2.   Though KST, KTEG and KTPTC & E are handled by the Commercial Tax
Department, separate applications under KST, KTEG and KTPTC & E are
required to be filed along with almost same set of documents/enclosures to
obtain separate registration numbers. In the interest of simplification, it is
felt that three different applications may be combined into one single
Combined Application Form and one single authority may grant registration
numbers and annual assessments under KST ,KTEG and KTPTC&E. The
annual assessment is presently done at the office of the Jurisdictional
assessing authority and the entrepreneurs is required to produce all the
required documents at his office for verification. Production of such large
number of registers, records, applications etc., is burdensome. In order to
facilitate faster annual assessment, it is proposed to carryout the annual
assessment at the premises of the establishment/trade/dealer.  The
Combined application form is included in the CAF.
3.   An employer is required to submit Monthly Returns to the Commercial
Taxes Department under the Karnataka Sales Tax, Karnataka Tax on Entry
of Goods and Professional Tax Acts separately. In addition to monthly
returns, an employer is required to submit annual returns, based on which
the final assessment of Tax is made. It is proposed to eliminate individual
monthly returns under KST, KTEG and KTPTC & E Acts and adopt a
combined Monthly Return Form to be submitted to Commercial Tax
Department
Specimen Combined Monthly Return Form is in Annexure V
4.   More than 10 registers relating to overtime work payment, fines, deductions
for damages, loss and advances etc. are required to be maintained under
different Rules, as detailed below:



Annex F
Page70fl2
Form No.        Rule No.                   Rule
i) Form 9     under Rule 107        of Karnataka Factories Rules, 1969
ii) Form XIII   under Rule 78(1) (a) (iii) of Contract Labour(Regin. 3
Abolition) Karnataka Rules, 1974
iii) Form IV    under Rule 28(2)    of Karnataka Mini. Wages Rules, 1958
iv) Form I    under Rule 3(1) (Fine),  of Karnataka Payment of Wages
4 (Deduction) and     Rules, 1963
19 (4) (Advances)
v) Form II           -do-                     -do-
vi) Form III        -do-                      -do-
vii) Form XXI  under Rule 78(1) (ii)    of Contract Labour (Regulation &
Abolition) Karnataka Rules, 1974
viii) Form XX       -do-                      -do-
ix) Form XXII       -do-                      -do-
x) Form B     under Rule 29         of Karnataka Labour Welfare Fund Rules,
1968 Payment of Wages Rules, 1963
The information sought by the above said registers can be made available
in two combined registers which will serve the requirements of the Rules.
It is therefore proposed that the two Combined Registers may be
accepted in lieu of the existing registers.
Specimen of Combined Registers are given in Annexure VI-A& B



Annex F
Page 8 of 12
5.   Separate Annual Returns are required to be sent under the provisions of
following Rules:
Form No.         Rule No.                  Rule
i) Form 20       Rule 134         Karnataka Factories Rules, 1969
ii) Form XXV      Rule 82 (2)     Contract Labour (Regulation And
Abolition) Karnataka Rule, 1974
iii) Form III     Rule 22(4)      Karnataka Minimum Wages
Rules, 1958
iv) Form 'D'      Rule 5          Payment of Bonus Rules, 1975
v) Form IV         Rule 20        Karnataka Payment of Wages Rules,
1963
It is proposed to combine these returns into one to serve the requirement
of the above said rules .
The Combined Annual Return may be replaced as Form No. 20 under Rule
134 of Karnataka Factories Rules, 1969 and be accepted in lieu of annual
returns as prescribed under other relevant rules.
Specimen of Combined Annual Return is given in Annexure - VII
6.   The returns, registers, documents, clearance, approvals and inspections if
any under following miscellaneous Acts/ Rules may not be insisted upon:
i)    Karnataka Industrial Establishments (National & Festival Holidays)
Act, 1963.
ii)    Karnataka Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1965
iii)   Weekly Holiday Act, 1942
iv)   Personal Injuries (Compensation Insurance) Act, 1963
v)    Employees liability Act, 1933
vi)   Children (Pledging of Labour) Act, 1933
vii)   Weights and Measurement.
The entrepreneur will be required to file a self-certification confirming compliance of the
applicable provisions of the above said laws.
Part- D
4.0  Industry Associations, in Karnataka have from time to time represented to the
government to simplify/modify/liberalise certain restrictive/regulatory provisions of
different acts. Such simplification/modification is  essential to maintain the
required discipline and run their enterprises in the competitive market driven
environment.



Annex F
Paj,e9of12
4.1   After examining the requests/suggestions of the associations, the following
simplifications/modifications are proposed, which are within the powers vested in
the State government under the relevant Acts/Rules.
1.   Conciliation
Under Section 4[1] of Chapter II of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 the State
Government, may, by notification in the official gazette appoint persons as
it thinks fit to be conciliation officers to mediate and to promote settlement
of industrial disputes.
At present only officials working in the Labour department are appointed as
conciliation officers. Due to lack of industrial experience and exposure such
officers are often unable to act effectively resulting in non-settlement of
disputes. The role of conciliation officers will be better served by persons
who have served at Senior positions in the HRD/HRM field. The HRM/HRD
persons have practical experience of handling industrial disputes
understanding the problems of both management and ermployees.
Therefore a panel of officers drawn from the field of HRD/HRM, Trade
Unions and Legal Practitioners in Labour laws be created with the same
duties and powers of departmental conciliation officers. Such experts will be
able to play an effective role in helping the parties to solve their disputes
without loss of time. Section 4(2) of Chapter II of Industrial Disputes Act,
1947 provides scope for appointment of such experts.
2.    Public Utility Services
The Karnataka Government has added a few industries to the list of Public
Utility Services included in First Schedule under Section 2(n)(vi) of ][ndustrial
Disputes Act, 1947.
Under Section 22(1)(a) and (2)(a) a notice of six weeks has been made
compulsory before going on a strike or declaring a lock-out in Public Utility
Service Industries.
For industries other than public utility services no notice is required to go on
strike. As a result, many wild-cat strikes take place in such industries.
Therefore, it is proposed that the industries coming under the following
sectors:
i)   Information Technology and IT Enabled Services.
ii)   Bio Technology
iii)   Food Processing Industries (Only those set up in Agro Food
Processing parks)
iv)   Electronics & Communication



Annex F
Page 10 of 12
v)   Export Oriented units
vi)   Garment
vii)  Auto ancillary units (only those set up in Auto Industrial Parks)
be declared as 'Public Utility Services' by the State Government.
3.   Industrial Employment Standing Orders
Under Section 3(1) of Industrial Employment (Standing Orders)Act, 1946,
an employer employing 50 or more persons is required to submit Draft
Standing Orders(DSO) within six months of employing 50 persons, for
certification and adoption.
The Certification takes a long period. The draft standing orders can be
framed only on matters provided in the Schedule to the Act. The subject
matters in the schedule are limited and have not been changed to the
requirements of the present day. The employer is required to follow the
Model Standing orders(MSO) in the interim period of certification. It is
proposed that provision of certification of DSO may be repealed and MSO
may be updated within three months and strictly be followed by the labour
department.
4.   Creche
At present under Section 48(1) of the Factories Act, 1948, providing a
creche is compulsory where more than 30 women workers are employed.
Employer may be permitted to engage the services of NGOs / private
organisations to manage the creche, at the cost of employer(s). Such
arrangement may be permitted by the State Government under Section
48(3).
5.   Rationalisation of Inspections:
It is proposed that the number and periodicity of inspections done by
various departments/agencies be rationalized.  Under the provisions of
various Acts, different authorities are created and it is common to find
almost all such authorities keep visiting industries in the name of
inspections which has become counter productive. In order to allow the
entrepreneurs to concentrate more on their chosen business it is suggested,
henceforth, industries may be subjected to one combined and joint annual
inspection by the departments such as Inspectorate of Factories and
Boilers, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and Labour department in
respect of registered Factories under the Factories Act. The Inspectorate of
Factories and Boilers  shall be the Nodal Agency.  The selection of
Industries for Inspection shall be on a random basis. A random number



Annex F
Page 1 1 of 12
sampling generated through a computer - data base shall constitute the
annual programme of inspections and shall be notified to the industries
concerned, in advance. All other departmental inspections will be restricted
to only specific complaints and self-certification of compliance filed by the
entrepreneur may be accepted. To further simplify Inspection by multiple
agencies, it is proposed to entrust the Inspectorate of Factories with the
enforcement of some of the labour legislations presently being enforced by
the Labour Department on the lines of State of Tamilnadu in respect of
registered factories. The legislations are The Contract Labour Act, The
Minimum Wages Act, National and Festival Act, Workmen Compensation
Act, Interstate Migrant workmen Act, Equal remuneration Act, Labour
welfare fund Act. However Labour Department will continue to enforce the
said legislations in the areas other than the registered factories.
6.     Upon approval of the above said proposals by the Cabinet, the C & I
Department will draft the required changes in the respective Rules and
forward to respective departments through the Law  department for
necessary amendment /notification.
The implementation of deregulation measures will be reviewed and a
status report will be submitted to the Cabinet periodically by the Principal
Secretary C & I.
7.     Other issues:
The deregulation of business environment has attempted to simplify rules
and regulations, which are within Legislative powers of the State
Government.
There are still a few issues, which need to be addressed for simplification
and streamlining. These pertain to:
i)    Establishment of Industrial Township Authorities.
ii)   Inspection by the Electrical Inspectorate.
iii)   Permission for change of land use and land conversion.
iv)   Empowering DCs to permit purchase of agricultural lands by industrial units
as per provisions of Section-109 of the Land Reforms Act.
v)    State level environment clearances.
A   Separate proposal on the above issues will be brought before the
Cabinet for consideration with in eight weeks.
Part-E
5.0   Keeping the overall objective set in the preamble to this Cabinet Note, the above
referred reform measures have been proposed. These proposals have been



Annex F
Page 12 of 12
discussed with the related departments and authorities and their views have been
incorporated. Further, representatives of major industry associations have also
been consulted and taken into confidence.
5.1   The Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad has prepared a detailed study
report on 'simplification of procedures governing industries' at the instance of the
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Industry, Government
of India. Suggestions and findings given in the above said report have also been
taken into consideration.
5.2   Even  after these  reform  measures, the  powers of granting  mandatory
clearances/approvals required for setting up industries shall continue to be vested
with the administrative departments concerned.
5.3   The reform proposals suggested are expected to provide an enabling environment
and a level playing field to the entrepreneurs/investors to set up their projects in
Karnataka and to run them successfully.



Annex G
Page 1 of 5
Poverty in Karnataka
1. Kamataka deservedly receives wide attention for its remarkable achievements in the rapidly
growing information technology sector. Yet attacking poverty, particularly in certain chronically poor
pockets of the state, remains an important developmental imperative. The publication in 1999 of the
Human Development Report for Karnataka marked an important step forward in the establishment of
a baseline understanding of the achievements in, and remaining challenges for, human development
and poverty reduction in the Karnataka. The report brought together a wealth of detail on the diverse
dimensions of human development during the 1990s, providing policy makers and other interested
parties with a comprehensive information base upon which to draw. This note summarizes some of
the main findings of the HDR, as well as of the poverty note prepared by the World Bank based on
analysis of the 1993-94 National Sample Survey (NSS) data as well as the 1993/1994 National
Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) rural household survey.'
2. Kamataka is India's 9th largest state (population: 53 million) with considerable physical,
cultural, and linguistic diversity. It has 4 natural regions, (i) the coastal region, (ii) the ghats or
malnad region, (iii) the southern maidan, and (iv) the northern maidan, all extending over 700 km.
from north to south, and 400 km. from east to west. The state was formed in 1956, when Kannada-
speaking territories of Bombay, Madras, Hyderabad, Coorg and Mysore were merged together into
one state. Partly on account of their dispersion in different political units, as well as partly due to
different natural resource endowments and climactic factors, considerable disparity in living
conditions prevail across different regions in the state. The Kamataka HDR included a disaggregated
poverty "map" across 20 districts in the state, distinguishing between urban and rural areas in each,
which revealed a remarkable degree of variation in poverty across districts - an important finding for
policy makers considering where to focus their poverty alleviation efforts. For instance, in the
northem more arid districts of Bidar, Gulbarga, and Raichur that border Andhra Pradesh, poverty
levels continue to be considerably higher than in the rest of the state.
Table 1: Mean consumption and Poverty in Karnataka and India, 1993-94
Karnataka                     India
Urban   Rural  Overall      Urban   Rural  Overall
Mean per-capita monthly consuniption (Rs.)    423  269   313        456    281       325
Head-count Estimates
(a) UsingExpertGroupPoverty Line     39.9   30.1      32.9       33.2   37.1      36.1
(b) 1997 World Bank estimates        29.7   41.0         -       30.5    36.7        -
(c) Deaton & Tarozzi (1999)          25.7    40.6        -       22.5    38.3
Sources: (a) Official figures (Planning Commission).
(b) India. Achievements and Challenges. Reducing Poverty, World Bank, 1997.
(c) Deaton, A. and Tarozzi, A. (1999) Prices & Poverty in India, mimeo.
3. A profile of consumption-poverty in the state reveals that the poor in Kamataka do not look much
different from the poor in other, less advanced, states of India. The poor are virtually without
education, have limited access to land, and are highly concentrated in low paying, physically
demanding, and socially unattractive occupations such as agricultural wage labor (or in urban areas,
in casual wage labor). In both urban and rural areas, the poor have very little access to modem
sanitation services, and also commonly reside in houses of inferior quality. Scheduled castes
constitute a sub-group of the population with a particularly high level of poverty.
I Poverty in Karnataka: Profiles and Emerging Issues mimeo, World Bank, Washington D.C. 2000.



Annex G
Page 2 of 5
4. There are several estimates of poverty in Karnataka. Even though these estimates use the same
household data, their use of different price indices leads to considerable variation in the extent of
poverty in the state, both in absolute terms, and relative to the all-India average. The official poverty
estimates for 1993-94 from the GOI Planning Commission show poverty in Karnataka to be lower
than the All-India average (Table 1). Although mean urban consumption levels in the state are
considerably higher than in rural areas, measured poverty was found to be higher in urban areas than
in rural areas (40% vs. 30.0% ). However, there may be strong grounds to suggest that these
statistical results are not robust. The finding of higher urban poverty results from the urban poverty
line being 63% higher than the rural line in Kamataka, much higher than the difference between the
two poverty lines in most other states. For these two poverty lines to represent the same standard of
living, it must be argued that the cost of living in urban areas is higher by a similar proportion as the
difference in the two poverty lines. Against a backdrop of free movement of goods and people, such
an argument is rather implausible. Alternative methodologies show rural poverty to be much higher
and rural poverty lower: two such estimates are also included in Table 1. Many other indicators of
wellbeing (human development and other), suggest that rural areas are at a considerable disadvantage
relative to urban areas, and the general perception in Karnataka that poverty is a largely rural
phenomenon is very likely a robust conclusion. If poverty in rural areas is higher than that indicated
by official statistics, given that roughly 7 out of 10 residents of Kamataka live in rural areas, this
would raise considerably the estimated number of poor in the state. While the official figures show
lower levels of rural poverty in Kamataka than the all-India average, the other two estimates show
higher levels of rural poverty. (On progress in reducing poverty, see para. 11.)
Table 2: Poverty Incidence by Level of Education of the Household Head
Highest educational          Incidence of Poverty                  Percentage of:
Attainment of Head      Urban      Rural      Overall           Population    Poor
Not literate                67.3        38.3       42.8                 49         63
Less than Primary           51.0       25.0        30.2                 15         13
Completed Primary           48.4        19.6       29.2                 10          9
Completed Middle            40.7        15.8       25.4                 10          8
Completed Secondary         21.2        12.0       17.8                  9          5
Completed Higher level       9.5        1.0         7.1                  7          2
Overall                     39.9       30.1        32.9                100        100
Source: 1993-94 NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey
5. Education is a key dimension of welfare as well as an important determinant of rural incomes
and economic livelihoods in Karnataka (Table 2). In urban Karnataka, the poverty rate of those who
live in households whose head is illiterate is 67% compared to an urban average poverty rate of 40%.
The incidence of poverty declines as household heads are progressively more educated, such that less
than 10% of the poor live in households where the head of the household has an education beyond
secondary schooling. In rural areas, the incidence of poverty for those in households with an illiterate
household head is 38.3% relative to an average poverty rate of 30.1%. This suggests that in rural
areas illiteracy is less clearly a defining characteristic of poverty as in urban areas. On the other hand,
with an incidence of poverty of barely 1% among those where the household head has an education
beyond secondary schooling, it is clear that those in rural areas who live in households with a highly
educated household head run a very low risk of being counted among the poor.



Annex G
Page 3 of 5
Table 3: Water source - by Sector and Poverty
Urban    Rural      All        Poor     Urban Poor  Rural Poor
Tap                         83       38        60         50          74           37
Tube well/Hand pump         10        34       22         35          20           43
Well                         7       20        14         12           5           15
Tank/Pond/Reserve/Others     0        8         4          7            1           5
Source: 1993-94 NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey
6. Access to safe water and sanitation for the poor in Kamataka is considerably poorer than the
rest of the population. While a large majority (83%) of the urban population has access to tapped
water, for the urban poor, the corresponding figure is 74%. For the rural poor, nearly 50% are reliant
either on tube-well/hand-pumps (43%) or tank/ponds (5%). while in the urban population as a whole
slightly over a quarter of the population (28%) of the population does not have access to any type of
sanitation, the corresponding figure for the urban poor only is nearly 60%. Similarly, while about
40% of the urban population has access to a flush toilet, the percentage among the urban poor is
below 20%. Such limited access to adequate sanitation services in urban areas may pose serious
public health risks in urban areas. In rural areas, access to modem sanitation services remains very
limited. The majority of the rural population (overwhelmingly in the case of the rural poor) have no
access to modem services.
7. Poverty and access to land: In rural Kamataka, the connection between poverty and access to
land is central to both understanding the causes of poverty as well as to designing policies to address
poverty. The poor in Kamataka typically own less land than the non-poor and are highly represented
among the landless. Moreover, variation in land quality is of particular importance in the context of
the state, where access to irrigation is far from universal. Consequently, while the incidence of
poverty is clearly highest among the landless and marginal landowners, there remains a considerable
percentage of the rural population at risk of poverty even in the largest landowning category.
Table 4: Rural Poverty Incidence by Land Ownership
Poverty                    Percentage of:
Amit. Of Land owned     Incidence
Population*      Poor*        Non-Poor*
Nolandowned            40.4             17             23             15
0-0.4 hectares         31.6            23             24             23
0.4-1 hectares         28.3            19             18             19
1-2 hectares          31.0            17              18            17
2-4 hectares          23.9            13              10            14
4+hectares            18.8            11              7             12
Overall             30.1            100            100            100
Source: 1993-94 NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey * Column shows poor population in land ownership category
8. Poverty and Occupational status: A very strong correlate of poverty in rural areas is
involvement in agricultural labor (Table 5). The incidence of poverty is considerably higher (46.7%)
for the rural population in which the household head is engaged in agricultural wage labor. Village
studies indicate that agricultural wage labor is often viewed as a "last-resort" option by villagers due
to the combination of hard physical labor which is involved plus a degree of loss of social status
associated with working as a paid laborer for an outside employer. While agricultural labor is the
occupation of about 35% of all household heads in rural Karnataka, 54% of poor household heads are
agricultural laborers. In urban areas, the incidence of poverty is particularly high when household
heads are employed as casual laborers. While only 16% of household heads in urban areas are
engaged in casual labor, they make up nearly 30% of poor household heads in urban areas. There is



Annex G
Page 4 of 5
also a slightly higher odds of poverty amongst those household heads engaged in self-employment
activities.
Table 5: Poverty Incidence by Occupation of Household Head
Rural Areas                 Percentage of       Urban Areas                  Percentage of
Main Occupation                                 Main Occupadon
% Poor   Popl'n    Poor                         % Poor   Popl'n    Poor
S.E. Non-agri.    29.1        13        13      SelfEmployed       44.1        36       40
Agri. Labor      46.7        35        54     Regular Salaried    25.3        42       27
Other labor      23.9        4          3       Casual Labor      71.8        16       29
S.E. Agriculture   20.7        41       28
Other           7.8         7        2           Other          29.3        6         4
Overall         30.1      100       100         Overall         39.9       100      100
Source: 1993-94 NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey  S.E.: Self-employed
9. The non-farm sector in Kamataka offers a potentially important route out of poverty in rural
areas. However, evidence on income shares suggests that in Karnataka, perhaps somewhat
surprisingly given the State's high-tech profile, the rural economy remains relatively undiversified.
Nonetheless, even in Kamataka as much as 20% of rural income accrues from non-farm sources.
However, not all non-farm  economic activity is equally productive, and at least some non-farm
activities, particularly casual wage employment in non-agricultural activities, may as readily be a
symptom of poverty as a route out of poverty. Because of low education levels, the poor are not well
placed to gain employment in the non-farm sector, particularly regular employment in well paid jobs.
Accelerating growth and employment in rural areas will be key to poverty reduction. Increasing the
area under irrigation is vital, but since at most 1/3 of Karnataka's arable land can be brought under
irrigation, improving dry land productivity is likely to play an equally important role in lifting the
poor out of poverty.
10. Poverty and Social Identity: Women and the population comprising scheduled castes and
scheduled tribes appear to be disadvantaged in the competition for opportunities in the non-farm
sector. Analysis of the 1993-94 NSS data reveals a significant structural component to the difference
between average per capita incomes of scheduled castes versus majority households. This indicates
that alongside clearly visible differences in human capital levels and ownership of productive assets
such as land, the returns on those assets and human capital received by scheduled castes differ from
the returns received by majority households. There appears to be disturbing evidence that returns to
education for scheduled castes are generally lower than for majority households; addressing this
important dimension of social inequality thus poses additional, difficult, challenges to policy makers.
Table 6: Recent Trends in Monthly Per-Capita Consumption
NSS 43rd Round    NSS 50"' Round     NSS S5"' Round      A 87-88 to      A 93-94 to
1987-88           1993-94            1999-00          1993-94         199940
Urban   Rural     Urban   Rural      Urban   Rural       U     R         U     R
Mean per-capita monthly consumption (Rs.):
Karnataka      223    151         423    269         911    500       90%   78%       115%   86%
Andhra Pradesh   228    159       409    289         774    454       79%   82%       89%   57%
TamilNadu      245      156       438    294         972    514       79%   88%       122%   75%
Kerala         262    209         494    390         933    766       89%   87%       89%   96%
All-lndia       246    158        458    281         855    486       86%   78%       87%   73%
Source: NSS data, various years.
1 1. Progress in reducing poverty: There has been much debate and controversy in India recently
around the latest poverty estirnates released by the Government of India. While it is difficult to
ascertain the extent to which poverty in the country has declined in recent years, evidence from



Annex G
Page 5 of 5
various sources suggests that progress at reducing poverty in Karnataka has been somewhat better
than in the rest of the country. NSSO survey data suggest that growth in mean per capita consumption
in Karnataka, especially in urban areas, has been faster than in other states (Table 6). Similarly,
results from the 1998-99 National Family Health Survey (NFHS) suggest that improvements in infant
and child mortality, nutritional status, and other indicators of well-being have been more rapid than in
the rest of India (Table 7).
Table 7: Anthropometric Indicators and Mortality Rates
1992-93                    1998-99
All-lndia    Karnataka    All-India     Karnabtka
Infant mortality               78.5         65.4          67.6         51.5
Child mortality               33.4          23.5          29.3         19.3
Weight-for-age (% below 2 s.d.)      53.4          54.3          47.0         43.9
Height-for-age (% below 2 s.d.)      52.0          47.6         45.5          36.6
Weight-for-height (% below 2 s.d.)     17.5         17.4          15.5         20.0
Source: IIPS (1995,) and IIPS and ORC Macro (2000)



Annex H
Page 1 of 4
Karnataka Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System
(Government Order No. PD-1-HDD-2001. Dated 16.05.2001)
1.   Human Development Division in the Planning Department will coordinate all the
activities relating to poverty and human development monitoring system in Karnataka with the
active involvement of concerned departments in the Government.
2.   Human Development Division will closely liason with poverty cell of the World Bank
besides liasoning with All India Agencies like Census Department, National Sample Survey
Organization etc.
3.   List of indicators covering areas such as poverty, access to services, income, agricultural
prices, employment and unemployment, demography and health etc. are given in the Annexure
along with other details such as source of information, frequency, and present level of
disaggregation, present status and name of the department to initiate action etc. Wherever name
of the department is mentioned against a particular indicator, such department shall provide
required information to the Human Development Division on a regular basis. The modality of
furnishing of data will be finalised by the respective department in consultation with Human
Development Division.
4.   If any new indicator is required to be included or scope of the existing indicator is to be
modified or enlarged, the Human Development Division will take necessary steps to include the
same in the list of indicators with the involvement of the concerned department.
5.   The Department of Economics and Statistics will take all necessary measures to strengthen
the Civil Registration System in consultation with the Human Development Division.
6.   Wherever special surveys/studies are suggested in the list of indicators given in the
Annexure, the Human Development Division will take necessary steps to initiate action
observing necessary formalities.
7.   Action will be initiated to bring out State Level Human Development Report every 3 to 5
years utilising the census data, NSSO survey and other household survey results etc.
8.   Human Development Division will initiate action for the preparation of District Level
Human Development Report initially on a pilot basis with involvement of concerned Zilla
Panchayat and District Administration, concerned Zilla Panchayat and District Administration
will extend all necessary support as and when required by the Human Development Division for
finalisation of the district level human development report.
9.   Action will be take to include a chapter on poverty and human development in the annual
economic survey of the State Government.



Annex H
Page 2 of 4
Annexure
Poverty and Human Development Indicators for Monitoring
S.                                  Level of                                               Reporting                                     Department
No.          Indicator           disaggregation                 Data Source                 Periodicity    Present Status / Comments   to take
action
1.    Poverty:
Percentage of population  a) State,          Annual NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey     Annual    Most recent estimates in         Department of
below the poverty line:      Urban/Rural     - Pooled central and State sample.                    Karnataka Human Development    Economics
b) By district     Quinquennial NSS Consumer Expenditure     Every 5    Report (data for 1993-94).       and Statistics
Survey (thick sample) Pooled central and   years      Data from the pooled 55th round    (DES)
state sample.                                        (1999-2000) will be used to
compute new district-wise
poverty estimates later this year
once unit-record data become
available.
2.    Access to services:
Percent households with:    a) By taluk      Population Census                          10 years    Baseline to be set as results from    Rural
the 2001 Population Census are    Development
available,                      and
Panchayat Raj
(i) Access to safe        b) By district     (i) Rural Development & Panchayati Raj   3 - 5 years   Data Collection system to be   (RDPR)
drinking water                               Department (RDPR)                                  further strengthened.
Additional data to be collected
(ii) Kutcha homes                            (ii) Sample surveys of households                     through new household surveys,    Special
or through a special-purpose    Survey
(iii) Toilet facilities                                                                            module canvassed in conjunction
with the combined central-state
(iv) Electricity                                                                                   Quniquennial NSS Survey.



Annex H
Page 3 of 4
3.    Income, Wages & Prices:
(i) Wages (agricultural   By district        Department of Economics and Statistics    Monthly    A data series on real -grain     DES
& non-agricultural)                                                                            equivalent of wages computed at
the district level will provide an
inexpensive yet powerful tool for
monitoring variation in living
standards on a timely basis.
(ii) Retail prices of essen-    By district  Department of Economics and Statistics    Monthly                                     DES
-tial commodities
(iii) District income & its    By district   Department of Economics and Statistics     Annual                                     DES
sectoral composition
(iv) Wholesale prices of  State              Department of Economics and Statistics    Monthly                                     DES
agricultural commodities
4.    Employment:
(i) Employment status     a) State,          Annual NSS Employment and                  Annual    Employment status classified as    DES
Urban/Rural     Unemployment Survey -- Pooled central                 (i) employed (ii) under-employed
and state sample.                                    (iii) unemployed & (iv) out of
labor force.
(ii) Composition of       b) By district     (i) Quinquennial NSS Employment/           5 years    Composition of employment       DES
employment                               Unemployment Survcy. Pooled Central and               classified as (i) self-employed (ii)
(iii) % of working children                  state sample                                          salaried & (iii) casual.
(iv) Labor Productivity                      (ii) Population Census of India            10 ycars   (Working children: age group
monitored: 10-14 years).
5.    Demography & Health:
Infant Mortality Rates    State              Samplc Registration System (SRS)           Annual    1998-99 NFHS data to be used to   Department of
Urban/Rural                                                              set baselines for monitoring.  Health and
Male/Female                                                              Anthropometric measures used to   Family
track severe and moderate child  Welfare
(i) Malnutrition          State, region &    Sample surveys: e.g. the National Family  3 - 5 years   malnutrition (i.e. measures such    (DHFW)
gender             Hcalth Surveys (NFHS), Rural Child Health             as weight-for-age, height-for-age,
Urban/Rural        Surveys, etc.                                         and weight-for-height to be used).
Couple protection rate    State              (i) Department of Health data              Annual    Methodologies to compute         DHFW
Urban/Rural                                                              maternal mortality rates and life-
Institutional delivery                       (ii) Sample surveys                      3 - 5 years   expectancy to be examined more    DHFW
carefully to determine data
Matmalmorali e tate  Not known at present                                requirements and explore       DHFW
Urban/Rural                                                             feasibility.
Life Expectancy at Birth



Annex H
Pae 4 of 4
6.    Education:
Literacy                  (a) By taluk        Population Census                          10 years    Additional data to be collected  Special
through new household surveys,    Survey
Gross enrolment ratio     (b) By district    (i) Quinquennial NSSO Survey or other       5 years     or through a special-purpose
special-purpose survey                                module canvassed in conjunction   Special
Proportion of children 6-14                   (ii) Literacy Survey recently conducted by             with the combined central-state  Survey
years out of school                           the Department of Education                            Quinquennial NSS Survey.
Education
Drop out rates                                (iii) Department of Education data      Annual                                         Department
7.    Other Indicators, comments, etc.
Wherever feasible, the above indicators will be collected through integrated household-survey instruments so as to permit disaggregation by important groups of
interest, such as by gender, poor / non-poor, backward regions, socially disadvantaged groups, etc. Other important performance monitoring indicators such as more
effective tracking of outcome indicators such as school learning achievement and behavioral outcomes, process indicators such as whether text-books and other material
reach schools in time, teacher attendance and regularity, etc., supplementing quantitative data with qualitative assessments, etc to also be eventually incorporated into
the monitoring system once present capacity within GoK to carry out such analyses has been developed. In addition, wherever feasible, technical expertise will be
developed to carry out more formal monitoring and evaluation of specific policy interventions.



Annex I
Page 1 of 5
Fiscal Annex
Fiscal Deficits
In addition to the budget deficit, we define various more comprehensive deficits, which include
the power deficit and off-budget borrowings.
Budgetary non-power fiscal deficit = Budgetary fiscal deficit - Gross budget support to the power
sector
Off-budget borrowing = Borrowing by KBJNL, KNNL and other state entities, the debt servicing
of which will revert to the budget
Net off-budget borrowing = Off-budget borrowing - Off budget principal repayments
Fiscal deficit including off-budget borrowing = Budgetary fiscal deficit + Net off-budget
borrowing
Fiscal deficit including power sector deficit and off-budget borrowing = Fiscal deficit including
off-budget borrowing + Power sector deficit - Gross budget support to KPTCL
Revenue Deficits
Revenue deficit including off-budget borrowings = Budgetary revenue deficit + Off-budget
interest payments
Primary Deficits
Primary deficit including off-budget borrowings = Budgetary primary deficit + Off-budget
borrowings - Off-budget interest payments - Off-budget principal repayments
Power Sector Deficit
The power sector deficit is the deficit of KPTCL, the state's power transmission and distribution
utility. Since accumulation of arrears is often used as a financing strategy, changes in working
capital are treated as a deficit financing item.
Under the power sector deficit, pensions for existing pensioners are deducted from the cost side in
2000-01, in anticipation of a trust fund being used from 2001-02 onwards to pay all pension
obligations. That portion of the GoK revenue subsidy equivalent to the cost of pensions thus
deducted is also excluded from the revenue side in anticipation of such payments being made
from 2001-02 to the trust fund. GoK in fact plans to establish an endowment for the trust fund,
and then to make good any shortfall in interest from the endowments to meet the annual pension
bill. Pension liabilities relating to pensioners already retired and past service of existing
employees as of March 1999, will thus be transferred outside of KPTCL, and are thus not
included in the power sector (i.e. KPTCL) deficit.
Gross budget support to KPTCL = Revenue subsidy to KPTCL + Other revenue transfers +
Capital transfers to KPTCL
Gross budget support to the power sector = Gross budget support to KPTCL + Debt service on
trade bonds + Cash payment to KPCL + Payments to pension trust fund



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
Power sector deficit = Total revenue of KPTCL (excluding revenue subsidy and other revenue
transfers to KPTCL )+ Capital expenditure - Operating costs of KPTCL - Interest - Tax
Definitions of Consolidated Expenditure Variables (used in Table 6)
Definition
Revenue Expenditure
Interest Payments                  On-budget and off-budget interest payments
Salaries
Grants-in-aid of Salary           Grants-in-aid of salary towards elementary and
secondary education and higher education
Pensions
Subsidies & Transfers             Power subsidy, devolution to urban local bodies,
food subsidy, transport subsidy, industry subsidy,
housing subsidy (equals subsidies and devolution to
urban local bodies in the MTFP)
Non-Wage O&M                       Roads, buildings, irrigation, elementary and
secondary education, health, rural development,
water supply, agriculture, forestry (equals major and
other O&M in MTFP)
Other Revenue Expenditure          Social welfare schemes, police, administrative
expenditure, infrastructure cess, natural calamities,
prizes / commissions/ incentives, provision for
contingent liabilities, other schemes
Capital Expenditure & Net Lending    On-budget capital expenditure and off-budget
borrowing less debt servicing on account of off-
budget borrowing
Note: More detailed definitions are available on file.



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Table 1.1
Karnataka Deficits, 1996/97 - 2004/05 /a
96-97  97-98  98-99  99-00  00-01  01-02  02-03  03-04  04-05
RE     BE    Proj.  Proj.  Proj.
(Rs billion)
Revenue Deficits
Budgetary revenue deficit             4.55    1.32   9.57  23.25   21.75   26.24  23.56   12.06   -7.38
Revenue deficit including off-budget  5.15    2.75   11.99  27.21   25.81   32.96  33.40  22.77    2.95
borrowings
Fiscal Deficits
Budgetary non-power fiscal deficit    8.60   8.63  21.83  35.05  32.69  28.26   33.56  36.25   38.44
Gross budget support to power sector  9.60    6.02    6.72   7.71    8.79  23.01   23.39  20.65   14.15
Budgetary fiscal deficit             18.20   14.65  28.54  42.76  41.48   51.27  56.95   56.90  52.59
Netoff-budgetborrowing                5.09    8.10   6.11   10.13   18.69   17.98   11.85    1.76   -4.16
Fiscal deficit including off-budget  23.29  22.75  34.65   52.90  60.17  69.26  68.80  58.66  48.42
borrowing
Powersectordeficit                    9.71    7.27   12.70   14.07  21.40   23.49   18.82   16.47   13.93
of which: funded off-budget        0.10    1.25   5.99   6.36   14.31    4.26    0.86    1.10   4.65
Fiscal deficit including power sector  23.40  24.00  40.63   59.25  74.48   74.96  69.66  59.76   53.07
deficit and off-budget borrowing
Primary Deficits and Debt Stock
Budgetaryprimarydeficit               6.12    0.72   12.38  22.64   17.31   22.78  24.62   18.42    7.82
On-budget debt stock                114.82 130.84  155.82 188.63 225.76 272.87 327.58 384.23  436.56
Primary deficit including off-budget  10.62   7.39   16.06  28.82  31.94   34.05  26.62    9.48   -6.67
debt
Debt stock including off-budget debt    121.72  145.83  176.92 220.08 275.90 340.99 407.54 465.96  514.13
(% GSDP)
Revenue Deficits
Budgetary revenue deficit              0.7    0.2    1.1    2.4    2.1    2.2    1.8    0.8   -0.4
Revenue deficit including off-budget   0.8    0.4    1.4    2.9    2.5    2.8    2.5    1.5    0.2
borrowings
Fiscal Deficits
Budgetary non-power fiscal deficit     1.3    1.2    2.6    3.7    3.2    2.4    2.5    2.4    2.2
Gross budgetsupportto power sector     1.5    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.9    2.0    1.7    1.3    0.8
Budgetary fiscal deficit               2.8    2.0    3.3    4.5    4.0    4.3    4.2    3.7    3.0
Netoff-budgetborrowing                 0.8    1.1    0.7    1.1    1.8    1.5    0.9    0.1   -0.2
Fiscal deficit including off-budget    3.6    3.2    4.1    5.6    5.8    5.9    5.1    3.8    2.8
borrowing
Powersectordeficit                     1.5    1.0    1.5    1.5    2.1    2.0    1.4    1.1    0.8
of which: funded off-budget         0.0    0.2    0.7    0.7    1.4    0.5    0.1    0.1    0.3
Fiscal deficit including power sector  3.6    3.3    4.8    6.2    7.2    6.4    5.2    3.9    3.0
deficit and off-budget borrowing
Primary Deficits and Debt Stock
Budgetary primary deficit              0.9    0.1    1.5    2.4    1.7    1.9    1.8    1.2    0.4
On-budget debt stock                  17.5   18.3   18.3   19.9   21.9   23.1   24.4   25.1   25.0
Primarydeficit including off-budget    1.6    1.0    1.9    3.0    3.1    2.9    2.0    0.6   -0.4
debt
Debt stock including off-budget debt  18.6   20.3   20.7   23.2   26.8   28.9   30.3   30.4   29.5
a/Projections from the GoK MTFP and power sector financial restructuring plan.



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
Table 1.2
Historical Series of Budgetary Figures, 1990/91-2001/02 (Consolidated with Off-Budget Borrowing)
(Rs billion)
1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95  1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02
RE       BE
Revenue Receipts                        37.59    46.26    52.47    61.17    67.21    82.52    92.83   102.25   108.10   124.10   144.29   173.28
Own Revenue                          27.16    33.72    37.25    43.38    48.88    62.18    67.71    72.88    79.93    88.59   100.64   121.55
Tax                                23.32    29.01    30.98    38.12    42.89    52.74    57.68    64.12    69.43    77.44    90.94   108.51
Non- Tax                            3.84     4.71     6.28     5.26     5.99     9.44    10.03      8.76    10.50    11.15      9.70    13.04
Central Resources                    10.43    12.54    15.21    17.79    18.32    20.34    25.12    29.37    28.17    35.51    43.65    51.73
Shared Taxes                        6.60     7.82     9.32    10.17    11.36    14.45    17.30    21.76    19.24    21.33    25.68    30.71
Grants                              3.83     4.72     5.89     7.61     6.96     5.89      7.82     7.61     8.94    14.18    17.97    21.02
Revenue Expenditure                     37.92    47.51    53.59    59.33    69.31    80.94    97.98   105.00   120.09   151.30   170.11   206.24
Interest Payments                     4.36     5.15      5.94     7.18     8.71    10.54    12.68    15.36    18.59    24.07    28.23    35.21
Salaries                             13.21    14.42    17.08    19.67    22.13    24.81    28.71    35.16    39.29    45.76    47.65    52.90
Grants-in-aid of Salary               1.45     3.15      3.45     3.90     4.52     4.89     5.83     6.43      7.24     8.27     8.46     8.85
Pensions                              2.60     2.97      3.49     4.10     4.70     5.59     7.16     8.09      9.72    15.39    15.69    18.11
Subsidies&Transfers                   1.71     4.36     4.03      3.14     5.73     7.99    15.56    12.18    12.87    17.86    20.53    37.32
Budget Support to Power Sector      0.33     2.15     1.19     0.39     1.50     3.06      9.60     6.02     6.72     7.71     8.79    23.00
DevointoUrbanLocalBodies            0.98     1.18     1.25     1.24     1.47      1.15     1.94     2.75     3.32     4.16     5.10      6.76
Other Subsidies                     0.39     1.03     1.59     1.51     2.76     3.78     4.02      3.41     2.83     5.99     6.64      7.56
Other                                14.59    17.46    19.61    21.34    23.51    27.12    28.03    27.78    32.39    39.95    49.55    53.85
Revenue Deficit                         -0.33    -1.26    -1.12     1.84    -2.10      1.59    -5.15    -2.75   -11.99   -27.21   -25.81   -32.96
Capital Expenditure & Net Lending        4.80     7.39    12.16    13.70    12.17    16.92    18.15    20.00    22.65    25.69    34.36    36.30
On-Budget Cap Exp&Nct Lending         4.80     7.39    12.16    13.70    12.17    15.12    13.05    11.91    16.55    15.56    14.48    17.45
Off-Budget Capital Expenditure           0        0        0        0        0      1.80     5.09     8.10      6.11    10.13    19.87    18.85
Primary Deficit                         -0.77    -3.50    -7.34    -4.69    -5.55    -4.79   -10.62    -7.39   -16.06   -28.82   -31.94   -34.05
Fiscal Deficit                          -5.13    -8.65   -13.28   -11.87   -14.27   -15.34   -23.29   -22.75   -34.65   -52.90   -60.17   -69.26
Total Debt Stock                        49.94    56.93    65.17    74.19    88.77   102.11   121.72   145.83   176.92   220.08   275.90   340.99
Committed Exp as a % of Revenue         58%       56%      57%      57%      60%      56%      59%      64%       69%      75%      69%      66%
(Salary+GiA of Sal+Pension) as % Rev     46%      44%      46%      45%      47%      43%      45%       49%      52%      56%      50%       46%
Interest as %Revenue                     12%      11%      11%      12%      13%       13%      14%      15%      17%      19%      20%       20%
Interest rate                                    10.3%    10.4%    11.0%    11.7%    11.9%    12.4%    12.6%    12.7%    13.6%    12.8%    12.8%
Budget Format (excluding off-budget borrowing)
Revenue Surplus(+) / Deficit (-)        -0.33    -1.26    -1.12      1.84    -2.10     1.65    -4.55    -1.32    -9.57   -23.25   -21.75   -26.24
Primary Surplus(+) / Deficit(-)         -0.77    -3.50    -7.34    -4.69    -5.55    -3.06    -6.12    -0.72   -12.38   -22.65   -17.31   -22.78
Interest Payments                        4.36     5.15     5.94     7.18     8.71    10.48    12.08    13.94    16.17    20.12    24.17    28.49
Fiscal Surplus (+) / Deficit(-)         -5.13    -8.65   -13.28   -11.87   -14.27   -13.54   -18.20   -14.65   -28.54   -42.77   -41.48   -51.27
DebtStockofGOK                          49.94    56.93    65.17    74.19    88.77   100.31   114.82   130.84   155.82   188.63   225.76   272.87
GSDP                                   250.21   323.13   354.75   410.64   479.02   562.01   655.85   716.85   852.86   949.91  1029.94  1179.15



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
Table 1.2 continued
Key Results of the Medium Term Fiscal Plan of the Government of Karnataka (Consolidated with Off-Budget Borrowing)
(% GSDP)
1990-91    1991-92    1992-93    1993-94    1994-95    1995-96    1996-97    1997-98    1998-99    1999-00   2000-01    2001-02
RE        BE
Revenue Receipts                       15.0       14.3       14.8       14.9      14.0       14.7       14.2       14.3       12.7       13.1      14.0       14.7
Own Revenue                          10.9      10.4       10.5       10.6       10.2       11.1      10.3       10.2        9.4        9.3        9.8       10.3
Tax                                9.3        9.0        8.7       9.3        9.0        9.4        8.8        8.9       8.1        8.2        8.8        9.2
Non- Tax                           1.5        1.5        1.8       1.3        1.3        1.7        1.5        1.2        1.2        1.2       0.9        1.1
Central Resources                     4.2       3.9        4.3        4.3        3.8        3.6       3.8        4.1        3.3        3.7        4.2        4.4
Shared Taxes                       2.6        2.4       2.6        2.5        2.4        2.6        2.6        3.0       2.3        2.2        2.5        2.6
Grants                             1.5        1.5        1.7       1.9        1.5        1.0        1.2       1.1         1.0       1.5        1.7        1.8
Revenue Expenditure                    15.2       14.7       15.1      14.4       14.5       14.4       14.9       14.6       14.1       15.9      16.5       17.5
Interest Payments                     1.7       1.6        1.7        1.7        1.8        1.9       1.9        2.1        2.2        2.5        2.7        3.0
Salaries                              5.3       4.5        4.8        4.8        4.6       4.4        4.4        4.9        4.6        4.8        4.6        4.5
Grants-in-aid of Salary               0.6       1.0        1.0        1.0        0.9       0.9        0.9        0.9        0.8        0.9        0.8        0.8
Pensions                              1.0       0.9        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0       1.1        1.1        1.1        1.6        1.5        1.5
Subsidies & Transfers                 0.7       1.3        1.1        0.8        1.2        1.4       2.4        1.7        1.5        1.9        2.0        3.2
Budget Support toPower Sector      0.1        0.7       0.3        0.1        0.3        0.5        1.5       0.8        0.8        0.8        0.9        2.0
Devoin to Urban Local Bodies       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.3        0.3        0.2        0.3       0.4        0.4        0.4        0.5        0.6
Other Subsidies                    0.2        0.3       0.4        0.4        0.6        0.7        0.6       0.5        0.3        0.6        0.6        0.6
Others                                5.8       5.4        5.5        5.2        4.9        4.8       4.3        3.9        3.8        4.2        4.8        4.6
Revenue Deficit                        -0.1       -0.4       -0.3       0.4       -0.4        0.3       -0.8       -0.4       -1.4      -2.9       -2.5       -2.8
Capital Expenditure & Net Lending       1.9        2.3       3.4        3.3        2.5        3.0        2.8        2.8        2.7       2.6        3.3        3.1
On-Budget Capital Expenditure         1.9       2.3        3.4        3.3       2.5        2.7        2.0        1.7        1.9        1.6        1.4        1.5
Off-Budget Capital Expenditure        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.3        0.8        1.1        0.7        1.1        1.9        1.6
Primary Deficit                        -0.3       -1.1       -2.1      -1.1       -1.2       -0.9       -1.6       -1.0       -1.9      -3.0       -3.1       -2.9
Fiscal Deficit                         -2.0       -2.7       -3.7      -2.9       -3.0       -2.7       -3.6       -3.2      -4.1       -5.6       -5.8       -5.9
Total Debt Stock                       20.0       17.6       18.4      18.1       18.5       18.2       18.6      20.3       20.7       23.2       26.8       29.0
Karnataka MTFP Fiscal Summary: Budget Format
Revenue Surplus(+) / Deficit (-)       -0.1       -0.4       -0.3       0.4       -0.4        0.3       -0.7       -0.2      -1.1       -2.4       -2.1       -2.2
Primary Surplus(+) / Deficit (-)       -0.3       -1.1       -2.1      -1.1       -1.2       -0.5       -0.9      -0.1        -1.5      -2.4       -1.7       -1.9
Interest Payments                       1.7        1.6        1.7       1.7        1.8        1.9        1.8        1.9        1.9       2.1        2.3        2.4
Fiscal Surplus (+) l Deficit (-)       -2.0       -2.7       -3.7      -2.9       -3.0       -2.4       -2.8      -2.0       -3.3       -4.5       -4.0       -4.3
Debt Stock of GOK                      20.0       17.6       18.4      18.1       18.5       17.8       17.5       18.3       18.3      19.9       21.9       23.1



Annex J
Page 1 of 7
Statistical Annex
India at a Glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South       Low-
India      Asia  income       Development diamond
19899
Population, mid-year (millions)                       997.5     1,329     2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     440        440       410     1
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      441.4       581       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (V.)                                         1.7       1.9       1.9      GNP                              Gr
Labor force (%l)                                        2.2       2.3       2.3      per                            Gpmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   36
Urban population (% of total population)                28         28        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        63         62        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                71         75        77
Child malnutrition (r/x of children under 5)            45         51        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       81         77        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15l)                    38         46        39
Gross primary enrollment (/. ofschool-age population)  100        100        96      -India             Low-income group
Male                                                 109        110       102
Female                                                90         90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                          150.1    290.5      419.1     447.3
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                22.8      24.1      21.8      22.9                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             6.7       7.3      11.3      12.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   20.7      21.8      19.2       19.9
Gross national savings/GDP                   22.2      21.4      20.8      21.9                        T
Current account balance/GDP                   -0.5     -1.8      -0.8      -1.0      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                         0.3       1.1       1.1       1 2      SInvestment
Total debtWGDP                                12.0     26.0      23.3      2210      Savings
Total debt service/exports                    10.3     28.6      20.6       22.8
Present value o debtVGDP                                         20.1
Present value of debt/exports                                   143.3
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998       1999   199943
(real average annua/ growth)
GDP                                  5.7      5.8       6.8       6.5       6.2       -India             Low-incomegroup
GNP per capita                       3.3      3.9       4.9       4.8       4.5
Exports of goods and services        4.9     11.9      12.5       3.6      10.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           30
Agriculture                                  36.8      31.6      29.1      27.7      2,
Industry                                     25.0      27.6      25.7      26.3 
Manufactunng                                17.4     17.4       15.6      15.9       0
Services                                     38.3      40.8      45.2      460 .0    0      94   95           97   98   99
Private consumption                          69.2      66.1      68.6      68.1    -20
Generalgovemmentconsumption                   10.0     12.2      12.3       12.0                    GDI       S  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 8.7       9.6      14.0      15.0
197949  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(real average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.4       3.3       7.2        1.3    4
Industry                                      6.6       6.5       4.0       8.8    30
Manufacturing                                7.0      7.0        3.6       8.5
Services                                      6.7       7.5       8.3       7.9        __ _                  _      _
Private consumption                           5.5       5.2       3.2       2.8      o
General government consumption                7.8       5.9      14.5       10.3            94   ss   ss   97
Gross domestic investment                     5.7       6.2       4.3       11.5   -1
Imports of goods and services                 6.5       8.9      -2.5      -1.8                   Exports  *OImports
Gross national product                        5.5       5.8       6.7       6.7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex J
Page 2 of 7
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999     infiatiorn
Domestic prices
(%l change)
Consumer prices                                        6.2      12.7       3A4    ,r
Implicit GDP deflator                        15.8      83        8.9       33
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  :--
Current revenue                                 .     23.5      22.3      23 6                   d5   93   97    9
Current budget balance                                 0 A       -1.2     -1 9              -GDP deflator    0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -12.5      -9.9    -11 3
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999        --
(US$ millions)                              1Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             .   16,955    34,298    38,285     60UOC.
Tea                                                  550       547       569         c
Iron                                         ..    557         380       374                            *
Manufactures                                  ..  12,730    26,870   31,321 
ToJtal imports (cif)                           ..24,411    47,544    55,383
Food                                                 714     2,543    2,450        r  *      !           *-
Fuel and energy                               ..   3,768     6,435    10,682
Capital goods                                 ..   5,288     9,122    9,912         o
Export pnce index (1995=100)                   ..    113          94       90
Import prce index (1995=100)                   ..      89         92       88                 IEIIorts      a mpons
Terrnsoftrade(1995=100)                               128        102      102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999                     -.      -     -
(USS millions)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services               9,980   21,201    47,484    54,006 o
Imports of goods and services              13,120   27,934    58,565   67,248         U
Resource balance                           -3,140   -6,733   -11,081   -13,242             jfl
Net income                                   527  -798  -2,955  -3,566                               I 'll
Net current transfers                       1,852    2,281    10,587    12,256
Current account balance                      -761   -5,249    -3,449    -4,552
Financing items (net)                        985    4,400      7,382   10,340
Changes in net reserves                      -224     850    -3,933    -5,788      2 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      7,581    4,582    33,584   38,150
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLVUS$)              8.1     16.7      42.1      43.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       18,009   75,407    97,639   98,434
IBRD                                       728    6,615      7,990    7,816                    G 4,r43 A: 7,816
IDA                                      4,505   12,521     18,562    18,930
Total debt service                          1,303    6,955    12,094    15,313
IBRD                                       127      881      1,378     1,600
IDA                                         43      188       423      1,432
Composition of net resource flows                                                   F: 38,336
Official grants                            717      698        307      382                                      C.26
Official creditors                         650    2,489      1,002    -1,088                                   D: 4,619
Private creditors                           13    2,870      3,175     2,245
Foreign direct investment                    ..    350       2,462    2,155
Portfolio equity                             0        0        -61     3,026                             E 24,664
World Bank program
Commitments                                766    2,987      1,543      727      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              695    2,011      1,421     1,461     B - IDA    D - Olher mr,tilateral  F - Pivate
Principal repayments                        77      450      1,130     2,286     C-IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                   619    1,561        292     -825
Interest payments                           93      619        671      746
Net transfers                              525      942       -379   -1,571
Development Economics                                                                                               4/24/01



Annex J
Page 3 of 7
India Social Indicators
Latest single year               Sam regionincome group
LOW.
1970-75       1980-85       1993-98          South Asia        incom
POPULATION
Total population, rid-year (rillions)               613.5         765.1         979.7             1,304.6        3,536.4
Growthrate(%annualaverage)                          2.3           2.1           1.4                 1.5            1.4
Urban populaton (%of population)                     21.3          24.3          27.8                27.7          30.5
Total fertility rate (births per woman)               5.6           4.8           3.2                 3.4           3.1
POVERTY
(0/oofpopulation)
National headcount index                                                         35.0
Urban headcount index                                              ..          30.5
Rural headcount index                                              ..          36.7
INCOME
GNPpercapita(US$)                                     190           300           440                430            520
Consunerpriceindex(1995=100)                          21            41            132                131            136
Foodpriceindex(1995=100)                                             38           132
LNCOMEJCONSUMPTION DISTRIBITION
Gini index                                             ..            ..          37.8
Lowvest quintile (/o of incorm or consunption)       5.9            ..           8.1
Hfighest quintle (% of incore or consumtion)         49.4            ..          46.1
SOCIAL ENDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                    ..            ..           0.6                 0.8            1.3
Education (%ofGNP)                                  2.7           3.5           3.2                 3.1           3.2
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)
Net prinary sdiool enrollrent rate
(% of age group)
Total                                                60            75            77                 77             86
Male                                               72           85             83                 83             89
Female                                            48            64            71                  70             82
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                                              54           81                  77
Urban                                                           80            85                  83
Rural                                                           47            79                  75
Imnumization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                              ..             1            81                 81             80
DPT                                                   ..          41             90                 87             82
Child rrlnutntion (% under 5 years)                     .             .            53                 53
[kfe expectancy at birth
Total                                                50            55            63                 62             63
Male                                               5 1           56            62                 62             62
Femrle                                             49            55            64                 63             64
Mortality
Infant(perthousandlivebirths)                       132           97             70                 75             68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)                  206           177            95                 89             92
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                       324          261            215                220            235
FenWle (per 1,000 population)                     353          279            204                213            208
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)                    ..                        410
2000 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex J
Page 4 of 7
India Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producte               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                          29.3    28.0    29.1    27.7    26.7    25.8    24.9    24.0
Industry                             27.1    27.1    25.7    26.3    26.3    26.5    26.9    27.4
Services                             43.6    44.9    45.2    46.0    47.0    47.6    48.2    48.6
Total Consumption                      81.8    80.1    80.8    80.1    79.0    78.6    78.5    78.2
Gross domestic fixed investment        23.0    22.7    21.4    22.0    23.5    23.8    24.0    24.3
Government investment                  6.9     6.5     6.5      6.6     7.7      7.2     7.4     7.4
Private investment                    16.1    16.2    14.9    15.4    15.7    16.6    16.6    16.9
Exports(GNFS)J                         10.8    11.1    11.3    12.1    13.1    13.7    14.2    14.6
Imports(GNFS)                          14.5    14.5    14.0    15.0    16.5    17.1    17.7    18.1
Grossdomesticsavings                   18.2    19.9    19.2    19.9    21.0    21.4    21.5    21.8
Gross national savings'                20.5    22.0    20.8    21.9    23.2    23.6    23.6    23.7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product               383640  407889  419070  447292  477417   514073  553699  597502
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)      410     420     420      440     490      510     530     560
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  7.0   4.6     6.8      6.5     5.8      6.0     6.3     6.5
Gross Domestic Income                  6.9     5.3     5.7      5.9     4.8      6.5     6.7     6.6
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  5.1   2.7     4.9      4.6     3.9      4.3     4.8     5.1
Total consumption                     11.7     1.2     3.0      2.2     0.9      4.4     5.0     4.9
Private consumption                   13.3     0.1     1.4      1.0    -0.3      5.3     7.2     5.9
Balance of Paymnents (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                     41607   45109   47484   54006   62699   70567   78846   87497
Merchandise FOB                   34133   35680   34298   38285   45817   52588   59894   67553
Imports (GNFS)5                     55696   59297   58565   67248   78727   88087   98003  108331
Merchandise FOB                   48948   51187   47544   55383   64531   74023   83763   94201
Resource balance                    -14089  -14188  -11081  -13242  -16028  -17521  -19157  -20834
Net current transfers                12367   12209   10587   12256   12747   13820   14512   15238
Current account balance              -5578   -5145   -3449   -4552   -5497   -6169   -7595   -9335
Net private foreign direct investmnent  2821    3557    2462    2155    2500    4000    4500    4500
Long-tertn loans (net)               3424    1816    5918    4781    8133    4124    7250    4368
Official                             221    -398    1002   -1088   -1191    1037        961    1050
Private                             3203    2213    4917    5869    9324    3086    6289    3318
Other capital (net, incl. errors &onunissions)  4560    3368    -998    3404    -300    -300    -300    -300
Change in reservesd                  -5227   -3596   -3933   -5788   -4836   -1655   -3855        766
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)            -3.7    -3.5    -2.6    -3.0    -3.4    -3.4    -3.5    -3.5
Real annual growth rates ( YR93 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)              7.4      2.5     2.8    16.7    20.9    10.7       9.9    10.0
Primary                             -33.7     4.0    42.7      6.4      4.9     4.6      4.7     4.8
Manufactures                         10.1     6.2      1.9    19.2    24.9    11.9    11.0    11.0
Merchandiseirnports(CIF)               8.0    11.3      3.1    12.7    10.6    17.2    13.2    11.2



Annex J
Page 5 of 7
India Key Economic Indicators
Actual                Estimate         Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                       21.7    22.8    22.3    23.6    24.3    24.4    24.5    24.6
Current expenditures                   21.3    22.7    23.5    25.5    26.1    25.7    25.2    24.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit(-)  0.4   0.1    -1.2    -1.9    -1.8    -1.3    -0.6    -0.1
Capital expenditure                     9.0      7.8     8.7      9.1      9.2      9.2     9.4      9.4
Foreign financing                       0.3      0.4     0.3      0.8      0.4    -0.1      0.0    -0.7
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 51.5    54.2    55.5    55.5    56.7    57.7    59.2    60.7
Growth ofM2 (%)                        16.2    17.0    19.2       9.9    15.6    15.0    15.6    15.7
Private sector credit growth/          50.7    57.6    52.2    25.7    61.9    53.6    73.0    57.1
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR93 =100)
Merchandise export price index         99.7   101.7    95.2    92.7    91.8    95.2    98.7   101.2
Merchandise importprice index         110.9   105.7   103.5   121.4   127.9   125.1   125.1   126.5
Merchandise terns of trade index       89.8    96.3    92.0    76.4    71.8    76.1    78.9    80.0
Real exchange rate (US$/LCUJ           72.3    76.6    72.4    72.4    69.1    70.5    71.9    72.6
Consumer price index (%change)          9.4      7.2    12.7      3.4      7.0      6.5     6.0      6.0
GDP deflator (% change)                 7.7      6.4      8.9     3.3      7.0      6.5     6.0      6.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated Non-financial public sector.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex J
Page 6 of 7
India Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Total debt outstanding and          93470   94320   97639   98434  106333  107457  111204  112074
disbursed (TDO) (US$m) a.
Net disbursements (USSm) a.           778   -1602    3069    1312    4366         1787    4793    2157
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m) a.  11982   12415   12094   15313   13552   11042   12019   15801
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb.                          171.9   161.6   166.0   146.7   137.7   124.5   116.6   106.9
TDO/GDP                             24.4    23.1    23.3    22.0    22.3    20.9    20.1    18.8
TDS/XGS b.                          22.0    21.3    20.6    22.8       17.6    12.8    12.6    15.1
Concessional/TDO                    43.7    41.2    41.1    45.4    41.3    41.0    39.2    38.2
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRDDS/publicDS                     13.7    12.2    12.5    12.2    11.4    12.5    11.6           8.9
Preferred creditor DS/public        29.4    24.0    23.6    31.6    31.3    26.8    25.1    19.3
DS (%/.)
IBRD DS/XGS                          2.8      2.4      2.3     2.4      1.8      1.4      1.3      1.3
IBRD TDO (US$m) c.                 8768    8138    7990    7816    7216    7376    7892    8773
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)          7.9      6.8      6.5     6.4      5.8      5.7      6.0      6.8
IDATDO(US$m)c.                     17616   17912   18562   18930   20044   20813   21179   21252
IFC (US$m)                           835.8   855.4   801.7   686.3   677.7
Loans                              654.9   662.8   569.1   436.0   411.9
Equity and quasi-equity d          180.9   192.6   232.6   250.3   265.8
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
Note: IBRD Data in this table differs from other annexes because this table is done based on the Indian FY.
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Includes present value of guarantees.
d. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex J
Page 7 of 7
Evolution of the Public Sector Deficit 1, 1990-02 (% of GDP at Market Prices)
90-91 91-92 92-93 93-94 94-95 95-96 96-97 97-98 98-99 99-00 00-01 01-02
RE   BE
Central Government
Fiscal Deficit 2      6.6  5.2  5.1  6.4  5.3  4.3  4.1  4.9  5.5  5.4  5.2  5.2
Primary Deficit3      4.1  2.0  1.5  2.7  1.9  1.0  0.6  1.6  2.3  0.8  0.6  0.6
Domestic Debt Stock    49.9 48.6 48.1  50.1  48.2  46.7 45.4 47.5  47.5  50.2  51.1  n.a.
Interest/Revenue     39.1  40.2  41.9 48.6 48.4  45.4  47.1  49.0  52.1  50.4 48.8 48.5
State Government
Fiscal Deficit        3.2  2.8  2.8  2.4  2.7  2.6  2.7  2.9  4.3  4.8  4.2  4.0
Primary Deficit        1.6  1.1  1.0  0.6  0.8  0.8  0.9  1.2  2.2  2.5  1.8  n.a.
Domestic Debt Stock    19.4  19.3  19.0  18.6  18.2  17.9  17.8  18.5  19.4 20.9  n.a.  n.a.
Interest/Revenue      13.0  13.6  14.5  15.0  15.7  16.0  16.7  18.3  20.3  21.2  22.4  n.a.
General Government
Fiscal Deficit 4      9.2  7.3  7.3  8.2  7.5  6.6  6.4  7.3  9.2  9.7  9.1  8.9
Primary Deficit       4.8  2.6  2.4  3.2  2.4  1.6  1.3  2.3  4.1  4.3  3.7  n.a.
Domestic Debt Stock    56.2  55.2  54.7  56.9  54.8  53.5  52.3  54.6  55.2  58.7  n.a.  n.a.
Interest / Revenue   21.5  22.1  23.2  25.0  25.8  25.2  26.5  26.6  29.7  28.7  28.9  n.a.
Consolidated Non-
Financial Public Sector
Deficit
Fiscal Deficit 5      11.2  9.4  9.3  10.3  9.0  8.2  8.7  8.2  9.9  11.3  10.3  n.a.
Notes: For States 1999-00 = RE; 2000-01= BE; 2001-02= Estimate
1: All definitions pertain to World Bank definitions unless otherwise specified.
2: Fiscal Deficit (Govt.of India new defh.) excluding disinvestment from revenues.
3. : Fiscal deficit mninus interest payments
4: General Govt. comprises Central (excl. divestment revenues), States Govermnents and excludes net
lending from Center to States
5. : Consolidated Public Sector includes General government, oil pool balance and market financed central
public enterprise deficit (on-lending from central government to central public enterprises is netted out)
Source : Budget Documents, RBI State Bulletins, RBI Annual Report 1998-99, Staff Estimates, IMF






MAP SECTION






IBRD 314S1
740                                                                    76                                                                     780
>
INDIA                                                                         '
-18    KARNATAKA STATE                                                                                                                                            18-
T Hyderobad
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
STATE ROADS
RAILROADS
Kr                         0    SELECTED CITIES
ur  (           *   ~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                     0STATE CAPITAL
B  aikdt        L-rtgun  -r                                     DISTRiCT BOUNDARIES
-160                    g;               _                             J  5           a5b \        Xr                                 - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Mumboi   ,                  ,tC(
This mop was produced by iho
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations
and anyother information shown on
this mop do not imply, on the port of
r8c                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bank Group, ony judgment
on the legolstatus of any territory, or
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
-14,                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14-
Chi  ~~~~~~~~~~f                                                    rTChennoi
740                                  760                                                        78~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5  0
MAY 2001



