Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24371
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-46200; IDA-35270)
ON
A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.9 MILLION (US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT AND
A LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR FIRST KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING LOAN/CREDIT
06/25/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 1 = US$ 0.02044
US$ 1 = Rs. 48.92
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARC             Administrative Reforms Commission       MOP              Memorandum of the President
BDA             Bangalore Development Authority         MTFP             Medium Term Fiscal Plan
CAS             Country Assistance Study                MU               Mega Unit
DES             Department of Economics & Statistics    O&M              Operations & Maintenance
DMTFPs          Departmental Medium Term Fiscal Plan    PE               Public Enterprise
ESW             Economic Sector Work                    PHC              Primary Health Centers
FRP             Financial Restructuring Plan            PHDMS            Poverty & Human Development
IDA             International Development Association                    Monitoring System
GoK             Government of Kamataka                  PREM/DEC        rovcrty Reduction & Economic
GSDP            Gross State Domestic Product                             Mgt./Development Economics
ICR             Implementation Completion Report        PSU              Public Sector Unit
IPP             Independent Power Producers             PWD              Public Works Department
KPTCL           Kamataka Power Transmission             QAG              Quality Assurance Group
Corporation Limited                     SFAA            State Financial Accountability
KERC            Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission              Assessment
KERL I          Kamataka Economic Restructuring         TRC              Tax Reforms Commission
Loan/Credit I                           UP              Uttar Pradesh
KERL 2          Karnataka Economic Restructuring        UPFRPSR          Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform
Loan/Credit 2                                            & Public Sector Restructuring
KSRTC           Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation  VAT          Value Added Tax
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimnizu
Country Manager/Director:       Edwin R Lim
Sector Director/Sector Manager:      Sadiq Ahmed/Sanjay Pradhan
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Stephen Howes, Lili Liu



INDIA
KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING LOAN/CREDIT I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              17
6. Sustainability                                                                  18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 20
9. Partner Comments                                                                21
10. Additional Information                                                        28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              38






Project ID: P055490                                      Project Name: First Karnataka Economic
Restructuring Loan/Credit
Team Leader: Lili Liu                                     TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 25, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: First Karnataka Economic Restructuring        L/C/TF Number: SCL-46200;
Loan/Credit                                                  IDA-35270
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/13/2001                             Effective: 08/16/2001         08/16/2001
Appraisal:  04/13/2001                               MTR:
Approval:  06/21/2001                              Closing:                     12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of India/Government of Karnataka
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                 Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:       Sadiq Ahmed                              N. Roberto Zagha
Team Leader at ICR:  Lili Liu Stephen Howes                    Lili Liu Stephen Howes
ICR Primary Author:  Ananya Basu; Stephen Howes;
Lili Liu
2. Principal Performance Ratings.
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background. Karnataka is India's 8th largest state with a population of about 53 million. It has
benefited significantly from India's liberalization. Average annual growth in real GSDP in the 1990s was
6.9%, above the all-India average of 6.1%. Kamataka has a stronger fiscal position relative to most states
in India, with its fiscal deficit, debt stock and interest burdens at lower levels than the average of the 14
major states in India through most of the 1990s. It has a capable bureaucracy, and benefits from a
relatively stable political environment, and good law and order.
Despite these advantages, Karnataka faces several development challenges. The per capita income
(Rs. 12,291 in 1999/00 at 1993/94 prices) is still around the national average of Rs. 11,549. Poverty
levels are around the all-India average. The state is heavily dependent on agriculture, and the rural
non-farm sector is largely underdeveloped. Human capital and social infrastructure are still lacking in most
parts of the state. The fiscal position deteriorated in the 1990s and, if unchecked, a fiscal crisis could
develop. The Government of Kamataka (GoK) is not immune from the problems of governance which
confront other Indian states, and the civil service faces problems of non-transparency, limited
accountability, and political interference.
Karnataka's Comprehensive Reform Program. Karnataka has embarked on a major program of
fiscal and governance reform. The strategy is two-pronged, aiming to (i) rationalize and refocus the role of
the state;and (ii) enhance the effectiveness, transparency and accountability by which the state performs
this role. Sectoral reforms have also been initiated in the power, roads, water, health, education, and
agriculture sectors.
World Bank Assistance Strategy to Karnataka. Support to reforming states has been at the core
of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy to India since 1998. The Bank has been supporting
comprehensive reforms in Karnataka since late 1999. The Kamataka prograrn has three important
features: (i) it is aligned to GoK's own reforn program; (ii) it is focused on poverty reduction, with a
particular concentration on the poorer, arid regions of the state; and (iii) it is progmmmatic in nature, with
a sequence of interventions designed to support govermnent reforms and goals. The overall program
consists of analytical work, technical assistance, investment lending and adjustment lending. Particularly
high priority is given to the power sector due to its critical imnportance to growth and fiscal reforms.
Satisfactory progress in power sector reform is regarded as a precondition for the entire program of Bank
support to the state of Kamataka.
Loan/Credit Objective. The latest CAS, discussed by the Board on April 5, 2001, reflects a
higher emphasis on fiscal and governance reforms and increased reliance on programmatic adjustment
lending. The first sub-national adjustment loan/credit in India was the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and
Public Sector Restructuring (UPFRPSR), approved by the Board in April 2000 in the amount of US$251.3
million. The objective of the First Kamataka Economic Restructuring Loan/Credit (KERLI), the Bank's
second sub-national loan to India, was to support GoK's efforts to stabilize the fiscal situation, improve
govemance, and foster an enabling environment for structural reforns and sectoral investments. In keeping
with the focus on progmnmatic lending, KERLI was envisaged as the first in a series of adjustment
loans/credits. In particular, although the KERL1 President's Report (MOP) identified that the financing
requirement for 2001/02 was US$250 million, KERLI only provided US$150 million equivalent. Upfront
actions were specified in the KERL1 MOP for a second loan/credit, KERL2, which was designed in such a
way that, provided good progress was made with the reform agenda, the loan/credit could also be disbursed
in the GoK 2001/02 fiscal year. KERL2, in the value of US$ 100 million equivalent, was approved by the
-2-



Board on March 14, 2002, and the Rupee equivalent was disbursed by the Government of India (GoI) to
GoK prior to the close of the Indian 2001/02 fiscal year.
Scope of the ICR. This Implementation CompletionReport is an evaluation of KERL1. KERLI
was based on upfront policy actions, all of which were completed prior to loan approval and none of which
have been reversed. To provide an adequate assessment of KERL1, this ICR goes beyond certification of
compliance with upfront actions in two respects: (i) an assessment of progress in fiscal and govemance
reforms post-approval of KERL 1, up to March 31st, 2002; and (ii) an assessment of the broader sectoral
reform progress made by GoK This is because: (i) inadequate progress following approval of a loan
would indicate weak program design and/or ineffective implementation; and (ii) inadequate sectoral reforms
would cast doubts on the depth of the core fiscal and governance refomis. An ICR for KERL2 will be
prepared along similar lines around March, 2003, i.e., about a year after Board approval as for KERLI.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
As per the Govemment's Letter of Development Policy, the various components of Kamataka's
fiscal and govemance reform program, the Kamataka Economic Restructuring Program, can be
summarized as follows.
Thefiscal and public expenditure reforms include a multi-year framework for fiscal adjustment as
well as reforms to improve fiscal transparency, tax and expenditure policies, public expenditure
management, financial accountability, and procurement transparency. The common objective of these
reforms is to restore the state's financial health, create additional fiscal space for high priority
expenditures, and promote more efficient and transparent management of the govermment's financial
resources.
* The administrative reforms focus on civil service reforms, freedom of information, service agency
reforms, anti-corruption strategy, decentralization, and e-govemance, with the objectives of improving
the efficiency and transparency by which govemment conducts its business and delivers services.
* The private sector development reforms focus on irnproving the business environment through
deregulation and privatization/closure of public enterprises.
*  The establishment ofapoverty and human development monitoring system aims to enable the
state to better track the impact of its services, policies and refomis on poverty and social indicators.
3.4 Revised Components:
The four original components were not revised, but some key actions were added after the approval
of KERL1. Under the poverty monitoring component, two sub-components were added under KERL2 to
the original poverty monitoring component to strengthen monitoring and statistical capacity. These two
sub-components were: (i) the independent program evaluation initiative; and (ii) improvement of state
output estimation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A Quality at Entry Assessment carried out by a QAG panel of reviewers rated KERLI as Highly
Satisfactory. According to the QAG review, KERL 1 was regarded as a high-risk and potentially
high-retum lending operation with a well-articulated development rationale that was consistent with the
-3-



CAS and underpinned by extensive Bank initiated ESW as well as substantial analytical work by the
borrower. In the panel's judgment, the project was likely to achieve the main development objectives and
to be sustainable in the longer term. Various strong points of the operation were identified, including: (i)
clear focus on fiscal and governance issues that are emphasized in the State's Governance Strategy and
Action Plan; (ii) strong alignment of the operation with the CAS's themes of strengthening the enabling
enviromnent by improving government effectiveness and promoting private-sector led growth; (iii) excellent
underpinning of the operation by extensive ESW; (iv) broad ownership of key institutional objectives
among senior political leaders, bureaucrats and civil society; (v) considerable effort by the task team to
ensure that the operation supports the government's reform program; (vi) exercise of 'due diligence' by the
team in addressing the fiduciary safeguards of the operations, proposing a joint SFAA with the
Govenmment, with fiduciary concems regarding the overall use of borrower resources being appropriately
addressed, based on the operation's strong support for Karnataka's fiscal and govemance refonms; (vii)
contributions from regional managers to this high visibility flagship operation; (viii) effective and timely
support from PREM/DEC at a senior level, and excellent support from legal and disbursement as well; and
(ix) proactive action in addressing key environmental issues of concem. Overall, the operation was
considered a good practice for SALs and the privatization process for undertaking environmental due
diligence. Though finding no major shortcomings, the QAG review did identify some areas for
improvement including: (i) greater realism with respect to time frame for undertaking actions, assessment
of institutional capacity of implementation agencies, integrated set of benchmarks and monitoring
arrangements; and (ii) a greater role for civil society in ensuring successful implementation of the refonns.
This ICR considers the Quality at Entry to be Satisfactory. While the QAG review pointed to
various strong features of project design, it is evident, in hindsight, that more attention could have been
paid under KERLI to: (i) realistic revenue forecasting; (ii) regulation of the supply of power to subsidized
sectors; and (iii) realistic GSDP estimation. These issues are discussed further under Sections 4.2(a), (b)
and (e) respectively.
It is also worth looking at the design of KERLI from the perspective of it being the second
sub-national adjustment loan/credit in India, following the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public Sector
Restructuring (UPFRPSR). KERLI drew on lessons from UPFRPSR, and improved upon the design of
the latter in various areas. Firstly, greater attention was paid to reforms to promote growth under KERL 1.
Business deregulation was recognized to be key to private sector development and growth-an aspect that
was not taken up under UPFRPSR Accordingly, the simplification of complex and cumbersome
procedures required to start and operate businesses was included as part of the restructuring program in
Kamataka. Secondly, instead of targeting only the budget deficit, KERLI looked beyond conventional
budgetary deficits and integrated large off-budget liabilities-such as in the power sector-to set fiscal
targets. Third, KERLl introduced the notion of "triggers," a small set of upfront actions on which
approval of each loan/credit would be based. Whereas the UP operation had been viewed as too diffuse (see
UPFRPSR ICR), the use of triggers made the Karnataka operation and associated dialogue more
manageable and focused. Fourth, the Karnataka operation paid more attention to monitoring of outcomes
post-approval: GoK developed a monthly monitoring system to track fiscal performance as well as financial
performance in the power sector. This higher-frequency monitoring helped to achieve and build support for
fiscal targets.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the objectives of Bank assistance under the KERL1 was satisfactory. As per
-4 -



Annex 5, and as detailed below, substantial progress was made with respect to the Program's macro (in this
case fiscal) policy objectives and institutional development objectives across a range of areas. Substantial
progress was also made in achieving the Program's private sector development and public sector
management objectives. Although poverty reduction is essentially a long-term goal, through its various
interventions, the Program made a modest contribution to Kamataka's poverty reduction prospects.
A number of reform measures were selected as upfront actions to activate KERL I, as shown in
Box I below. By design, all of these measures were implemented prior to Board approval and subsequent
disbursement of the loan/credit.
Box 1. Activating Triggers for the First 3KERL
Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management
1. Reduction in the budgetary non-power fiscal deficit from 3.7% of GSDP in 1999/2000 to
3.2% of GSDP in 2000/01 (corresponding to stabilizing the non-power deficit in nominal terms
below Rs 35 billion).
2. Approval by Cabinet of a Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) to achieve the Government's
fiscal goals.
3.  Presentation of a 2001/02 budget consistent with the MTFP, including a targeted reduction
in the non-power budgetary fiscal deficit from an estirated 3.2% in 2000/01 to 2.4% of GSDP
in 2001/02.
4. Completion of key steps towards institutionalization of the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan into the
budgetary process.
5.  Completion of the first phase of preparation for VAT introduction.
6. Completion of first phase of financial management modernization.
7. Passage of Kamataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act.
Administrative Reforms
8. Cabinet approval of a Governance Strategy and Action Plan, including measures to reduce
transfers within the civil service.
9.  Passage of Kamataka Right to Information Act.
Private Sector Development
10. Cabinet approval of the Policy Paper on Deregulation of the Business Environment
11. Cabinet approval of Policy Paper on Public Sector Reforms and Privatization.
Poverty Monitoring
12. Establishment of Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System.
None of the above actions have been reversed in 2001/02, and the overall fiscal and governance
reform program gained momentum during the fiscal year. Tangible results of the reforms are now visible.
A number of fiscal measures have been taken, like revenue reforms, expenditure restraints, protection of
high priority expenditures, reforms to improve financial and fiscal management and discipline, and more
comprehensive, public and timely fiscal reporting, including of off-budget liabilities. Administfive
reforms have made significant progress: there has been a cut-back on civil service transfers, service
delivery has improved in some key areas, and the fight against conruption has intensified. In' the area of
private sector development, GoK has started closing and selling its commercial enterprises and making
severance payments to redundant workers, and is taking steps to improve the investment climate through
business deregulation. GoK has also made-significant progress in the related areas of poverty monitoring,
program evaluation, and statistical strengthening.
- 5-



4.2 Outputs by components:
For the reasons mentioned in Section 3.1, we examine progress both prior to approval of KERL1,
and post-approval up to the end of March 2002, i.e. the end of the Indian 2001/02 fiscal year. This section
reviews first sectoral reforms, and then, in sub-sections (b) through (e), progress under the four individual
components of KERLI (see Section 3.3). Performance under each of these four components is rated
satisfactory as none of the upfront actions under any of the components has been reversed, and progress
since then has also been evident Also, the design of these components appears to have been appropriate
for achieving the objectives. At the same time, certain shortcomings and lessons under each of the
components have become apparent as reforms deepened, and are noted in the discussion that follows. The
original policy matrix milestones were contained in GoK's Letter of Development Policy dated 15th May,
2001. For progress against the original policy matrix milestones, see the revised policy matrix in the GoK
Letter of Development Policy dated 8th May, 2002. For an assessment of the program against
performance benchmarks, see Annex 1.
(a)    Sectoral Reforms
Although KERLI focused on fiscal and governance reforms, it should be viewed in the broader context of
the comprehensive multi-sectoral reform program being pursued by GoK. Prior to reviewing progress in
fiscal and govemance reforms, we therefore first consider key sectoral reforms pursued in 2000/01 and
2001/02.
* To improve agricultural productivity, an Agricultural Commission has been established, led by
external experts, to recommend measures to boost agricultural productivity. Programs for attracting
private sector investment into cold storage, agribusiness, barren lands, and biotechnology, with
adequate safeguards, have been introduced, including a plan for the development of 5 agro-processing
parks. A reform program has been initiated in the irrigation sector, with a new ordinance to establish
water-user groups, and increased funding being made available for O&M (matched by a more than
doubling of water charges on the revenue side). However, deregulation still remains a major challenge.
* In the road sector, an institutional strengthening action plan for the sector has been approved by
GoK. The plan aims to transform the Public Works Department (PWD) from a traditional
public-sector roads department to a performance-oriented and user-responsive modern road agency.
Maintenance of the state highways network has been handed over to the private sector through a series
of multi-year contracts-a first for India.
* In the education sector, GoK's target is to ensure that by 2007 all children in the age group 6-14
years are in school and complete 8 years of elementary schooling. To achieve this goal, the Government
has taken up a number of actions, including: hiring of additional teachers; a large school and
toilet/drinking water construction program; and a new program to bring drop-outs back to school. A
special program has been launched for the educationally-backward districts in the north of the state.
Initiatives have been taken to rationalize student-teacher ratios across the state, reduce teacher
absenteeism, strengthen teacher training, and improve the curriculum and assessment system. GoK has
completed a series of education studies covering a range of sub-sectors from elementary to tertiary
education with the aim of developing a new strategy for the sector.
* In the health sector, to achieve health and nutritional goals including reductions in infant and
maternal mortality/s and malnutrition, and better control of communicable diseases, such as TB and
HIV/AIDS, the recommendations of the Task Force on Health have begun to be implemented by GoK,
-6 -



including the filling up of vacant posts of doctors and para-medics, and increased supply of essential
equipment to and enhanced budgets for Primary Health Centers (PHCs). GoK is enhancing
transparency in the recruitment and appointment of staff, retaining fimds from user fees at district and
areas hospitals, monitoring the performance of health facilities, and increasing the budget for drugs.
The Government has begun to invite NGOs and the private sector to manage PHCs.
* In the water sector, GoK's new Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Policy (2000-2005) targets an
increase in rural areas in drinking water availability from 40 litres of water per capita per day to 55
litres for all households by 2005, as well as iniproved quality (fluoridation is a major problem), and
improved village sanitation. In the urban water supply sector, GoK has announced its plans to invite
private sector participation. GoK decided in December 2001 to increase water tariffs in Bangalore by
45%, the first increase in 5 years.
As mentioned earlier, power sector reforns are critical to Karnataka's growth and to the success of
fiscal reform. Prior to KERLI, the following reforms had been completed:
* The Kamataka Electricity Reform Act, which embodies the above vision, was enacted in 1999, and
the State Assembly approved various amendments to this Act to strengthen it.
* The Cabinet approved in December 2000 a Power Sector Reform Policy based on the privatization
of distribution.
*  An independent Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) was established and in
December 2000 approved Karnataka's first tariff increase since 1998.
* The Cabinet approved a new policy to rationalize its generation expansion to make it consistent
with the utility's financial viability. A decision not to provide any escrow cover for new independent
power producers (IPPs) was announced.
* Various measures to crack down on power theft were introduced (e.g., a collection drive, and the
strengthening of the vigilance cell in KPTCL), and the collections/billing ratio improved to 101% in
2000/01.
* GoK commnissioned environmental and social assessments of power sector reform, and started the
implementation of a power reform communications strategy.
* The Cabinet approved a Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) for the power sector, to map out a
path towards reduction, and eventual elimination, of financial losses in the power sector.
A numnber of positive developments in the power sector have been recorded following the approval of
KERLI:
* Power sector restructuring and privatization. In preparation for the privatization of
distribution, GoK has decided to unbundle KPTCL into one transmission and four regional distribution
companies. An extensive consultation with stakeholders on a strategy for privafizing distribution has
been carried out in the last several months by GoK with the assistance of privatization advisors.
* Tariff adjustment. KPTCL filed in February 2002 with the KERC for a 30% average increase in
the electricity tariffs (on top of the 17% increase awarded in January 2001).
* Theft and loss reduction and metering. Collection efficiency (the ratio of bills paidito bills
issued) fell in the first half of the last fiscal year largely on account of the Govemrnment decision to stop
disconnections to non-paying consumers in drought-affected areas. However, this decision was
reversed later in the majority of the state, and collection efficiency is expected to improve. Other
- 7 -



measures taken by the Government in the course of 2001/02 include: starting of the implementation of
the state's universal metering policy; approval of the Amendment to the Electricity (Supply) Act to
strengthen its anti-power-theft provisions, and regulaization of illegally connected consumers (about
870,000 in March/April 2002) prior to enforcement of the new anti-theft provisions; and a crackdown
on abuse of KPTCL's subsidized electricity scheme for poor households.
* Supply regulation. One of the reasons for the increasing power sector losses in Karnataka (as
indeed in other Indian states) had been a rapid increase in unmetered consumption of electricity, but
this has changed in the second half of 2001/02. Unmetered consumption of electricity is either
consumed by the agriculture sector or poor residential sector, or is lost or stolen. Since marginal
revenue from an increase in supply is zero, any such increase further worsens the financial performance
of the sector. While one of the ultimate goals of power sector reform is to do away with the need for
supply regulation, until metering-and billing on the basis of metering-is more widespread, and there
is a much larger proportion of customers with tariffs reflecting full cost recovery, supply regulation
will remain an unavoidable necessity for preserving the financial viability of the power sector. In
1999/00 unmetered consumption of electricity increased from 39 MU to 47 MU per day (Figure 1). In
2000/01 there was a further though smaller increase from 47 to 50 MU. One of the weaknesses of the
KERL design, mentioned earlier, is that it did not pay sufficient attention to this problem of a rapidly
increasing supply. And in the first half of 2001/02 unmetered consumption increased to 52 MU from
44 MU in the corresponding months of 2000/01. Fortunately, in the second half of 2001/02, this
problem was corrected, and unmetered consumption for 2001/02 is now estimated at 49 MU per day,
below the average of 50 MU the previous year. The impetus for this inportant correction was both the
deteriorating financial position of the sector and fears of power shortages due to the drought-induced
low hydro capacity. Power purchases are now closely monitored in Karnataka and are made public on
a daily basis. Whether this supply regulation can be sustained will be one of the key challeiges facing
the sector in the coming years.
Figure 1: Power Consumption In Kamataka
90
80                                               Total
70 -
t60 -       __                                          4
'O                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Unmetered
150 
a.
m   40 -                                          Metered
20- - __
10
20
1998199        1999AJ0        2000101        2001/02
Year
* Alternative revenue collection mechanisms. KPTCL has appointed Xavier Institute to develop
alternative revenue collection mechanisms in rural areas, e.g., though creation of consumer groups at
village level as it has been done successfully in Orissa. This is an important initiative which should be
monitored closely.
-8-



Despite these achievements some shortcomings of the power sector reforms can also be identified.
*  In 2001/02, the financial performance of the power sector was targeted to improve, but in fact
further deteriorated. There was a delay in tariff filing on account of the drought, which also pushed up
generating costs by reducing hydro availability.
* There were significant delays. The metering program was much delayed to the latter part of
2001/02, and it came nowhere close to meeting the original targets. Not enough attention was given to
the need to give farmers an incentive to be metered: this has more recently been addressed by GoK's
decision to charge farmers the cheaper of the two rates: the metered rate or the lump-sum rate. The
unbundling of KPTCL into one transmission and four distribution companies was also delayed,
because GoK's privatization advisors initially suggested that the unbundling be postponed until later
in the distribution privatization process. However, more recently, GoK has decided to proceed with the
unbundling ahead of the privatization timetable. The unbundling of KPTCL in 2002/03 is expected to
improve the corporate govemance of the utility and the sector.
* The deferment for a year of the 65% agricultural tariff increase awarded by KERC in January
2001, while within the Government's rights (since it offered additional subsidy to cover the cost of the
deferral), set back the reform of the sector: Karnataka could not afford the additional subsidy burden,
and the decision sent a signal that the state was not committed to rectifying the financial crisis in the
power sector. The delay in the 2001 tarifffiling was unfortunate since it constituted an interference by
government in the regulatory process.
* The decision taken in July, 2001 not to disconnect non-paying agricultural customers because of
the drought had negative consequences As a result of the decision, the ratio of collections to billing for
agricultural customers has reverted to a level of 30%, considerably below the 80% achieved in the
course of the previous year. While last year's drought did cause genuine suffering to the people of
Karnataka, it is unlikely that any farmers with pump sets would have suffered: rather, it is those who
cultivated on unirrigated land who would have felt the impact of the drought.
Overall, while' power sector reforms are now underway in Karnataka, they need to be sustained and
deepened if they are to succeed.
(b)    Fiscal and Public Expenditure Reforms.
KERL1 milestones. The non-power fiscal deficit fell from 3.7% of GSDP in 1999/00 to 3.2% in
2000/01. The first MTFP was approved by the Cabinet in September 2000, was used to prepare the
2001/02 budget, and was finalized and published thereafter. The first phase of value added tax (VAT)
introduction was completed, and included a number of administrative actions, namely the setting up of
VAT working groups and a full-time VAT team, the selection of consultants to assist with VAT
introduction, and the issuance of a VAT discussion paper. Karnataka completed the first phase of its public
financial accountability and management improvement program with the establishment of a 'Controller's
Office' and task force to lead the program, posting of monthly financial accounts on the Intemet; and
initiation of treasury computerization. GoK passed an important Transparency in Public Procurement Act,
requiring all govemment departments to follow more transparent procurement practices.
-9-



Other reforms.
In the overall area of fiscal correction, the consolidated fiscal deficit for 2001/02 is now estimated,
using revised estimates, at 6.1% of GSDP, down from 6.7% in 2000/01, slightly below the 6.2% target as
per the KERLI MOP.2 This is the first decline in the consolidated deficit since at least 1997/98, and an
impressive achievement given the adverse circumstances. In particular, growth was much slower than
expected due to the nationwide econonic slowdown and the Kamataka drought: the advance nominal
estimate for GSDP growth in 2001/02 is 7.4% compared to the 14.5% forecast of the MTFP. The absolute
value of the consolidated deficit is now estimated at Rs. 69.1 billion compared to the target of Rs. 73
billion (Table 1). This overall target consists of three components. (a) The budget deficit is more or less on
target (Rs 0.2 billion above target). (b) The power sector financing requirement is only Rs 0.6 billion
above target, which is impressive after fears of a much larger blow-out, though it should be noted that
operating losses were about Rs 300 crore above target, and the financing requirement was brought down by
a much reduced investment program. (c) Off-budget borrowing is weHl below target: Rs 13 billion against
a target of Rs 18 billion. This performance is considerably better than expected at the time of the KERL2
MOP, when the consolidated deficit was estimated at Rs 73.2 billion. This is due to better-than-expected
performance in the power sector, and lower off-budget borrowing - although GoK reduced its target for
the latter for the year to Rs 16 billion, it ended coming in well undemeath this. It is important to note that
these latest figures for 2001/02 are based on revised estimates, and that there are sometimes discrepancies
between revised estirates and actual figures. However, the off-budget borrowing and power sector
financing requirements reflect March data, and are considered reliable. Actuals for the budget deficit are
not available at the time of writing, but there is data on borrowing up to end-March (but excluding
borrowing from the public accounts). This indicates borrowing above the revised estimate targets by Rs 1.1
billion. This suggests that the budget deficit could come in at 4.7% of GSDP instead of 4.6% as per the
revised estimates. This would leave the consolidated deficit at 6.2%: equal to the original target of 6.2% of
GSDP, and well below the original target in nominal values. Data on public accounts borrowing is not yet
available, and outcomes are hard to predict. At the same time, a large part of such "borrowings" normally
reflect book transactions which result in no debt creation (see the last bullet point of this section), and so
are of lesser concern from a fiscal perspective. Actuals for Karnataka should be available by about
September 2002.



Table 1: Karnataka Deficits in 2002/02: budget and revised estimates
2001/02 BE          2001/02 RE
Rs bn    % GSDP     Rs bn    % GSDP
Revenue receipts                              173.3    14.7%      159.3     14.1%
Own tax revenues                            108.5      9.2%     101.2     8.9%
Non tax revenues                             13.0      1.1%      12.1      1.1%
Shared resources                             51.7     4.4%       46.0     4.1%
Shared taxes                               30.7      2.6%      25.2     2.2%
Grants from the center                      21.0     1.8%       20.8     1.8%
Expenditure                                   224.6     19.0%     210.8     18.6%
Revenue expenditure                          199.5    16.9%      189.3    16.7%
On budget interest payment                  28.5     2.4%       28.4     2.5%
Power subsidy                               23.4     2.0%      -23.4     2.1%
Capital expenditure and net lending           25.0     2.1%       21.4     1.9%.
Budgetary fiscal deficit (1)                   51.3     4.3%       51.5     4.6%
Budgetary revenue deficit                    26.2      2.2%      30.1      2.7%
Net off budget borrowing (2)                   18.0      1.5%      13.0      1.2%
Gross off budget borrowing                   18.9     1.6%       13.8     1.2%
Principal repayment                           0.9     0.1%        0.8     0.1%
Fiscal deficit ind off budget borrowing (3=1+2)  69.3    5.9%      64.5      5.7%
Budgetary support to KPTCL (3a)               19.6     1.7%       19.6     1.7%
Non-power Deficit (4=3-3a)                     49.6      4.2%      44.9      4.0%
KPTCL financing requirement (5)                23.6      2.0%      24.9      2.2%
Consolidated Deficit (4+5)                     73.2     6.2%       69.9     6.2%
GSDP(and growth rate)                         1179.2    14.5%     1132.0     7.4%
The 2001/02 BE targets are taken from the KERL2 MOP. They are slightly different (lower) than the
KERLI figures, due to a slight correction in the latter.
* In the area of fiscal transparency, there were improvements in 2001/02 by the release of
additional budgetary information to the public (e.g., covering off-budget borrowing, tax incentives, and
arrears), the publication of monthly fiscal accounts on the website, and changes in several budgetary
conventions to reduce budgetary complexity.
* In the area of revenue reforms, the strategy of rationalization, base broadening, simplification,
and computerization to generate additional tax revenue and reduce compliance costs yielded short term
success reflected in 18% revenue growth in 2000/01 followed by an estimated 12% growth in 2001/02,
well above the state's output growth rate. GoK established a Tax Reforms Commission (TRC) in
2000/01 with an internationally renowned membership. TRC has now produced its final report, which
provides a far-reaching agenda for tax reform to guide the Government in the coming years., The most
significant revenue reform challenge facing Karnataka is the planned introduction of VAT to replace



three taxes-the sales tax, the turnover tax, and the entry tax-by one, and a multiplicity of rates by
two main rates. VAT introduction at the state level is now targeted for April 2003, in a coordinated
effort involving all states. Karnataka has engaged international consultants with Bank assistance and
has already made considerable progress towards VAT introduction. A significant reform introduced in
2001/02 in anticipation of VAT introduction was the extension of self-assessment to a larger
proportion of the tax-payer population, significantly reducing harassment of taxpayers and freeing
considerable staff time for use in enforcement and audit. Karnataka's other major taxes are excise,
stamp duties and registration fees, and transport taxes. In order to reduce tax evasion, there has been a
strengthening of the anti-evasion staff, and revenues are above target. GoK made considerable
progress in 2001/02 in implementing transport tax reforms, with a shift to ad valorem rates,
rationalization of slabs, and reduction of exernptions. For non-tax user fees, charges for a range of
services were hiked in 2000/01. In 2001/02, a substantial increase in water charges in the capital city,
Bangalore, was implemented. Monitoring of non-tax revenues has improved. to put more pressure on
line departments to collect, but needs to be further developed.
* Expenditure reforms. High-priority development expenditures, defined as elementary and
secondary education, health, roads and rural water supply, and non-wage O&M for irrigation and
public buildings, are targeted to be first protected and then expanded under the Restructuring Program.
Actuals for 2000/01 show that the high-priority expenditures were expanded in 2000/01 with real
growth of about 7%, despite the budget deficit reduction. It was not possible to achieve a similar result
in 2001/02 on account of the tight expenditure position. However, high priority areas were, in the-
aggregate, protected from cuts in 2001/02: latest estimates suggest modest nominal growth in
high-priority expenditures of about 3%, slightly above estimated inflation. GoK stuck to its nominal
food subsidy cap of Rs. 3 billion. In order to control the pension bill, GoK is developing
pension-forecasting that will position the state to consider pension reforms. GoK continues to exercise
hiring restraint that would contain the wage bill.
* Public expenditure management reforms. The 2001/02 MTFP has been widely disseminated, and
has received positive press coverage. A draft 2002/03 MTFP has been prepared. GoK is shifting in the
direction of departmental budgeting, in which greater focus is placed on the total budget available to
each departnent, and less on the individual lint-items which the department operates. Multi-year
departmental budget plans (DMTFPs) are being developed on a pilot basis in the pilot departments of
school education, health and family welfare, PWD, medical education, and rural water supply. To
improve perfonnance orientation, perfornance targets have been included in the DMTFPs, which will
be published to enhance accountability. Steps are also being taken to improve the accuracy of budget
estimates, which has been typically poor in Kamataka
*  In the area of public financial accountability and management, in 2001/02, the Bank and GoK
initiated a State Financial Accountability and Management Study the findings and recommendations of
which will be used to develop GoK's medium-termn public financial accountability modernization
strategy and program, and define medium-term benchmarks. In the interim, GoK has already been
addressing a number of immediate priorities already identified, such as internal control weaknesses,
reducing the backlog of accounts and audits, imnproving the timeliness of financial reporting, and
computerizing key functions.
*  In the area of procurement reforms, the salutary impact of the Transparency in Public
Procurement Act can be judged by the amount of resistance it seems to have encountered. In 2001/02,
the Bank completed a comprehensive procurement assessment for Kamataka. The Assessment provided
- 12 -



a series of detailed recommendations to guide implementation. A preliminary action plan has been
drawn up to guide procurement reforns over the next three years. GoK has also created a central
procurement cell within the Finance Department to implement GoK's procurement reforrn program.
The main shortcomings of the fiscal reforms were in respect of the following:
* GoK faced a large revenue shortfall in 2001/02, in part due to poor tax collections at the center and
the growth slowdown but also due to over-optimistic targets of about 20% revenue growth. Even
against a backdrop of 18% tax revenue growth in 2000/01, and even allowing for the fact that the
slowdown in economic growth was not foreseen, the 20% target was not realistic - even if own-tax
revenue growth had again been very strong in 2001/02, it is unlikely that own-non-tax revenue or
devolutions would have grown at this rate. To its credit, GoK did not allow the revenue shortfall to
result in an increase in its borrowing and deficit. Instead, expenditure was cut sharply. However, good
expenditure management relies on realistic revenue forecasting, and in this respect the 2001/02 budget
was deficient.
* Implementation of tax policies announced in the 2001/02 budget has been mixed. Additional
resource mobilization measures announced in the budget for commercial taxes were rolled back partly
due to the perception that they would lead to trade diversion and partly due to protests from affected
groups.
* More attention needs to be given to the "public accounts" of state governments, which are used to
finance the deficit. The degree to which borrowings from other public accounts represent real rather
than fictional liabilities is unclear to say the least: this practice both over-estimates deficit levels and
reduces transparency in budgetary reporting and practices. Borrowing from the public accounts
reached very high levels in 1999/00 and has declined since. Continued reforms to reduce and then
eliminate reliance on public account borrowing will be needed to ensure transparency in budgeting.
Targeting of the fiscal deficit excluding borrowings from those public accounts where no debt liabilities
are involved, may also be advisable.
(c)    Administrative Reforms.
KERL1 milestones. Based on the first report of the Administrative Reform Commnission, the
GoK's 2001-02 Govemance Strategy and Action Plan provided a road map for the reforms. The most
important priority was recognized to be to reduce the widespread phenomenon of politicized and premature
transfer of civil servants. To this end, the Chief Minister announced a genieral ban on transfers in 2001/02
in his March 2001 budget speech, and a public monitoring system of transfers was established, the first of
its kind in India, disaggregated by department and class of civil servant and updated six monthly. Prior to
KERLI, GoK also enacted the Right to Information Act, which represents a major step towards more
transparent governance in Karnataka.
Other reforms.
*  Civil service reforms. GoK's data system showed that transfers fell from an astounding 50,000 in
2000/01, meaning that about one in ten civil servants was transferred, to just 8,400 for the first six
months of the 2001/02 fiscal year due to a one-year ban on transfers introduced in
April, 2001.' To permanently keep transfers low, GoK issued new rules in November 2001 governing
transfers. Under these new rules, transfers at all levels of the civil service will need to be authorized by
- 13-



cadre management commnittees, minimum tenures at al levels have been raised, and the Government is
now authorized to ban transfers for certain cadres, such as teachers and nurses. The Government has
also taken steps to enhance transparency in recruitment by issuing rules to reduce the weight given to
interviews, and thus the element of discretion. The Administrative Reforms Commission (ARC)
produced its final report, which included commissioned functional reviews of 13 major departments:
implementation of the findings is likely to begin through one or two pilot departments in 2002/03. Due
to the need for rightsizing its civil services, GoK has continued with placed strict restrictions on
recruitment. Efforts are being made to abolish vacant positions, though this is proving much more
difficult than expected. Due to concem with the proliferation of quasi-govemmental agencies, GoK has
placed a freeze on the creation of such new agencies in order to rationalize govermnent agencies. In
order to speed up intemal transactions, the Government is reducing the layers through which a file
passes for approval. GoK has commenced work on the development of a computerized human
resource database. This will provide better monitoring, control, and forecasting capability in relation
to key variables such as salaries, pensions, and transfers.
* In the area of service delivery, considerable progress has been made. Agency reforms include
computerization of all the transport offices in Bangalore, cutting delivery times for most services to the
same or next day, facilitating tax collection, and reducing the scope for corruption by generating
greater transparency; release of a statewide transport charter displaying fees, delivery times, and
documents needed for all services; expansion of advance reservation networks and upgradation of
quality of bus services by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC);
computerization of land allotment by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA); introduction of an
on-line billing system, and development of a website to disseminate information and receive feedback
from customers by the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board; and introduction of improved
grievance redressal procedures.
* To strengthen e-governance, GoK has launched a number of initiatives for public transparency
and for better functioning of departments. Progress in 2001/02 has been most striking in respect of the
govemment's land records computerization. Other e-govemance initiatives underway include: treasury
computerization; transport service computerization; and computerization of land allotment at the
Bangalore Development Authority; human resource database; and the Secretariat-Wide Local Area
Network. GoK is also preparing an E-Govemance Strategy and Action Plan, which will provide the
basis for accelerating e-govemance.
* Anti-corruption measures. Enforcement of anti-corruption efforts is spearheaded by the Lok
Ayukta Office which is one of the best-resourced institutions of its kind in India in terms of staff size
and budgetary allocations. Since September 2001, with the appointment of a new Lok Ayukta Chief,
the office of the Lok Ayukta has become far more active and visible than in the past. The focus on
enforcement is being complemented by a significant emphasis on systematic reform to prevent
corruption, the importance of which has gained growing recognition. A number of measures being
taken by GoK, including reductions in patronage-based transfers, strengthened financial management
and accountability, more transparent public procurement, and business deregulation, will address key
underlying sources of corruption.
* In the area of decentralization, GoK has an active agenda with respect to both urban and rural
local governments. Several initiatives have been taken to increase revenues of urban local
governments, including the introduction of self-assessment for property taxes across the state, and
amendments to the Municipal Corporations Act to introduce an infrastructure and solid waste
- 14 -



management surcharge on vehicles and properties to enhance the revenue-earning capacity of
municipalities. For rural decentmlization, GoK has established a high-level committee which has
drafted a report which proposes changes to the Panchayati Raj Act to quicken the pace of
administrative decentralization.
The main shortcomings of the administrative reforms were in respect of the following:
* The Right to Information Act is not yet effective since rules for its effectiveness are still being
prepared. This long delay indicates a low level of commitment and ownership. Preparation of rules
has recently gathered speed and GoK is now aiming to make the Act effective in early 2002.
* Some of the service delivery agency reforms went better than others. For example, reforms of
Stamps and Registration Department have taken much longer than anticipated, though now reforms do
seem to have started, and the Department has released a good citizens' charter. Similarly, it was
expected at the time of KERL1 that the Bangalore Police Department would release a citizens' charter.
But this did not take off. Current thinking is to produce a state-wide charter for police, but this has still
not been released. Other agencies reformed faster and better than expected: for example BDA and
KSRTC and also, within govermment, the Transport Department
(d)    Private Sector Development.
KERL1 milestones. A policy paper 'Deregulation of Business Environment' was approved by the
Cabinet. It lays out the GoK strategy to siinplify the business environment. A policy paper on Public
Sector Reforms and Privatization was also approved by the GoK Cabinet, indicating that the state would
withdraw from commercial enterprises through sale or closure. Non-commercial PSUs woulldbe
restructured through mergers and reorganization, involving strategic partners where feasible.
Other reforms.
*  The challenge for 2001/02 in the area of business deregulation was to implement the policy
proposals contained in the deregulation policy paper. The reforms aim to make it easier to set up a
business in Kamataka. Accordingly, a number of steps have been or are being taken, including: (i)
introduction of a single new Common Application Form to replace 16 existing state-government forms;
(ii) amalgamation of separate single-window agencies for different industry types; (iv) the introduction
of fast-track clearances and a new inspection regime based on random sampling through a new
Kamataka Industries Facilitation Bill that has now been tabled in the State Legislature. In order to
reduce the regulatory burden currently associated with running a business in Kamataka, various steps
have been taken including: (i) reduction of the number of registers required to be maintained and
submitted by industries from 24 to 4; and (ii) contracting of the Indian Statistical Institute to lead the
design of a new inspection method that will minimize corruption and ensure better compliance with
safeguards.
* Public enterprise (PE) reforms. Four PEs had been closed by the end of 2001/02. A Social Safety
Net Advisor has been appointed, and training and counseling programs are being offered. To ensure
environmental due diligence in the privatization, GoK appointed the Indian Institute of Science to
undertake an environmental screening of the 17 PEs in Phase 1. All the screening reports have been
completed.
- 15 -



The main shortcoming of the private sector development reforms is that the public enterprise
reform component has taken longer to implement than envisaged initially. Many of the companies, because
of their dire financial condition, face legal issues which need to be addressed prior to closure or sale.
Protests from affected employees have also affected the pace of privatization.
(e)    Poverty Monitoring and Statistical Strengthening.
KERL1 milestones. Following the publication of a state Human Development Report in 1999,
GoK sought to institutionalize the one-off effort with the creation of a Poverty and Human Development
Monitoring System (PHDMS) to be managed by the Human Development Division within the Departrnent
of Planning.
Other reforms.
* Under the PHDMS sub-component, preliminary analysis of survey data from the 1999/00 NSSO
Consumer Expenditure Survey covering 10,000 households in the state has been completed, and
Karnataka is now the first state in India to have available up-to-date divisional/district poverty
estimates. These regional poverty patterns are being used to improve regional program allocations for
anti-poverty initiatives. Collection and processing of data on wages, rural retail prices, and the main
agricultural commodities have been stwamlined, and the first quarterly Economic and Statistics bulletin
highlighting the key changes in these series will be available shortly. A new poverty and human
development monitoring chapter was included in GoK's annual Economic Survey for 2002. A special
study of key govermment services is being carried out in Gulbarga, one of the poorest districts in the
northern part of the state.
* Under the program evaluation initiative, efforts are being made to improve program monitoring
through increasing emphasis to independent program evaluation. In 2000/01, GoK issued a
Govemment Order to establish the "Independent Evaluation Initiative," which earmarked 1% of plan
outlays on major schemes in the annual plan budget for evaluation studies, defined broadly to include
process evaluations (e.g., procurement audits) as well as impact evaluations In 2001/02, the focus has
turned to implementation of that order. Detailed guidelines have been issued to assist the departments,
and training provided to the selected departments. Seven evaluations had been completed by
December 2001, and the concemed Departments had prepared Action-taken reports that were discussed
by the State-level Evaluation Coordination Committee and in a workshop organized by the Department
of Planning. Since then, all 10 pilot departments have initiated the process of under-taking evaluations
of one or more schemes, and some departments have started a second round of evaluations.
* Under the state output estimation sub-component, efforts are on to improve accuracy and
timeliness of state output and inflation estimates. A Bank report on the topic was prepared with
detailed diagnostics and recommendations, while a govemment committee on state output estimation
produced a report with recommendations that are planned to be implemented.
All of the above initiatives involve, to a larger or lesser extent, Kamataka's Department of
Economics and Statistics (DES). Steps have been taken to improve DES capabilities, including the
following: attempts to increase awareness amongst various GoK line departments about DES data and
activities; a publicity campaign by DES using televised media to improve coverage of the Civil Registration
System which provides data on births and deaths; the contracting-out of data processing of the 55th NSS
- 16 -



round, which successfully reduced the lag between data collection and analysis; and initial computerization.
The main shortcoming of the poverty monitoring and statistical strengthening component was that
more attention should have gone at an earlier stage to improving state output estimation. The advance
estimate for 2000/01 was originally 8.4%, but this has been revised a year later to 11.9%. The KERLI
forecast for 2001/02 was 14.5% reflecting the historical average real growth of 7.5%, and assuming 6%
inflation. This forecast can be criticized for being too backward-looking, since there was evidence going
into 2001/02 of a slowdown both in growth and, much more definitely, in inflation. As it tumed out, the
advance estimate for 2001/02 was only 7.4%, especially low on account of negative agricultural growth
due to the drought, but also reflecting low inflation of only 2%. While the drought could not have been
anticipated, the low inflation could have been. Such discrepancies make budgetary exercises and forecasts
difficult, and make it very difficult to adhere to fiscal deficit/GSDP targets. Therefore, while the attempt to
improve state output estimation and forecasting is very welcome, one can argue that it should have started
earlier.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of measures supported by the operation on institutional development was substantial.
New intuitions were established or existing institutions were reformed under most components. Under the
fiscal and public expenditure reforms component, various steps have been taken to strengthen tax
administration, as described above. Institutionalization of the MITFP into the budget process is
progressing, as well. Under the administrative reforms component, the measures to reduce transfers, and
to reform service delivery agencies are important institutional changes. Reforms in various agencies and
departments have also made progress, as discussed above. Under the private sector development
component, the role of various GoK departments and agencies is being reformed from a controller to a
facilitator of business development, though these reforms are still at an early stage. GoK's capacity for
poverty monitoring and statistical output has been strengthened, and the PHDMS has been set up. Steps
have been taken to improve the capacity of the DES. While there is room for further improvement, these
steps have assisted institutional reform and development in Karnataka.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two factors that affected the deficit-reduction targets set for 2001/02 were: (i) drought which
affected the availability of power and financing requirements in the sector; and (ii) the all-India economic
slowdown which resulted in a large shortfall in tax devolutions from the central government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government,control:
The implementation of KERLI was helped by the strong govemment commitment to the reforms
and a stable bureaucracy. KERL2 was prepared and negotiated by largely the same GoK team as was
KERLI-indicating stability in the composition of key players.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The GoK was the implementing agency. See 5.2 above.
-17 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
KERLI was for the amount of US$150 million equivalent The entire amount was disbursed in one
tranche upon effectiveness. Of this amount SDR 58.9 million (US$75 million equivalent) was provided as
a standard IDA credit. Another US$75 million was provided as a loan payable in 20 years. While KERL
1 provided general budgetary support, the marginal impact of this financing can be most clearly seen in two
areas:
* On-budget funding of power sector losses. This reflects GoK's decision to fully fund power sector
losses on the budget as part of its power sector reform strategy. The biggest difference between the
2000/01 and 2001/02 budgets is the increase in the power sector budgetary support allocation up from
Rs 9 billion to Rs 23 billion.
* Voluntary retirement (VRS) payments to help closure/sale of public enterprises. These are
estimated to have risen in 2001/02 to Rs 100 billion up from Rs 60 billion in 2000/01.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is considered likely to be sustainable. GoK has displayed firm commitment toward
measures to further promote fiscal and governance reforms. Steps have been taken to garner public
support for the reform agenda through publicity and communications. As a result, there is broad political
buy-in for the reforms, so that further progress is not completely dependent on political leadership. As
mentioned, KERL2 was approved by the Board in March 2002, indicating significant further progress by
GoK on the reform path. The Budget for 2002/03 presented in March 2002 suggests continued commitment
to improving the fiscal health of the state.
Despite the progress made, sustainability of the reforms does face various risks. Even though
Kamataka is not facing a fiscal crisis, its debt stock and interest burden continue to rise. While the
consolidated deficit fell in 2001/02, there needs to be much more fiscal adjustment before the state's fiscal
position can be regarded as sustainable.
Shortcomings in GoK's power sector reforms, if not corrected, also threaten the success and
sustainability of the Government's reform program.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance was sansfactory, when considering identification, preparation,
and appraisal. The project concept is consistent with the present focus of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy in India, viz.: to focus resources on states that demonstrate willingness to implement reforms
needed to improve economic performance and reduce poverty. It is also strongly aligned with the CAS
theme of strengthening the enabling environment by improving government effectiveness and promoting
private-sector led growth. However, greater focus by the Bank team on the shortcomings listed under
Section 3.5 would have helped improve Quality at Entry.
7.2 Supervision:
- 18 -



The Bank's supervision of the operation during implementation was satisfactory. There was close
collaboration between the Authorities and the Bank missions. GoK's monitoring system worked well to
give early warning signs of fiscal stress. Problems and delays were identified earlier and resolved wherever
possible. Joint wrap-ups between GoK, GoI and the Bank helped highlight problems and ensure
coordination.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance for this operation is considered satisfactory, based on the above
discussion.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance was satisfactory, when considering identification and preparation.
Identifying key constraints on growth and poverty alleviation, designing a multi-year reform program, and
implementing the first set of reforms to set the stage required a high level of commitment from GoK and
support from GoL. Preparatory work involved identification of key areas for reforms, commissioning of
studies and reports, and extensive consultation with stakeholders on key reforms (e.g., tax reforms and
business deregulation). Strong support from the leadership was critical to the initiation of the reforms.
One of the best initiatives taken by GoK was the appointment -of a number of task forces and
commissions to generate ideas and reform proposals. In particular, the reports of the Administrative
Reforms Commission and the Tax Reforms .Commission, both appointed in early 2000, have generated a
rich reforms agenda and much more detailed analysis and options than would be available from
consultants' or Bank reports. Public-private partnership is another key feature of GoK's reform efforts,
with many task forces and reports being collaborated with private participation. GoK has demonstrated a
high level of technical capability in designing and managing the reform process: for example, the state
prepared its own MTFP, rather than relying on Bank technical assistance. The reform agenda has been
largely home-grown, rather than externally mandated. Although reforms were intensified in 2000, the state
is also now benefiting from a number of reforms initiated in the late 1990s, such as the Karnataka Ceiling
on Government Guarantees Act and the Transparency in Tenders and Procurement Act.
The main mistake made by GoK prior to KERLI was to defer the increase in agricultural tariffs
awarded by the regulator for a year. As mentioned earlier, this was not a decision that the Government
could afford, and it sent a negative signal about the Government's commitment to the reform process.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GoK's implementation performance is considered satisfactory. All the key reforms supported
by the operation were implemented prior to the Board approval. The reform process has been managed
well. GoK has showed strong ownership of the reform process, and has concentrated on building a
consensus for reforms through public dissemination of data, the introduction of various policy papers,
extensive consultation using workshops and websites, and seeking feedback from the public. Several
reform measures (e.g., business deregulation) involve substantial reduction and restructuring of government
functions and layers, which have inevitably met with resistance from vested interests. GoK's political and
bureaucratic leadership has demonstrated commitment to reforms and capacity to manage the initial
restructuring process. However, although there have been no policy reversals, and the reform agenda has
been significantly advanced in a number of areas, there have been some shortcomings. While Kamataka
has made progress in power sector reforms, there have also been some important delays and set-backs in
this area. There has also been a long delay in making the Right to Information Act effective (see Section 4).
19-



As agreed, GoK has complied with the requirement of sending a confirmation to the Bank of the
receipt of loan proceeds.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The GoK was the implementing agency. See 7.5 above.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance for this operation is considered sadisfactory based on the
above discussion.
8. Lessons Learned
The design of KERLI was effective, and experience with the operation supports the conclusion
that a series of single-tranche adjustment operations, anchored through a medium-term reform framework,
to reforming states can be an effective instrument to support reforms in India, both in the state concemed
and in other states through a demonstration effect. The KERLI experience specifically shows that,
especially at the start of a reform process, having more, smaller loans/credits is an effective way of adding
impetus to the reform program.
A number of policy lessons have emerged. Several of these have already been mentioned in
various parts of Section 4, and include: (i) frequent and regular monitoring can lead to greater awareness of
fiscal position and risks; (ii) tax targets should be realistic; (iii) better estimation and forecasting of state
output is needed to make fiscal targets as a percentage of output more reliable; and (iv) financing from the
public accounts can distort the deficit numbers and reduce budgetary transparency: public account
financing should be reduced over time.
At least two lessons are evident from the power sector: (i) when electricity consumption is
subsidized, and especially when tariffs are delinked from consumption, regulation of power supply to
subsidized sectors is crucial as a transitional measure for the restoration of financial viability to the sector,
even though ultimately one of the aims of the reforms is to do away with the need to limit power supply at
all; and (ii) it is not enough to create a power sector regulator a cooperative, functional relationship
between the regulator, utility and government is needed if reforms are to proceed smoothly.
Finally, in many areas reforms took longer than expected. This is true almost across the board -
for example, with respect to power sector reforms, public enterprise reforms, and financial management
reforms. Delays could indicate a lack of commitment, but in many cases, the difficulties involved in
implementing the change are under-estimated. Both the Bank and the respective government neec to be
realistic about the possible pace of reforms, especially for those involving changes in long-practiced public
sector systems and complex institutional arrangements.
Endnote
See www.kptcl.com.
'The budget deficit went-up in 2001/02 because of GoK's policy to meet its power sector subsidy obligation in full, rather than
only partially as in previous years. The decline in the consolidated deficit is more relevant
IThis is a combination of two factors: first cuts in borrowing entitlements decided on in the second half of the year in response
to the adversefiscal position; second, unexpected delays in borrowing by KBJNL, the largest beneficiary of off-budget
borrowing. Careful management will be needed to ensure no negative knock-on into 2002/03.
'See http://vsb.kar.nic.in.
Because most transfers occur during April and May, the number of transfers for the full fiscal year
(April 1-March 31) is unlikely to differ significantly from that for the first half of the fiscal year.
-20 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
D.0.No.91 O)/FRF KTK,/FRU-200 1
Dr. Mohan Chutani,                                Pfl  W  WW
Joint Directoi(FCD)                                1W
Tel: 4360647                                       ww 1J7rq
F 1ax: 4360174                                    1<   '<ir'?' VW~
I"ax. 4360174                                GOVERWMENT OF INDIA
MiNISTRY OF  F   1ANCE
OEpAfqTARENT OF ExCPENDITURE
FIN4ANCE COMMISS1ON DIVISON
BLOCK NO. 1I, STH FLOOR, COO C;4PLEX
W f1tfl4 / Noew awhiN-fIOOO3L the- .7;_;g,@
D)ear Mr. Stcphen I lowes,
Please refer' lo your communication dated April 5, 2002 regarding
lmplkmenlasion Completion Report for KERr.A  Iar directed to communicet fe
views of Deparlmcnt ofExpediature, Ministry of Finanoe, (jovenmet of India on the
Kantata Economic Restruceriag Loan/Credit-l1 These views of the Govermnt of
India torm its pespetve  a borrowcr.
With regards,
Yours sincrly,
(Mohan Chulani)
Mr. Stephen Howesi
Lead Economist,
Tbe World Bank,
70, Lodi EsWe,
NewDelhi- 10003.
Fax: 4619491
- 21 -



Evaluation Report- on KERL-1I
Borrower'g PersRgctive - Goveniment of India
The  Governmcnt of India'% perspective   on  the  Kamatak's Economic
Restructuring Loan (KERLI) is bascd on the CTi's view on the genera! World Bank
structurc of loan and thc progress of measures that were identified as critical milestones
under KERL.I for 2001-02.
2.    World  nkk assistance fbr Loan/credit is a commitment based on a phased /
tranched manner over the medium term suIject to the State achieving tke critical and kcy
nilestone priorities combined with overall fiscal enviropmcnt of the State.
3.    The Karnataka's Fconomic Resrcturing Prognmne includes four components:
(i) reforns in fiscal policy and public empenditure managenent, (ii) administrative
refotrns, (iii) reformns to promote private sector development, and (iv) strengthening vf
poverty monitoring and statistical capacity. <3ovemmcnt of Karnataka had committed to
talce a=ion on the twelve key milestons contained in these fur cowmponents under
KERLI.
4.    Crovenmuent of Karnaaka has made satisfactory progress in fis-al and governancc
refonns in relation to the twelve miletones sumnarised in KERRL 1. Out of these twelve
milestones, which wcre fixed for the cligibilitY of the State to draw second tranche of US
$ 100 million, GoK has comnpleted actions for eleven milestones. Specifically, it has
been observed that:
i)    Fiscal Deficit and revcnue deficit havc decreasec and consolidated defiuits
(including off budget liabilities including powger sector) are almost on track to
achieve the target set for 2001-02. GoK hai established a monitoring syslem
which enables it to track its fiscal position om a mtonthly basis. Whilc cutting
expenditure, the Ciovemment is making offort to protect expenditure in identified
high priority areas. such as clemntary education, basic health and rural water
supply.   Tax Refoms    Commnission's final recommndationq are under
implementation. Vlic State has drafted VAT legislation and regulations. Food
subsidy and gant in aid are within the fixed targets. A report on non- tax revenue
has been comissioned
ii)     TFlP has been widely disseninated and an Molb has been entered into with (3o]
under the States FiscaJ Reform Facility and G3oK bas already drawn the first
year's entitlement of Rs. 32 crors.  Depnxauental MTFPs ame also being
edphnaiscd and ame cxpected to bo published along with the Annual Budget of the
Stat2.
-22 -



iii)  GoK has released 'the draft Fiscal ltesponsibiiity Bill to cxperts for their
cornunts. It is cxpected to be tabled in the curnt Budget session of the State
Legislature.
iv)   Karnataka cnacted the Kamataka Transpaency in Public 'Procurement Act in
1999, onr of only two States in India to provide Isgislative backing to
transparency in tendering.  An action plan for implementalion for further
prouremcnt reforms hive been drawn% up undor vwhich the posting of tender
bulletins on the Wob and additional sanple procurement audits 3havc becn
cmpleted.
v)    Thc number of civiI servants transfer in State has been reduced.
vi)    he IGovcrnment has now introduced, such as the desk Officer system and single-
filc sysern, which would significantly cut the layers of file movenent in the
Government departments in the Secretariat
vii)  Thirteen Departmental functional reviews have been published as part of the
Administrative Reforms Commission (ARC) final report, which was released on
December 27, 200 1.
viii)  A corruption prevention committee has been constituted to monitor aid publicly
report on tie State Government's anti corxption programme.
1x)   As an extention of the agency reforms a-nd citizens' charters which began in 2000-
0 1; a citizcns' charter hes been issued by the Transport Department and few otier
important Goveronrental ageicies. The Staro Governmont intends to introduce
citizc's charter to other departmems in 2002-03 which are under various stagcb
oFfinalisation.
x)    GoK has enacted freedom of infonnation act but the date of effcctivencss of this
act not yet notified though progress has been made with the publicalion of Dlraf
Rules. (ioK intents to take the fina step towards making the Act cffective in the
first half of 2002.
xi)    Tovernment of Kamataka approved in May, 2001 aL far reaching policy paper to
stamline Govermnert regulations of business activities. GoK has prepared for
introducing the lndtistrieg Facilitation Bill which will bc introduced in the State
Legislature in the cucrfent Budget scssion. hlis Bill is the first of its kind in India-
xii)  Four PSUs have been closed so far with operations ceased, :severance payments
(VRS) offered to all stauf and environmental screening completed. They are
Chamundi Machine Tools, Mysore Cosmrtics, Karnataka ' Stte Vcueers, and
My-sore Match.
-23 -



5.    CIOK has also madc significant progrc& in uthcr fiscal and govcmanwcc rforrna
during 2001-02, which includes Guarantee Management, improvcd budgetary estimation
and forccasting, civil service reforn, decentmlisation, c-governanc, and poverty and
human development monitoring The various refunr programmes are expected toE have
positive impact on povcrty rcduction by creating an enabling, environment for broad-
bascd growth. It wiLl help in inproving the investment climate, and reduce wnfuption and
harassment through computerisation of various records.
6.    The slowdown in the national economy has affeted the reforms process in the
state, especially when own revenue and revenues devolved by (ol, fall short of target.
But GoK has adjusted expenditure to meet the revenue shortfall, which provides somc
usurunce: For he future.
7..     Power Sector Reforms are critical to imprnve the fiscal health of the state-
During 2001-02, the GloK has made significant progress in power sector restructuring and
its privazisation. The state govt. has already decided to un-bundlc the Karnataka Power
Iransission Limited (XPICLI) into onea transmission and four regional distribution
comrpaies, which will star operating in 2002-03. Goak has also taken several measures
to reduce losses due to theft and the State legislature has amended the Electricity
(Supply) Act. A progrnznzn  for univeal meterig has bee  initiated in the Stare.
KPI CL has fiWd with the Karnataka Electricity Regulatoxy Commission (KERC) for a
23.5 % average hike in thc electricity tariff (over a 17% increase given by KERC in
Januay-2001.) The revised tariff order is expected to be issu9 d in the month of
MaytJunc-2002, ILowever, substantial tariff increase for ftrmers has already become
effective from January-2002. Furthcr, 6Iswlmtial progress is expected during 2002-03 itL
rcspect to power setor reforms
8.      Fiscal and G;ovemance reforms are expeced to continue in 2002-03 in rcspcct
to the Kanaaka's Economnic Restructuring Progranme. Sixten critical milcstones have
been listed in its Letter of Development Policy by GoK for next phase of reforms for
2002-03 and the same would be used as indicativc triggers for KElRI.-3 by the World
Bank.
-24 -



0.014miRa I W6@5  2267=S
TaLZPRONE, OFF    2092846
AS                =~~~~~~SJR&$ I 27226$
W+o--4,                 lPcP~Wb.V4FAX: 22SMI
BECRETARY TO OOVERNIST (PUU)                               VN2HANA 9    PU F*: 2A5373E4
FINANCE DEPARTIMENT                                         a-"     aoi.^-
notra   1j IolDT0                                              5.6,20G2
"r!fF8  -eomri.n     o$,
D.O. No.FD 72 MM 2001
Der Mr. Howes,
Sub: Evaluazion ofthcFirst Kartnaka Ecoimnic Restrucuring
Loan I Credfit
Rft: Your letter of4 April 20W
Thiis is with referenc to your lter on the Implmeaton Completion
Report for the first arnataka Economic Reitructuing Loan I Cmi (Credit
No.3527 - ml Loan No.4620 - ON). Ple-se flnd enclosed herwih an
Evaluation Report by the Govt ofKarataka for usc by the Bank.
Witb regards,
Your. icrely,
(S.C.
Mr. Sephmn Howes
Lead Economist
The World Bank
10.70 Lodi Estete
NEWDELHI 110003
- 25 -



KCONOMfICRESRUCTURFNGLOAPJRY GjOVN0                    OF
Govt of Karnataka has takn up a comprehensive oeceooic reforms
programue   ncowpassing various sectors since the later part of 1999. The
avearching goal of the State Goverment Is reduction of poverty through high
e   oc growth tempered with equity. With this in -view, the collaboration with
the Wod Bank for a programme loan in the form of budgetary support was
envisaged. This was noesary as io the interim period duning restrusctuxig there
would be need for additional support so as to maintin a minimumn aoceptable
level of cxpenditurc in priority sector areas of human developmeni and
infrasure including elemetary educatiwo, health, rural wtar supply, roads,
housing and the li-ck. The discussion betwee  th. State C.c ..  and tho
World Bank on this prject was quite inonsive. After the GoCt ofKaRnataka took
action on 12 specific items which vre called activating triggers, the loan was
sucosiWly ncgoiutcd and thereafter approved by the Badk. Therefbre, as far as
KEtL-T is concerned, all the actions ware taken upftont betire sanction of the
loan and all these actions have been sustained thereafter Therefbre, Govt of
Kernatka feols that the objectives ofthe Bank assistance have been achieved in a
highly satisfactory manner.
As far as activatizg triggers fiv KERL-I is concerned, mast of the
components were fully achieved. Some of athe initiatives which ar. unprecnednted
among any oiher Indian State are given below:
1. A Mediufm Term Fiscal Plan (MTl)P) was prepared by the State
Government and keping. that as the fiamework, budget for the year was
prepared There was very good ownership of the MITFP witin the (love
across the departments. Placing of the fl'rFP in the lIoums of Legislature
imparted a higher degree of ownership
2. General transfers were prohibited for the year 2001 as a result of which
the mnuaber of changes in posdaigs came down to one-cith of the number
of tbe previus year. This has been followed up by adoption of a new
trasfer policy where several c4drcs have been declared as non-
transfbrabie For other cadres, a reslriction on transfecr hat bee put by
cozwtittion of ccannnlttees which would go through the mtionle behind
change of posting in a through and profesional mamer. It is expectcd
that this would keep the number of changes at a sustained low level in
20D2 as weli.
3.. Though closure and ptlvatlation of publio setor undutadngs is a very
difficult and cntrovesial decision in Endis, the Stte Govemnenut has
-26 -



been able to close down 5 companiex. Many more are under procss.
There has not been the slightest reversal of this policy.
4. Despite fhclng a very difficult year as far as revenues are concerned, the
State Goverment has been able to manage it budgetary fiscal deficit at
almost the sainc level (as pMr revised estiate) as in'tially budgetec
5. A very bold step has been taken in 2002 budgt to rationalize sales tax by
abolishing turnover tax and infrsructure cess and by abolishing entry tax
oo raw maerial and packaging material. This would result in smoother
intoducton of VAT.
6. Power sector has been fltly unbundlied and monty rporting of power
sector finances has been continued.
The fisral year 2001-2 started on a positive noe and in the fwrst 5 months
of the year, revenues were buoyant. Therefor, it appeared easy far the State
Government to achicve tho revenue and expenditure taurges However, after
the incident of the lIh Septeber2, the global slow down 4 ted Indian
economy in a very adverse manner. Ihspite of the Central revenue not
showing any growth during 2001-0 as a whols, the State revenue bas shown
a growth cofmore than 7.5%. To stick to the numerical fiscal target Govt of
Karnaka had to ct down -expenditure drastically so that the revise estimate
of fiscal deficit came to within Rs.25 crows of the orinal target, Howeer,
since growth of GSDP also siowed do-wn, ther bas been worsening of the
fiscal deficit as a ratio of OSDP. Thi3 could not have been fbresoen in
advance. Despite such adverse circumstances, I  State Goveranent has tried
its beat to trieve the situation white trying to prtert easential expediture in
educatkn, health, rural water supply to. to the e7dent possible. A lot of
attention was also given to supply regulation for clectricly to ihe unretered
categoin
Another adverse circumstance to hit CGovt of Karnataka was the
urecedented drought during the agricultural sesam. This dversely aftected
agricultural producdon and in trn economic growtb. It also afFected the lvel
of reservoks for hydro electric generation. Sirne 60%M/ of the supply from the
State is from hydra clcctricity, when the reservoirs dried up in surnmer, the
tranmission company had to buy power from IPPs at a much higher rate
affecting the power sector finances and in turn tie State finanes. Inispite of
this problem, dhe State Government bas been ablle to pay the enire subsidy
due t thoe power sctor as allocated in the budsot document. This amount is
R_2,300 crores as against the pay-cut of Rs 879 ares in the preaiorus year.
This was done to einurc that the undiscbargod liability in the sector is
minbnized and to enourage early privatizalton of distibution.
-27-



As indicated abowe, the Staw Govemam t has ried itp beso contain the
fisal deficit while maintsining the level of esenial expendtnro in the face of
steep rcvcmec shortll, the reasons fbr which were ectenal to the Statt AU
the intitiuonl mechanisms deployed by the State Goverment have been
coninued. Hopefully, if the reven  becomes buoyant In the coming yar, the
refbrms already undertakn would result in a grater doeg of ffcsl rectitude
an higher allocation for priority sectors tia pipel economic growth The
State Govement is aiso In the process of introdueig a Fiwa Responsibility
Bill during the cunrrt year.
In view of the above analysis, the State Govement feels That the
implementatn of the KERL-I haa been quite satsfatory. The quality of
interaion betwee State Governemt offcials with the Ban staff has ben
of a very hig order. It is hoped that the next phse of the progrnune will
wfUrher consolidate the gains and improve upon tha  both in quaity and
tnunntitv in a rnhttntl wnV
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
-28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
|                 KARNATAKA ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME (as defined May i2001)
Reform Area                 Performance benchmarks           |     Achievements till Date (31 March 2002)
1. FISCAL REFORMS & PUBUC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
A Establish Framework for Fiscal Fiscal pefomrance                    Consolidated defiit induding off-budget brrowing and power
Sustalnabillty& Transparency   Annual deficit reduction targets derived from  sector deficit below on target at 6.1%, down from 6.7% in
Objective:                     Governentes MTFP ftr both budgelary    2000/0S; budgetary fiscal deficit marginally above taget largely
deficits and including off-budget bwnwing ard due to GSDP growth sowown (4.6% of GSDP instead of
Fiscal adjustment to avoid a debt  the power sector deWHt; monlihly monitodrig ot 4.3% etimated) monthy monitoring systen for fiscal position
trap.                          fiscal posHtion; reduced disparties between  established and functional.
Fiscal transparency to promote public budget, revsed aid actual estimates.
debate and awareness.           Cash fliability management            Kamataka remains the only major Indian state not to use RBI's
Number of days of overdraft with RBI (target of overdraft facility.
zero); reduced bonrwings from public
account; borrwing based on fiscal targets
rather than availability.
Contingent liabiliy management         GoKs legislative cap on guarantees has been binding;
Compliance with Ceiling on Guarantees Ad;
low/zero devoluton of guarantees to GoK.
a Reform Revenue System        Growth in tax revenue and taxtGSDP ratio.  Tax revenue growth of 18% in 2000101 followed by 12% in
2001102; taxIGSDP ratio rose from 8.6% in 2000101 to
Objective:                                                            estimated 8.9% in 2001102.
Policy and administrative reforms to
raise additional revenue, improve  Reduction in tax arrears.          No progress in 2000101 in this regard. Data for 2001t02
efficiency, and reduce compliance                                     awaited.
costs.                          Positive feedback from taxpayers,      No data.
C. Improve Composition of Public Wage bill and civil service size.    Hiring and salary restraint continued.
Spending                  Spending in pfiority sectors           7% real increase in high-priority development expendHures in
2000101, spending in these sector protected in 2001/02 though
no real Increase due to tight fisdal position.
Power sector defidt (monthly montoring).  Monthly monHofing system to track financial performance in the
power sector established and functional.
Spending on subsidies.                 Nominal food subsidy cap of R. 3 billion maintained.
D. Strengthen Public Expenditure  Shifts in expenditure prioribes over lhe  Spending in priority sectors promoled/protected (see above),
Management                     medium term.                           but morei bme needed to effect shift away from subsidies.
Objectives:
Institutionalize a medium-term  Expenditure savings identified by line  Multi-year departmental budget plans (DMTFPs) are being
perspective into the budgetary  departments                           developed on a pilot basis in select departments to encourage
process                                                               this. NDticeable prgress in Education Department through
teacher rationalizabon.
Tighten the Ink between expenditure
compositbon and poficy prorities  Closure or restructuring of sctm   folbwing  Independent evaluation program Wing off, with some evidence
Greater focus on p   riceof    independent evaluatlon                  of feedback to scheme peIformancs
expenditure programs.          Better delivery of expenditure programs as  Several beneficiary assessments oompfeted, but no time series
measured by beneficiary assessments in  established. Transport survey provides evidence of sharp
evaluations and household surveys      reduction in corruption post computerization.
E. Strengthen Public Finanial  More bmely GoK financial statements     Monthly GoK accounts published regulardy on website;
Management and Accounlabliy                                           preliminary actuals for 2000101 were available in August 2001,
and actuals were available in October 2001, a much improved
- 29 -



Objedihve:                                                           performance over previous years.
Improve transparency, enable better Reduction in audit qualifications.  Reductions in audit qualifications resulting from improvements
finandal performance measurement                                     are expected overtime as various systemic improvements are
and reporting, address weaknesses in                                 implmented.
intemal control and public
accountability and enable better  Reduction in bacidog of accounts and audits of Substantial progress made in this regard.
legislative oversight.        local bodies and PSUs.
Better internal oontrols demonstrated through Unreconciled expenditures in 1999/00 and 2000101 at roughly
reduction in unreconciled items, reduction in  same level. Reduction in funds transferred to PDAs in March
magnitude of Personal Deposit account  2001 over same period in previous year. Measures to improve
intemal controls have been identified.
More timely and complete responses to audit Not yet observed. Expected for 2000/01 audit report.
observations prepared and dilosed.
F. Reornm Public Procurement   Increased number of Tender Bulletins on  Not achieved.
Objectiv More transparent ard  Intemet. Increased number of procurement
compebtive procrement processes  audKts.
that improve efficiency, lower costs
and reduce corruption.         Perception of reduced corruption in   Initial surveys undertaken, but time series not yet available.
procurement, as measured by survey of
offidals and public
I. ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS
A Define Govemnance Strategy   Monitoring of action taken against proposals in Not applicable, since second GSAP not yet published.
successive GSAPs
a Reirbm Me Civil Service and  Drastic reduction in number of transfers,  Transfers fel from over 50,000 in 2000/01 to 8,400 for the first
PubllcAdminislratlon           starting in 2001-02.                  six months of 2001102.
Objective:
Improve transparency, reduce   Stability and increase in tenure for key  Transfers of senior staff also fell.
corruption, ratonalize departments  positions in monitoring system
and functions, improve internal
effidency, strengthen human    Reduoed corruption in renuitment and  Survey data not yet available.
resource management.          transfers, and improved employee and
moUvation, as measured by survey
Elimination and consolidation of departments A small start made, but not much progress.
Reduction in size of cvil service, pardcularly in Not yet achieved.
areas where functons are eliminated and
consolidated
Greater meritocracy in recruitment, promotion  Reforms undertaken on recruitment to promote meritocracy, but
and personnel evaluation.             no independent evidence.
C. Citzen Charters & Agency    Improved servia3 delivery, as measured by  Achieved in seected services, such as transport and land
Reforms to Improve Sewvce      user surveys and reduction in time to deliver  reoords.
Delivery   -                   services
ObjecUve
Improved service delivery in services
with large public interface Use
demonstration effect for scaling-up.
D. Enhance Effectiveness of    Incease3 revenue base at local levels.  Initatives have been taken to increase revenues, including the
Decentralzation                                                      introduction of self-assessment for property taxes across the
state, amendments to the Municipal Corporations Act to
Objective                                                            introduce an infrastructure and solid waste management
More effective loca govemments by                                    surcharge on vehides and properties to enrhance the
strengthening acoountability                                         revenue-eaming capacity of municipalities.
- 30 -



mechanisms at the local levels while More effident delivery of local services, as  Surveys not yet available.
enhancing autonomy.            measured by househdld surveys.
E Enhance Freedom of           Increased public access to information,  Surveys not yet available.
informatfon                    measured by surveys of householdslofficials.
Objective Greater flow of irformation
to public to increase partidpation,
transparency and aocountabil'ty, and
to reduce corruption.
F. Use Electronic-Govemance to  Greater use of egovemanoe in departments.  Thi has been aclhlved, as e-govemanoe Inrtatives are under
impmve effidency and                                                 way in a greater range of depatrmenXt
transparcy
Objective Use IT to reduce delays &
comnption, and enhance
transparency.
G. Implement and Monibr a      Perception of reduced corruption, as  Available for a selected serAce (transport), but not yet more
Comprehensive Anlacoauptlon    measured by surveys                   generally.
Program
Objective
Enhanoed public monitoring, reduced
corruption and enhanced credibility of
the state
Ill. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
A. Restructure and Privatze    Number of PSUs soldIdosedlrestnuctured  4 enterpdses cosed prior to March 2002
Public Enteprises
ObIective
Withdraw state from commercial
activities to reduce administrative and
fiscal burden of PSU.
B Deregulation and Bsuness     Feedback from Industry via surveys (e.g. on  Baseline survey comnpeted, but results not yet available.
Environment                    number of inspecUons, time to set up a
business),
ObjecUve                       Ratio of investments grounded to investment  Data limittions have so far presented use of tils perfofmance
Improved business environment; less                                  Indiator.
bureaucratic interfence; more
private investment and higher growth.
IV. POVERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT MONITORING
Objectinv                      Functioning of the PHDMS.             PHDMS functiona, and undertaking data collection, and
better information base for                                         analysis.
policy-making and program design  Use of its results by policy makers.  Too early to judge.
More information in the public  Human development targets to judge success Too early to judge.
domain.                        of overall program (including health and
A more p-pwr develop-nent      educaton targets)
strategy and betterinformed policy
making made possible by high-quality
data being available on a timely basis
-31 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not applicable to adjustrnent lending
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable to adjustment lending
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a Missions:
Stage, of Project Cycle.                No. of Persons:and:Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation,' Development
MonthNear      Count           Specialty                      Progress ,bjective
Idenfffication/Preparation
Jul 00-Mar 01                4   Economists                          S             S
3    FMS/Disbursement Specialists
I    Environmental Specialists
3    Energy Specialists
I   Private Sector Specialist
3    Public Sector Specialists
2    Research Analysts
Appraisal/Negotiation
Apr 01-May 01                4   Economists                          S             S
3    FMS/Disbursement Specialists
3    Social Development Specialist
I   Environmental Specialist
I    Procurement Specialist
3    Public Sector 3pecialists
I    Private Sector Specialist
I    Legal
2    Research Analysts
Supervision
Jun 01-Feb 02                6   Economists                          S             S
I   FMS/Disbursement Specialist
I   Environmental Specialist
I   Public Sector Specialist
I   Communication Expert
2   Research Analysts
ICR
Mar 02-Jun 02                3    Economists
I    Financial Management
Specialist
-34 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle.                 Actual/Ltaest Estimate :
1No. Staffweeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            147.00                      392.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                  45.90                      127.5
Supervision                            40.99                       71.0
ICR                                     7.43                       27.7
Total                                 241.32                     619.10
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
r Macro policies                     O H   *SUOM O N O NA
D Sector Policies                    OH    O SU * M O N O NA
O Physical                           O H   OSUOM O N      * NA
I Financial                          O H OSUOM O N * NA
D Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM O N O NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Private sector development          0 H  O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H  0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              OH OSUOM ON * NA
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
FII Lending                                         OHSOS        OU     OHU
Li Supervision                                      OHS OS       O  U   O HU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
LI Government implementation performance            O HS O S     O U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
O-I Overall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Report and Recommendation of the President, Report No. P7453-IN, May 25, 2001
2. Report and Recommendation of the President, Report No. P75 1-IN, February 15, 2002
3. Aide Memoire of April 2002, Kasnataka Economic Restrcturing Program - Review Mission
- 38 -


















IIMAGING
Report No.:           24371
Type:      lCR



