Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3527-IN
LOAN NUMBER 4620-IN
Project Agreement
(Karnataka Economic Restructuring Program)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Dated July 26, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3527-IN
LOAN NUMBER 4620-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2001, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
STATE OF KARNATAKA (Karnataka), acting by its Governor.
WHEREAS (A) the Association and the Bank have received from India (the Borrower) 
a letter dated May 31, 2001, attaching a letter from Karnataka describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and strengthen the fiscal 
framework and public institutions of Karnataka (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring Karnataka’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and the Borrower’s 
support thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association and the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
Karnataka has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
the Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and the Bank and 
has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association and 
the Bank;
(C)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty eight million nine 
Page  2
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 58,900,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Karnataka 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(D)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India and the Bank, 
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an aggregate principal amount of 
seventy five million dollars ($75,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Karnataka agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(E)
the Program will be carried out by Karnataka with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, the Borrower will make available to Karnataka the local currency 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement and of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement.
WHEREAS Karnataka, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, in the Loan Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Loan 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Karnataka declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Program.
Section 2.02. (a) Karnataka shall from time to time, at the request of the 
Association and the Bank, and in consultation with the Borrower, exchange views with 
the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the Program, the actions 
specified in the Schedule to this Agreement, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, Karnataka shall furnish to the 
Association, the Bank and the Borrower for their review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association and 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Karnataka shall promptly inform the Association, the Bank and the 
Borrower of any condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the 
Loan, or the performance by Karnataka of its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section, Karnataka shall consult the Borrower and exchange views with the 
Association and the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of 
the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Karnataka shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
Page  3
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than six months after the 
Closing Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objective 
thereof; and
(c)
review with the Association, the Bank and the Borrower the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, within forty-five (45) days of the 
receipt of the report and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient implementation of the Program and the achievement of the objective thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
Section 2.04. (a) Karnataka shall utilize the amounts transferred to it by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 
2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement for its budgetary expenditures.  Karnataka undertakes 
that any of such amounts shall not be used to finance expenditures under a contract in 
respect of which the Association or the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of Karnataka during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without Karnataka having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association and the Bank to remedy the situation.
(b)
If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
such amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent 
with paragraph (a) above, Karnataka shall be liable, upon request from the Association 
or the Bank as the case may be, to refund such amount to the Association or the Bank 
through the Borrower. Amounts refunded to the Association or the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may 
be, for cancellation.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Karnataka shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
conditions; and
(b)
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Karnataka shall:
(i)
have the said records, accounts and financial statements audited 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than four months after the date of the 
Association’s and the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well 
as the audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested.
Section 3.02. (a) Karnataka shall, no later than thirty (30) days after the 
receipt of the rupee amounts transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan 
Agreement, provide a confirmation to the Association and the Bank showing the date and 
the rupee amounts received from the Borrower, and stating that such amounts have been 
credited to the consolidated Fund of Karnataka on that same date.
(b)
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Karnataka shall, no later 
than sixty (60) days after the date of such request, provide to the Association and 
the Bank an audit report by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the 
Bank showing the date and the rupee amounts transferred by the Borrower to Karnataka 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) 
of the Loan Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and Karnataka thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Karnataka of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
For the Bank:
International Bank of 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Karnataka:
Chief Secretary
Government of Karnataka
Vidhana Soudha
Bangalore, 560001
Karnataka State
India
Page  5
Telex:
Facsimile:
845-2239 CSGK IN
91-80-2258913
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Karnataka may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Karnataka shall designate in writing, and Karnataka shall furnish to the Association 
and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Karnataka, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligation of Karnataka to consult with, and furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to Karnataka shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be 
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in 
the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF KARNATAKA
By /s/ C. Gopal Reddy
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement.
1.
Karnataka has: (a) approved a Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) for the State 
setting out policies, strategies and actions for carrying out a program of fiscal 
reforms covering the period from Fiscal Year 2000-01 to Fiscal Year 2004-05; (b) 
undertaken key steps towards institutionalization of the MTFP into the budgetary 
process; and (c) made the MTFP a public document.
2.
Karnataka has reduced in Fiscal Year 2000-01 the non-power budgetary fiscal 
deficit (fiscal deficit net of gross budgetary support for the power sector) to an 
estimated 3.2 percent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) from 3.7 percent of 
GSDP in the previous Fiscal Year.
3.
Karnataka has presented a budget for Fiscal Year 2001-02 consistent with the 
Page  6
MTFP, including a targeted reduction in the non-power budgetary fiscal deficit from an 
estimated 3.2 percent of GSDP in 2000-01 to 2.4 percent of GSDP in 2001-02.
4.
Karnataka has completed the first phase of the preparatory work for the 
introduction of a system of Value Added Tax (VAT), satisfactory to the Association and 
the Bank, consisting, inter alia, of issuance of a discussion paper, establishment of 
working groups, selection of consultants to assist in the process, and introduction of 
self-assessment for majority of tax payers.
5.
Karnataka has completed the first phase of its public financial accountability 
and management improvement program, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
consisting, inter alia, of establishment of a Controller’s office and task force to 
lead the program, posting of monthly financial accounts on the internet, and 
commencement of treasury computerization.
6.
Karnataka has enacted: (a) the Karnataka Transparency in Procurement Act, 1999, 
requiring all government departments to follow more transparent procurement practices; 
and (b) the Karnataka Right to Information Act, 2000, aimed at making government 
documents more accessible to the public.
7.
Karnataka has approved policies, strategies and actions for carrying out a 
medium-term program of administrative reform and private sector development set out in 
the following documents satisfactory to the Association and the Bank:
(a)
a Governance Strategy and Action Plan aimed, inter alia, at improving 
government efficiency and transparency, reducing transfers within the civil service, 
and curbing corruption, and which has been made a public document;
(b)
an Approach Paper on Business Deregulation aimed, inter alia, at reducing 
excessive government regulations, and improving the enabling environment for private 
sector development; and
(c)
a Policy on Public Sector Reforms and Privatization aimed, inter alia, at 
reducing the role of the government in commercial activities through sale, closure or 
restructuring of public enterprises.
8.
Karnataka has established a Poverty and Human Development Monitoring System 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, aimed, inter alia, at systematically 
monitoring the impact of government services, policies and reforms, including the 
Program, in key areas related to poverty reduction and human development, making this 
information available to the government and the public on a regular basis, and 
enabling Karnataka in making more informed policy decisions from the perspective of 
poverty reduction.
