Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24085 GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.00 MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR
INTEGRATED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 1, 2002
Rural Development, Water and Environment Departnent
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effictive )
Currency Unit = ILS (Israeli New Sheqalirn)
ILS 1 = US$0 22
UISSI = ILS 4.5
FISCAL YEAR
Jartuary I -D Decemrber 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANI) ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance S. ji'
CDC           Community Development Coordinator
CDP           Comnuinmity Development Project
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
DORA          Departnent of RefLgee Affrairs
EA            Environmental Assessmnent
EMP           Environurent Management Plan
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
ICDP          Integrated Community Development Project
ICT           Information and Communuication Technologies
IDA           International Dwvelopment Organization
LGU           Local Govenmment Unit
MCT           Multipurpose Conmmunity Centers
MENA          Middle East and North Afiica
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOLG          Ministry of Local Govemmeit
MP            Micro Project
NGO           Non Government Organization
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
PA            Palestinian Authoritv
PCBS          Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PECDAR        Palestinian Economic Cowucil for Development and Reconstruction
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNDP          United Nations Development Progranmme
UNWRA         United Nations Works and Relief Organization
WBG           West Bank and Gaza
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Courntry Manager/Director:  Nigel Roberts
Acting Director   Salah Darghouth
Task Team Lealer/TaskManager:     Kanthan Shankar



WEST BANK AND GAZA
INTEGRATED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Governnent strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            14
2. Financial                                                                           14
3. Technical                                                                           15
4. Institutional                                                                       16
5. Environmental                                                                       16
6. Social                                                                              17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21



2. Critical risks                                                                    22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    23
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        31
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          32
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    47
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  48
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 49
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           51
MAP(S)
IBRD 27791 - West Bank and Gaza



WEST BANK AND GAZA
Integrated Community Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: May 1, 2002                                 Team Leader: Kanthan Shankar
Country Director: Nigel Roberts                   Sector Manager: Petros Aklilu
Project ID: P069986                              Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, CC -
Telecommunications & Informatics, SY - Other Social
Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Social Development;
Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
E ] Loan     1 Credit     [ ] Grant    [I Guarantee     [XI Other: Trust Fund Credit for Gaza and West
Bank
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       2.00           0.00         2.00
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                 6.80           1.20          8.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              8.70           1.30         10.00
Total:                                                        17.50           2.50        20.00
Borrower: THE PLO FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Address: P.O. Box 98, Jericho
Contact Person: Dr. Sa'eb Erekat, Minister
Tel: 972 2 2322619           Fax: 972 2 2321240            Email:
Other Agency(ies):
PECDAR
Address: Dahrait El-Barid, West Bank
Contact Person: Dr. Mohammed Shtayyeh
Tel: 97222362355             Fax: 97222362341              Email: shtayyeh@planet.edu
Address: Ministry of Agriculture, Ramallah, West Bank
Contact Person: Dr. Hikmat Zaid, Minister
Tel: 972 2 296 1266           Fax: 972 2 296 1212           Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005      2006
Annual      2.00      2.00       3.00      3.00
Cumulative     2.00      4.00       7.00      10.00
Project implementation period: August 2002 to December 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/15/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
WCSPAD F-71.b ,,M-h 



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective is to improve the quality and availability of basic social and
economic services in poor and marginalized communities of West Bank and Gaza (WBG). This
objective would be realized through financing investments in local infrastructure and institutions.
Physical investments would be targeted to preserve and extend capital stock of infrastructure
owned by villages and small municipalities in regions of WBG with the highest incidence of
poverty. Like the preceding Community Development Projects (CDPs) I and II, the Integrated
Community Development Project (ICDP) would finance investments in infrastructure such as
roads, water supply, schools and clinics that are necessary for economic and employment growth
and vital to human development and poverty reduction. The project would expand activities to the
agriculture sector, including rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes and terracing, and wells,
due to the potential impacts on rural employment and productivity and pilot new initiatives to
promote access to information and communication technologies (ICT) and services. The ICDP
would be more focused than the preceding CDPs on enabling local government units (LGUs) to
plan and manage microprojects.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Some of the key performance indicators are listed below. Additional performance indicators are
provided in Annex 1.
*   90 percent of microprojects improve quality and availability of basic services for a
minimum of two years from the end of the defects liability period, according to
microproject status reports
* 75 percent of microproject financing awarded to communities located in regions with
poverty incidence above 20 percent, according to WBG poverty map
*   60 percent of microproject financing awarded to communities with population less
than 5,000
*   60 percent of beneficiaries express satisfaction with the level of citizen involvement in
preparation and implementation of a microproject in their comnrnunity, according to
survey of beneficiaries
*   60 percent of surveyed beneficiaries express the microproject had a positive impact on
their access to service.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:  Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
The current crisis in WBG is having a highly damaging effect on the Palestinian economy and
negatively impacting the living standards of the Palestinian people. It is estimated that the share of
the Palestinian population living below the poverty line has jumped from 20 to nearly 40 percent
since September 2000. Consequently, over 1 million Palestinians are believed to be living below
the poverty line. Under the current situation the World Bank's short to medium-term strategy is
to continue focusing on poverty reduction interventions while supporting emergency interventions
- 2 -



(e.g. temporary job creation and budgetary support to maintain minimal service levels) to avoid a
total collapse of the Palestinian economy. The Bank Group medium to long-term strategy,
outlined in "Replenishing the Trust Fund for the West Bank and Gaza" of April 1998, specifically
stresses the need for sustained growth and increased job opportunities through an equitable
development process. Restoration and further development of economic and social infrastructure
in poor communities, reducing inequalities in service access and supporting good governance are
critical components of this strategy as well.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A summary of sector issues and the Palestinian Authority's (PA) national development and
poverty reduction strategy is presented below.
Poverty
After two years of economic growth and measurable decline in poverty and unemployment, the
solid economic recovery that began in WBG in 1998 came to an abrupt halt with the start of the
second intifada in September 2000, and the subsequent imposition of tight closure by Israel. Per
capita real income declined by 12 percent for 2000 and an estimated 19 percent in 2001. In fact,
per capita real income is now below what it was when the Oslo accords were signed in 1993. The
share of the population living below the poverty line (US$2 per person per day) has reached
almost 40 percent, up from a quarter before the current intifada. (Poverty data taken from "One
Year of Intifada - The Palestinian Economy in Crisis," October 2001. See also "Poverty in the
West Bank and Gaza, Summary," The World Bank, May 2001).
The present crisis is accentuating poverty patterns. Poverty is deepening particularly in isolated
communities according to a recent assessment by the international community (see "One Year of
Intifada," October 2001). Palestinian economic decline in the last two years has been driven by
unemployment due to Israeli border closures and the resultant collapse of Palestinian businesses.
Unemployment climbed from 9 percent prior to the intifada to 28 percent of the Palestinian work
force in December 2000. Because of the economic decline, physical and social service
infrastructure has been neglected (or destroyed during conflict), while continued political
uncertainty has further discouraged investment. The international community concluded that the
main cause of the recession is closure and that easing closure is the most important requirement in
arresting further decline. It also concluded the PA needs to re-focus on the institutional
development and reform agenda that has been put aside during the emergency.
The main components of the PA's development strategy--as detailed in the "Palestinian
Development Plan for 1999-2003," presented at the Consultative Group meeting of February
1999--identify investments in physical infrastructure and social sectors as priorities, together with
fostering economic growth and job creation and reducing inequalities in rural areas, especially
unequal access to basic services.
Local Government
Local government in W1BG has a crucial role to play in the governance and economic
development of the Palestinian territory. The dominant entities in the local government system are
- 3 -



the municipalities, which have well established service delivery and regulatory functions over basic
infrastructure for electricity, water supply and sanitation, solid waste management, local roads,
libraries, parks and recreation, markets, and over land use planning and development. The next
level of local government, village councils, exhibit a government structure like municipalities but
often lacks the broad range of functions and revenue generating options of municipalities.
Currently there are 144 municipalities and 311 village councils in WBG. Another 228 villages are
without councils and administered by appointed mukhtars ("chiefs"). Just 91 out of the total 683
localities have a population above 5000.
There are serious concerns about the local government finance structure and the
inter-governmental fiscal system. Cost recovery for local services are often low: municipal waste
collection and disposal fees, for example, only return one tenth of actual cost. Because fiscal
resources vary greatly, many local governments cannot meet service requirements, resulting in
large disparities in services and fiscal capacities. In fact, public services are inferior to those in
countries with similar incomes. Moreover, essentially all capital financing comes from foreign
donors. This situation is unsustainable and highlights the urgent need for WBG local governments
to become more self reliant. (See "West Bank and Gaza Inter-governmental and Municipal
Finance Sector Study Report, World Bank, November 2000; and "West Bank and Gaza,
Strengthening Public Sector Management, World Bank, 1999).
Municipalities and village councils can be considered marginally representative as no elections
have been held for several decades. Women in particular have been marginalized from local
institutions and councils. Local governments are also characterized by limited managerial,
planning and administrative capacity, resulting in lower revenues, higher expenses, and inadequate
systems and financing for proper operation and maintenance of existing assets.
With encouragement of donors, the PA has been implementing a strategy to establish regional
utilities for electricity and water and has introduced some inter-jurisdictional Joint Service
Committees for services such as solid waste management, to promote joint responses where
economies of scale may improve the efficiency of service delivery without reducing
responsiveness. And the PA has begun to introduce a unified accounting system to make it
possible to analyze municipal revenues and expenditures. Still, the institutional framework for
local governments needs critical support.
Agriculture
According to the PA's own 1999-2003 Development Plan, Palestinians living in rural areas have
suffered from negligence of many basic economic and social services, contributing to a gap
between the living standards of the population in urban and rural areas. A decline of agriculture
has adversely affected the economic base of rural areas, which has led to a decline in the financial
resources of local institutions and have rendered them unable to engage in any meaningful
development. Agriculture contributes about 12 percent of GDP and 12-14 percent of total
employment. During border closures, and the resulting loss of job opportunities in Israel,
agriculture becomes a major source of income generation and employment. The decline of
agriculture is related to structural factors such as the limited availability of water, agricultural
- 4 -



roads, marketing relationships, and advocacy groups that work on behalf of farmers. The PA's
agriculture policy objectives are summarized in the Palestinian Agricultural Policy Document. The
objectives include: (a) development of rural areas, with the participation of NGOs and
beneficiaries; (b) greater private sector contribution, with the public sector role confined to policy
and legislation; (c) improved competitiveness; and (d) viability and efficiency in the use of national
resources (see Agriculture Sector Note, World Bank, June 2000).
Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
The West Bank and Gaza are lower middle-income territories with significant spatial constraints.
They are two physically separated territories, and frequent Israeli border closures hamper
economic activities and movement of people, goods and services. In such a situation, an
information technology-based economy could have a high potential to stimulate growth and
reduce poverty. Palestinians presently have limited access to ICT and services, especially in rural
areas and refugee camps. For example, just 2 percent of Palestinian households have Internet
access. Although there are dozens of Internet caf&s in the WBG, services offered in these centers
are limited to PC use and Internet access. Building the human resource capacity to use these
technologies is often neglected. With its neighboring countries investing heavily in the ICT sector,
Palestinians run the particular risk that the gap between them and their neighbors widens and puts
the WBG at a considerable economic disadvantage. Furthermore, poorer groups of the population
and some social groups are being left out of the ICT revolution, leading to a widening digital
divide within the territories. Computer availability, for example, ranges from 36.3 percent in
households in central West Bank to only 14.2 percent in the Gaza Strip. Differences between
urban (75.7 percent) and rural (17.8 percent) areas and refugee camps (6.5 percent) are especially
pronounced. Moreover, there is a serious divide with respect to gender: while 7.9 percent of men
have access to the Internet, just 2.8 percent of women have access. Poorer segments in the
Palestinian society lack both financial and human resource capacities to take part in the fast
development in this sector, leading to their exclusion from social and economic processes and
activities in increasingly knowledge-based economies and societies.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty
The proposed project would help the Palestinian Authority and donors balance the need for
short-term crisis support with the continued focus on institutions and infrastructure that are
essential for sustained economic growth. The ICDP would be a concerted effort to focus on basic
social and economic infrastructure and local level capacity building activities that have seen a
decline in expenditures since the intifada but promise better long-run economic benefits than
emergency programs. Achieving development impacts under conditions of continued
confrontation requires innovation and an ability to work on a small scale and in a decentralized
manner like the previous CDPs I and II. The ICDP would respond to two characteristics of
poverty in rural areas of WBG, remoteness from centers and, especially in the West Bank,
dispersion of villages. It would give small municipalities and villages access to resources and
authority to use them to improve local services. Overall, it would help distribute social services
fairly and efficiently and put community participation at the center of poverty alleviation efforts so
- 5 -



that citizens own, benefit from, and are responsible for the process. It also would improve the
social safety net by ensuring that those localities with higher levels of poverty receive
proportionately greater transfers through microprojects. Finally, use of local materials and labor
would help dampen the impacts of frequent border closures.
Local Government
While inter-governmental and municipal finance reform is being addressed through the Municipal
Infrastructure Development Projects I and II, the proposed project would support and intensify
present efforts to make local governments more self-supporting with greater accountability to
residents by providing much-needed investments in infrastructure rehabilitation and extension in
refugee camps and villages. It would build the participatory planning and administration capacity
of LGUs through mandatory and elective training opportunities, promote greater efficiency in
service delivery, and better prepare LGUs for operation and maintenance of microprojects and
other infrastructure. LGUs' improved performance would heighten the credibility and
effectiveness of government in the minds of citizens.
Agriculture
Certainly, the needs in agriculture are beyond the scope and capacity of the ICDP, but the
proposed project would address water scarcity by improving efficiency of some existing irrigation
networks and rehabilitating terraces and wells. Priority would be given to microprojects in
communities that have or introduce farmers' cooperatives and water users associations to help
relieve the fiscal burden and promote sustainability. Construction or improvement of community
markets and upgrading of agricultural roads also would be undertaken to improve marketing of
Palestinian produce and crops. Income generating microprojects would also be financed but
require a higher cost sharing and more rigorous appraisal to avoid market distortion.
ICT
The ICT component would support community development by improving access to, and the
quality of, ICT services in selected communities. It would particularly address the issue of
economic and human resource constraints to ICT access through the provision of public access
points for such technology and services in the form of multipurpose community telecenters
(MCTs). The MCT component under ICDP would take the form of a pilot in pre-selected
communities and focus on developing sustainable and replicable models for such centers. The
MCT pilot would endeavor to work in partnership with a number of stakeholders at the
international, national and local levels, including NGOs, municipalities and the private sector.
Whenever possible, telecenter microprojects would extend the range of services and upgrade
existing facilities to make them more sustainable and create synergy in many other respects.
Experience gained from the implementation of pilot telecenters could provide the basis for
additional investment to access information and communication technologies and services.
- 6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1: Community Development Microprojects. This component would provide grants to
LGUs and farmer cooperatives to finance a minimum of 100 community development
microprojects. Microprojects would be prepared by local officials in consultation with residents
and implemented in accordance with ICDP procedures using local contractors, suppliers and
laborers. Each Community Development Microproject would include (i) civil works for
construction, extension or rehabilitation of water supply, sanitation, solid waste management,
health clinics, additions to primary and secondary schools, community markets, feeder roads,
internal roads, rehabilitation of irrigation networks, terraces and wells or other eligible works; and
(ii) essential furniture and goods. Resources for training and technical services to improve
planning, consultation and management capacities of communities also would be available, as well
as for design, appraisal and supervision of microprojects.
Component 2: Community Telecenters. This component would finance approximately 10
multipurpose telecenters in preselected communities of WBG, through grants provided to LGUs.
Each telecenter microproject would provide funding for: (i) civil works to extend or reconfigure
facilities (such as community centers, libraries, or school labs) to accommodate ICT infrastructure
and programs; (ii) goods, such as computers, software, furniture, phones, fax machines,
photocopiers, including connection to Intemet services; and (iii) specialist services for delivery of
programs and services for up to 18 months. Funds also would be available for specialist services
for location-specific telecenter design, public awareness and promotion of telecenters, contents
development, and telecenter monitoring and evaluation. Considering the urgent need for
rehabilitation activities covered under Component 1, implementation of Component 2 would
begin during the second year of project implementation.
Component 3: Project Management. This component would finance incremental operating
costs, equipment, and studies needed by the MOLG, PECDAR, MOA, and DORA for project
execution and management.
Indicative           Bank-     % of
Component                 Sector       Costs    % of    financing  Bank-
(US$M)    Total    (US$M)   financina
Community Development                             17.65      88.3     7.95     79.5
Microprojects
Community Telecenters                              1.75       8.8     1.75      17.5
Project Management                                 0.60       3.0     0.30      3.0
Total Project Costs                20.00    100.0     10.00    i 0.0
Total Financing Required                 20.00    100.0     10.00    100.0
Assumes unallocated is designated to Community Development Microprojects
- 7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project primarily aims at capacity building and empowerment of local communities by
delegating planning and implementation responsibility to local governments and increasing
managerial and administrative capacities of local officials and some active community members.
The project contributes to formulation of an ICT strategy for the WBG by providing a test bed
and identifying demand for a wide range of ICT services.
3. Benefits and target population:
More than half a million Palestinians in at least 100 small and poor communities would benefit
from improved availability and quality of basic services and from greater economic activity due to
demand for local labor and materials (assumes average population per microproject 5,000). The
poor in marginalized rural communities and refugee camps in particular would benefit from
infrastructure improvements such as schools, clinics, water supply and sanitation, which have a
high social return. Although the PA has been trying to expand and improve access to health,
education and other basic services in villages, this effort has been constrained by a lack
infrastructure and limited planning and management capacity at the local level. The ICDP would
contribute to poverty reduction and reducing regional imbalances in service provision by targeting
much-needed resources to small municipalities, villages and refugee camps that are often
neglected by other programs and in regions with the highest incidence of poverty. Resources
would be directed at infrastructure that is critical to human development and private sector
activity. While some temporary jobs would be created, the ICDP would put greater emphasis on
building capacity and participatory processes in communities. The project would contribute to
good governance at the local level by creating opportunities for citizens to influence LGUs' use of
resources.
About 10 communities covering a total population of at least 75,000, would benefit from greater
access to and quality of ICT services and increased ICT skills through pilot telecenters. Youth in
telecenter communities would, for example, learn IT skills that are needed in the job market.
Women would get more equal opportunities to learn IT and other marketable skills, be able to
market handicraft and other products and services they produce, and gain access to health
information and educational resources. Farmers, small entrepreneurs and traders would leam
about new methods and technologies to improve their productivity as well as about markets and
business management. Local governments would be able to provide public services more
cost-efficiently and at higher quality using ICT through MCTs. The communities would also
benefit from an increased supply of governmental online services through reduced time and
expenditures otherwise required for traveling.
While the overall value of investments in the agriculture sector would be quite minimal compared
to the need, participating communities would benefit from better water management and greater
access to markets through the upgrading of infrastructure, and possibly through improved access
to information made available in telecenters that help farmers and traders learn about new
markets, enable them to contact suppliers and clients and leam about new technologies to
improve their productivity. Agriculture interventions that enable Palestinians to raise incomes are
expected to especially benefit women who make up half of the agriculture work force, and even
more when men are allowed to work in Israel.
- 8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
1)    ICDP Steering Committee. The CDP II Steering Comrnittee chaired by the Minister of
Local Government and comprised of representatives of PECDAR and DORA, would be renamed
the "ICDP Steering Committee". It would be expanded to include the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) and at least two representatives from academia or nongovernmental organizations to
ensure broader skills and knowledge base in line with the diversity of ICDP interventions. At least
two female committee members are expected to be added. The ICDP Steering Committee would
approve microprojects, annual budgets and workplans, appointment of the auditor, and
amendments to the Operations Manual.
2)    MOLG. MOA, PECDAR and DORA Coordinating Committee. One of the most effective
implementing arrangements of the CDP I and II, was the technical coordinating meeting between
the MOLG, PECDAR and DORA. Regular gatherings enabled the agencies to consult and make
joint decisions over microprojects in order to keep activities on schedule and budget. Under the
ICDP, such meetings would be formalized under two Coordinating Committees--one each for
West Bank and Gaza--comprising a representative each from the MOLG, PECDAR, DORA and
MOA. The Coordination Committees' functions would be primarily technical and supervisory.
They would (i) authorize and ensure quality control of microproject appraisal, implementation,
supervision, and impacts monitoring and reporting in accordance with the Operations Manual; (ii)
ensure consistency with sector priorities, norms and reforms; and (iii) coordinate ICDP activities
with donor and other PA programs. No microproject would be submitted to the Steering
Committee without a technical, social and financial quality assurance from the Coordinating
Committee. In addition to the four PA ministries and agencies represented, each Coordination
Comnmittee would include a Community Development Coordinator (CDC) to organize and
oversee social appraisals of microprojects by firms or NGOs, promote and facilitate citizen
involvement, plan and supervise impacts monitoring activities, and champion the
community-centered approach of the ICDP. The CDCs would be recruited as consultants from
the Palestinian private/NGO sector or Palestinian diaspora.
3)    Local Govemment Units (LGUs). Municipalities, village councils, farmers' cooperatives
or camp service committees would be responsible for preparing, implementing and monitoring the
impacts of microprojects using the ICDP Operations Manual, which would be a revision of the
CDP II Operations Manual (March 1999). An LGU would hold an open community meeting or
meetings to discuss the community's participation in the ICDP and seek input on the design,
financing and implementation of a microproject.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements:
The latest audit report for CDP II confirmed that PECDAR has performed satisfactorily in
financial management and control. Therefore, PECDAR would continue to execute financial
transactions, perform accounting functions, prepare fnancial reports, and make arrangements for
extemal audits for the ICDP. It is anticipated that PECDAR would be certified to use Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the ICDP. Annual audits would be undertaken by the PA with
TORs satisfactory to the IDA and in accordance with intemationally accepted standards.
-9-



Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Based on the experience of CDP I and II, existing tools and strategies for monitoring and
evaluating project activities would be continued, but communities would be expected to play a
greater role in monitoring and evaluation. Social and other imnpacts would be assessed more
stringently, and the implementing partners on the Coordination Committee would be expected to
transform lessons learned into ICDP program improvements.
Communities would be responsible for identifying microproject impact indicators in consultation
with the Community Development Coordinator and monitoring designated indicators for several
years after the initial microproject investment phase. For example, the development impact of a
school microproject may be gauged by looking at enrollment levels or attendance records. A
water microproject may be gauged by hours of supply, quality and cost recovery. Telecenters may
keep records of usage patterns. Indicators would be relevant to the problems and needs of the
community, identified by them, specified in the Microproject Agreement, and monitored by the
community "before" and "after" a microproject. The objective is to better document impacts of
ICDP investments (rather than inputs) and transform lessons into better program design and
administration. LGUs would be required to submit an annual status report to the Coordinating
Committee recording impact indicators as well as status of their maintenance plan. To assist
LGUs in fulfilling these roles, LGU members would be trained and assisted in developing impact
indicators and maintenance planning.
Learning and feedback also would be pursued at the macro level. The Coordinating Committees
would authorize studies by independent and qualified consultants, including annual Beneficiary
Impact Assessments (BIAs), Procurement Reviews, Technical Reviews and evaluations of
telecenters, with recommendations for improving ICDP design and administration. A Targeting
Effectiveness Study would also be undertaken to look at how well ICDP reaches poor and
marginalized comnmunities, and semi-annual Environmental Reviews would be undertaken. The
Bank's Supervision would monitor how well the Coordinating Committees transform emerging
lessons into program improvements and offer advise on such matters.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative 1: Exclusion of ICT
Reason for rejection: Given the speed of development in this sector globally, including many
parts of the Middle East, there is a great risk that the digital gap between WBG and its neighbors
will widen. Furthermore, WBG is at risk of an internal digital divide between urban and rural
populations, between the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, and also with respect to gender. The
ICT component under ICDP would promote ICT development among portions of the Palestinian
population deprived of such services and test institutional arrangements for possible replication
and expansion of pilot activities. The community-oriented approach of the envisaged telecenters
fits well into the ICDP concept.
- 1 0 -



Alternative 2: Exclusion of agriculture microprojects from the list of eligible microprojects
Reasons for rejection: One of the conclusions of the 1998 poverty study is that unless Palestinians
gain greater access to external markets and better paying jobs, it will be difficult for them to
escape poverty. Agriculture provides employment to 12-14 percent of the labor force, and this
percentage can rise appreciably during extended border closures. Higher exports of agricultural
products could directly benefit the poor, who are heavily represented in low-wage occupations in
the tradable goods sectors of agriculture and industry. Terracing, rehabilitation and metering of
wells, and other anticipated microprojects in rural areas would also have a positive impact on
productivity and employment. Another reason for including small agriculture investments through
the ICDP is that such investments are not addressed by other programs. Finally, the
demand-driven community development model fits well with the PA's stated goal of greater
involvement by cooperatives and other NGOs in rural development.
Alternative 3: Continue with emergency response approach
Reasons for rejection: While the current situation calls for rapid employment generation
initiatives, the Bank's strategy is to continue activities that provide opportunities for Palestinians
to move along the development path. Furthermore, past experiences with the Holst-Funded
Employment Generation Program have shown that the Palestinians, while welcoming emergency
interventions, want more sustainable, long-term programs such as the Community Development
Project model. Finally, the constantly changing socio-political environment demands a flexible,
multi-pronged intervention.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                   Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                              Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Infrastructure                  Emergency Employment
Generation Program (EEGP) -
1997
PNGO - I- 1997                 S            S
PNGO - II - 2001
Second Municipal               S            S
Infrastructure Project - 1999
Second Community               S            S
Development Project - 1999
Holst Fund - Emergency          S           S
Response Program - 2000
Emergency Services Support
- 11 -



Program - 2002
ICT                            Palestinian Development
Gateway
Other development agencies
USAID                          ICT - Powering-Up Project
USAID                          Rural Community Development
Project - 2000
UNDP                           LRDP program - 1997
USAID / WA / IYF               "Inforrnation Technology for
Youth in Rural Communities in
the West Bank"
EIB                            Comnunity Development
Project- 1999
OPEC Fund                      Community Development
Project - 1997 & 1999
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Decentralization of Microproject Management. One of the key lessons learned from CDP II
microprojects under US$50,000 and applied in the Emergency Response Program, is that LGUs
have the capacity to procure goods and services if they are given the necessary standard
documents and are held accountable for their performance. Furthermore, according to BIAs and
special studies done in preparation for the ICDP, local councils, other officials and residents have
a strong willingness to assume greater responsibilities for their infrastructure investments,
including procurement and supervision. Taking these lessons into consideration, the ICDP would
make LGUs more responsible and accountable for procurement, supervision, payment and
reporting of microprojects. The implementing partners (MOLG, MOA, DORA, PECDAR) would
remain responsible for quality assurance and adherence to the ICDP Operations Manual through
the Coordination Committees, but would relinquish day-to-day responsibility for microproject
implementation to LGUs.
Redesign of Capacity Building. Beneficiary Impact Assessments, the Midterm Review of CDP II,
and the ICDP preparation studies converged on a number of recurring issues for improving the
community development model in WBG. One of the recurring findings was that the CDP II
implementing partners did not enthusiastically and completely implement capacity building
activities alongside physical works. Accordingly, under ICDP, capacity building activities would
more specifically target LGUs (rather than government ministries and agencies), and aim to build
the broader planning and managerial capacities of LGUs (rather than just functions specific to
microprojects). In order to ensure communities are prepared to plan and account for project
resources, some training modules would be made mandatory to qualify for a microproject (i.e.
community participation in microproject planning and implementation, impacts monitoring,
maintenance planning, and procurement). But other training modules (such as land use planning,
municipal budgeting, fund-raising) would be available upon demand.
Skills Upgrading for Community Driven Development. Another recurring issue flagged by
analysts was that community members wanted more information and influence over microproject
- 12 -



decision making. Analysts found, for example, that even though the CDP II Operations Manual
specified that community consultation methods be verified prior to microproject approval, in some
cases the human resources with the experience, time and know-how were unavailable to ensure
that community participation was genuine and effective. There also were instances of insufficient
analysis of social indicators specified in the Operations Manual. To improve the quality of social
analysis, two champions of community development with extensive field experience in
Arabic-speaking countries would be hired to redirect the ICDP away from a narrower focus on
physical works to a stronger model of community-driven development. The Community
Development Coordinators would supervise local consultants to perform social appraisals, deliver
training and act as facilitators of community-centered participatory planning, help communities
identify their problems, propose solutions and assess whether they are achieving the desired
improvements.
Community-Based ICT. Despite numerous private sector initiatives in ICT investment in urban
areas of the WBG, the Palestinians still lack experience with community-based ICT development.
Several surveys suggest strong community support for such projects, even with limited
knowledge of the technology's potential impact on social and economic opportunities. Lessons
learned from ICT projects in rural communities in other parts of the world have been incorporated
into telecenter design under the proposed ICDP. They include: (i) assess community-specific
needs and perform an institutional assessment, including the willingness and capacity of
community members and local authorities to pay for ICT services; (ii) pilot telecenters rather than
embark on a full ICT project; (iii) foster local ownership and strong participation of communities
in the design and operation of the centers; (iv) provide intense monitoring and regular evaluation
of services and costs of telecenter operation; (v) obtain direct feedback from users during
telecenter operation, and allow user-initiated modification of the centers' service structure; (vi)
develop links with existing initiatives, such as the Palestinian Development Gateway; and (vii)
train telecenter staff in the creation and mobilization of locally relevant information.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Even under the severe hardship of the second intifada, the implementing agencies continue to
implement projects under CDP II. Furthermore, the PA has canvassed donors for assistance in
small, community-based, labor-intensive projects, which are effective instruments to reach the
poor and marginalized in the present environmnent. The PA fornally asked the IDA in April 2000,
for a follow-up project to CDP II and reiterated its request to the Sector Director of MNSRE in
February 2001, and later to the World Bank President. Preparatory meetings on the ICDP
concept were held among the CDP II implementing agencies (MOLG, PECDAR and DORA) and
were attended by the Ministries of Agriculture, Tourism, Health and Education, as well as the
team implementing the Palestinian Development Gateway, and some local government officials.
The participants endorsed the approach of the ICDP, including the proposed ICT component.
Furthermore, the recent social and participatory assessments found considerable support among
beneficiaries for the proposed project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Midterm Review of CDP II and the BIAs conducted during CDPs I and II concluded that it is
possible through the CDP model to reach villages and small municipalities where donor financing
- 13 -



has been quite limited. Hence, the Bank's assistance is greatly valued by the borrower. This is
particularly relevant in refugee camps where budget constraints in UNWRA limit the number of
activities that can be funded. The Palestinians also look to the Bank first in times of crisis. During
the present crisis, for example, the Palestinians requested and obtained emergency assistance from
the Bank for a rapid employment generation program. There is interest from some bilateral donors
in co-financing the ICDP. Additionally, the Bank continues to use its global experience in helping
to design community-driven projects, including projects that aim to integrate information
technology into community development.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the nature and size of microprojects, and given that ICDP would be demand driven, no
detailed economic analysis for the entire project would be undertaken ex ante. However, simple
quantitative economic analysis would be carried out on individual microprojects. The analysis
would make use of a screening and appraisal model used under CDPs I and II, including
cost-effectiveness analysis. The approval of income-generating agricultural microprojects would
require higher cost-sharing and cost-benefit analysis. The economic justification to establish
telecenters is derived from their expected social and economic benefits through local capacity
building, reducing the cost of exclusion from access to ICTs. Since local experience with
multi-purpose community telecenters is largely lacking, quantitative analyses would be undertaken
during pilot project implementation, based on an intense monitoring and evaluation scheme. The
project would seek to avoid competition between telecenters and existing private initiatives.
Rather, the private sector would be encouraged to participate in the provision of services to the
beneficiary communities and included in telecenter activities, e.g. as contracted private telecenter
operators. Even in a situation of initially subsidized community telecenters, the private sector
would be expected to benefit in the long term from the development of a larger market for
ICT-based services.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A microproject grant to a LGU would typically cover 90 percent of the total microproject cost
(less in the case of some agriculture microprojects). The remaining 10 percent would come from
communities in the form of cash (5 percent) and in-kind (5 percent). The proposed Trust Fund
Credit of US$10 million would cover 50 percent of the total project cost. Approximately 90
percent of this Credit would finance microprojects, while the remaining 10 percent would finance
goods, services and supplemental operating costs for project management, audits, evaluations and
capacity building activities.
- 14 -



Fiscal Impact:
Availability of resources for recurrent costs is a serious concern. The extended border closures
since September 2000 have severely hurt commerce and other economic activities and caused a
decline in household wages. Consequently, national tax revenues have dropped, and individuals
find it more difficult to pay energy and water fees, which are an important source of revenue for
LGUs. Such circumstances do not bode well for financing recurrent costs of schools, clinics,
telecenters and water systems, or for maintaining roads financed under the CDP II and to be
financed under the ICDP. A proposed innovation under the ICDP would be to encourage LGUs
to set aside a percentage of total microproject cost in an Operation and Preventive Maintenance
Fund. The project would also promote joint service committees among neighboring communities
to achieve economies of scale whenever feasible.
The financial sustainability is one of the most important, widely accepted criteria of success of
telecenters. After a promotion period with free services, an increasing proportion of costs should
be covered by the beneficiaries of telecenter infrastructure and services. The telecenter
beneficiaries include both users and providers of information, depending on the side to which the
prime benefits of this information exchange can be attributed. While ICDP would guarantee
sufficient funds for investment and operation and maintenance during the pilot phase, long-term
financial sustainability would have to be sought through the selection of a suitable organizational
and financial model. The ICT needs and institutional assessments conducted during ICDP
preparation suggest to employ an LGU-based telecenter model owned and supervised by the local
community, operated by additional staff or the private sector, and financed through user fees and
local governments. It is anticipated that the pilot telecenters will produce a suitable and practical
financial model applicable to a larger number of locations in WBG. This is one of the main
reasons why ICDP seeks to implement pilot initiatives before becoming engaged in a large-scale
ICT project.
3. Technical:
The project design is similar to the successfully implemented CDP I and the on-going CDP II. The
recently conducted preparatory assessments and the technical assessment done during the
Midterm Review of CDP II found the project design technically sound. However, some recurring
technical shortcomings were identified, including: (i) poor quality drawings, especially from small
villages; (ii) lack of conformity between microprojects and Palestinian standards for some work
items, such as under-sized community market spaces and inadequate drainage for access roads;
and (iii) incomplete maintenance plans (e.g. nonspecific budgets). Based on the findings and
lessons learned, greater care would be given to technical quality of the microprojects under ICDP
and also to operation and maintenance. Accordingly, funds would be made available to hire fimns
to prepare drawings and bill of quantities in accordance with best practice in WBG, and to
provide quality control expertise from the private sector during microproject implementation.
Community members, especially engineers on the staff of municipalities, would upgrade their
skills for microproject maintenance. Staff of the MOA and PECDAR also would be eligible to
attend training to improve their expertise in water, roads and building construction. Finally, an
annual Technical Review on a minimum 10 percent of microprojects would be undertaken by a
qualified firm under TOR acceptable to the World Bank. The Technical Review would include: (i)
an assessment of quality of designs, bill of quantities, adherence to standards, quality of works,
- 15 -



and supervision; (ii) identification of recurring problems; and (iii) recommendations of measures
to overcome problems.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The ICDP, like the CDP, would be executed through a Steering Committee comprising the
PECDAR, Ministry of Agriculture, and the Department of Refugee Affairs, and chaired by the
Ministry of Local Government. Proposals from commnunities would be pre-screened by the
MOLG, appraised by the Coordination Committee, then lorwarded to the Steering Committee for
approval.
4.2 Project management:
Like CDP II, the MOLG would be the responsible agency for the ICDP. PECDAR, DORA and
the MOA would join the MOLG in managing the project, primarily through the Coordination
Committees. The ICDP aims to further decentralize the implementation of the microprojects to
villages and small municipalities, and make more use of private fims and NGOs to prepare,
appraise and supervise microprojects in order to improve overall quality.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement reviews conducted as part of the Midterm Review for CDP II recommended further
decentralization of procurement functions to LGUs. Training would be provided to LGU
members to ready them for their procurement functions. The PECDAR would be responsible for
ensuring procurement is done in accordance with the Operations Manual.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management would continue to be the responsibility of PECDAR, with monitoring
responsibility shared with the other Coordination Committee agencies. PECDAR has the
necessary institutional capacity to ensure proper usage of funds: both the procurement audits of
CDP I and CDP II and the BLAs revealed high marks for PECDAR's financial management
capacities.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A recent assessment of the environmental impacts of' CDP II microprojects found positive
environmental impacts for most microprojects (see "ICDP Environmental Management Plan,."
Engineering and Management Consulting Center, West B3ank and Gaza, October 2001). Positive
impacts included improved public health and ground water protection from sewage and water
projects; reduced dust and improved drainage and road safety especially for roads near schools;
and positive educational and cultural atmosphere from rehabilitation and construction of schools
and public buildings. While no serious issues were identified, the assessment revealed that some
measures introduced in CDP II to integrate environmental assessment into design and
implementation of microprojects were not fulfilled. For example: the CDP II called for creation
of an environmental unit in the PECDAR, training of staff in environmental appraisal, and
monitoring and evaluation of mitigation measures during site visits. The environmental impacts
- 16-



assessment revealed that no environmental expert was appointed to monitor microprojects, and
while an environmental consulting firm was hired to assess the implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), no formal training was provided to municipal engineers
or contractors. The environmental assessment for the ICDP led to the following
recommendations, which would be incorporated into the ICDP: (i) out-sourcing site-specific
environmental screening for earmarked microprojects and establishing a network of practitioners
with technical analysis capability; (ii) training daily supervisors and contractors in environmental
protection; and (iii) conducting site-specific environmental screening and mitigation measures for
randomly selected microprojects at least twice a year.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP were an audit of randomly selected CDP II microprojects and an
assessment of potential impacts and mitigation measures. Based on the audit and assessment, an
EMP was developed highlighting the following elements:
* Site specific environmental screening review and assessment
* Strengthening environmental expertise
*   Environmental capacity building and training program
* Potential environmental impacts, mitigation measures and monitoring plan
Further details of the EMP are part of the EA report on file.
EMP Cost Estimate and Schedule.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 15, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmental audits of CDP II microprojects involved sites visits and discussions with
beneficiaries on the environmental impacts of microprojects. The EMP for the ICDP is based on
lessons learned from site visits and discussions with stakeholders of nine microprojects. More
details are provided in the EA report on file.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environrment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Under CDP II, environmental audits were conducted to evaluate whether the mitigation measures
proposed under the EMP are being implemented. Similarly, under ICDP, an Environmental
Review would be undertaken twice a year to assess whether the objectives of the proposed EMP
are being achieved.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The 2001 MENA Social Development Team's "Rural Poverty in WBG" report identified a
number of key social issues for the ICDP. The report highlighted the crucial relationship among
social service provision, participation and poverty alleviation and the need for recognition that
- 17 -



poverty consists not only in material deprivation and lack of social and other basic services, but
also in the poor's exclusion from decision-making processes and institutions. Despite the relative
benefits of donor assistance, according to the report, several factors minimize development impact
on the lives of poor and marginalized Palestinians in WBG.
1)    Lack of representation of the poor and marginalized at the local, regional and central
levels. Elections have not been conducted for local governments. Local officials see elections as
necessary to strengthen their legitimacy and scope to manage local affairs. Moreover, poor areas
have few civil society organizations and where they exist, they are fragile.
2)    Central design and coordination of donor-funded projects. Projects aimed at improving
the conditions of the poor need more attention to strengthening the social and political capacities
of beneficiaries to participate more effectively in project design, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.
3)    Lack of technical assistance at the local level. Despite their provision of social services,
many LGUs and NGOs still lack a poverty-focused strategy and mechanisms to reach the poor.
The report concludes that poverty alleviation efforts should be based on the premises that social
services need to be distributed fairly and efficiently and community participation needs to be at the
center of poverty alleviation efforts, so that citizens feel they own, benefit from, and are
responsible for the process. This finding is consistent with findings of the "Assessment of
Community Participation and Sustainability of CDP I and II Microprojects," which found limited
participation by residents in microproject identification and implementation. Other than in a few of
the largest municipalities, LGUs were not allowed to perform procurement and supervision
functions. (Exceptions to these arrangements were microprojects under US$50,000. For such
cases, LGUs procured supplies and contractors and signed contracts, but did not conduct daily
supervision nor authorize payments.) Local officials and residents indicated that such
arrangements dissuaded community commitment and appreciation for microprojects.
Improvements to ICDP to increase social development outcomes:
From a social perspective, then, the ICDP would improve the well being of Palestinians by:
*     ensuring that marginalized localities get access to quality social services to increase equity,
by ensuring poorer communities receive a higher proportion of microproject funds;
*     strengthening the ability of residents to claim their power and better utilize their own
resources by formalizing community participation in the local government system, by
requiring town meetings and inviting citizens to advise and assist LGUs in microproject
preparation, implementation and monitoring;
*     decentralizing preparation, procurement and supervision of microprojects to LGUs, and
providing them training to perform their functions, which is a means to develop active,
committed and responsive local officials; and
*     reducing the reliance on international funding for infrastracture by pursuing other sources
of investment capital, especially human, monetary and in kind resources from community
members.
- 18 -



Gender Analysis
Because women's participation in economic and social development is essential for promoting
economic efficiency and for reducing poverty in West Bank and Gaza, it is critical that women's
participation be mainstreamed in the ICDP. There is much world-wide evidence that failure to
integrate women into projects can impede their successful outcome. Conversely, including gender
analysis and women's participation can improve project design and outcomes. Some of the
findings from the CDP I and II gender analysis are:
(1)   Women were absent from key decision making bodies. Women were absent from the
Steering Committee and decision making positions in CDP I and II Implementing Agencies (i.e.
MOLG, DORA and PECDAR). In fact, not one woman was named on a list of key stakeholders
and informants within the PA's implementing agencies. Women also were largely absent from
local level decision-making bodies. CDP II microprojects were selected mostly by members of
local village councils, that in rare instances had women representatives. In all of the eight
communities studied for the Community Participation Assessment of CDP I and II, none of the
females who participated in the focus groups indicated that they were consulted or involved in the
process of microproject identification.
(2)   Women and men are willing and interested to participate. Women in two of the eight
communities studied said they had attended public meetings to identify and implement an NGO
project in their community and would attend such a meeting for CDP if they were asked to
participate. When asked about their interest and capacity for greater participation, all men and
women who participated in focus groups indicated that they are very interested and would like to
play an active role in the process if they are consulted from the beginning and not used by
outsiders as tools. "We are not ignorant. But we are ignored by others," said a man from Wadi El
Salqa. Few women interviewed said they are not interested in participating or that their husbands
represent their views.
(3)   Attitudes of key stakeholders do not reflect a culture of community driven development
and involvement by women. There was a prevalent attitude among staff of CDP Implementing
Agencies that community involvement was important in the microproject identification stage only.
No special committees with non-LGU members were formed to oversee the implementation of
microprojects in any of the sample communities. The main reason behind the weak participation
of women was the lack of interest or will on the part of the LGUs to involve women in the
process.
(4)    Women assert that their participation would improve the targeting effectiveness and
impacts of microprojects. Because of the lack of community awareness and involvement, people
expected more than what the CDP microproject could deliver. In a number of locations, women
indicated that as a result of the lack of consultation and involvement of women, the microproject
in their community was not well targeted at some disadvantaged groups.
- 19 -



Proposed improvements to ICDP regarding gender:
In order to involve women in resource allocation and agenda setting, they would be present at
some key decision making bodies of the ICDP and a more gender-sensitive approach would be
introduced to the microproject cycle and evaluation of the ICDP. In particular the following steps
would be taken.
*   Addition of a minimum two women to the ICDP Steering Committee, selected on the basis of
their broad perspective and long-term experience in development in WBG and broad vision
for women's participation in local and national poverty reduction programs.
*   Introduction of two Community Development Coordinators at the level of key decision
making, resource allocation and quality assurance, positions for which women would be the
preferred candidates.
*   Out-sourcing gender and social analysis of microprojects to experienced NGOs and firms to
improve the quality of analysis.
*   Encouraging women's participation in advising and assisting local councils in microproject
matters.
*   Monitoring gender-sensitive impact indicators for each microproject, such as how many
women utilize MCTs on a monthly basis.
*   Integrating gender into community mobilization and participation training for local
governments.
*   Prioritizing agriculture microprojects from women's cooperatives and making it possible for
women coop leaders to access capacity building activities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As described above, local governments and farmers cooperatives would manage microprojects
and be responsible for maintenance and recording development impacts over tirne; several active
and interested community members would be encouraged to advise and assist local authorities in
performing their functions; key central agencies and ministries would ensure consistency between
microprojects and sector plans and norms through their representation at the technical
Coordinating Committees and be responsible for transforming lessons learned into program
improvements; and local and central authorities would have to agree on and implement a
maintenance plan for each microproject.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During the implementation of CDP I and CDP II, several complementary activities were
undertaken by Save the Children, CHF, ANERA, and other NGOs working in the Gaza Strip.
ICDP also would seek to establish links to activities by civil society organizations, including the
NGO II Project supported by the World Bank. Farners cooperatives would be specially singled
out during promotion of ICDP activities. Under the telecenter component, the ICDP would seek
collaboration with local ICT development partners that pursue similar or complementary
activities, such as UNDP and CHF. Further, the Palestinian Development Gateway offered to
provide coordination of the telecenter initiative at the national level as well as specific ICT
applications upon the request of local communities.
- 20 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See 6.1 above
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See C4 Monitoring and Evaluation
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental assessment has been conducted as as per OD 4.01 for category B projects. The
EA has been reviewed and cleared by the Bank and has been submitted to the Infoshop. Road
microprojects would be primarily reconstruction or upgrading. The ICDP would work entirely
within existing public land and rights-of-way or ensure that all additional land requirements are
met exclusively in voluntary fashion or acquired on a willing-seller willing-buyer basis. Any
microprojects requiring involuntary expropriation would be excluded from funding under the
ICDP.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The risk of low sustainability remains significant under the current political and socioeconomic
situation. Reduced income from taxes and user fees irnpacts the ability of villages and
municipalities to cover recurrent costs of infrastructure. Consequently, a number of features have
been incorporated into the ICDP to help mitigate the risks, including: decentralized microproject
implementation, strategies for increased community participation and transparency, assistance to
plan operation and maintenance, training of local technical staff to perform preventive
maintenance, and a requirement that communities set aside a minimum 5 percent of the total
microproject cost in an O&M Fund to be accessed once the defects liability period concludes.
Lastly, higher quality designs and more rigorous quality inspection are likely to optimize the
normal working life of microprojects.
- 21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of agreement among the               M         The poverty map prepared as part of CDP II,
implementing agencies on poverty and                and the most recent poverty studies conducted
marginality targeting.                              by the Bank, would be used to seek agreement
on a poverty targeting strategy during appraisal
of the ICDP. The screening tools as part of the
strategy would be included in the Operations
Manual.
MP screening and ranking tools increase   M         Training activities in poverty targeting would be
the likelihood that the poorest                    included for the members of the Coordination
communities receive funds                           Committee (CC).
disproportionate to non-poor cormmunities.
Continued closures and their impact on    H         Keeping the ceiling for microprojects to less
the economy reduce the financial                   than US$150,000 facilitates use of a higher
sustainability of infrastructure                    percentage of local materials and labor and
investments and their maintenance.                  thereby stimulates local economy. The proposal
to establish an O&M fund through community
contribution is another intervention to improve
sustainability.
From Components to Outputs
Training for communities is not delivered  M        Training modules have been delivered to LGUs
effectively or in a timely manner                   under CDP II and will be used to launch training
under ICDP. Training participants would be
asked to give feedback on each session so that
improvements can be made.
Reliable functioning of ICTs despite      M         Technical feasibility assessed during
strong extemal dependence of the sector.            preparation, in close collaboration with on-going
ICT initiatives such as the Palestinian
Development Gateway.
Slow release of disbursement to           N         Continue strengthening financial accounting and
contractors and suppliers                           MIS capacity at PECDAR.
Strong inflationary pressures             M         Promote MPs that rely on local materials. Make
contingency plans for each MP.
LGUs do not perform procurement,          M         Procurement training for LGUs prior to bid
supervision and monitoring efficiently and          announcement. Close supervision of all
in accordance with Operations Manual                procurement by PECDAR. Technical Reviews
and Procurement Reviews would highlight
recurring problems and recommendations to
improve performance.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
- 22 -



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1.     IDA approval of the ICDP Operations Manual would be a condition of Project
Effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1.     The TOR for the position of the CDCs would be subject to IDA approval before Board
Presentation.
2.     Preparation of TORs for hiring an international auditor would be a condition for
effectiveness.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Kanthan Shankar                   Petros Aklilu                     Nigel Roberts
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Integrated Community Development Project
Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Human resource development Reduction in poverty levels in Palestinian Central Bureau of Economic growth is equitable
and poverty reduction      WBG                        Statistics (PCBS) and MAS  and continuation of the Peace
Process
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improved quality and       75% of total MP financing is  WB Poverty Map          Economic stability is regained
availability of basic social and awarded to communities  Targeting Effectiveness Study with modest economic growth
economic services in poor and located in regions with  Beneficiary Impact         and resulting revenue
marginalized communities of poverty incidence above 20%  Assessments              generation
WBG
60% of total MP financing is                           Economic growth is equitable
awarded to communities with
population less than 5,000                            Household incomes of the
poor remain stable or increase
60% of sample of                                      so they can afford services
beneficiaries express
satisfaction with microproject
outcomes
- 24 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Increased quality and     Minimum 100 Community      Microproject Status Reports  -MP screening and ranking
availability of basic service  Development MPs are   and Microproject          tools increase the likelihood
affected by the MP, in    implemented                Maintenance Plans         that poorest communities
communities implementing                                                       receive funds disproportionate
MPs                                                                            to non-poor communities
Feedback surveys for training -LGUs and Cooperatives
modules and follow-up      ensure poor and marginalized
interviews                benefit from MPs within their
BIAs                       communities
50% of communities use                               -LGUs and Cooperatives can
O&M funds in accordance   MCT Pilot reports          access recurrent costs to
with MP Maintenance Plan                             sustain benefits of the MP
Special study of Agriculture  without sacrificing other
MPs                        essential services to the poor
minimum 75% of attendees to                          -Coordinating Partners respect
mandatory training say they                          decentralization of roles to
benefited from the training                          LGUs, CSCs and farmer
coops
-CDP II Implementing
Agencies accept MOA and
CDCs into Coordinating
Committee for ICDP
-Private sector delivers good
quality technical, social,
environmental and financial
analysis of MPs in timely and
cost effective manner
Strengthened relationship  60% of surveyed residents say                        Coordinating Committees
between local councils and  they are satisfied with the                         make recommendations for
their constituents in     level of community                                    approval/rejection based on
communities implementing  participation in the MP                               merits of proposal, without
MPs                                                                             political or other bias.
50% of women surveyed say
they are satisfied with the
level of women's participation
in MPs
Underserved groups have   Minimum 8 pilot MCTs are
access to ICT services    established and remain
functioning for minimum I
year from end of 18 month
investment phase
MCTs recover an average 20
percent of operating cost from
users and providers within I
year from end of 18 month
investment phase
- 25 -



Key Performance      | Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators        j                           Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
1. Community Development  USD 17.65 million        Bank Supervision reports  Training is provided to LGUs
Microprojects                                       Telecenter usage records  and farmer coops in timely
BlAs                      manner and relevant to their
Disbursement Records      needs
Financial Audits
LGUs and coops apply
training to implementation of
their MP
Comnmunity Telecenters    USD 1.75 million                                   Farmers' coops are interested
and capable to participate in
ICDP activities, including
some women's cooperatives
Microprojects are
implemented in accordance
with Operations Manual
Project Management        USD 0.6 million                                    LGUs ensure marginalized
groups are represented in MP
design and implementation
and benefit from MP activities
- 26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Integrated Community Development Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$17.65 million
Community Development Microprojects
Description. Implementation of at least 100 community development microprojects, costing less
than US$150,000, prepared and managed by local government units, camp service committees
and farmer cooperatives. Microprojects would include: (i) civil works implemented by a
competitively-selected local contractor; and (ii) goods or equipment, not to exceed 5 percent of
the total microproject cost. This component would also finance local technical services to prepare
drawings and bill of quantities, perform daily supervision and quality inspection, and delivery
training.
Microproject Cycle
Preparation. Communities would be required to match 10 percent of the total microproject costs,
of which 5 percent could be made available in-kind (minimum 25 percent in cash would be
required for income generating microprojects). Communities also would be required to hold an
open meeting to discuss participation in the ICDP, select a priority microproject, and seek input
on the design, financing and implementation of a microproject. LGUs would invite voluntary
expertise from the community, especially women, to advise and assist the LGU in fulfilling its
functions. LGUs would prepare a microproject proposal in accordance with the Operations
Manual and submit it to the MOLG for initial screening.
Appraisal. Upon receipt of a duly-completed microproject proposal from the MOLG, the
Coordinating Committee (one each in West Bank and Gaza) would screen proposals according to
exclusive criteria stipulated in the ICDP Operations Manual. A microproject that meets the
exclusive criteria would be appraised (in most cases by local consultants) to assess its feasibility,
readiness and likelihood to meet its development objective. Microprojects that have a high
likelihood of success and are most feasible would be prioritized. For such communities, LGU
members would be required to undertake mandatory training to qualify for their microproject and
to finalize their microproject proposal (based on training and the appraisers' recommendations).
Once LGUs have completed training, then the Coordinating Committee would forward a
microproject to the Steering Committee for final approval. The CC would request prior approval
from the World Bank for all income generating microprojects.
Implementation. Upon the Steering Committee's approval of a microproject, a Microproject
Agreement would be signed between the PECDAR and the LGU, requesting the LGU to deposit
its cost sharing and authorizing them to implement the microproject. The LGU would hire a
consultant to finalize drawings and bill of quantities, if necessary, and appoint or hire a daily
supervisor. The LGU would procure consulting services and works in accordance with the ICDP
Operations Manual and under the supervision of the PECDAR. The Coordinating Committee
would provide a quality assurance inspector for each microproject to visit the site at least twice a
- 27 -



month to check on quality and pace of work. In some cases, the CC may request the MOA to
provide quality control/inspection of agriculture microprojects.
Post Implementation. LGUs would be required to report back to the Coordinating Committee on
an annual basis on the status of their maintenance plan and impacts of their microproject.
Project Component 2 - US$1.75 million
Multi-purpose Community Telecenters
Objective. The main objective of the proposed MCT pilot would be to develop sustainable,
replicable models for multi-purpose community telecenters in the Palestinian context and evaluate
the impact of such centers on human development. This component would finance at least 10
multipurpose community telecenter (MCT) pilots in pre-selected localities of WBG. Telecenters
would support community development by improving access to, and the quality of, information
and communication services. They would particularly address the issue of economic and human
resource constraints for the access to ICT in poor rural and urban areas through the provision of
public access points for such technology and services. The services to be provided would depend
on the specific needs of the community and are expected to differ between the various telecenter
locations. In any case, the multi-purpose telecenters would provide more than simple public
access to ICTs as it is offered for example in Intemet cafes. The telecenters would deliver a
maximum range of public (e.g. health, education, public administration) and private (e.g. Intemet
access, business support) services in order to broaden the spectrum of beneficiaries and share the
cost of the infrastructure as widely as possible and, hence, increase economic and financial
sustainability. To qualify as an MCT, a telecenter would be: (i) "multipurpose," i.e. offer both
public and private services and not only communication services, in particular information services
and user training and support; (ii) "community-based," i.e. the user communities would define the
design, products and services, and monitor telecenter operation; and (iii) a "tele-center," i.e. offer
telecommunications services including internet access.
Structure. The establishment of MCTs would be supported under two sub-components: 1) the
establishment of the telecenters at a maximum cost of US$150,000 each, including i) civil works
for extension or reconfiguration of existing facilities (such as community centers, libraries, or
school labs) to accommodate ICT infrastructure and programs; ii) goods, such as computers,
software, furniture, phones, fax machines, photocopiers, including connection to internet services;
and iii) specialist services for delivery of programs and services for up to 18 months; and 2)
national support to telecenter establishment (total: US$250,000), comprising specialist services
for location-specific telecenter design including a detailed business plan, public awareness and
promotion of telecenters, contents development, and monitoring and evaluation of telecenter
pilots. Utilities, security, maintenance and sanitation of the MCT would be the responsibility of
the community. Since the communities would be encouraged to build on existing facilities and
local partnerships with other ICT development actors, requests for the maximum grant amount
would be the exception.
Revenue generation. After a promotion period with strongly reduced fees or even free services,
the telecenters would seek to recover a large part of their operating cost. Initially, major revenue
streams would likely stem from telephony services, Internet access services and the provision of
- 28 -



computer and vocational training courses. The fee structure would depend on the objectives of
service provision, but should include commercial rates for services already provided by the private
sector (in order to reduce the risk of competition to private sector initiatives), and subsidized fees
or free services for specific activities or social groups for which the case of community-wide
social or economic benefits can be made. A large part of the revenues could be gained from bulk
contracts with large users like private companies, schools or vocational training centers. Further
revenue streams could be generated through a membership fee design or direct user charges.
Business plan. The fee structure and the overall financing plan for telecenter operation and
maintenance activities would be laid out in a business plan. The business plan also would provide
details with respect to the existence of a suitable location or building; products and services
offered and equipment needed; costs and long-term financing plan (indicating how the LGU
intends to contribute to recover the recurrent cost especially after start-up funding); local ICT
development partners and their contribution; characteristics, duration and cost structure of the
promotion period; ownership and management model, including the degree to which the
telecenter management can exercise administrative and financial autonomy; proof of the intention
to establish an operation and maintenance fund with regular payments of a specified minimum
amount (according to the financial volume of the operation); proof of an existing local telecenter
Project Committee, its members and roles; TORs for telecenter staff; the way the center's services
target particular social groups (especially the poor) and activities (e.g. awareness campaigns); and
monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The business plan, satisfactory to the ICDP Steering
Committee and IDA, would be a prerequisite for telecenter microproject approval and the release
of funds.
Institutional arrangements and business model. It is widely acknowledged that local ownership is
essential for the design of local-needs-oriented and eventually sustainable telecenters. Such
ownership and control could be exerted by either of the following options: (1) A community,
represented by its LGU, owns and manages the telecenter: or (2) a community engages a contract
with a private sector telecenter operator. Even if a community initially opts for the LGU model, a
concession for telecenter operation could be contracted out to the private sector at the end of the
start-up phase. In the LGU model, a telecenter manager would be recruited by the LGU for the
day-to-day management and operation of the MCT, including personnel recruitment, accounting,
financial reporting, program development and delivery, and for running a monitoring system
acceptable to the LGU. The LGU would be responsible for mobilizing financial and in-kind cost
sharing from the community, submitting the proposal to the respective Coordinating Committee,
and overseeing telecenter operations if the proposal is approved. Under the "least-subsidy private
sector" model, the LGU would administer the preparation of the tender documents, select the
bidder who requires the least subsidies for the provision of services as specified in the tender
documents, and sign the contract with the successful bidder. Under both options, it would also
evaluate MCT performance and request modifications based on monitoring reports of the
telecenter manager.
Implementation. Telecenter preparation, appraisal and implementation would follow the same
guidelines as other microprojects, with the following mnodifications: i) The Steering Committee
pre-selects the location of telecenters and invites selected communities to present a telecenter
- 29 -



proposal. The selection criteria for eligible communities are stipulated in the Operations Manual.
ii) The cost sharing of 10 percent can be made entirely in-kind and include the use of an existing
facility. iii) Telecenter design is coordinated at the level of the Coordinating Committee, rather
than the LGU, in order to tap some economies of scale. However, location-specific designs with
close participation of the future beneficiaries shall be developed, and the final proposal would be
sent to the Coordinating Committee. iv) After approval by the Steering Committee, the
Coordinating Committee would inform the LGU about the telecenter "package", including the
telecenter itself, but also marketing, content development, baseline study and end-of-pilot
evaluation for which funds would be made available.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.60 million
Supplemental operating costs for MOLG, PECDAR, MOA, and DORA, salaries,
communications, audits, impact studies and consultant services for community development
would be financed through this component. Project management costs are estimated at 3 percent
of total project costs.
- 30 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
WEST BANK AND GAZA. Integrated Community Development Project
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million  US $million
Community Development Microprojects                       14.30          1.50        15.80
Community Telecenters                                      1.30          0.50         1.80
Project Management                                         0.40          0.10         0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                       16.00          2.10        18.10
Physical Contingencies                                    0.50          0.10         0.60
Price Contingencies                                       1.00          0.30         1.30
Total Project Costs'              17.50         2.50        20.00
Total Financing Required               17.50         2.50        20.00
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                        0.30          0.70          1.00
Works                                                       15.40          2.00         17.40
Services                                                     0.80          0.20          1.00
Incremental Operating Cost                                   0.60          0.00          0.60
Total Project Costs      17.10          2.90         20.00
Total Financing Required      17.10          2.90         20.00
Main Assumptions: As the project is demand driven, ex-ante costing is difficult and hence assumptions
based on previously implemented CDP projects and broad assumptions on the proposed ICT component
have been undertaken. Price and physical contengencies are assumed to be 7% and 3%, respectively.
Unallocated amount is calculated as part of Works.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 20 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 50% oftotal
project cost net of taxes.
- 31 -



Annex 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Integrated Community Development Project
Analysis and appraisal of microprojects
General approach
Given that microprojects to be financed under ICDP would be identified, approved, and
implemented during ICDP implementation, and given the nature and size of such microprojects,
no detailed economic analysis for the entire project would be undertaken ex ante, i.e. no attempt
would be made to estimate overall economic and financial rates of return. The project is designed
to finance simple and cost-effective community infrastructure, with priorities identified by the
beneficiary communities. Project analyses would therefore concentrate on an analysis of individual
microprojects based on technical, economic, financial, social and environmental criteria to be
specified in the Operations Manual. The financial and economic assessments would follow the
model currently applied by PECDAR for the preceding CDP H, combining several indicators in a
composite index of microproject preference including cost-effectiveness ratios.
Agricultural microprojects would require higher cost-sharing (as only part of the community
would benefit, and in order to enhance ownership and sustainability); and in the case of
income-generating investment, a more rigorous economic analysis including cost/benefit-analyses
would be recommended. The appraisal of individual telecenter microprojects would be based on a
location-specific business plan and risk analysis.
Indicators and scoring system for investment under component 1
Based on data taken from a microproject appraisal form, the following economic and financial
parameters would be calculated:
Economic:
*   labor content, i.e. labor cost as proportion of total microproject cost
*   cost per person-day of employment, i.e. total microproject cost per total number of
person-days of employment
Financial:
*   cost per construction day, i.e. total microproject cost per total number of construction
days
*   cost per unit of common work items, such as per square meter of paved road or pipe
layed, based on unit prices from previously completed works
*   daily average wage
However, the economic and financial analysis would be only two among several criteria employed
in the selection of microprojects. Microproject appraisal also would include other criteria
specified in the Operations Manual, such as:
- 32 -



*  Technical: availability of local laborers and materials, accessibility to the microproject
site, technical norms and standards, technical feasibility, development impact,
availability of land for construction;
*  Social: participation of community members in project identification, knowledge of
community members of their obligations toward community cost sharing and operation
and maintenance, proportion of the community expected to benefit from the
microproject, extent to which poor and vulnerable members of the community would
benefit from the microproject, impact on women and children
* Environmental: potential environmental danger or damage resulting from microproject
implementation, provisions to mitigate potential environmental damage, place and
legal authorization to transport and dump site debris, areas of potential environmental
improvement resulting from the microproject.
-33 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Integrated Community Development Project
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  I Year 6  |TYear 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          4.0       4.9        5.8       4.8                 0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.1       0.2       0.2       0.2                 0.0
Total Project Costs         4.0       5.0        6.0       5.0       0.2       0.0      0.0
Total Financing             4.0        5.0       6.0       5.0       0.2       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 2.0        2.6       3.5       1.9       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.0       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.1       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             2.0       2.0       1.8       2.2                 0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.2        0.4       0.6       0.1      0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    4.0        5.0       6.0       5.0       0.2       0.0       0.0
Year I    Year 2     Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0                 0.0
Recurrent Costs          0.0       0.1       0.2        0.2       0.2                 0.0
Total Project Costs        0.0        0.1       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.0       0.0
.Total Financing            0.0       0.1        0.2       0.2       0.2       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government               0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1       0.1                 0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1                 0.0
Other                      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   0.0        0.1       0.2       0.2        0.2      0.0       0.0
-34 -



Main assumptions:
As the projects will be demand driven, it is difficult to calculate accurately the recurrent costs. However, based on
assessments conducted on the earlier CDPs during implementation and estimates made on the recurrent costs for the
telecenters, we estimate approximately US$0.2 million per year. Assuming peace returns to the region and normal
socio-economic conditions prevail, then these costs would be financed partly through government budget and users.
Furthermore, projects which do not have commitment from the relevant sector ministry to operate the facility, will be
excluded from funding. Long-term operating costs is an issue for all infrastructure projects in WBG and is being
addressed through the Municipal Infrastructure Project and more recently, through the ESSP.
- 35 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
WEST BANK AND GAZA. Integrated Community Development Project
Procurement
1. Background:
As per requirements of the World Bank Procurement Guidelines, a procurement review of the CDP II was
undertaken to examine compliance with the Legal Agreement and Operations Manual and assess the
implementing agency's capacity to undertake procurement according to the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. The Procurement Review was completed in December 2001, on ten percent of civil works
contracts. The full report can be found in the Project Files.
Summary of Procurement Assessment: The assessment covered PECDAR's performance in CDP II and
included a brief assessment of the procurement practice of local governments and the Palestinian
Procurement Law for Public Works. The assessment concluded that procurement in CDP H was carried out
in line with the Legal Agreement and Operations Manual and achieved economy, efficiency and
transparency. The report recommended that a central agency like PECDAR keep the overall responsibility
for procurement and procurement planning, which is important for economic, contractual and quality
reasons. However, it also recommended to avoid undermining the role of the LGUs in procurement and
contract administration in order to build their capacity. Therefore, the assessment recommended the
following:
* involving local governments in bid opening and bid evaluation of NCB in order to assure participation
and increase the experience level of LGUs; and
*   building capacity in contract administration of LGUs and involving them in project administration
through on-the-job training in procurement and contract administration.
These lessons would be applied to the procurement arrangements for the ICDP.
2. General:
Advertising:
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised in the "United Nations Development Business"
(UNDB). For NCB procurement, Specific Procurement Notices would be advertised in at least two local
newspapers.
Procurement Plan:
A Procurement Plan with details for first year of implementation is attached in table B I below.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements. The MOLG would be responsible for project implementation and would
delegate procurement and the financial aspects of procurement to PECDAR. An Operations Manual
agreed among MOLG, partner agencies and IDA would provide all necessary details to conduct
procurement processes effectively. Local governments and camp service committees would conduct all
procurement functions for microprojects, with oversight by the PECDAR. For all NCB contracts,
training would be provided by PECDAR to communities, prior to the first bid invitation, in order to
enable them to implement community microprojects. Comnmunities would be responsible for preparing
- 36 -



bid documents, placing advertisements in local newspapers, distributing bid packages, holding prebid
conferences, evaluating bids and recommending award of contract. PECDAR would review the
communities' bid documents, bid evaluation reports, awards of contract, and provide necessary
guidance.
Annual Procurement Reviews would be conducted by the PECDAR in accordance with TOR
acceptable to the IDA. IDA supervison missions and the Country Office would frequently carry out
reviews at all levels, but not less than once every four months, as part of their fiduciary responsibilities.
3. Procurement Methods
Procurement of goods and works would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," January 1995 (revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). National Competitive Bidding (NCB), simplified NCB procedures,
and the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, adapted to NCB in Arabic, would be used for all contracts.
Simplified NCB procurement would be based on simplified procedures and bidding documents requiring
posting of bidding opportunities in public places. These procedures would be specified in the Operations
Manual.
Procurement for consulting services and training would follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 (revised September
1997 and January 1999). For procurement of consultant services over US$100,000 the World Bank
Standard Request for Proposal Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997, and revised April 1998, and July
1999, and the Bank's standard Forms of Contract for Consulting Services would be used.
Incremental operating expenses including salaries, rent, operation and maintenance of vehicles,
and communications would be procured according to MOLG and PECDAR procedures acceptable to
IDA. The estimated cost for such expenses is US$0.6 million.
- 37 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works (USS 17.4m): Contracts for civil works would be of small value (less than
US$150,000 equivalent) and no Intemational Competitive Bidding procurement of works is
anticipated, since the contract value and geographic dispersion would not attract intemationl
contractors. Instead, civil works would be procured through NCB or NCB Simple Works and
Incidental Materials, as detailed below.
Typical projects would include:
*     Rehabilitation, construction or extension of local level health clinics, kindergartens, and
primary and secondary schools, orphanages, old peoples' homes, and disabled people
houses.
*     Rehabilitation, construction or extension of conmmunity center facilities, including post
offices, libraries, public hygiene facilities, community centers, youth centers.
*      Rehabilitation of religious, historical and cultural buildings or areas and restoration of
public gardens.
*     Rehabilitation, construction or extension of potable water networks, supply lines and
distribution networks (excluding house connections).
*     Rehabilitation, construction or extension of village or neighborhood roads, access roads
to isolated villages, access roads to agricultural lands and farms (including bridges,
drainage culverts, stone retaining walls etc.), excluding dead-end agricultural roads.
*     Supply of electric power and distribution lines (excluding house connections).
*     Multipurpose Community Telecenters (MCTs).
*     Rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion of sewage and drainage networks.
*     Rehabilitation of grounds around community service facilities (including tree planting).
*     Erosion control activity, such as tree planting, terracing and drainage canals (not on
private land).
National Competitive Bidding (US$10.0 million): Contracts with an estimated value of
US$50,000 equivalent and above would be awarded in accordance with NCB procedures
provided that the bidding documents are acceptable to the Bank.
Simple works and incidental materials (US$7.2 million): Contracts for simple works and
incidental materials estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$7.2 million equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable. Price quotations shall be submitted in sealed
envelopes and opened in the presence of contractors who choose to attend, following a written
invitation. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
- 38 -



Direct Contracting (DC) (US$0.2 million). Contracts for certain small civil works below
US$10,000 equivalent may be negotiated with local contractors directly.
-      Goods and Supplies (US$ 1.Om):     Goods to be procured under the ICDP include
furniture, computers, printers, scanners, fax machines and other goods that are needed for
telecenters. Goods also would include desks, equipment and furniture for schools, community
centers, clinics and other microprojects. Supplies to be procured under the Project include
software, cables and stationary.
National Competitive Bidding (US$0.5 million): Contracts for goods estimated to be above
US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded according to NCB procedures, provided that the
bidding documents are acceptable to IDA.
International and National Shopping (US$0.5 million): Contracts for goods and supplies below
US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded according to Intemational Shopping procedures by
obtaining competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries.
National Shopping procedures may be used instead, if the desired goods and supplies are available
at competitive prices from at least three sources in the WBG.
Direct Contracting. Purchase orders issued directly to local suppliers may be used for small
quantities of goods and supplies at an estimated cost below US$1,000 equivalent.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other'       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           10.00         7.40         0.00       17.40
(0.00)          (5.00)       (3.45)       (0.00)     (8.45)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.50         0.50         0.00        1.00
(0.00)          (0.35)       (0.25)       (0.00)     (0.60)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         1.00         0.00        1.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.65)       (0.00)     (0.65)
4. Incremental Operating           0.00            0.00         0.60         0.00        0.60
Costs
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)     (0.30)
Total                           0.00            10.50         9.50        0.00       20.00
(0.00)          (5.35)       (4.65)       (0.00)     (10.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify). All costs include
contingencies.
aIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 39 -



Procurement of Consulting Services (US$ 1.0 million). Services to be contracted include short-term and
long-term intemational and national technical specialists, trainers, and financial auditing specialists. These
services would be procured under the following procedures in conformiity with IDA guidelines:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). Contracts estimated at US$100,000 equivalent or
more would be awarded according to QCBS procedures. This would be for contract under
Capacity Building where international expertise would be required.
Least Cost Selection (LCS). Contracts estimated at below US$100,000 equivalent would be
awarded according to LCS procedures. These contracts would be for technical and financial
services from intemational and national specialists.
Consultant Qualifications (CQ). Contracts for consultants estimated to be below US$50,000
equivalent to be recruited for telecenters would be in accordance with CQ selection procedures.
Single Source (SS) Selection.  In instances where narrow specialization does not offer
altematives, SS selection may be employed for contracts with individuals not exceeding
US$10,000 equivalent. In cases where local expertise is inadequate, this method will also be used
for contracts with NGOs and UN Agencies. However, the aggregate value of these contracts may
not exceed US$0.1 million equivalent.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS    QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost'
A. Firms               0.20    0.00    0.00    0.35     0.10    0.00     0.00     0.65
(0.20)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.30)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.50)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.25    0.10     0.00     0.35
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.10)   (0.05)  (0.00)   (0.15)
Total  0.20     0.00    0.00    0.35     0.35    0.10    0.00      1.00
(0.20)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.30)  (0. 10)  (0.05)  (0.00)   (0.65)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
OBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify).
- 40 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
      Civil works: Bidding documents, bid evaluation report, and civil works contracts for the
first batch of microprojects (about 15)  irrespective of contract value and all direct contracting.
*      Goods: Request for Quotations, specifications, evaluation of quotations and contract to be
awarded for the first three contracts irrespective of contract value.
*      Consultancy: Terms of reference, Request for Proposals, evaluation reports and negotiated
contracts for all consulting contracts with estimated value of US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals, as well as the first three consultant contracts of any value and all single
source contracts.
*      All Consultant TOR.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)            Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >50              NCB/simplified NCB          First batch of
procedures             microprojects;
<50           NCB (simplified procedures  Direct Contracting
and Direct Contracting
2. Goods                         >50                    NCB                all contracts over
USD 50,000 and first three
<50              National/International    NS/IS contracts
Shopping
3. Services                  Firrn: >100               QCBS                      All
<100                  LCS, CQ                 First three
Individual: >50            CQ, SS                    All
< 50               CQ, SS            First three and single
source
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                         All TOR
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$2.0 m
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Annual Procurement Reviews would be conducted by the PECDAR in accordance with TOR
acceptable to the IDA. IDA supervision missions and the Country Office would frequently carry
-41 -



out reviews at all levels, but not less than once every four months, as part of their fiduciary
responsibilities.
Table B1- Procurement Plan -First Year
Description          Type     # of slices/ Est.  Proc.  Review          Estimated Schedule (month/year)
items/sub- Cost  Method   (Prior/
packages  (US$            Post)
'000)
Prequa.  Invit. to  Bid  Contr.  Contract
I_______I______                    Bid      Opening Award   Comp.
Hiring of technical and  Services  2      60    LCS,CQ Prior     81/2002  8/2002   9/2002  9/2002  12/2002
social consultants
Procurement Training  Services,   2       25      CQ    Prior     8/2002  8/2002   9/2002  09/2002 10/2002
for LGUs                                                                                           I
First Cycle of        Works      10-15   1800    NCB/ Prior               9/2002   10/2002 11/2002 4/2003
Microprojects                                    NCB
Simplifie
d
Selection of technical  Services  4       100     CQ    Prior     5/2003  6/2003   7/2003  8/2003  12/2003
specialists for telecenters                            I
Supply of equipment for Goods     2       100    NCB    Prior             7/2003   8/2003  9/2003  11/2003
telecenters
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 42 -



Disbursement
Allocation of other (specify) proceeds (Table C)
The project funds are expected to be disbursed over a period of four years beginning August
2002, and ending by May 2006. Due to the current severe socioeconomic situation in WBG, and
at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the IDA agreed to finance works, goods, services and
training at 100% for a specific time period (provided that the Ministry of Finance submits to IDA
a letter granting the zero VAT status to the ICDP). This agreement is to be reviewed by
December, 2002.
Table C: Allocation of Other (Specify) Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
Microproject Grants under Parts A and   8.50                       100
B of the Project
Goods under Part C of the Project       0.60                       100
Consultants' Services and Training      0.40                       100
Operating Expenditures                  0.30          100 until end of first year, 90 in second
and third year and 85 therafter
Unallocated                             0.20
Total Project Costs                     10.00
Total                                   10.00
Financial Management:
Overview: This project would be a follow-up operation to the on-going CDP II project and
would have the same financial management structure. To manage the project effectively, a Special
Account would be maintained in a commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. Disbursements would be based on traditional disbursement methods including direct
payments and special commitments with full documentation, reimbursements and replenishments
to the Special Account with full documentation and/or statements of expenditures. The project
accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA.
Financial Management Assessment:
The financial management responsibility would lie with PECDAR which has an impressive track
record for IDA-financed projects since 1993. The Financial Management Assessment concluded
the following: (i) PECDAR has in place an adequate financial management system (FMS) with
adequate level of computerization; (ii) accounting policies and procedures are documented in a
financial manual and strictly enforced; (iii) all project accounting and reporting follow
international accounting standards; (iv) the internal control system is adequate and there is proper
segregation of duties among incompatible functions; (v) accounting records are maintained
properly on chronological basis with clear reference to the fund, donor, and are up-to-date; (vi)
the accounting manual is distributed and used by all staff; (vii) PECDAR's finance department is
adequately staffed with well qualified financial and accounting specialists; and (viii) the computer
-43 -



department works closesly with finance and administration to enhance transactions processing and
reporting.
Accounting System:
As the agency responsible for financial management and accounting, PECDAR would maintain
accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and management reports.
PECDAR would use a computerized accounting system that enables it to perform adequate
general accounting and fund accounting functions. The chart of accounts would accommodate all
types of projects financed by the PECDAR and would classify financial transactions according to
donor, category, type, class and currency. These features would enable PECDAR to generate on
timely manner various managerial reports. Accounting transactions would be posted daily into the
accounting system. A detailed trial balance would be produced monthly and reviewed so that
errors could be corrected and posted. In addition, PECDAR would use project management
information system (PMIS) as the project monitoring and management tool. The features of PMIS
would include budgeting and planning with flexible reporting tools
Financial and Accounting Policies:
PECDAR would carry its accounts on accrual basis and follow international accounting standards
for all financial transactions, either actual amounts or estimates (e.g., depreciation expense). The
reporting currency for the project would be the U.S dollar. Transactions in foreign currencies
would be translated into U.S dollar at the rate of exchange prevailing at the date of each
transaction. Furthermore, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies would be
translated into U.S dollar at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Accounting policies and procedures would be documented in an Accounting Manual distributed
to all accounting staff. The Accounting Manual would cover the following areas: (i) accounting
policies; (ii) nature of project expenditures and their classification; (iii) expenditures that would be
eligible for reimbursement from the IDA grant; (iv) provision of advances to the various
recipients; and (v) accounting for all funds provided to recipents. PECDAR's application of these
policies and procedures were thoroughly reviewed by a certified public accounting firm, Talal
Abu-Ghazaleh (TAG) International.
Transactions Approval Process and Operational Controls:
The financial management asssessment also concluded that PECDAR maintains satisfactory
intemal controls to process and approve financial transactions by using several layers of review,
appraisal, and approval. Each transaction follows a series of checks and balances and must be
approved eventually by the Financial Manager. The recent management audit report
recommended streamlining certain procedures in the control cycle and removing duplication and
the unnecessary approvals (such as the President of Palestinian Authority being required to sign
checks above US$10,000). Nevertheless, the overall control procedures were found to be
satisfactory.
Financial Monitoring Reports:
PECDAR has the capability to produce extemal and intemal reporting systems to facilitate
management of projects. For the ICDP, PECDAR would issue several financial and non-financial
- 44 -



periodic reports to PECDAR senior management to facilitate proper follow up on the progress of
all activities and the financial position of each project. All financial statements including balance
sheet, statements of receipts, disbursements and fund balance reports, and committed amounts
would be generated periodically.
Under ICDP, PECDAR would be responsible to issue quarterly Financial Monitoring Reporting
(FMR) to IDA. These reports would include (i) quarterly and cumulative costs per component;
(ii) quarterly and cumulative expenditures per cost type; (iii) quarterly and cumulative
expenditures per beneficiary (i.e. local council); and (iv) procurement reports on all contracts
under the threshold. Each quarterly FMR would be submitted to IDA within 45 days after the end
of the quarter. The first FMR would cover the period from first disbursement to the end of the
following quarter.
Planning and Budgeting:
The assessment concluded that PECDAR utilizes adequate planning tools and project
management software and has strength in specifying activities and sub-activities of the business
plan. However, the assessment concluded that there still exists weakness in timely up-dates in the
plans which needs to be reflected in the monthly progress report and plans should be accompanied
by detailed budgets along with the donor name and the committed amount.
Financial Audit Arrangements:
The project would be audited in accordance with international auditing standards by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would be due within six months after the end of each
fiscal year. The audited annual financial statements would include: (i) balance sheet; (ii) statement
of sources and uses of funds; (iii) statement of project expenditures by category; and (iv) Special
Account reconciliation statement. The audit report would contain separate opinion on the
eligibility of expenditures claimed under SOEs. The auditor would also submit a Management
Letter regarding the weakness in the internal control system and the compliance with the
management policies and regulations that may come to their attention during the course of their
audit.
Flow of Funds:
A Special Account (SA) would be opened at a commercial bank under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA and a letter of comfort would be obtained from the commercial bank. US$1.0
million would be the authorized allocation of the Special Account with an initial deposit of
US$0.5 million until disbursements and commitments reach US$3.0 million. The recipient would
bear the risk of exchange loss, although, it is not expected to have foreign exchange problems
under the project. Withdrawal Applications for the replenishment to the Special Account would
be properly prepared, signed and submitted by PECDAR to IDA on a monthly basis. Supporting
documents for disbursements incurred against SOEs would not be submitted to IDA but would be
maintained at PECDAR for review by the auditors and IDA's supervision.
Risks:
The country is considered relatively high risk given the current unstable situation. Entity and
project risks are both considered low given the past experience with PECDAR and its reliable
- 45 -



in-house skills and management. The main risks relate to the physical implementation of the
project due to the current circumstances that may encourage the use of the fund proceeds for
purposes other than intended in the project. This risk is considered manageable given the strict
rules and procedures enforced within PECDAR. In addition, IDA would continue to review and
issue No-Objection for procurement above the agreed threshold. Furthermore, regular supervision
by qualified field staff would further mitigate this risk.
Action Plan:
The following actions were agreed during Negotiations:
- Prepare TORs for the audits before Project effectiveness.
- Set up General Ledger code for ICDP accounts.
- Create separate file records for ICDP to enable easy access to all documents related to the
Project.
- Use SOE method of disbursement until agreement is reached with the IDA on final format and
content of FMR.
-46 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
WEST BANK AND GAZA. Integrated Community Development Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                           14
First Bank mission (identification)              10/15/2000                   02/15/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      02/10/2002                   02/10/2002
Negotiations                                     02/15/2002                   04/18/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/15/2002
Prepared by:
ICDP Team
Preparation assistance:
A PHRD Grant of USD 171,000 from the Government of Japan was used to conduct all the preparatory
assessments.The following assessments were conducted using both international and local consultants -
participatory needs assessment, institutional assessment, environmental assessment, agricultural needs
assessment and information and communication technology needs assessment.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Husam Abu-Dagga                    Project Coordinator
Ayman Abu-Hajja                    Financial Management Specialist
Fifi Antar                         Program Assistant
Hadi Abushakra                     Legal Counsel
Abdullah Awad                      Information Analyst
Govind Singh Bora                  Team Assistant
Usaid El-Hanbali                   Agriculture Engineer
Matthias Grueninger                Economistvlnformation and Communication Technology
Fredrick Kranz                     Procurement Advisor
Hisham Labadi                      Procurement Specialist
Thao Nguyen                        Disbursement Advisor
Mamoon Sbeih                       Information and Communications Technology
Mary Beth Schmidt                  Social Scientist
Kanthan Shankar                    Team Leader and Environmental Engineer
Alexander Marc                     Peer Reviewer
Robert Valantin                    Peer Reviewer
- 47 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
WEST BANK AND GAZA Integrated Community Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A draft PIP was completed and discussed and agreed during appraisal.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Rural Poverty in West Bank and Gaza, August, 2001
Poverty Assessment - May, 2001
The Palestinian Economy in Crisis, October, 2001
Procurement Assessment
Financial Assessment
C. Other
Participatory and Social Assessment
Institutional Assessment
Environmental Assessment
Informnation and Communication Technology Assessment
Agricultural Assessment
*Including electronic files
- 48 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Integrated Community Development Project
03-Jan-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA        SF               Cancel.    Undisb.      Odg    Frm Rev'd
P054051        2001 GZ-SOUD WASTE & ENVIRONMENTAL MNGMNT.             0.00       0.00      9.50                 0.00       8.30      3.00      0.00
P065593        2001 EDUCATION ACTION PROJECT                          0.00      0.00       7.00                 0.00       7.00      0.00      0.00
P040506        2000 GZ-ELEC.SEC.INV.& MGMT                            0.00      0.00      15.00                 0.00       9.15      9.50      0.00
P053892        2000 GZ-HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT I                    0.00       0.00      7.90                 0.00       6.04      5.00      0.00
P058683        2000 GZ-MIDPII                                         0.00       0.00      7.50                 0.00       6,53      2.50      0.00
P058684        1999 GZ-COMMUNITYDEV.II                                0.00       0.00      8.00                 0.00       0.64      0.84      0.00
P051564        1999 GZ-SOUTHERNAREA WATER                             0.00       0.00     21.00                 0.00      13.42     12.00       0.00
P053985        1999 GZ-BETHLEHEM 2000                                 0.00       0.00     25.00                 0.00       2.68     25.00       0.00
P040503        1998 GAZA INDUSTRIAL EST.                              0.00       0.00      0.00                 1.00       5.89      8.10       0.00
P047067        1998 GZ: PALESTINIAN NGO PROJ                          0.00       0.00     10.00                 0.00       7.25      8.70      12.70
P043338        1997 GZ-HOUSING FINANCE                                0.00       0.00     25.00                 0.00      23.54     25.00       0.00
P047065        1997 GZ-MICROENTERPRISES-IFC                           0.00       0.00      5.00                 0.00       2.45      5.00      5.00
P049708        1997 PAL.EXPAT.PROF.PROGRAM                            0.00       0.00      3.00                 0.00       1.67      3.00       1.33
P040505        1997 GZ-WATER & SAN. SERVICES/GAZA                     0.00       0.00     25.00                 0.00       5.14     25.00       0.00
P047111        1997 LEGAL DEVELOPMENT                                 0.00       0.00      5.50                 0.00       3.23      5.50       0.00
P043339        1998 GZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT                          0.00       0.00     40.00                 0.00       3.25     40.00       0.00
Total:        0.00       0.00     214.40                1.00      106.40    178.14      19.03
-49 -



WEST BANK AND GAZA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               APIB                          0.00    3.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.73     0.00   0.00
1997               Arab Bank                     0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.90   0.00
1997               CornBank Palestin             0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.58    0.00
1997               Jordan National               0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00
1997               PEEDCO                        8.00    1.00    0.00    0.00     1.00   1.00     0.00   0.00
1999               PMHC                          0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.23     0.00   0.00
1998               PTF                           0.00   12.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55     0.00   0.00
1998               PTF-Mgt Co.                   0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04     0.00   0.00
1999               PTIC                          8.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    8.00    1.35     0.00   0.00
1998               SEF Al-Ayyam                  0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               SEF Arab Concret              0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00     0.00   0.00
1999               SEF Cold Storage              0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00     0.00   0.00
1999               SEF JerichoMotel              1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.10   0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        18.30   22.88    7.50    0.00    11.30   12.90    3.48    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
- 50 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
WEST BANK AND GAZA. Integrated Community Development Project
West    M. East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Bank    & North   middle-
& Gaza      Africa  Income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-vear (millions)                         3.0       296     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per caDita (Atlas method, US$)                    1,650     2,040     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        4.9       602     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                          4.5       2.0       1.0
Labor force (36)                                        4.7       2,8       1.3      GNI          7                  Gross
-00)                         ~~~~      ~~per  ..primary
Most recent estimate (latest Year available, 199440)                                 capita       >               enrotiment
Poverty (% of poPulation below national poverty line)   23
Urban population (% of total POPulation)                54         59        42
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                        72         68        69
Infant mortality (Der 1,000 live births)                 15        44        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               ..         .        I            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    90         89        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    14         35        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ape population)   97         95       114        -      West Bank and Gaza
Male                                                  97        102       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                96         88       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
GDP (US$ billions)                                                4,3       4.3      Economic ratios'
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                    381       34.1
Exports of qoods and services/GDP                                15.7      13.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savinosiGDP                                       -19.0    -24.9
Gross national savinas/GDP                                        8.4       1.9
Current account balancelGDP                     ,,              -29.7     -32.7       o
Interest Davments/GDP                                                                Domesacving                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                    7.2        9.0
Total debt service/exports
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                     7.4      -5.9                   -      West Bank and Gaza
GDP Per capita                                          3. 3      -9.9                      - Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services                          12.3      -15.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(36 of GDP)
Agriculture                                                       8.4       7.7      2C -
Industry                                                         28.9      271       10
Manufacturinp                                                   t6.4      15.1      o
Services                                                         62.6       65.2     10       a     97     9      9
Private consumPtion                                              94.1       93.1     20.
General government consumption                                   25.0       31.8
Imports of goods and services                                    72.9      72.7                   GOI       _GDP
(average annual growtYh)                  1980-90   1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agtriculture                                                      6.0      -11.7     20
Industry                                                          11.2    -11.9 r1_ 
Manufacturinnq                                                  10.2     -12.8
Services                                                           7.6      -3.7              a     97     98     9
Private consumption                                               4.3       -3.6     o         ,                  9
General government consumption                  ..       ..        9.7      15.5   .20 .
Gross domestic investment                                          1.9     -12.9            -    Exprtns     m    mports
Imports of qoods and services                                     2.0       -1.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates,
'The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with Its income-qroup average, If data are missino, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 51 -



West Bank and Gaza
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990       1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         20
Consumer prices                                 ..S                         2.7    1 
Implicit GDP deflator                                             3.5                               .  63la
Govemment finance                                                                   s
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       27.8     28.0              96      97     98     99      o
Current budget balance                          ..      ..        1.0      -5.0           -     GDP deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/delcit                         ..       ..        0.9      -4.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1980     1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                      ..       667      591     4,000
n.a.
n.a.                                                                              3,000
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                             2,798     2,837    2,000
Food.1.0
Fuel and energY y
Capital goods                                          ..        ..        ..        0
95    99    97    99    99    00
Export price index (1995=100)
Import pnce index (1995-100)                              ..                 ..                *Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1980     1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                  ..       ..       679       602       o
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      3,146     3,190          ___
Resource balance                                ..       ..    -2,467    -2,588    -0
Net income                                      ..       ..       802      729     r20
Net current transfers                           ..       ..       379      443                     I     I
Current account balance                         ..       ..    -1,286    -1,416
Financing items (net)
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..         .               -s0
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)           ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)                ..       ..       4.1       4.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     ..       313      391
IBRD                                                   .          0        0
IDA                                                    .         99      129
Total debt service                                                                       E: 103    s:                9
IBRO                                                   .          0        0
IDA                                                                                               .   . 0  0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants
Official creditors
Private creditors                                      ..         0        0
Foreign direct investment                     ..                            .l.w
Portfolio equity                             D.        .          .         .                       :111
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..        ..        52       29      A - IBRD                    E - Btateral
Disbursements                                ..        ..        33       30      8 - IDA   0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..        ..         0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-temm
Net flows                                     ..       ..        33       30
Interest payments                             .         .         0        0
Net transfers                                          ..        33       30
MNSED                                                                                                                 91101
- 52 -



MAP SECTION






I *                                  I              ~~~~~~~WEST BANK
t-*-   )   r    11 -      R          1;,                 ~~~and
-   _  , 3,     GAZA
Y A 1                       z                         ! ;gsa'bed  r  5  >  >  ?  r  t  jF AIRPORTS / AIRFIELDS
f i      {      >      x     .,(?bsrlrs t ''=MAJOR HIGHWAYS
TWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
,, t \g ' ' > ,. * f ' ', t  { ,eo R~~~~~~~~~~AILROADS
* .,I._.i >'A ,1-2                                          BUILT-UP AREAS
/; * I - .        9    f k /                   Tammun                  Po , .  UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
-                          4t ,<i }  - -- Nafblus J t  -  ,{  -  t    -    ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
-   ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
AV                             J               ,>,    n   NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
-          Lffi ~~~~ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
Y-4 t!  v  .   :   .  !  e  !  - JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
Ut; .                i X .....S ;{ e!THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ir.|.nal.r)lg8 'IL         W  E    'S  T ,t<1
ISRAEL                    9.< N B,-A, N K   jD' t SN 
1%              -.'      >4 ?-;.          V                  -ax. -t.      ..w,~|K
,~ .                                                                              / , ,, < g ,, . . F  JORDAN
A AIBirah4                                        ',
Jericho ,.                                           '
JERU-
mEDITERRANEAN
D                ~~~~~SEA4bt'
s ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    C    3    IC --- 2                               Rfi>i
l tl-bl gri, MIZZo 5 , | , Cs~~~ A Z A 7~- 
4p
- - JISRAEL
I1Q                                                                        8t             <|  S>I  I  3 .  4  _   .4|1''s ,3
F A t'                                                                                                  N~~~~~~



