                                          Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                        ReportNo: 37990-GZ




                                        PROJECTPAPER

                  ONA PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING (GRANT)

                           INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$5.00MILLION

                              TO THE WEST BANK AND GAZA

           FOR THE INTEGRATEDCOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                       November 15.2006




RuralDevelopmentWater andEnvironmentalDepartment
Middle East and NorthAfrica Region


Thisdocument hasa restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
their officialduties. Itscontentsmay nototherwisebedisclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCYEQUIVALENT

                    (Exchange Rate Effective October 2006)

                  Currency Unit = I L S (Israeli New Sheqalim)
                               ILS 1= US$0.23
                               US$ 1= I L S 4.25




                                 FISCALYEAR
                           January 1-December 31




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDC       Community Development Coordinator
CDP       Community Development Project
DORA      Department of Refugee Affairs
M o L G   Ministry of Local Government
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report
ICDP      Integrated Community Development Project
IDA       InternationalDevelopment Organization
LGU       Local Government Unit
MENA      Middle East and North Africa
MP        Micro Project
NGO       Non Government Organization
PA        PalestinianAuthority
PECDAR    PalestinianEconomic Council for Development and Reconstruction
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program
WBG       West Bank and Gaza




                       Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                       Country Director: A. DavidCraig
                       Sector Director: Inger Andersen
                       Task Leader: Husam Abu Dagga

                               PROJECT  PAPERDATASHEET


Date: October 24, 2006                                   Team Leader: Husam Abu Dagga
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Sector Director: Inger Andersen
Project Name: Additional Financing for the               Sector Manager: Luis Constantino
Community Development Project                            Country Director: A. DavidCraig
Project ID: P104253                                      Environmental Category: B




FY                                              2007                                   I   Tot
Quarter               1st                2nd               3rd               4th

Absolute              1.5                1.5               1.5               0.5           5.O
Cumulative    I       1.5               3.0                4.5               5.0       I   5.0



Does the scaled-up project require any exceptions from Bank policies?            o Yes o
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                      o Yes o N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                     o Yes o N o

Not applicable.
Does the scaled-up project trigger any new safeguard policies?
No.
                                     For Additional Financing
[ 3 Loan [ ] Credit [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): 5 Million
        Proposed terms: 100% Grant


          Source                   Local               Foreign                    Total
Borrower
IBRD/IDA
Others (Trust Fundfor
      and the West Bank)


                                         TABLEOFCONTENT



I Introduction
 .                    ........................................................................................................         1

I1.      Backgroundand Rationalefor Additional Financing                                       ....................................    1

I11.     ProposedChanges       ..............................................................................................          4

I V
  .      Consistencywith the CAS             .................................................................................         5

V .      Appraisal of the Scaled-upProject Activities                         ..................................................       5

V I
  .      ExpectedOutcomes        ..........................................................................................           10

VI1.     Benefits and Risks    ............................................................................................           10

VI11.    FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing                                              ...................12
Annex 1: Procurement and DisbursementSummary Tables                                      .......................................      13

Annex 2: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                              ..........................   14

Annex 3: Assessment of PECDAR's current procurement capacity                                          ...........................     19

Annex 4: Indicators and scoring systemfor investment under component 1                                                   .............22
Annex 5: Achievementsof the completedMicroProjects inWest Bank and Gaza                                                            ...23
Annex 6: Project ProcessingSchedule and Team Composition                                     ...................................     26


                INTEGRATED      COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT          PROJECT

                           ADDITIONAL FINANCING      GRANT

                                   PROJECTPAPER



I. Introduction

1.  The proposed additional grant finance to the Integrated Community Development
    Project (ICDP) would increase investments in local infrastructure and institutions to
    improve the quality and availability of basic social and economic services in poor
    and marginalized communities of West Bank and Gaza (WBG) promoting local
    economic growth and employment, and supporting human development and
    poverty reduction. Additional financing would support micro projects such as
    access and connecting roads, rehabilitation or extension of water supply, schools,
    sport and cultural facilities for young people, and health clinics. Priority will be
    given to projects with the highest labor content (labor content to be more than 30
    %) and which reach the most communities.

2.  The additional financing would not entail any change in ICDP development
    objectives. The operational manual will be updated to meet current circumstances,
    building on lessons learned from successful implementation of the ICDP to date. A
    community grant disbursement category will be created.           Disbursement in this
    category will be done on a micro project basis using community procurement
   procedures following guidelines laid down in a revised ICDP manual of operation
    acceptable to the Bank.

3. The expected outcomes from the investments through additional financing would be
    consistent with those of the ICDP and would include (i)      increased access to basic
    services for Palestinians living in small municipalities, villages and refugee camps,
    and (ii)increased local labor opportunities through realization of labor intensive
    investments.

11. Backgroundand Rationalefor Additional Financing

4. The Integrated Community Development Project (ICDP) is a follow-on project to
   the previous CDPs Iand 11, aimed at improving the quality and availability of basic
    social and economic services in poor and marginalized communities through
    financing investments in local infrastructure and institutions. ICDP prioritized
   investments to preserve and extend the capital stock of infrastructure owned by
    villages and small municipalities inregions with the highest incidence of poverty. A
   US$10 million IDA credit for the ICDP was approved on May 23, 2002 and
   became effective in August 23,2002. An amount of US$2 million committed by the
   borrower and US$8 million in co-financing was envisaged during appraisal
   bringing the total project amount (at appraisal) to US$20 million. However,


                                         - 1 -

   additional financing did not materialize by the effectiveness date, resulting in a
   shrinkage in the scope of the project to fit the US$10 IDA credit by reducing the
   number of micro projects and Information and Communication Telecenters
   originally proposed. The Project Development Objectives (PDO) was nevertheless
   maintained. The ICDP was originally scheduled to close on June 30, 2006 but was
   extended for an additional 6 months, and i s currently scheduled to close on
   December 31,2006.

5  Like the preceding CDPs, the ICDP was designed to finance investments in local
   infrastructure, such as roads, water supply, schools and clinics that are necessary for
   economic and employment growth and vital to human development and poverty
   reduction. However, the ICDP has gone beyond the scope of the CDPs through (i)
   assistance aimed at improving the livelihoods of the refugee populations in camps;
   (ii)by targeting rural employment and productivity in the agricultural sector
   through rehabilitating small irrigation schemes and terracing, wells; and (iii)     by
   piloting new initiatives to promote access to information and communication
   technologies and services.

6. Despite the deteriorating political and security context over the project's lifetime,
   the ICDP continues to meet its development objective, with most performance
   indicators on target. During the latest ISR dated June 29, 2006 the PDO was rated
   as moderately satisfactory, due to certain inconsistencies in procurement
   management which resulted in the delay in implementation of some activities
   (within the closing date at that stage of June 30, 2006), and hence in the slowing
   down o f disbursement. More recently, with the closing date extended until
   December 31, 2006 and with procurement inconsistencies resolved through a Trust
   Fund Credit Agreement (TFCA) Amendment (dated June 29, 2006), the PDO will
   be rated as satisfactory. 98 micro projects have been contracted so far, 89 of which
   have been completed. 35 involved the construction or reconstruction o f roads,
   sidewalks and sewage lines;         16 were concentrated on rehabilitating or
   reconstructing classrooms; 13 involved construction of public service buildings; 20
   were in the agriculture sector; 8 in water and wastewater; 1 for electricity and 5 to
   establish, furnish and equip Information Centers (see Annex 5). Further 43 contracts
   have been awarded for the purchase of goods such as furniture for buildings and
   schools and another 11 have been awarded to provide technical assistance, in the
   form of training and planning, for communities throughout WBG

7. Since the activities and objectives of the Additional Financing to ICDP have been
   kept in line with the original project, all the safeguard issues of the original ICDP
   apply also in this case. Therefore the Additional Financing, like its original ICDP, i s
   not expected to trigger any major environmental impacts due to the nature of the
   interventions which consist of mainly rehabilitation of dilapidated infrastructure in
   rural    areas.    Accordingly,      given     that   the    projects     deal    with
   rehabilitatiodimprovements of existing infrastructure, and given that the projects
   are very small (less than USD 150,000) that will not involve land acquisition or
   resettlement, the project has been placed under environmental category "B" in
   accordance with OP 4.01 which requires the preparation of an Environmental


                                         - 2 -

    Management Plan. This has been done by the client in October and has been cleared
    by the Bank. Copies have been made available inthe InfoShop on December 2001.

8.  A Social, Technical and Environmental Assessment conductedinthe 4th quarter of
    2005 found that 80% of the sample beneficiaries were satisfied with the outcomes
    o f micro projects and the level o f community participation during micro project
    implementation. From September 2000, the increase in closures, movement
    restrictions and unpredictable curfews imposed for indefinite periods on urban and
    rural areas has left many of the small scattered villages, especially in the West
    Bank, completely isolated. The ICDP managed to extend assistance to those
    communities through financing investments in local infrastructure and institutions,
    and provided local temporary employment for laborers (an estimated provision o f
    60,000 person-days) who had lost access to the job market. In some instances,
    direct contracting for civil works by the LGUs was allowed, which provided them
    with increased learning and capacity building in contract management,
    implementation and supervision o f works. This method also allowed for greater
    contribution from the community through in-kind donations and localized labor,
    and resulted in larger outputs per Project inputs (for example, 2-3 more classrooms
    than originally planned) than would have been achieved through other
    implementation methods, as well as fostering greater community ownership.
    Moreover, the "Technical Assistance Category" provided for training courses to
    strengthen the project management and operational capacity of small LGUs and the       .
    staff o f ICDP implementing partners. Under the "Goods" Category, the provision
    of much needed office equipment to LGUs helped them manage their daily
    activities and improve their services to their communities.

9.  The ICDP's overall disbursement rate i s currently at 82.5%. Disbursement on the
    US$600,000 in the "Goods" Category i s still relatively low at 3496, but i s
    anticipated to increase due to recent no objections provided by the Bank to award
    contracts for the supply of goods to Local Government Units (LGUs), amounting to
    approximately US$230,000.

10. The ICDP is in full compliance with the environmental and social safeguards (see
   para 7 and 8 above), and with the fiduciary safeguards (see Annex 2 para 1).

11. The Mid Term Review for the ICDP conducted in December 2004, confirmed by
   the most recent mission, concluded that the original target group for micro project
    selection with prioritization based on the highest incidence of poverty has widened.
   The economic impact of the Second Intifada raised the incidence o f poverty to a
   baseline well beyond the original poverty map (poverty incidence o f >20% in the
   ICDP PAD). In addition, internal closures have increased the number of
   marginalized villages which, in many cases, have become completely cut off from
   interaction with nearby larger communities. The resulting contraction inPalestinian
   economic activity, coupled with the PA's fiscal problems, has contributed to
   increasing daily hardships for Palestinians. Basic local service infrastructure has
   deteriorated due mainly to the inability o f LGUs to maintain, repair and rehabilitate
   it, due to a lack of finance or access to it.



                                           - 3 -

12. In light of the increased incidence of poverty, additional financing i s proposed to
     enable at least 50 LGUs and Camp Popular Committees to identify and implement
     the establishment or rehabilitation of priority basic infrastructure. Lessons learned
     from ICDP on community participation will be reflected in an updated operations
     manual. To address economic and social hardship, priority will be given to labor-
     intensive activities, and cultural and sports activities targeting children and youth
     will become eligible. ICTs will no longer be eligible under the additional finance,
     because of the short implementation timeframe (12-months) and also because
     experience has shown that PECDAR, although highly efficient in infrastructure
     operations, was not the best-suited organization to channel `soft' investments. The
     focus of additional financing on promoting an integrated participatory approach to
     community development will remain the priority, whereby US$4.750 will be
     allocated to community grants, along with minor refinements to the decision
     making and micro projects selection process among the implementing partners.

111. ProposedChanges

13. In accordance with the PAD, a number of features have been incorporated in the
     ICDP to help mitigate the risks associated to lack of sustainability in operations of
     the completed infrastructure work. One way was to set aside an Operations and
     Maintenance (O&M) Fund using 5% of the total MP cost in in-cash contributions
     from the community. The ICDP Operations Manual elaborates by requiring the
     communities to contribute 10% of MP costs in the form of minimum 5% in cash in
     the O&M Fund and the remaining contribution as in-kind, as a prerequisite for MP
     approval. The O & M Fund, to be operated by PECDAR, would be returned to the
     communities upon their request post the defects liability period. During
     implementation of ICDP, and due to the aggravated poverty situation impacting
    LGUs as well as their constituencies, this requirement was dropped by PECDAR.
     In-lund contribution, however, remained to be evident in MP implementation in
     many ways: Donated raw materials, manual labor (especially semi-slulled and
     skilled), private and municipal land parcels, and technical designs. In several other
    instances, LGUs or their community members contributed in cash towards the costs
     of completed complementary needed works that could not be covered through the
    MP ceiling. This was done either through donations, or premiums on household
    bills which were collected by the LGUs over long periods of time, or through the
    use of "Direct Contracting" which allowed for greater physical output for a given
    cost. In the course o f the ICR the team will be looking at the possibility o f
    quantifying with more accuracy community's contribution.


14. The additional financing would not entail any change in ICDP development
    objectives, but the objectives will be applied to the current circumstances meaning
    the project will focus on emerging priority needs identified during implementation
    to date. Therefore, additional financing will incorporate an adjustment to the
    selection and eligibility criteria for micro projects with a greater emphasis on labor
    intensive investment using local labor and contractors as much as possible.
    Additional financing will address the living conditions of the local population with


                                           - 4 -

    investments to respond to the needs of young people and women. Such investments
    include construction, extension or rehabilitation of infrastructure in water supply
    and sanitation, recreation areas, health clinics, additions to primary and secondary
    schools, community markets, community centers, feeder and internal roads, as well
    as resources for training and technical services. Given the absence o f the Ministerial
    Committee (Steering Committee) it was agreed to empower the Coordinating
    Committee (or Technical Committee) to select micro projects.             The updated
    operation manual will reflect these changes.

15. Given the limitations on the available financing, the planned Additional Financing
    will not be targeting the agriculture sector. It will instead focus more on providing
    services, civil works for construction, essential furniture, goods and capacity
    buildingtraining for local communities.

16. The closing date of the ICDP would be extended until December 31 2007 to allow
    the implementation of the activities financed by the additional financing.

IV. Consistency with the CAS

17. The December 18,2003 "Trust Fundfor Gaza and the West Bank (TFGWB): Status
    Strategy, and Request for Replenishment" summarizes the Bank's goal to balance
    efforts to manage the emergency nature of the current situation with a continued
    focus on a medium-tern development agenda. Within that strategy, which currently
    acts as reference point and framework for projects since WBG does not have CASs,
    the ICDPis fully consistent with the stated objective of strengthening capacities for
    and financing the delivery of basic services to the poor.

V. Appraisalof the Scaled-up ProjectActivities

18. In October 2006, an appraisal team undertook a field visit in the region of Nablus
    (Rujeeb and Jayyous), visited three projects financed by ICDP and met with
   representatives of one Village Council, one Municipal Council and one Popular
    Service Committee (PSC). The team also had working sessions in Ramallah with
   representatives of the MoLG, DORA, the Ministry o f Planning (MOP), UNDP, the
   executive director of the Municipality Development Fund, PECDAR and
   representatives of the Technical Committee.

19. Lessons learnedfrom ICDP implementation

-  The institutional decision making mechanisms envisaged inthe original operational
   manual did not work as expected because of (among others things) (i)internal
   closures preventing the travel of various committee members to travel, and (ii)
   frequent changes of government officials.

-  The project has achieved an impressive series o f investments in physical
   infrastructure but the related gains in social capital building are below expectation



                                          - 5 -

       with an absence o f permanent Community Development Managers especially in
       Gaza.

-      PECDAR demonstrated effective technical capacity to implement ICDP despite a
       difficult worlung environment, disbursing80 % of the project funds to finance more
       than 100 micro projects. A procurement plan has been prepared for the
       disbursement of remaining funds before the project ends.

-      However, the participatory process and targeting could be improved to scale up the
       implementation without affecting PECDAR's capacity to disburse rapidly and
       respond to local needs.


20. Objective, description and cost

-      Component 1: Micro Proiect Community Grant (US $4.750 Million). This
       component would provide grants to LGUs and/or Popular Services Committees to
       finance a minimum of 50 community development micro projects. Micro projects
       would be identified by local communities and their representatives (for a maximum
       of $ 150,000 per project) and prepared by local officials with support from
       PECDAR in consultation with residents.                As with the on-going ICDP,
       implementation of the approved projects will be done within the framework of a
       contractual arrangement between PECDAR and the LGU or Popular Service
       Committee in accordance with the ICDP operational manual using local contractors,
       suppliers and laborers as much as possible'. Community development micro
       projects include: i)civil works for construction; ii)essential furniture and goods;
       and, iii)resources for training and technical services to improve planning,
       consultation and management capacities of communities.

       Component 2: Project management (US $250,000). This component (component 3
       under ICDP) would finance incremental operating costs, equipment, and studies
       (i.e. environmental monitoring, quality supervision, etc.) needed by the MOLG,
       PECDAR, and DORA for project preparation, execution and management. A
       maximum of 5% o f the total allocation will be available for M O L G and DORA to
       cover recurrent costs related to the project activities.

                Overview of the project cost by procurement arrangement

Expenditure category                         I Procurement   method          I Total  cost inUS $   I
Community Grants                               Community procurement           4,750,000

Incremental operating cost                     Others (1)                      250,000
    -   Technical assistance and                                                  -   50,000
        training for PECDAR, MLG

1 Ensure consistency between the operation manual and the TFGA with respect to procurement and
financial arrangement management.


                                                 - 6 -

      and DURA
  -  PECDAR contracted staff: 2                                                      -   50,000
      C D M
  -   Incremental operating cost for                                                 -   25,000 (10,000
     DORA, MLGand                                                                        and 15,000)
      communities (LGU,refugee
      camps, etc.)
  -   Incremental operating cost for                                                 -   125,000
      PECDAR

1:   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
    services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
    and incremental operating costs related to (I) managing the project, and (ii)re-lending project funds
    to local government units.



21. Implementation arrangements

    Identification, selection and implementation of micro projects will be based on
    procedures laid down in the updated ICDP operation manual, whose revisions will
    cover:

    (i) Investment selection criteria: priority will be given to investments that are labor
    intensive that will benefit multiple local communities. Selection criteria would be a
    combination of the following:
    -    Projects that have at least 30% labor content, with priority given to those with
         the highest labor content.
    -    Projects that serve more than one community/locality.
    -    Projects with higher community contributions.
    -    Projects that serve youth and women
    -    Projects that fall within the poverty area in accordance with the poverty map.

-   (ii)Eligibility criteria: The additional finance will focus on public goods and
    service delivery in poor and marginal communities and refugee camps. Therefore it
    will not finance agricultural micro projects which require different decision malung
    mechanisms. Cultural/sportive investments targeted to young people will be
    eligible.

-   liii)Eligible expenditures: Eachmicro project couldinclude (i)civil works for
    construction, extension or rehabilitation o f infrastructures such as water supply,
    sanitation, recreation areas, solid waste management, health clinics, additions to
    primary and secondary schools, community markets, community centers, feeder
    roads, internal roads, rehabilitation of irrigation networks, terraces and wells or
    other eligible works; (ii)       essential furniture and goods; (iii)       resources for training
    and technical services to improve planning, consultation and management
    capacities of communities.




                                                  - 7 -

- (iv) Decision making; mechanisms: The Coordinating Committee i s to be re-named
  the Technical Committee (TC). Members will be technical representatives from the
  Ministry of Local Government (MoLG), The Department of Refugee Affairs
  (DORA) and the Palestinian Economic               Council for    Development and
  Reconstruction (PECDAR). The T C will pre-select micro projects (within budget
  constraints) to be financed using the fore-mentioned selection criteria and ICDP
  indicators and scoring system (cf. annex).       Pre-selection will be submitted for
  approval to the Steering Committee (SC) or its members; the SC would have 2
  weeks to approve or reject the TC proposals. Project proposals to be selected by the
  T C could come from LGUs or PSC through MLG, DORA and PECDAR. The
  Technical Committee will review all project proposals for (i)  appraisal of the social
  and economic impact, and (ii)  appraisal o f environmental impact.

- (v) Call for proposals. The Technical Committee (TC) with support from PECDAR
  will organize three calls for proposals within overall budget constraints. The first
  will be prepared in November (2006?) for a budget of US $ 2 M.MLG, DORA and
  PECDAR will submit to the TC a series of projects already identified during ICDP
  but which could not be financed. Selection will be completed by the end of
  November (2006?). The second call for proposals for an amount o f U S $ 2 Million
  will be made in March 2007 and the third, for an amount o f US $ 1.75 Million will
  be made in June 2007. The selection of projects will be carried out by the TC.

  (vi) Implementing: agency. PECDAR will support the implementation of selected
  projects and report every three months to TC.          As with the on-going ICDP,
  PECDAR will sign an agreement with the LGU or the Popular Service Committee
  (PSC) for approved micro projects authorizing them to implement. Depending on
  capacities, the LGU, PSC or PECDAR would hire a consultant to finalize drawings
  and bills of quantity, and, if necessary, appoint or hire a daily supervisor. The
  LGU,PSC or PECDAR would procure consulting services and works inaccordance
  with the ICDP Operations Manual and under the close supervision of the PECDAR.
  PECDAR would ensure monitoring of implementationof each micro project.

  (vii) Disbursement and Procurement. A new disbursement category will be created:
  community grants. Disbursement in this category will be carried out on a project
  basis following guidelines listed in a revised ICDP operation manual acceptable to
  the Bank. Documents required for the disbursement community grants are: (i)
  approved project proposals (including the minutes of the T C selection meeting) and
  (ii)contractual arrangements between PECDAR and the LGUs or PSC that initiated
  the project. For each micro project, the simplified community procurement method
  will apply as laid down in the revised ICDP operation manual. Depending on the
  capacity of the local community, total or partial procurement and disbursement
  could be done by the LGU or PSC or remain with PECDAR on behalf of the LGU
  or PSC.

  (viii) A posteriori audit. PECDAR will conduct systematic and comprehensive a
  posteriori technical and financial review for each financed micro project.



                                         - 8 -

    (ix) Financial Management and Disbursement.

22. The Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction's
    (PECDAR) organizational structure and management processes under the existing
    ICDP appear sound and would be suitable for the proposed additional financing
    (ICDP-AF). The financial management (FM) system is comprehensive and allows
    for the proper accounting o f all the transactions at every level of project
    implementation, including the communities.

23. The FMsystem would consist o f proper books o f accounts, reliable and functioning
    internal control systems and competent and experienced accounting and financial
    staff. Accordingly, PECDAR would maintain the grant records and accounts and
    issue financial statements in format and content in compliance with the Bank
    financial reporting requirements,     reflecting the ` operations,   resources and
    expenditures related to the additional financing. This would include the Interim
    Financial Reports (IFRs), as well as any other relevant financial reports. The IFR
    would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end o f the relevant quarter.

24. The proceeds of the Grant would be disbursed through a separate Special Account
    (SA) managed by PECDAR to facilitate implementation and ensure timely
    payments to suppliers and communities. The SA would be opened in the
    commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. An initial deposit would be made
    to the SA based on PECDAR budgetary needs for four to six months of operations,
    including community grants and incremental operating costs. Subsequent
    replenishments would follow the traditional methods of disbursements by means of
    reimbursements to the SA with Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The SOEs
    would consist of community-executedproject reports duly certified by an auditor to
    ensure compliance with agreed upon micro project, full completion of the micro
    project as well as eligibility of incremental operating costs incurred. Annex 2
    provides the detailed financial management and disbursement procedures.

25. ICDP-AF's annual financial statements, SOEs and the SA will be audited by
    independent auditors acceptable to IDA recruited on a competitive basis. The audit
    will be conducted in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards.
    The audit report would be submitted to the World Bank no later than six (6) months
    following the closing of the fiscal year under audit. The audit scope would include
    sample of communities receiving grants.

    (x) Environmental and Social Safeguards. Social, Technical and Environmental
    Audit has been conducted in the 4th quarter of 2005 on the ongoing ICDP project.
    The environmental audit, which took into consideration a sample of projects under
    implementation from PECDAR, concluded that, on the environmental side,
    "Generally all the assessed projects are found to have positive impacts on the
    environmental elements ...".    While the ICDP initial Environment Assessment has
   been reviewed and cleared b y the Bank, PECDAR i s expected to produce an



                                         - 9 -

      updated version of the Environmental Management Plan. As with the ICDP, road
      micro projects under additional financing would be primarily reconstruction or
      upgrading.    Additional financing projects would work entirely within existing
      public land and rights-of-way or ensure that all additional land requirements are met
      exclusively in a voluntary fashion or acquired on a willing-seller willing-buyer
      basis. Any micro projects requiring involuntary expropriation would be excluded
      from additional finance.

-     (xi) Readiness for Implementation. PECDAR staff are fully familiar with project
      management, financial management, and procurement and safeguards procedures.
      The first series of micro projects to be financed will be selected in November 2006
      therefore the additional finance would be ready for implementation upon approval.


VI. ExpectedOutcomes

26.   The additional finance will use the same set of indicators as the ICDP and is
      expected to benefit at least 50 small and poor communities or refugee camps with
      increased availability o f basic services.     In particular, people in isolated rural
      communities and refugee camps would benefit from infrastructure improvements
      such as schools, clinics, water supply and sanitation, recreational areas etc. There
      would also be no changes to the expected outcomes, which include (i)           increased
      access to basic services for Palestinians living in small municipalities, villages and
      refugee camps, and (ii)    increased local labor opportunities through realization of
      labor intensive investments.

VII. Benefitsand Risks

Benefits

27.   As para 19 above

Risks

The volatile operating environment inWest Bank and Gaza has worsened inrecent
months further reducing the prospects of attaining development effectiveness of donor-
financed projects. Firstly, the security situation has deteriorated. Secondly, restrictions
on movement and access for people and goods have been tightened. For instance, the
number of trucks per day from Gaza to Israel i s significantly lower than six months
earlier; access for workers from Gaza to Israel has all but ceased; and within the West
Bank there are many more checkpoints compared t,oa year ago. Thirdly, the suspension
of customs transfers and reduced external inflows have resultedin an unprecedented
fiscal crisis. As a consequence, public employees have not been paid and line ministry
staff and contractors have increased difficulties visiting project sites. This situation has
brought about a reversal of the gains so far inthe recipient's capacity to execute donor-
financed projects and, inthe overall public financial management system. The non-
payment of public sector wages since March 2006 has, for instance, created incentives for



                                             - 10-

many employees to seek alternative sources of income and, this has done little to alleviate
the risingnumbers o f the unemployed and the poor.

         Fourth, many bilateral donors are now bypassing the PA inproviding aid to
ensure that Hamas or its associated organizations do not benefit from these funds. This
has resultedinnew implementing units, fundingpriorities and channels outside the PA's
single treasury account, and thereby making the recipient's systems redundant. In
particular, earlier efforts to buildthe PA's capacity to detect and prevent irregularities,
including assistance to the Palestinian Financial and Administrative Control Bureau and
the PA external audit function have been weakened. The prospect of donors working
with or through the PA and its fledgling institutions now poses far greater risks.

         The exogenous nature of some o f the risks indicated makes them inherently
difficult to mitigate. The Bank has, nevertheless, taken a number of steps to mitigate
some of these risks at the country program and project levels. (a) Supervision capacity
has been decentralized to the Country Office in both the West Bank and Gaza, including
the recruitment of senior procurement and financial management staff. This
complements the Bank's reinforcement of its current ex ante controls, prudent use o f
direct payments, and financial oversight. (b) Task teams have been encouraged to design
simple and flexible projects that rely on institutions that have the capacity to effectively
deliver services under the current environment. The eligibility criteria o f projects have
also been clarified to ensure that funds are used for the purposes intended. (c) The
Country Management Unit (CMU) has continued to undertake periodic Country Portfolio
Performance Reviews to ensure timely project re-work in response to the changing
operating environment. The C M U has also strengthened it security procedures to reduce
risks to staff and their families. These measures have significantly increased the Bank's
cost of doing business inWest Bank and Gaza.


RiskEvaluationTable
                                (I) MACRO/COUNTRY RISKS
RISK                              Rating RISK MITIGATION MEASURES
Further decline inpolitical,        H      The project has inplace flexible implementation
economic and security                      arrangements for direct execution by the LGU's and
situation inWest Bank and                  CSC, and usingPECDAR's districts offices through
Gaza impacting the                         out WBG. This enables the project to operate more
implementation of the ICDP                 easily under adverse conditions.
project activities.
Functional collapse of the PA       H      This project would less affected than most given that
institutions if salaries                  execution i s the responsibility of PECDAR which i s
continue to be unpaid                      financially autonomous from the PA


                        (11) RISKSTO PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION
RISK                            I Rating I RISK MITIGATION MEASURES
Inequitable      and/or    non- M         Ensure upfront agreement among the implementing
transparent targeting leads to            agencies on targeting strategy and micro projects
skewed outcomes and reduced               selection. Micro project provisions are well defined


                                              - 11-

confidence inthe program.             with clear eligibility criteria. The World Bank will
                                      maintain an oversight role during the project life with
                                      regards to the grants awarding mechanism and will
                                      routinely require minutes/rationale of Technical
                                      Committee decision prior to issuing its final no-
                                      objection. Periodic beneficiary assessment to be
                                      conducted to evaluate the project, externaltechnical
                                      audit will be carried out.

Access      and     movement H           Promote micro projects that have strong community
restriction   affects   micro            participation, local knowledge, community
project implementation.                  contracting and use local materials (such as
                                         interlocking tiles in Gaza). Consider readinessfor
                                         implementation as key criteria for project selection
                                         and avoid selection of projects that fall in areas most
                                         affected by the closures.
Risk of use of funds for other H         PECDAR will manage the resources and be
than the intended purpose.               responsible for disbursement, recording and
                                         reporting.
                                         Mechanisms are inplace for PECDAR to track the
                                         actual use of resources at the community level.
                                         Disbursementsto Communities will be basedon
                                         duly approved micro projects and PECDAR field
                                          staff will monitor implementation and certify
                                         completion incompliance with approved micro
                                         projects.
                                         Spot audits will be carried out by PECDAR
                                         financial Management staff; Annual audit will cover
                                         micro projects on a sample basis. All these
                                         requirements will be defined in the OMSto prevent
                                         misuse of funds and detect abnormal uses.
OverallRisk Rating:            H


VIII. Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing

28. TFWBG resources, including the additional financing for the ICDP, would be
      provided on a grant basis.   The grant would be aligned on the WBG Country
      Financing Parameters (CFP) approved on March 14, 2005.                The CFA made
      financing of VAT and other reasonable taxes eligible under Grant financing, and
      was effectively applied as o f August 1, 2005 and all existing Credit / Grant
      Agreements were amended to reflect the new Guidelines. Furthermore, the CFF has
      been applied to all new operations ever since. Accordingly, it i s expected that the
      Ministry of Finance (MOF) will therefore maintain the same policies applied to
      existing projects for VAT, import duties and taxes on goods and services to this
      project and allow for 100percent financing of eligible expenditures.




                                          - 12-

  Annex 1:ProcurementandDisbursementSummary Tables


                           Procurement Summary Table

I Revisedestimatedprocurement(BankFY/US$m)
 FY                              lSt        2nd       3rd    4th

  Annual
  Cumulative




                          Disbursement Summary Table



 FY 2007                         1St        2nd       3rd    4th

  Annual                        1.5         1.5       1.5    0.5




                                     - 13 -

 Annex 2: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements


 FinancialManagement

  1. The Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
     (PECDAR) has a comprehensive and computerized accounting system with an
     adequate chart of accounts. It i s also in compliance with the existing laws and
     regulations in the West Bank and Gaza. As this i s a supplementary financing the
     financial management assessment was limited to updating of the earlier assessment
     to ensure that it i s in compliance with the revised FMGuidelines dated November
     30, 2206. Accordingly, it was agreed to update the operational manual to provide
     increased control over the use of the project resources. Furthermore, it was also
     agreed, to enhance the functionality of the computerized accounting system for
     monitoring purposes and improved reporting on a timely basis. This will allow
     better tracking, by types of expenditures, of the implementation of the micro
     projects by the participating Communities projects. The system has been designed
     to generate Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) without recourse to a parallel
     arrangement. The IFR would be fed directly from the project accounting and allow
     their preparation on a quarterly. This will correct the weak track record of PECDAR
     inissuingquarterly reports. Infact, PECDAR never submitted the quarterly reports.
     PECDAR financial and accounting staff that participated in the last FM workshop
     of August 2, 2006 and have been with the entity for more than five (5) years seems
     to have the required experienced to manage the additional financing under the
     project.

  2. The ICDP-AF has 1 component for a total estimated cost o f US$Smillion provided
     through a Trust Fund Grant for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB). The proceeds
     would finance two main categories of expenditures, namely, Community Grants
     and Incremental operating costs.

                       Table 1: Allocation of Resourcesby Categories



i 1. CommunityGrants                        1     4.75       I            4.75            I


  3. There will be annual audits o f the project financial statements, covering all aspects
     of the project, including specific requirements for the communities receiving grants.
     A representative sample of micro projects will be covered by the auditors. The
     audits will be performed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in
     accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), and the Bank's
     guidelines on auditing as stated in the guidelines: Annual Financial Reporting and
     Auditingfor World Bank-financed Activities (June 2003).



                                           - 14-

4.  The annual audit reports will consist of a single opinion on the financial statements
    of the project, including the reconciliation of the Special Account (SA); the
    Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as well as a Management Letter. The auditor
    would be expected to issue a consolidated management report covering all project
    accounts as well the funding and implementation of the block grants by the
    communities. The audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six
    months after the end of the fiscal year to which they relate. The cost of the audits
    will be eligible for financing from the Grant. Under the existing project, audit
    reports were submitted regularly. The report as of December 31, 2005 was
    submitted before the due date of June 30, 2006 with an unqualified opinion by the
    auditors. The Management letter was not submitted as required. This i s a generic
    shortcoming noted with all the auditors working on Bank-financed projects in
    WBG. This issue was extensively covered during the Bank-organized audit
    workshop on July 31, 2006 in Ramallah, during which the auditors were invited to
    issues Management letter with their report. Accordingly, audit report for FY 2006
    and beyond will include a full Management letter.

Disbursement

    PECDAR will establish a SA in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
    Disbursements from the TFGWB Grant will follow the transaction-based method,
    i.e., traditional Bank procedures by means of Withdrawal Applications (WAS)with
    SOEs supported by the fully completed and certified community-implemented
    projects. Disbursements to communities by PECDAR will be based on individual
    transactions supported by proper evidences, such as contracts, invoices, vouchers,
    etc.

    Since actual implementation of project activities will be carried out by
    Communities eligible under the block grants scheme, and that the Communities will
    incur expenditures, they should be expected to make payments to suppliers and
    individual beneficiaries under the Labor Intensive Scheme (LIS). Given the dire
    fiscal situation of most communities however, arrangements would be made by
    PECDAR to make payments directly to contractors by bank transfers on behalf of
    the Communities in a timely manner. This does not appear to be in contradiction
    with the block grant approach which would require that resources be allocated to
    communities in tranches based on their approved project proposals as well as
    certified report by auditor for the actual usage of the funds. Fundflow arrangements
    under the project have been designed to minimize the risks of errors or fraud and
    ensure funds do reach the intended beneficiaries in a transparent and timely manner
    with due regard to economy and efficiency. Toward that end, it has been agreed to
    establish two levels of fund flow: first, between the Bank and PECDAR through the
    Special accounts, Direct Payments, and Special Commitments; and second, between
    PECDAR and participating communities. At the second level, between PECDAR
    and the communities, the former will make direct payments to the contractors and
    suppliers for eligible expenses incurred b y the latter and supported by duly certified



                                          - 1 5 -

    contracts, invoices or any other relevant documents. Payments will be based on the
    approved micro projects presented by the communities. The micro projects will
    present the detail of all eligible activities along with associated costs.

7.  Although payments by PECDAR are made to contractors based on certified
    invoices and other relevant supporting documents, the reimbursements to the SA by
    means of SOEs would be based on fully completed projects by the communities.
    Accordingly, the SOEs will not report the types of expenditures in line with
    payments made by PECDAR. The detail breakdown of the community projects by
    types of expenditures will be for accounting purposes both at PECDAR and the
    Community levels. This implies that completed projects would be the justification
    relevant to the World Bank.

8.  The project will run over a period of 12 months, endingon December 31,2007. The
    allocation by expenditure category o f Grant Proceeds i s shown in Table 1 and a
    disbursement schedule i s shown inTable 2.

                      Table 2 DisbursementSchedule(US$ million)
                                -
            FiscalYear                                    2007
            Quarter              lS' 2nd                     3'd          4'h
            Absolute             1.5            1.5          1.5          0 5
            Cumulative           1.5            3.0          4.5          5.0

9.  PECDAR will process all transactions based on its operational budget which
    encompasses the grants to communities. PECDAR will be responsible for (i)
    preparing and submitting WAS to the Bank; (ii)finalizing the monthly bank
    reconciliations; and (iii)issuingthe project accounts.

Risks.

10. Country Risks. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) dated
    June 2004 concludes that the overall Public Finance Management (PFM) risk in
    WB&G is adequate insofar as the Bank's criteria and standard for approval of a
    general budget support operation (or adjustment lending) are concerned. The 2004
    CFAA rated the fiduciary risk as Significant. The CFAA also noted that the
    Palestinian Authority (PA) has made considerable progress between 2002 and 2004
    towards the implementation of a Public Financial Management (PFM) system
    which provides adequate financial control and transparency. Unfortunately, there
    has been little improvement since 2004 and some of the previous improvements
    have unraveled and perception of irregularities in the public sector has increased.
    Furthermore, the Financial Management risk Assessment dated November 2005
    concluded that the financial management project risk at 42% was one o f the highest
    in the region. In addition, The PA's liquidity crisis is unprecedented and salaries of
    civil servants salaries have not been paid since March 2006. A massive walk out by
    the staff of the PA institutions would affect economic activities in the West Bank
    and Gaza and could impact negatively project implementation. Finally,



                                           - 1 6 -

    communities are facing dire financial hardship and have not always been able to
    undertake significant development activities on their own for lack o f resources.


11. Although PECDAR operates as an autonomous entity from the PA public finance
    system and their staffs directly involved inproject implementation are paid from the
    grant resources, it i s not immune from the PA institutional crisis. The PA liquidity
    crisis will not directly affect PECDAR since they receive funds directly from the
   Bank through the SA replenished from the Grant resources. The reluctance of the
   banking system to deal with PA institution however could stop the smooth flow of
    resources. Finally, in the absence o f regular salaries (arrears amount to 8 months)
    could affect the participation o f representatives of the Ministry o f Local
    Government (MoLG) and the Department of Refugee Affairs (DORA) on the
   Technical Committee (TC) and negatively impact the selection o f micro project.
   For these reasons and the perceived risk of irregularities at the national, the country
    riskis consequently ratedhigh.

12. Project Risks. The project risk from an FM perspective is still considered
    substantial in line with the Financial Management risk Assessment dated November
    2005 of ICDP by MNAFM. The underlining causes were the lack of compliance
   with the financial covenant regarding the production o f F M X s now referred to
    asIFRs, and the weak segregation of duties. PECDAR has since made some
   progress in implementing the recommendations regarding the segregation of duties,
   but did not comply with the production of timely quarterly reports. In addition,
   PECDAR has reinforced its existing internal controls with procedures and systems
   to prevent financial irregularities. Under ICDP, PECDAR has regularly issued its
    audit reports on time and auditors' opinions have always been unqualified. The risk
   remains however on the side of the communities to participate in the micro projects
   to:
          The large number of Communities involved and the limited availability o f
          staff at PECDAR to monitor them all on a regular basis;
          The possibility that resources under the project allocated micro projects could
          be diverted to uses other than those eligible under the project;
          Our lack of proper knowledge the participating Communities' capability at
          meeting the reporting requirements in a timely manner and in compliance with
          the reporting format and content agreed to wit hPECDAR;
          The reliability of the data at the Community level since most of them has not
          been producing financial reports.
   Based on the overall volatility in the country and the lack o f adequate experience of
   the communities the FMrisk for this supplemental financing to be implemented by
   PECDAR would remain significant.

13 Mitigating measures. Mitigating measures have been established and will
   includejnter-alia, (i)all payments are made by PECDAR based on invoices,
   contracts, etc., duly certified by their engineers; (ii)PECDAR will carry out spot
   reviews on a sample basis of selected micro projects; (iii)  no cash advances will be



                                          - 1 7 -

    made to communities and resources management will be centralized at PECDAR;
    (iv) the external auditors will be requested to review all the quarterly IFRs to ensure
    that resources are used for their intended purposes; (v) PECDAR will issue an
    operating budget, and review all payment requests by the communities for
   eligibility compliance before settling the claims and (vi) increased supervision by
   the field-based FMS will be carried out.

14. Given the risk rating above, supervision activities will be comprehensive and
   include inter-alia, review of SOEs and disbursement to participating communities,
   review of quarterly interim financial reports, review of annual audited financial
   statements and management letters as well as timely follow up on issues raised by
   the auditor. There will be two full-fledged financial management supervisions
    during project implementation. In addition, the field-based F M S will pay quarterly
   visits to PECDAR and a few micro projects to ensure that resources are utilized for
   the purposed intended. These visits will cover a review of FM practices,
   procurement methods, payment procedures and documentation to ensure consistent
   and efficient application of the financial management system.




                                          - 18-

Annex 3: Assessmentof PECDAR's current procurementcapacity


A.       Assessment of PECDAR's current procurement capacity

The assessment covered PECDAR's performance on the current ICDPproject, in
addition to the current organizational structure, and the interaction between the project's
staff responsible for procurement. The following are noted:

    1. The current Staff in the procurement unit in PECDAR's West Bank office is
        composed o f a procurement officer filling the position "General Director for
        procurement & Documents Preparing" who has been working on donor funded
        projects including Bank projects since 1994, assisted by an engineer, who has
        been working closely with the procurement officer since 1999. The procurement
        team i s assisted by other staff working in the implementation unit, who mainly
        help out in bid opening and evaluation process. The project control officer i s
        currently responsible for preparing the procurement plan. The team i s responsible
        for the procurement activities carried out in the West Bank.
   2. The procurement activities in Gaza are carried out by PECDAR staff (two
        engineers) in Gaza office.
   3. The distribution of responsibilities of carrying out procurement i s not clearly
        defined.
   4. The procurement staff did not receive any training on World Bank procurement
        procedures and Guidelines; the procurement officer attended a World Bank &
        IMForientation course. Two PECDAR staff members receivedtraining on World
        Bank procurement in Turin; one of them i s responsible for preparing the
        procurement plan.
   5. Recent documents submitted by PECDAR for the Bank's approval, concerning
        procurement planning for new contracts indicated a need for improvement in
        procurement planning.     Another bidding document, which i s currently under
        review, indicates insufficient attention from PECDAR to the comments provided
        by the Bank on similar previous documents.
   6. PECDAR failed to implement a number of activities included in the latest
        procurement plan which was approved by the Bank in June due, as justified by
        PECDAR, to time constraints. This i s another indication to the need for
        improvement in planning.


Duringthe last ISR (#9 of June 29,2006), the procurementrating was MU. The ISR
highlighted that the procurement was not implemented in fully compliance with the Legal
Agreement. An amendment to the LA, which accommodated such noncompliance, has
been recently approved by the Bank.




                                           - 19-

The reassessmentmission noted slight improvement inprocurement performance that
allow them hesitantly and cautiously to suggest upgrading the rating to MS,and therefore
the mission stresses on the need of implementing the action plan recommendedbelow.


B.     Key Issues and Corrective Measures:

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the activities
under the additional fundinghave been identified and include:
- Insufficientcontrol from the procurementteam on the procurement activities, and
    unclear distribution of responsibilities among the different staff involved in
    procurement.
-   Lack of planning knowledge among the team
-   Participating LGUs lack the necessary fiduciary capacity and experience with World
    Bank procurement Guidelines.


In light of the above and given the important role that PECDAR would play in
supervising procurement activities carried out by the beneficiaries, and its responsibility
towards ensuring that procurement under the project i s done in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelinesand procedures, there i s a need to strengthen the procurement capacity
of PECDAR and to support the learning process in both procurement procedures and
contract management         In order to achieve this, and to meet the implementation
requirements under the additional financing the following actions are recommended:

  1- Conducting target training in procurement and contract management for PECDAR
     procurement staff. The training will address the critical noncompliance identified by
     the ex-PPRs and the latest IPR, as well as weaknesses underscored through the
     interactions between the Bank and the project counterparts during the
     implementation o f procurement activities in the last few months. This will help to
     handle the procurement of transactions under the proposed project competently and
     inaccordance with the Bank's Guidelines andprocedures.
  2- Ensuring compliance with the Legal agreement, Bank's procurement Guidelines
      and procedures, as part o f the `lessons learned' from the current ICDP.
  3- Providing technical assistance and training on procurement to the LGUs from
     locally-basedconsulting firms.


  C:   Procurement ImplementationArrangements:

 The activities to be financed under the proposed additional financing would follow
  disbursement and procurement arrangement that will be laid down in the revised ICDP
  manual of operation. LCUs and/or PSCs and/or PECDAR on behalf of LGus andor
 PSCs, will follow disbursement and procurement recommendation that will be
 explicitly in the revised manual of operation




                                            - 20 -

The Operational Manual would be revised to attend to the implementation experience
of the current project.

D: ProcurementPlan:

The existing ICDP Procurement Plan i s still effective and will be used until December
31st. For the Additional Financing the procurement methods will follow the
recommendation of the Bank reference Guide for Fiduciary Management for
Community Driven Development Projects




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4: Indicators and scoring system for investment under component 1


Based on data taken from a micro project appraisal form, the following economic and
financial parameters would be calculated:

Economic:
   -   labor content, i.e. labor cost as proportion of total micro project cost;
   -   cost per person-day of employment, i.e. total micro project cost per total number
       o f person-days of employment
   -   cost per potential beneficiary

Financia1:
   -  cost per construction day, i.e. total micro project cost per total number of
      construction days
   -  cost per unit of common work items, such as per square meter of pavedroad or
      pipe laid, based on unit prices from previously completed works
   -  daily average wage

However, the economic and financial analysis would be only two among several criteria
employed in the selection of micro projects. Micro project appraisal also would include
other criteria specified in the Operations Manual, such as:

   -  Technical: availability of local laborers and materials, accessibility to the micro
      project site, technical norms and standards, technical feasibility, development
      impact, availability of landfor construction;
   -  Social: participation of community members in project identification, knowledge
      of community members of their obligations toward community cost sharing and
      operation and maintenance, proportion of the community expected to benefit from
      the micro project, extent to which poor and vulnerable members of the community
      would benefit from the micro project, impact on women and children
   -  Environmental: potential environmental danger or damage resulting from micro
      project implementation, provisions to mitigate potential environmental damage,
      place and legal authorization to transport and dump site debris, areas of potential
      environmental improvement resulting from the micro project.




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5: Achievements of the completed Micro Projects inWest Bank and
Gaza




           Achievements of the completed Micro Projects inthe West Bank
                       (Number of Completed Micro Project 56)

I                           -
                            No. of P       Completed          Completed Work
 Sector                     Projects       Projects
 Roads                      17             15                 50kmlengthof
                                                              constructedroads
                            12             12                 55 Classrooms
                                                              constructedor
                                                              rehabilitated
                            7              5                  3110m' built up area

 "Public Garden             11             11                 71dunums
 *Agricultural Road         5              5                  14km
 *Agricultural Projects     2              2
 Water
 *Constructionof water                                        1300m3
 tanks
 *Rehabilitationof a water
 well
 *Rehabilitationof water                                      5485 Lmpipes
 distribution system


 * Rehabilitationof the     1              1                  2300 Lmpipes
 mainsewage svstem
 Information Centers        3              1

 Total                      63             56

                                          P




                                      - 23 -

                      Achievements of the completedMicro Projects in Gaza
                            (Number of CompletedMicro Project 33)

Sector                      No. of          Completed       Completed Work
                            Projects       Projects
Roads                       18              18               18.3km road length of
                                                            constructedroad
                                                             1270Lmcurbstone
                                                            2300m sidewalks
                                                            350Lmsewage line

Education                   4              4                4350m' interlock tiles to
                                                            5school yards and
                                                            rehabilitation of 30
                                                            Classrooms
Public service buildings    6               h               2840 mLbuilt up area
Agriculture                 2               1               550m2built up area
(Building:a veterinarv lab)
Wastewater                  2              2                2700 Lmwastewater
                                                            viDes
Electricity                                 1               3500Lm cables
InformationCenters          2               1
(ICTs)
Total                       35              33




                                      - 24 -

     Achievements of the completed Micro Projects inWest Bank and Gaza
                        Number of completed Projects 89

Sector                    No. of         Completed       I Completed  Work
                          Projects       Projects
Roads                     35             33               63.83 kmroad length of
                                                          constructed roads
                                                           1270Lmcurbstone
                                                          2300m sidewalks
                                                          350Lm sewage line

Education                 16             16               4350mLinterlock tiles for
                                                          school yards
                                                           12685m2built up area
                                                          2000m2 school yards, and
                                                           82 classrooms were
                                                          constructed or

Public service buildings  13
Agriculture               20
                                                          7lkm(public gardens)
                                                           14 km(agricultural roads)
                                                          supply of goods for the
                                                          TulkaremCooperative

Water                     5

Wastewater                3
Electricity               1
Information Centers       5

Total                    98




                                    - 25 -

Annex 6: Project Processing Schedule and Team Composition


                               Project Processing Schedule
IIFirstBank
ProjectSchedule                                          Planned          Actual
           mission (identification)                 II   00/00/06   II              I
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               1month
Appraisal                                                1O/17/06
Negotiations                                             11/15/06
Approval                                                 12/14/06
PlannedDate of Effectiveness                             01/02/07



                                   Team Composition

Name                                          Specialty
Husam Abu Dagga                             IITask Team Leader
Pierre Rondot                                 Sr. Economist
Colin Scott                                   Lead Specialist
Ali Awais                                     Sr. Counsel
Vikram Raghavan                               Sr. Counsel
Siaka Bakayoko                                Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Afaf Abbasi                                   Procurement Specialist
FifiAntar                                     Program Assistant
Hyacinth D.Brown                              Sr. Finance Officer
Lina Abdallah   I                             Operations Consultant
Gregorio Bettiza                              Consultant




                                          - 26 -



