Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
TF GRANT NUMBER TF057878-GZ 
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Integrated Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
Dated  February 2, 2007
 
Page  2
TF GRANT NUMBER TF057878-GZ 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 2007, between the PALESTINE 
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the 
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“World Bank”), acting as administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, 
established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by 
Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, and as 
further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2 and Resolution No. 03-193 and 
IDA 03-208, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and the International Development Association (the “Trust Fund”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association has 
resolved, on February 4, 2004, to, 
inter alia,
 replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of 
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (“Gaza”) and the West Bank (the “West 
Bank”), which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(B) 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, among other 
things
,
sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank 
(the “Interim Agreement”); 
 
(C) 
Section 5(b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases described 
thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority; and 
 
(D) 
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Recipient, has requested the 
World Bank to provide additional financing for activities related to the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), which are described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (the “Project”); 
 
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, among other things
,
of
the 
foregoing to extend the Grant to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Grant 
Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
–
STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006
 (“Standard Conditions”), in Appendix-II to this 
Agreement, constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
–
THE PROJECT 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions 
and the Project Agreement. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III – THE GRANT 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to five 
million United States Dollars ($5,000,000
)
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
–
ADDITIONAL REMEDIES 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02(i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:  (a) 
Ineligibility of the Recipient.  
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible to
 
be
awarded a contract 
financed by
 
IBRD or IDA.  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied. 
 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action. 
 
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the 
PECDAR. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World 
Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, 
a
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the 
Member Country, showing the following matters:  
 
(a)  
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally 
binding upon it in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the 
PECDAR and is legally binding upon each such party in accordance with 
its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased 
to exist.  
 
5.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective. This Agreement and all obligations 
of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect ninety (90) 
days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after consideration 
of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this 
Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
–
RECIPIENT’S REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is Chief of Staff at the Office of the President of the Palestinian 
Authority. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Dr. Rafiq Al-Husseini 
Chief of Staff 
Office of the President 
Palestinian Authority 
Ramallah, West Bank 
 
Telephone: 
    Facsimile: 
970-2-298 
1370 
    970-2-296 
9740 
 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at the West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
By 
/s/ Rafiq Al-Husseini 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank 
 
By 
/s/ Juan Jose Daboub 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE I 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and availability of basic 
economic and social services in poor and marginalized communities in the parts of the 
West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts. 
Part 1
:
Community Grants
Provision of Community Grants to Local Government Units and Popular 
Services Committees to finance Micro-projects. 
Part 2
:
Project Management
Project management support to ensure the effective carrying out of the Project and 
the supervision of its execution. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE II 
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to PECDAR under a subsidiary agreement between the 
Recipient and PECDAR, under terms and conditions approved by the World 
Bank.  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement of any of its provisions. 
B. 
Project Manuals and Plans 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause PECDAR to: (i) ensure that the Project will be carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Operations Manual, 
and the Environmental Management Plan; and (ii) take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services, and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that 
no provision of the Operations Manual and the Environmental Management Plan 
is amended or waived if, in the opinion of the World Bank, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that selection of Local Government Units and other 
beneficiaries under this Project are carried out in accordance with the Operations 
Manual and other terms and conditions agreed with the World Bank. 
 
C. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause PECDAR to update the Environmental Management 
Plan by no later than January 31, 2007, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that PECDAR shall carry out and implement the 
Project in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that no action is taken which shall prevent or interfere 
with the carrying out of any activities required under the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
 
Section 
II. 
Financial Management, Project Monitoring, Reporting, and 
Evaluation
A.
 
Financial Management and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of 
such period.
 
B. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the World Bank. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of each calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of the Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion 
Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 (“Procurement 
Guidelines”) in the case of goods and works, and Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients” published by the World Bank in May 2004 (“Consultant 
Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(“Procurement Plan”). 
2. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on Community 
Participation procedures, which have been found acceptable to the World Bank.  
These procedures shall be specified in the Procurement Plan. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments, which are specified 
in the Procurement Plan: (a) Least Cost Selection; (b) Selection based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications; and (c) Single-source Selection.  The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the World Bank.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and     
(c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.   
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in US Dollars)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1)  Community Grants for 
Micro-projects under Part 1 
of the Project 
 4,750,000 
100% 
(2)  Incremental Operating Costs 
 
250,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is 
December 31, 2007. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section V. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Sub-Projects
1. 
PECDAR shall require a beneficiary Local Government Unit applying for a 
Community Grant to submit its proposal for a Community Grant in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in the Operations Manual.  
2. 
PECDAR shall: (a) ensure that proposals for Community Grants meet the 
requisite terms and conditions set out in the Operations Manual; (b) ensure that 
beneficiaries meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Operations Manual and 
have the capacity to carry out, manage and maintain Community Grants in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and managerial 
standards; (c) approve each Community Grant and, to that end, enter into an 
agreement under which proceeds of the Community Grant will be made available 
to the beneficiary for the sub-project; and (d) monitor and evaluate the Micro-
project in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Operations Manual.  
3. 
The legal agreements between PECDAR and the beneficiaries shall provide for 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the World Bank and PECDAR, 
including, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, the right to: 
(a) require the beneficiary to: (i) carry out the Micro-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
technical and managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records for 
the sub-project; 
(b)  require that all goods, works and services required for the Micro-project shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; 
(c) require that such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Micro-project;  
(d) require the beneficiary to allow PECDAR to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the World Bank, if the World Bank shall so request: (i) the 
operations of the Micro-project; and (ii) any relevant records and documents; 
and 
(e) suspend or terminate the right of the beneficiary to use the proceeds of the 
Community Grant upon failure by the beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the agreement with PECDAR. 
Page  13
-
12
-
APPENDIX I 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Beneficiary” means a Local Government Unit or popular services committee (as 
this term is hereinafter defined) to which a Community Grant is to be made under 
Part 1 of the Project. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Community Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Grant to a Beneficiary for a Micro-project under Part 1 of the 
Project. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers”  published  by  the  World  Bank  in        
May 2004.  
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means environmental mitigation plan for the 
Original Project dated October 2001, and updated by PECDAR for the purpose 
of this Project: (i) setting forth the measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to offset and reduce the adverse 
environmental impacts to levels acceptable to the World Bank; and (ii) consisting 
of an institutional strengthening component, an environmental mitigation plan 
and an environmental monitoring plan. 
6. 
“Local Government Unit” means a local government unit, and such term shall 
include a municipality, village council, or a refugee camp service committee. 
7. 
“Micro-project” means a specific subproject to be financed under Part 1 of this 
Project and more fully described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“Operations Manual” means the operations manual for the Original Project, which 
is referred to in Section 1.02(k) of the Original Financing Agreement, including 
amendments made to the manual from time to time with the World Bank’s 
approval. 
9. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Trust Fund Credit Agreement dated 
August 6, 2002, for the Integrated Community Development Project (TF050591) 
between the Palestine Liberation Organization for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority (referred to as the “Borrower” in the agreement) and the International 
Development Association, acting as administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and 
the West Bank (referred to as the “Administrator” in the agreement). 
Page  14
-
13
-
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
11. 
“PECDAR” means Palestinian Economic Council for Development and 
Reconstruction, an agency established and operating under a basic regulation issued 
on May 14, 1994, under a decree from chairperson of the Executive Committee of 
the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
12. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004. 
13. 
“Procurement 
Plan” 
means 
the 
procurement 
plan 
for 
the 
Project, 
dated           
January 31, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Grant Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to PECDAR. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX II 
 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the 
Project and for a period of ten years thereafter:   
 
(a) 
enable representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of the West 
Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority for purposes related to 
the Grant; and 
 
(b) 
enable the World Bank’s representatives: (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 3.07 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for Taxes levied by, or in the parts of West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority on or in respect of Eligible 
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such limitation on withdrawals.” 
 
3. 
Sub-sections (a) and (g) of Section 4.02 are deleted, and consequently,  
Sub-sections (b) through (i) are re-lettered as Sub-sections (a) through (g). 
 
4. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (b) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to make withdrawals under any 
agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Recipient, the Project 
Implementing Entity, or any agency thereof, or any entity in the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement or any other agreement with IBRD or IDA.” 
Page  16
-
15
-
5. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (e) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(e) 
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient or the 
Project Implementing Entity has, without the consent of the World Bank: (i) assigned or 
transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations arising under or entered into 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or otherwise 
disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with 
respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of the 
World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under or entered into pursuant 
to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not 
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the Project 
implementation entity.” 
 
6. 
Re-lettered Sub-section (f) of Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not a member of IBRD: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Project Implementation Entity. 
 
(ii) 
The Project Implementation Entity has ceased to exist in the 
same legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant 
Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Project Implementation Entity has changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as 
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project.” 
 
7. 
Sub-section (c) of Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(c)  
Misprocurement;
 
Fraud and Corruption. 
The World Bank: 
 
(i) determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, that (A) the procurement of such contract is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Grant Agreement; or (B) corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or the Project 
Implementing Entity during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank 
to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of expenditures under such 
Page  17
-
16
-
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Grant.
”
8. 
Sub-section (a) of Section 4.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation, use of such amount to: (i) make a payment for an expenditure that is 
not an Eligible Expenditure; or (ii) finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or the Project Implementing Entity, without the 
Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to 
remedy the situation.”  
 
9. 
Sub-section (j) of Section 5.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
If, within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award have been 
delivered to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter 
judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or  
(iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of 
the award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of the award 
against the Recipient except as such procedure may be available otherwise than by reason 
of the provisions of this Section.” 
 
10. 
Paragraph (17) of the Appendix is deleted and, consequently, paragraphs (18) 
through (26) are re-numbered as paragraphs (17) through (25).
 
