Report No. 23697
Report No: I069986 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/19/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: WEST BANK AND GAZA      Project ID: P069986
Project: Integrated Community Development Project         Task Team Leader:
Kanthan Shankar
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 15, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 28, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 10.00 (Special Financing)
Managing Unit: MNSRE     Sector: BI - Institutional Development; CC -
Telecommunications & Informatics; SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective is to improve the quality and availability of
basic social and economic services in poor and marginalized communities of
West Bank and Gaza (WBG). This objective would be realized through
financing investments in local infrastructure and institutions.
Infrastructure. Physical investments would be targeted to preserve and
extend capital stock of infrastructure owned by villages and small
municipalities in regions of WBG with the highest incidence of poverty.
Like the preceding Community Development Projects (CDPs) I and II, the
Integrated Community Development Project (ICDP) would finance investments
in infrastructure such as roads, water supply, schools and clinics that
are necessary for economic and employment growth and vital to human
development and poverty reduction. Such investments would help rectify the
inequalities in access to basic services that are particularly pronounced
between urban and rural areas. While urban areas would not be excluded
from the ICDP, communities with less than 5,000 population would be the
norm. Improvements in the agriculture sector such as rehabilitation of
terraces, irrigation canals, wells and access roads, would be made because
of the potential to affect employment and incomes, especially for women
who make up a large percentage of the agriculture work force. Finally, the
project would pilot new initiatives in information and communication
technology (ICT) in pre-selected communities to begin to address the
economic and human resource constraints to ICT access in WBG.
Institutions. The ICDP would be more focused than the preceding CDPs on
enabling local government units (LGUs) to plan and manage microprojects.
LGUs include municipalities, village councils and camp service committees
(CSCs). In rural areas, farmers' cooperatives would also be eligible to
plan and manage microprojects. Emphasis would be placed on improving the
transparency, accountability and administrative capacity of LGUs to
undertake community development activities through microprojects. The
means to achieve institutional impacts would be through training and
capacity building activities in parallel with physical investments and by
transferring decision making and active roles to citizens and their local
governments.



I.A.3. Project Description:
Component l(USD 17.2 million): Community Development Microprojects. This
component would provide grants (maximum amount $150,000) to LGUs and
farmer cooperatives to finance a minimum 100 community development
microprojects. Proposals would be prepared by local officials in
consultation with residents and implemented in accordance with ICDP
procedures using local contractors, suppliers and laborers. Each
Community Development Microproject would include resources for: (i)
training and technical services to improve planning, consultation and
management capacities of communities and enable them to hire a design firm
and daily supervisor; (ii) civil works for construction, extension or
rehabilitation of water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, health
clinics, additions to primary and secondary schools, community markets,
feeder roads, internal roads, rehabilitation of irrigation networks,
terraces and wells or other eligible works; and It is envisioned that
training in citizen participation, procurement, maintenance planning and
impacts monitoring would be mandatory for communities to qualify for
community development microprojects.
Component 2 (USD 2 million): Community Telecenters. This component would
finance a minimum of 10 multipurpose telecenters in preselected
communities of WBG, through grants (maximum $150,000 per telecenter)
provided to LGUs. Based on a technical and financial design proposal,
submitted by local officials, investments would include: (i) civil works
for extension or reconfiguration of existing facilities (such as community
centers, libraries, or school labs) to accommodate ICT infrastructure and
programs; (ii) goods, such as computers, software, furniture, phones, fax
machines, photocopiers, including connection to internet services; and
(iii) technical services to assess the demand for design and delivery of
programs and services for up to 18 months, including the training of
telecenter staff. Since the communities would be encouraged to build on
existing facilities and local partnerships with other ICT development
actors, requests for the maximum grant amount would be considered to be
the exception.
Component 3 (USD 0.8 million): Project Management.     This component would
finance incremental operating costs, equipment, audits, and impacts
studies needed by the Implementing agencies for project execution and
management.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The main project component - Community Development Project - consists of
civil works targeted at poor areas of West Bank and Gaza. Under the
current crisis with unemployment nearly 40w, most areas in West Bank and
Gaza can be considered poor areas. The proposed microprojects will be
implemented in villages, small municipalities and refugee camps of West
Bank and Gaza which will generally trigger positive environmental impacts
due to better drainage for rehabilitated access roads, reduce erosion due
to better terracing on agricultural land, safe water supply and sanitation
due to rehabilitation of supply and drainage systems.The project sites are
not expected to be close to any protected cultural or trigger any socially
contentious issues.
-2-



B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project is not expected to trigger any major environmental
impacts due to the nature of the interventions which consist of mainly
rehabilitation of dilapidated infrastructure and introduction of
information and communication technology in rural areas. Accordingly,
given that the projects deal with rehabilitation/improvements of existing
infrastructure, and given that the projects are very small (less than USD
150,000) that will not involve land acquisition or resettlement, the
project has been placed under environmental category "B" in accordance
with OD 4.01 which requires the preparation of an Environmental Management
Plan. This has been done by the client and has been cleared by the Bank.
Copies have been made available in the infoshop.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project would only trigger the policy on environmental assessment.
However due to the nature of interventions (rehabilitation/improvement of
community infrastructure), no significant or irreversible impacts are
anticipated.
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not Applicable
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
The project is not expected to create any long term impacts.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not Applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The implementation of the EMP will be included in the credit agreement and
will be monitored through regular supervision from the HQ and by local
-3 -



staff in the country office. Furthermore, the Implementing agencies will
through training for contractors and using consultants to conduct
environmental reviews will ensure that environmental issues are properly
addressed.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders include the target communities in West Bank and Gaza,
the Local Government Units (LGUs), the Ministry of Local Government, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of Refugee Affairs, the Ministry
of Environmental Affairs (MEnA) and the Palestinian Economic Council for
Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR). As the project is demand driven,
environmental impacts cannot be identified ex-ante. However, an
environmental audit was undertaken by the client (through hiring a local
consulting firm) on nine projects implemented under a similar community
development project - CDP II. The audit, in addition to outlining key
environmental issues also ensured adequate public consultation during the
assessment process through site visits, interviews and group discussions
with all stakeholders including related community beneficiaries. The
Environmental Audit and the proposed Environmental Management Plan has
been cleared by the Bank and has been submitted to the infoshop.
Furthermore, arrangements have been made to display the EMP in the offices
MEnA. It is envisioned that a participatory workshop to present the EMP
will be undertaken during appraisal.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      11/10/2001       12/27/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/9/2002          12/27/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   1/3/2002         12/27/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
-4-



Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Kanthan Shankar 02/08/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough/Person/World
Bank    02/10/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour/Person/World Bank
02/11/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Sherif Kamel F. Arif     02/12/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Petros Aklilu    02/13/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5-



