            Document of
          The World Bank


                                    Report No: 64696 v1




      RESTRUCTURING PAPER

               ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                OF

CENTRAL ASIA AIDS CONTROL PROJECT

           (IDA-H149-7C)



          MARCH 15, 2005


             TO THE

 EURASIAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY




        SEPTEMBER 15, 2011
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAAP       Central Asia AIDS Control Project
EAEC       Euroasian Economic Community
RPMU       Regional Project Monitoring Unit
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report




           Regional Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houérou
                 Country Director:        Motoo Konishi
                  Sector Manager:         Daniel Dulitzky
                Task Team Leader:         Nedim Jaganjac

                                      2
         CENTRAL ASIA — CENTRAL ASIA AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
                              P087003

                        IDA GRANT NUMBER (IDA-H149-7C)


                                   Restructuring Paper




1.    The closing date for the Central Asia AIDS Control Project (CAAP), Grant No.
H1490 will be extended from September 30, 2011 to December 31, 2011.

2.      The project has continued to make good progress towards achieving its development
objectives. Project management and coordination has continued to work effectively,
including financial and procurement management. The project objectives of “contributing to
controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS in participating countries in the Central Asia Region by
establishing regional mechanisms to support national HIV/AIDS programs? continue to be
relevant and achievable. One important achievement of the CAAP has been building
constituencies across the region to promote dialogue and evidence based interventions and
overcome political and technical barriers.

3.      Since the project was restructured in January 2011, it has continued to be rated
Satisfactory with good progress in achievement of the project development objectives. There
are no outstanding audit reports.

4.      As of September 12, 2011, all funds have been disbursed (US$25.41 million
equivalent). However, there is about US$80,000 in the special account to finance the
operations of a reduced number of staff in the Regional Project Management Unit (RPMU)
for an orderly closing of project assets.

5.      The proposed extension is necessary to allow the RPMU to arrange for transfer of
physical assets (vehicles, computer and office equipment) and project files. This is a
somewhat sensitive process given the involvement of four countries in the project. At the
request of the Euroasian Economic Community (EAEC), arrangements are being made by the
RPMU to organize archives to transfer documents to the four countries. An extension of the
grace period without an extension of the Grant would require the EAEC to finance essential
RPMU staff to complete the said arrangements which is not an option as EAEC does not have
such funds (as national government would have); therefore the extension of the Grant is
proposed. The extension of the Grant closing date would also allow for orderly completion of
the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) which is now under preparation. A
draft of the report will need to be sent to the four countries for comments and the role of the
RPMU in facilitating the preparation of comments by the individual countries and
summarizing those comments to be submitted to the Bank would be important.

6.     This is the second and final extension of the Grant closing date. The first extension
was for nine months. Therefore, this represents a cumulative extension of twelve months.
                                             3
4
