In L       COPY                                Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-1896a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
September 30,1976
lbi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
Itheir officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
US$1                              YR 4.50
YR 1                              US$0.22
YR 1,000                          US$222
YR 1,000,000            =         US$222,222
FISCAL YEAR
JULY 1 to JUNE 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ODM                = The United Kingdom "Overseas Development Ministry"
ACB                = Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF                = Agricultural Credit Fund
AHD                = Animal Health Division
LDB                = Livestock Development Board
LDC                = Livestock Development Corporation
LRID               = Livestock Range Improvement Division
MSMD               = Municipality Slaughterhouse and Markets Division
PU                 = Project Implementation Unit
VDA                = Village Development Association
1/ No par value for the Yemen Rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed dev-
elopment credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for the equivalent of US$5.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Livestock Credit and Pro-
cessing Project. About US$1.1 million of the credit would be relent to the
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) for the supervised credit component at an in-
terest rate of 4 percent per annum for 20 years, including a seven-year grace
period. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development and the Netherlands
Government would participate with loans of about US$11.6 million and US$7.5
million, respectively on terms similar to those of IDA. The United Kingdom
would also participate with a grant of about US$2.4 million. All co-finan-
ciers would participate under parallel financing arrangements.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, and based on the
findings of an economic mission which visited the Yemen Arab Republic in
September 1974 and an updating mission in October/November 1975, was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. A country data sheet
is attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.        The YAR is among the least-developed countries in the world with a
per capita income in 1975 of about $210 1/ per annum. This underdevelopment
has its roots in three major factors:   (a) the country's long isolation from
the rest of the world, which started to end with the revolution against the
traditional Imams in 1962, but in fact was not fully overcome until the end
of the subsequent civil war (1962-70), (b) the paucity of natural resources,
and (c) the critical shortage of educational facilities and of modern techni-
cal and administrative skills.
4.        The Government has successfully introduced basic elements of modern
administration in recent years and has sought to overcome the problems asso-
ciated with a meagre resource base by encouraging emigration of Yemenis
1/   Revised preliminary estimate.   See Annex 1.
I This document has re tricted distribution and may 'be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



abroad and welcoming the inflow of foreign assistance. This policy has paid
increasing dividends, and workers' remittances and foreign aid and grants
(particularly from Saudi Arabia) have increased substantially, particularly
over the last two years. Limitations in YAR's absorptive capacity are con-
sequently becoming the main constraint to the rapid acceleration of develop-
ment expenditures. The Government is making substantial efforts to step up
its development outlays, while at the same time building up appropriate in-
stitutional structures and training of people in necessary skills. Pressure
on available skills is consequently high, and middle level skills as well as
specialized skills have to be imported from abroad.
Economic Structure, Development Objectives and Constraints
5.        YAR's economic structure, although changing, still reflects its
state of extreme underdevelopment. Over 80 percent of its estimated popula-
tion of 6.5 million (1975) is engaged in agriculture, largely in subsistence
production. Internal transport and communications, though expanding, still
leave many parts of the country isolated from each other. While the main
road system has been rapidly developed and the education system has expanded,
the economic and social infrastructure remains largely underdeveloped. The
literacy rate of YAR's population barely exceeds 10 percent and modern admin-
istration systems are still in their infancy and face an acute shortage of
qualified and experienced manpower. Political integration has been hindered
by tribal differences. The end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhs in a
stronger and more independent position than before. This fragmentation of
power, combined with the inadequacy of institutions and lack of trained cadres
at the Central Government level, has for many years hindered the Government's
ability to formulate national economic objectives and carry out a working pro-
gram of economic development. However, Central Government control has grad-
ually spread in recent years and continues to do so, and the building up of
an administrative and security framework is among the Government's highest
priorities.
6.        Despite these constraints, considerable progress has been made in
setting up national economic institutions. With significant technical as-
sistance provided by the IMF, the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, Yemen established
a Central Bank in 1971, a Central Budget and a Central Planning Organization
in 1972. Formal budgets were introduced from 1973/74. Moreover, a Three-Year
Development Program, covering the period of 1973/74-1975/76 was drafted,
which defined the general long-term development strategy for YAR as well as
medium-term development policies for the public sector. The project list
contained in the Program is confined to the public sector.
7.        The long-term goals for economic development, reflected in the
country's Development Program emphasize: (a) the development of agriculture
to achieve self-sufficiency in food; (b) the expansion of the transport and
communications infrastructure to improve economic and social integration;
(c) education and manpower development to secure the needs of Yemen's future



- 3 -
development efforts; and (d) government institution-building at the national
as well as at local levels. For the Program period, public sector develop-
ment expenditure of about YR 936 million (approx. US$208 million) is envis-
aged, 31 percent has been allocated to transport and communications, 21 per-
cent to education and manpower development, 15 percent to agriculture, and
about 10 percent each to industry (including mining), water supply and sewer-
age and health and other services.
8.        A basic constraint on development (besides the presently limited
absorptive capacity) is the country's narrow resource base. In agriculture,
which accounts for about two-thirds of GDP and for virtually all of the
meagre exports (notably cotton, coffee, and hides and skins), development
is seriously constrained by physical limitations, particularly the erratic
nature of rainfall, the rugged mountainous terrain and the uncertainty of
groundwater supplies. Food grains (sorghum, millet, maize, barley and wheat)
for local consumption are the principal crops; only modest quantities of cash
crops (cotton, coffee and qat 1/) are produced. The agriculture sector is
predominantly devoted to rainfed grain production, and mainly as a result of
the prolonged drought of 1966-73, has been meeting a decreasing share of do-
mestic needs. Thus, food imports, in part provided through emergency relief
operations, have grown rapidly from about US$23 million in 1970 to almost
US$96 million in 1974, constituting about two-fifths of total recorded
imports. Abundant rainfall during the 1974/75 crop season resulted in the
harvesting of exceptionally large crops and preliminary estimates indicate
another good harvest during 1975/76; nevertheless, self-sufficiency in agri-
cultural production remains a distant goal.
9.        Yemen has little mineral resources of known commercial value.     Only
rock salt has been exploited so far. Unlike most countries of the Arabian
Peninsula, Yemen has no known oil resources, but exploration is currently
underway. Due to the scarcity of natural resources, but also because of
the small domestic market, industry was virtually non-existent until the
late 1960's. Since then a small number of medium-sized, import substitution
plants have been established, mostly with bilateral assistance. They include
a textile mill, a cement factory, a cigarette factory and other plants pro-
ducing light consumer manufactures and construction materials. Their overall
production, however, still represents only about 3 percent of GDP. Future
industrial growth will probably remain limited to these fields and the pro-
cessing of agricultural products unless other mineral resources in commercial
quantities are discovered. Other manufacturing based on imported materials
is likely to remain of relatively small significance due mainly to the narrow
domestic market.
Recent Developments
10.       YAR's economy remains heavily based on subsistence agriculture.
But gradual transformation of the economic structure is underway because
1/   A mildly narcotic leaf, chewed by a considerable portion of the adult
population. In July 1975 the Government levied a new tax of 30 per-
cent on sales of qat so as to discourage its production.



- 4 -
of rapid growth in construction, manufacturing, transport, commerce (parti-
cularly trading and banking) and government services. GDP at constant
prices has grown at about 4 percent a year during 1970-73, with agricultural
output rising in 1970 and 1971, but declining in 1972 and 1973 due to
drought. Estimates for 1974 and 1975 suggest a marked upsurge in economic
activity as a result of a large increase in agricultural production and the
inflow of capital and workers' remittances. Remittances from workers abroad
(largely in Saudi Arabia) and cash grants from the Saudi Government, in fact,
have become by far the largest sources of foreign exchange. They have enabled
the YAR to sustain large deficits in its balance of trade, and their rapid in-
crease led to a substantial addition to reserves in 1974 and the first half of
1975 (see paragraphs 12 and 13). Direct budgetary support finances the govern-
ment current deficit and the bulk of development outlays (see paragraphs 14-16
below).
11.       The sharp increases in international oil prices since late 1973 have
also affected the YAR--which is almost entirely dependent on imported products.
The adverse effects have, however, been partly cushioned by an $11 million
interest-free credit from the Organization of Arab Oil Producing Exporting
Countries (OAPEC) (through the Arab Fund) and by a grant from Saudi Arabia
of 50,000 tons of petroleum products in 1974.
12.       Yemen's balance of trade has shown high and widening deficits in
recent years. This has resulted directly from Yemen's increased needs for
essential commodities (particularly oil and foodstuffs) which have had to
be imported at a time of sharply rising prices, and the limited nature of
its exports (comprising cotton, coffee, and hides and skins). Exports, which
amount to only 6-7 percent of imports, have grown in recent years (largely
as a result of improved cotton prices) and amounted to about $13 million in
1974/75. However, imports increased to about $259 million in 1974/75, result-
ing in a trade deficit of US$246 million, compared with US$180 million in
1973/74. The trade deficit in 1974/75 was financed (as in previous years)
in large part through workers' remittances and minor invisible receipts
($221 million). Commodity and cash grants received (almost entirely from
Saudi Arabia) amounted to $93 million in 1974/75, and together with net
medium and long-term capital inflows of $47 million in the same period
led to an increase in foreign assets by $115 million.
13.       YAR had previously been experiencing small but regular surpluses
in its balance of payments which had led to small increases in its foreign
exchange holdings. The exceptionally large surplus experienced in 1974/75
meant that by June 30, 1975, the gross foreign exchange reserves of the
Central Bank had risen to $243 million. Of this amount, US$189.5 million
represented free reserves, the balance being mainly blocked accounts with
the Central Bank of Egypt. The free reserves were equivalent to about eight
months of estimated import of goods at the 1974/75 level.



14.       Yemen   budgetary situation is characterized by persistent deficits
on the current account, because of the small tax base. YAR's aggregate tax
effort remains weak, and the tax/GDP ratio (less than 8 percent) is low.
However, budgetary performance has been slowly improving as indicated by the
higher growth rate of government current revenues compared with current ex-
penditures over the last five years, except in 1974/75. Current revenues
increased from about $33 million in 1971/72 to about $84 million in 1974/75,
i.e., at an annual rate of 35 percent (substantialy higher than the growth
of GDP), while current expenditures increased by about 27 percent per annum
over the same period (to about $105 million in 1974/75). Almost two-thirds
of the absolute increase in revenues was accounted for by higher customs re-
ceipts from increased imports (which now provide almost 60 percent of total
Government revenues). The increase in current spending resulted largely
from higher outlays on defense and security which in 1974/75 claimed 57 per-
cent of the total of about $60 million; and salary increases for the very
low-paid Government civil servants in mid-1974. Expenditures for security
(including cash grants to tribes) were considered necessary, given the socio-
political situation and the need to strengthen the central authority while
salary increases were necessitated by the need to build up and retain quali-
fied Government administrative staff. During 1975/76, the Government expects
to continue to restrain current expenditures--the current deficit is antici-
pated at about $19 million (compared to $20 million in 1974/75). These cur-
rent deficits, together with the largest part of Government development ex-
penditures, are expected to be financed, as in the past two years, through
direct Saudi budgetary support. The Government has also changed from a sub-
stantial net borrower in 1973 to a substantial net creditor to the banking
system (see Annex I). With the improved budgetary situation the Government
has been recently budgeting increased Government support (both for technical
services and project financing) for projects programmed through the Central
Planning Organization (CPO). The Ministry of Finance is also making direct
allocations to economic ministries for some development expenditures includ-
ing small projects which the ministries can implement on their own.
15.       The rapid increase in the Government's domestic and foreign assets
reflects some Government restraint in increasing current expenditures, and
its desire to husband as much as possible the newly available resources. It
also reflects however, limitations in YAR's absorptive capacity as indicated
by shortfalls in the Government's planned development outlays.
16.       The experience with regard to executing public development projects
has shown that projects involving a great deal of preparation with institution-
building and training elements faced greater problems than those confined to
physical work or the provision of foreign experts. The Three-Year Develop-
ment Program (see paragraph 7 above) had envisaged a total expenditure of $208
million on specific projects over the period 1973/74-1975/76. The time pat-
tern of expenditure was expected to be $57 million in 1973/74, $76 million in
1974/75 and $75 million in 1975/76. Direct foreign contributions were ex-
pected to account for 75 percent of total Program outlays. Available data in-
dicate, however, that actual expenditure during the first two years amounted



- 6 -
dicate, however, that actual expenditure during the first two years amounted
to $34 million (60 percent of planned targets) and $43 million (56 percent of
planned targets) respectively. Government contributions through the budget
amounted to 9 percent of total program expenditures. This substantial short-
fall is to a large extent attributable to institutional and manpower con-
straints.
17.       The next planning exercise to be undertaken by the CPO for the four-
year period 1976/77-1979/80 will provide an appropriate opportunity to assess
the resources (domestic and foreign) likely to be available to the YAR for
development. A comprehensive investment program will be prepared. Appro-
priate criteria for project selection are expected to be framed in order to
bring the number and type of projects better in line with YAR's potential in
institution-building and manpower development. In addition, it is expected
that in conjunction with the inflows of foreign assistance, YAR will increase
its own financial participation in development efforts. Large domestic re-
sources will also be needed to meet the rapidly increasing recurrent expendi-
tures associated with the investment program.
18.       A dilemma facing YAR's planners relates to emigration of Yemenis
abroad. Workers' remittances finance to a very large extent (over 80 per-
cent) the foreign trade deficit. On the other hand, such emigration of
workers possessing even marginal skills reduces the country's absorptive
capacity. A viable solution at present would be to expand the supply of such
manpower through rapid development of training institutions. Efforts to at-
tract some selected skilled people back through special incentives should
also be explored.
External Debt
19.       The major aid donors of the sixties were mainly:    the USSR, China,
the German Democratic Republic and North Korea; these have now been replaced
in importance by Arab states and their development funds and by the United
Nations, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany and the USA. Foreign assistance
received by the YAR is currently on highly concessional terms (largely due to
the cash grants from Saudi Arabia). However, continued dependence on foreign
aid has had a strong impact on YAR's existing external debt position and debt
service obligations. The external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1975
was estimated at US$409 million, of which US$157 million was undisbursed. The
major creditors were: USSR, the People's Republic of China, the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Kuwait Fund, Abu Dhabi and more recently, the
Association. Debt contracted with IDA accounts for US$88.8 million or about
22 percent of the total reported debt. The USSR and the People's Republic of
China have provided interest-free loans. Loans from Germany and the Kuwait
Fund have been at interest rates between 1.0 and 2.5 percent per annum; other
loans carry 4-6 percent interest per annum. The debt service for 1974/75 was
estimated at US$4.6 million, equivalent to 35 percent of total merchandise
exports but only to about 2 percent of total exports of goods and services,



-7-
including workers' remittances. In view of the fact that YAR is one of the
least developed countries in the world, its grossly inadequate commodity ex-
ports, and the potential instability of workers' remittances, YAR should con-
tinue to seek external loans on concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       The proposed credit would be the eleventh to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to US$93.8 million. Apart from the $5.2 million credit for
the grain storage project, which was approved in June 1976, about 22 percent
of all credits have been disbursed and about 50 percent are committed under
contracts. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank
grants and notes on the execution of on-going projects, as of July 31, 1976.
21.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop the
essential prerequisites for development: the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure, and to begin lending in the dominant productive
sector--agriculture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of US$200,000 to help
finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team
of planning and economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of
US$200,000 to make possible the continuation and expansion of the planning
team services, was approved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund joined with a grant of about US$425,000. The Bank is also providing
technical assistance for institution building to the Ministry of Agriculture
through the services of seven advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency.
22.       To assist in building up the essential physical infrastructure and
related institutions, IDA has extended two Credits for highways, one in 1972
for $7.7 million and one in 1975 for $9.0 million, which also helped to create
and support a National Highway Authority. IDA also extended a Credit for
Water Supply in Sana'a in 1974 for $6.3 million, and a Credit for Water and
Sewerage in Hodeida in 1975 for $8.1 million, both of which helped to support
the National Water and Sewerage Authority; in the latter project, the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development contributed $21 million to finance
the sewerage component. To assist in the development of Education, IDA has
extended two Credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million, which together with
aid from UNDP, Germany and the United Arab Emirates, finances expansion of
teacher training and secondary and vocational education; and the second for
$8 million in 1976 which is a follow-up to the first project. To develop
infrastructure and production in YAR's major sector, agriculture and agro-
industries, IDA has made three Credits. The first Credit of $10.9 million in
1973 was for the Tihama Agricultural Development Project, to which the Kuwait
Fund contributed $6.4 million; to meet major cost increases, the Kuwait Fund
approved in 1975 a loan of $9.6 million to the project, and IDA also approved



- 8 -
a Supplementary Credit of $10.3 million in March 1976. The second Agricul-
tural Credit of $10.0 million was made for the Southern Uplands Rural Devel-
opment Project in 1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund participated with $10 mil-
lion. The third credit of $5.2 million for a Grain Storage and Processing
Project was approved in June 1976. The Saudi Fund for Development joined
with a loan of $11.0 million under parallel financing arrangements.     A $2.3
million credit for an Industrial Estate Project was approved in 1974. The
project is designed to stimulate investment in small-scale industry and pro-
vide a model for future industrial development.
23.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the in-
stitutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agricul-
ture and public utilities and help provide the necessary manpower training;
and continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment
program. Particular attention in preparing future projects will continue to
be given to the country's ability to implement these projects and to ensuring
the availability of key staff and other means needed for successful implemen-
tation. A water supply and sewerage project for Sana'a was appraised in
March/April 1976. Appraisal of a Port Development project is scheduled for
September 1976 and a textiles project, an agricultural project, a third high-
way project and a power project are in the planning stage. The Bank Group's
lending strategy recognizes that Yemen is among the poorest of the 25 least-
developed countries and thus requires special assistance, which justifies
IDA financing of a large part of project costs, including local expenditures.
Since project costs are in excess of the limited IDA funds available, efforts
have been made to obtain co-financing from other donors. In addition to its
own commitments of US$88.8 million, IDA has also, since 1973, successfully
played a catalytic role through its projects in securing about $80.0 million
of co-financing from other aid donors (Arab Fund $21.0 million; Kuwait Fund
$21.9 million; Abu Dhabi Fund $11.0 million; United Arab Emirates $8.0 mil-
lion; Saudi Development Fund $11.0 million; UNDP $6.60 million and the Federal
Republic of Germany $0.58 million). YAR's level of poverty and the weak
structure of its balance of payments have in the past justified a large por-
tion of local currency financing by the Association; however, YAR has contri-
buted an increasing portion of local currency financing and is expected to
continue to finance a rising portion of its development expenditures in the
future.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Setting
24.       Agriculture is YAR's principal economic sector, accounting for about
70 percent of the country's GDP and employing over 80 percent of the popula-
tion. Agricultural output depends mainly on the amount and distribution of
rainfall. During the drought years (1966-73), agriculture production was more
or less static, with a substantial decline in some years. However, adequate
rainfall in 1974/75 resulted in a rise in agricultural output and food grain



- 9 -
production, in fact, increased by almost 80 percent, exceptionally meeting
national consumption. Although agriculture remains essentially subsistence-
based, it provides over 90 percent of national export earnings. Cotton, cof-
fee, hides and skins are the major agricultural exports. In 1974, cotton and
cotton seed accounted for about 60 percent and coffee for 10 percent of total
merchandise export value (about US$14 million). Despite the predominance of
the agricultural sector, and the long tradition of terracing in the moun-
tainous regions and irrigation in the wadis, YAR is unable to feed its own
population; food imports, nearly half of which were cereals, accounted for
about 50 percent of the total import value in 1974.
25.       The land area of Yemen totals approximately 20 million ha of which
1.5 million ha are cultivated, with an additional 2.0 million ha kept fallow
to be brought into production if there is sufficient pre-planting rainfall.
Most of the cropped area is classified as rainfed, with only 230,000 ha (15
percent) under some form of supplementary irrigation from wells, perennial
springs or periodic wadi floods. Terrace agriculture is widespread in the
mountainous regions. Climatic conditions vary widely, rainfall is erratic
and annual variations influence crop production by affecting not only per
hectare yields but also utilization of rainfed and marginal cropland, Normal-
ly the major rains occur in July-September, with minor rains in March-May.
On the basis of rainfall, altitude and crop-livestock patterns, five main
agricultural zones can be distinguished in the country: (a) The Coastal Belt
of the Tihama; (b) the Western Slopes; (c) the Central and Southern Uplands,
including most of the Taiz and Ibb Provinces; (d) the Inter-Montane Plains;
and (e) the Eastern Slopes (see map).
26.       Despite the introduction on a limited scale in recent years of
modern agricultural inputs, such as groundwater pumps, farm machinery and
fertilizers, agriculture in YAR remains underdeveloped and its productivity
is among the lowest in the world. The major constraints to agricultural
development include: (a) inexperience in systematic programming, (b) lack
of institutional infrastructure, and (c) a weak resource base offering
limited opportunities for growth.
27.       The Government's present development policy in agriculture centers
on: (a) an annual increase in agricultural production of not less than 6
percent, and the development of the necessary storage, processing and market-
ing facilities; (b) achievement of self-sufficiency in the long run in the
basic foodstuffs, with particular emphasis given to cereal crops, oils, vege-
tables and livestock; (c) improvement of the trade balance through increased
exports, especially of cotton, hides and skins, fresh and canned fish, vege-
tables and fresh fruits; (d) improvement of the dietary standard of the pop-
ulation; and (e) provision of credit, extension services, marketing and in-
put distributional infrastructure for agricultural producers, especially the
smaller farmers. While progress in establishing an agricultural credit sys-
tem and extension services over the past few years is encouraging; the first
three objectives appear to be too optimistic. In particular, the target
growth rate for agricultural production and self-sufficiency in cereals are



- 10 -
unrealistic targets for the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, the Government
is concentrating its efforts on overcoming institutional weaknesses and im-
proving the supply of basic agricultural inputs in an attempt to modernize
the sector and increase productivity.
28.       There has been relatively little public investment in the agricul-
tural sector and virtually all such investments to date have been financed
from external sources, primarily the USSR, United Kingdom, German Democratic
Republic, Abu Dhabi, Federal Republic of Germany, UNDP/FAO, Kuwait Fund and
IDA. Additional technical assistance for groundwater and soils evaluation
and crops research is being offered by the United Kingdom, People's Republic
of China and the United States.
29.       Except for cotton growing, farmers had no access to institutional
credit. Cotton is financed through the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development's line of credit to the Cotton General Company (CGC), the Govern-
ment-owned cotton marketing board which, in turn, extends short-term interest-
free credit in cash and in the form of seeds to the cotton growers.     The CCC
recovers its financial costs through price arrangements with farmers. Other
farmers requiring credit to cover urgent family and agricultural needs borrow
from their relatives or neighbors.
30.       In order to create an effective agricultural credit institution, an
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was established at the end of 1974 in connec-
tion with the Tihama Development Project; it was also selected as the finan-
cial intermediary for the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project and the
recent Grain Storage and Processing Project. It is now functioning as a de-
partment of the Central Bank. Several measures have been taken recently to
increase ACF's flexibility and widen its scope of activity in an environment
which is not yet familiar with the complex requirements of agricultural cred-
it. These include raising the approval authority of its field managers, eas-
ing the collateral requirements for small loans, and including in its activi-
ties loans for small farm equipment and essential working capital. The Par-
liament has recently passed a law establishing a wholly state-owned Agricul-
tural Credit Bank (ACB) under the Ministry of Agriculture. The Government
has authorized capital of YR 100 million (US$22 million equivalent) for the
ACB, of which YR 20 million (US$4.5 million equivalent) are to be paid in
1976. ACB is expected to start its lending operations during the second half
of 1976. The possibility of merging ACF with ACB was discussed with the Gov-
ernment during several occasions and more recently with the YAR delegation
during negotiations. The delegation indicated that it is the Government's
view to postpone the consideration of such a merger at this point of time.
They confirmed, however, that to avoid duplication in efforts, ACB would
operate in areas outside those being served by ACF.
The Livestock Sub-Sector
31.       General.   The estimated livestock population of 12 million sheep
and goats, 900,000 cattle, 600,000 donkeys and 100,000 camels is spread



- 11 -
throughout the cultivated areas of the country, namely, the Tihama, the
Southern Uplands, the Central Highlands and the Intermontane Plain and the
Eastern slopes. Livestock contribute significantly to the resources of the
rural population, and account for about two-thirds of their domestic income.
In 1972/73, livestock products, principally hides and skins, accounted for
about 19 percent of total exports. Livestock production in the YAR forms an
integral part of the farming system.
32.       Livestock productivity is low, due to the scarcity of natural graz-
ing resources, and to malnutrition caused by frequent, prolonged droughts,
severe overstocking on small communal grazing areas and inadequate supplies
of good quality fodder crops. There is also a lack of adequate animal disease
control and prevention services to counter widespread endemic diseases, of
trained livestock extension personnel, and of organized credit facilities.
Under these conditions stock and milk yields are low and comparable to other
countries in the Middle East and Africa that have similar constraints. An-
nual offtake of cattle is estimated at only 9 percent and milk yields at 200
litres per lactation. Offtake of sheep and goats, including unrecorded domes-
tic slaughterings, is estimated at 35 percent and the milk yields at 17 litres
per lactation (1975). On the other hand, livestock offtake and milk yields
range up to 300 percent higher in countries of the region which have been able
to reduce such constraints, e.g. Turkey and Iran.
33.       Marketing.   Livestock marketing in YAR is poorly developed.   Animals
are sold in primary markets, and outlying villages often make up a small herd
for sale at the nearest market, sometimes two or three days trek away. Cattle
traders are the main buyers, although trade is often done with butchers for
their own account. The markets are usually administered by Government offi-
cials, and a tax of 2-1/2 percent of the sale price is levied on transactions.
Most of the locally produced meat, poultry and dairy products are sold in tra-
ditional urban and village markets. The facilities are primitive and very in-
sanitary, with minimal storage capacity. Products are sold daily with little
or no carry over. The retail trade in imported frozen meat, poultry, fish
and dairy products is conducted entirely by a small but growing number of
urban retail markets in the main towns. The farm gate prices for livestock
and dairy products are very high in YAR: beef prices are about 30 percent,
lamb 50 percent and poultry 100 percent higher than international prices.
Government does not control the prices of livestock and livestock products.
Retail and wholesale prices of meat and dairy products vary considerably
throughout the country. On the basis of available data (1973), it is esti-
mated that the annual per capita consumption is 7 kg of red meat and poultry,
and 23 kg of milk equivalent of dairy products, which is lower than countries
with comparable ecological background e.g. Afghanistan and People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen.
34.       Animal Health.   Endemic diseases are widespread and are a major
cause of low productivity and a constraint on the development of livestock
resources. They are a major cause of mortality, reduced milk yields and sub-
optimal work performance. Veterinary services are supplied to the farmer
principally by the small veterinary unit set up in 1972 by the Ministry of



- 12 -
Agriculture with technical assistance from the United Kingdom Overseas Devel-
opment Ministry (ODM). The unit consists of a central diagnostic laboratory
and a field team. The immediate Government objectives were to identify the
animal diseases affecting livestock production and to set up a national health
service. The field service team has met with favorable response from pro-
ducers, and demand for its services is greater than can be provided by exist-
ing staff and facilities.
35.       Future Trends.   The annual average growth rate for livestock and
dairy products, inclusive of the project's output, is expected to be 2-1/2
percent, and to reach about 13,000 tons of beef, 34,000 tons of mutton and
goat meat, 10,000 tons of poultry and 186,000 tons of dairy products by 1990.
The most important factors affecting future demand for livestock products in
YAR will be population growth and rising incomes. The demand projections in-
dicate a deficit of 4,600 tons of beef in 1980 rising to 30,000 tons in 1990.
Projections for mutton and goat meat show a substantial deficit of 41,900
tons by 1990. Imports of beef are increasing and would be substantial if the
present demand and domestic supply trends continue. Deficits of eggs, poultry
and dairy products are projected to continue and are expected to rise to
11,250, 11,650 and 237,550 tons respectively by 1990. Imports to YAR have
almost tripled over the period 1969-1973. The imports of animal products
displayed even higher growth from YR 0.5 million in 1969 to YR 14.7 million
in 1973. Dairy products and eggs dominated the livestock commodity import
category with 2,858 tons in 1973. The projected supply deficits in livestock
commodities by 1990 would result in significant increases in imports.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
36.       A study on the livestock development in YAR was financed by the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development in 1974. The project was prepared
by a consultant firm (C. H. Chisholm and Associates Limited) in early 1975
and appraised by an IDA mission in November 1975. Negotiations were held in
Washington from August 17 to 18, 1976. The Yemeni delegation was headed by
Mlr. Al-Wajih, Minister of Agriculture. A report entitled "Appraisal of a
Livestock Credit and Processing Project in the Yemen Arab Republic" (No.
1091a-YAR, dated September 27, 1976) is being distributed separately.
Objectives
37.       The project would form a first major step in YAR's efforts to ex-
pand livestock development and production, introduce modern production and
marketing techniques and build up institutions concerned with livestock re-
sources and range improvement. In addition to setting up a semi-autonomous
livestock corporation, the project aims at stimulating the private sector to
assume major responsibility for the future development of livestock resources
through long-term credits and extension services. The project also aims at
improving public health standards, animal health and the carrying capacities.



- 13 -
Project Description
38.       This proposed project, through its various components, is designed
to produce significant improvement in animal health, livestock productivity
and food production as well as to initiate training programs to create a cadre
of qualified managers for this subsector. A number of existing agencies and
departments will be strengthened and their services expanded, while others
will be established in an integrated approach, that will broadly cover the
sector from production--by individual farmers as well as through state farms--
to consumption, including the intermediary processing and marketing stages, in
the whole of YAR. A Project Unit will be set up to manage and coordinate the
entire development effort. The project would specifically include:
(a) the formation of a national Livestock Development Corporation
(LDC) as a semi-autonomous, Government-owned commercial enter-
prise. LDC would establish eight 50-cow dairy farms, a live-
stock fattening and dairy production farm, five milk collection
colonies, a poultry unit and a feed mill;
(b) the construction and development of three urban slaughter-
houses and 154 municipal retail market stalls to be operated
by the Ministry of Municipalities. Hides and skins improvement
(to increase foreign exchange earnings) would be included, as
well as meat inspection services;
(c) the support of animal health services of the Directorate of
Animal Health of the Ministry of Agriculture through disease
control and diagnostic services, veterinary field stations,
and quarantine facilities at Hodeida;
(d) the provision of supervised credit through ACF to about 900
traditional sector landowners, small holder livestock and
poultry owners, and irrigated fodder crop producers. In
addition, about 84 retail butchers would receive credit
for an urban retail meat market improvement program; and
(e) the establishment of a livestock and range improvement center
in the Intermontane plain area, and a village range development
program under which 1,250 hectares of suitable land would be
improved for grazing.
In addition, all components of the project would be supported by technical
assistance and training, technical studies and the expatriate technical staff
necessary to implement the project. The project would also receive institu-
tional support from UNDP/FAO technical assistance project through the use of
their school in Taiz for the training of local counterpart staff. The on-
going ODM programs in animal health services and in livestock and range im-
provement would be expanded and coordinated with the requirements of the
project.  The main features of the development credit and project are sum-
marized in Annex III.   A map showing the location of the proposed project
area is also attached.



- 14 -
Project Costs and Financing
39.       The total project cost excluding taxes is estimated at US$32.1
million of which 53 percent, or US$17.0 million would represent the foreign
exchange component. The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million would finance
the foreign exchange costs of the expatriate staff and about 27 percent of
the subloans under the supervised credit component. The Kuwait Fund loan of
about US$11.6 million would be extended to the Government on terms similar to
those of the IDA credit, and would finance (a) the total investment costs of
the LDC dairy farms component and the Project Unit, (b) the investment costs
of the milk colonies component, (c) the investment costs of the livestock
finishing farm component, (d) the total costs of the site selection studies,
(e) the foreign exchange costs of the animal health component, (f) the foreign
exchange portion of the ACF organizational costs, (g) the local costs of the
Project Unit's expatriate staff, (h) a medium-term loan to ACF to cover inter-
est costs during construction and seasonal credit to subborrowers, and (i) 14
percent of the subloans under the supervised credit component. The Nether-
lands loan of about US$7.5 million would also be on terms similar to those of
the IDA credit and would finance (a) the total investment costs of the poultry
and feedmill units, the Livestock and Range Improvement Division, the Village
Development Association and the Municipality Slaughterhouse and Markets Divi-
sion, and (b) 59 percent of the subloans under the supervised credit compo-
nent. The United Kingdom grant of about US$2.4 million would finance part of
the animal health component. The Government contribution of about US$4.6 mil-
lion would finance the working capital for the milk colonies and the live-
stock finishing components and the local cost of the animal health component.
The Government would also finance any cost overruns which may occur. The
signing of loan agreements between the Government and the aforementioned
cofinanciers would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
Project Execution
40.       Project Organization:   At present, there is no institution in YAR
with the capability to implement the project. A Project Implementation Unit
(PU) would be established to organize and manage the project during implemen-
tation. The PU would be headed by an internationally recruited, experienced
Project Manager, assisted by a senior Yemeni co-manager who would be a grad-
uate in Agriculture. In view of the project's complexity and the diversity
of its components, the following technical divisions, staffed with expatriate
personnel would be established within the Project Unit to implement the proj-
ect: (a) the Municipality Slaugherhouse and Markets Division (MSMD) for im-
plementing and operating slaughterhouses and retail meat markets in Sana'a,
Taiz and Hodeida. It was agreed that regulations, acceptable to IDA, would be
introduced to the effect that: (i) no slaughter would be authorized within
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida except at the Government slaughterhouses, (ii) the
Ministry of Municipalities would enforce meat inspection at the slaughter-
houses, and (iii) the retail markets being constructed under the project would
be licensed and maintained in a sanitary manner. It was also agreed that:
(i) slaughter, delivery and retail market fees would be charged to make the
facilities financially self-supporting, and (ii) animals would be slaughtered



- 15 -
by MSMD employees and carcasses and offal would be delivered by the slaughter-
houses to retail markets (Sections 3.05 to 3.07, draft Development Credit
Agreement); (b) the Livestock and Range Improvement Division (LIRD) for carry-
ing out research work on improving livestock production and range improvement
and for establishing an agricultural improvement station in the Dhamar region;
(c) the Village Development Association (VDA) would be established as a pilot
project designed to accumulate experience and background for a second phase
development and to serve as an integral extension of the range improvement
research program; and (d) the Animal Health Division (AHD) for consolidating
and expanding the administrative and field experience of the United Kingdom
technical assistance (ODM) and that of the Ministry of Agriculture's Direc-
torate of Animal Health. All these divisions would be integrated into the
Ministries concerned after the project implementation period. The Project
Unit would be responsible to the Livestock Development Board (LDB) which
would be established under the project. LDB would consist of the Minister
of Agriculture, as Chairman, a representative from each the Central Planning
Organization, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Municipalities and the
General Manager of ACF, the Project Manager and the Project Co-manager. The
Board would establish development objectives and guidelines, and serve as the
coordinating body for matters involving cooperation between various Government
departments, other institutions and bilateral aid organizations.
41.       In view of the lack of private capabilities that could efficiently
implement such a development effort, the Livestock Development Corporation
(LDC) would be etablished as a semi-autonomous Government-owned enterprise to
own and to operate, on a sound commercial basis, about eight 50-cow dairy
farms, livestock finishing farm, five milk collection colonies, a poultry unit
and a feed mill. The Government's approval of LDC's charter satisfactory to
IDA, would be a condition of making the proposed credit effective (Section
6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.       Project Management and Training.   To ensure successful project im-
plementation and to avoid delays that may result from recruitment of indivi-
dual expatriate experts, the Government has already selected, in concurrence
with IDA and the Kuwait Fund, a management consulting firm that would be
responsible for implementing the whole project. The employment of a manage-
ment consulting firm and of the Yemeni Project Co-manager would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Project Unit Manager would be responsible for the overall execution of the
project and for the approval of all loan applications prior to submission to
ACF. The Project Unit Manager in cooperation with the Division Managers would
formulate the operating and administrative procedures for approval by the LDB.
The PU head office and LDC would be located in Sana'a while LRID would be
housed in Dhamar. A major risk for the successful implementation of the
project is the severe shortage of experienced and qualified staff in YAR.
To overcome this constraint, comprehensive technical assistance and training
programs have been incorporated into the proj-ect. Local counterpart staff who
are expected to take over operational and managerial responsibilities after



- 16 -
the project's implementation period would undertake comprehensive training
before they assume their positions. The training would include specialized
overseas training for key personnel, undergraduate and graduate education for
veterinarians, and inhouse training. It was agreed that training programs for
the Yemeni staff, satisfactory to IDA, would be implemented within fourteen
months from the date of the proposed credit (Section 3.11, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
43.       Project Implementation:   Project implementation would begin in
1977 and would require about six years. Appointment of the management con-
sulting firm, site acquisition, and the establishment of LDB are key steps
which would be essential for expeditious project implementation. An appro-
priate course of action has already been discussed with and agreed by the
Government for an early initiation of these steps.
Credit Arrangements
44.       In order to efficiently handle its enlarged operations, the Agri-
cultural Credit Fund (ACF) (see para. 30), would apppoint a senior livestock
credit officer, a farm management extension officer and an accountant/finan-
cial control officer in its head office. It would open two new offices, one
in Sana'a and the other in Hodeida, and expand its Taiz and Ibb offices. The
branch office in Sana'a would be located within the head office facility.
Local counterparts would be assigned to expatriate experts; the new and ex-
panded offices would be appropriately staffed with local personnel.
45.       ACF would be the lending channel for all the subloans extended
under the project (US$9.0 million). ACF would also be the administrative
channel for the Government contribution to LDC equity (US$2.8 million), and
for the Government grant contribution to the Project Unit (US$16.7 million).
ACF would not charge any fees for handling the equity or grant portions.
46.       ACF's on-lending rate to all subborrowers would be 9 percent per
annum; which is 1 percentage point higher than that charged by ACF for medium
and long-term loans under the IDA financed Tihama and Southern Uplands Proj-
ects. IDA would undertake discussions with the Government during project
implementation to seek adjustment in this rate to reflect significant changes
in interest rates for medium and long-term credits in YAR. The Government
interest rate to ACF would be 4 percent per annum, giving ACF a spread of 5
percent per annum to cover its costs, to make provisions for bad debts and to
earn some profit which would be retained to build up its equity and reserves.
The Government loan to ACF would be for 20 years including a seven-year grace
period. ACF's projected cash flow for operations under the project shows an
annual average net earning of about US$116,000 during the period 1977 to 1991.
If ACF's on-lending rate were to change, the Government's rate charged to ACF
would be adjusted accordingly to maintain a 5 percent spread for ACF. The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk for all the subloans.
47.       The original lending policies and procedures of ACF would be amended
in order to cover adequately its enlarged operations. Under the project, the



- 17 -
LDC subprojects' managers assisted by the LDC manager would prepare subloan ap-
plications including detailed investment costs, projected income and cash flow
statements and economic analysis and submit them to ACF. For the slaughterhouse
and retail markets components, the MSMD would prepare subloans and grant appli-
cations supported with a similar documentation as in the case of LDC subloans
and submit them to ACF. For the village range improvement component, the LRID
would prepare and submit loan and grant applications to ACF. All these acti-
vities would be supervised by the Project Unit. ACF would review the subloan
applications and evaluate the financial viability of the investment proposals.
For the livestock finishing farm, the first two dairy farms and milk colonies,
the poultry-feed mill unit and the first slaughterhouse, ACF would, after its
review, forward the subloan applications to the Kuwait Fund and the Nether-
lands for approval. For the traditional sector credit component, ACF exten-
sion agents from branch offices would advise farmers in livestock and poultry
development, and would encourage them to use the credit facilities of the
project. These agents would assist potential subborrowers in preparing loan
applications for submission to branch offices, which would evaluate the appli-
cant's creditworthiness, the financial viability of the investment proposal,
the form of security and the availability of the investor's own contribution
which would be at least 20 percent of the investment cost. Maturities for the
sub-loans would not exceed the life of the assets financed and would range be-
tween two and twelve years, including one to six years' grace (Schedule 4,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       ACF would maintain separate accounts for the project.    As ACF's
operations would increase substantially under this and the Grain Storage and
Processing Project, an accounting/financial expert would be appointed to
assist ACF in carrying out its lending operations. PU, LDC, VDA and MSMD
would also establish separate accounts for project expenditures. All accounts
of ACF and these units would undergo regular internal audits as well as annual
audits by independent auditors (Section 4.01, draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The Project Unit would prepare and submit to IDA quarterly progress
reports, and would also be responsible for evaluating the benefits resulting
from the project and would submit to IDA an annual report on this evaluation
(Section 4.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
49.       Vehicles, equipment, facilities and services to be financed by the
Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom would be procured in ac-
cordance with their respective guidelines. To provide the expatriate experts
required for implementing the project and whose services would be financed by
IDA and the Kuwait Fund, the Government invited proposals from several manage-
ment consultant firms. Following a review of these proposals, the Government
selected in August 1976 and in concurrence with IDA and the Kuwait Fund a firm
(Hendrikson Associates, F.R. Germany) to provide these services. Purchases of
goods and materials under the supervised credit component by the traditional
sector subborrowers would be numerous, small off-the-shelf type items (which
could not be bulked for bidding purposes) procured over the six-year implemen-
tation period of the project. These items would be purchased locally by the
investors under the ACF's supervision directly from commercial channels.



- 18 -
Disbursements
50.       The IDA credit would be disbursed over six years.    Disbursements
would be made against documentation for 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of expatriate staff service and 27 percent of the ACF subloans under the
supervised credit. Disbursements for subloans for supervised credit would be
made against certificates of expenditures. Supporting documents and contracts
for these subloans would be retained by ACF and would be available for review
by IDA during supervision. Appointment of the management firm may take place
prior to the date of the proposed credit. Therefore, retroactive financing
for such expenditures, from August 1, 1976, is recommended up to an amount of
US$150,000.
Project Risks
51.       Since this is the first integrated livestock development effort in
YAR, the project encounters a higher than normal degree of risk and uncer-
tainty. Project risks stem from the country's low level of development, par-
ticularly institutional weaknesses, shortage of trained manpower, lack of ex-
perience in project implementation and operation, widespread disease problems,
and the almost complete absence of people familiar with modern animal produc-
tion techniques. These risks have been fully considered in the design of the
project. A comprehensive technical assistance and training program combined
with a six year implementation period and careful interrelated phasing, would
adequately provide for institution building and strengthening. Apart from
organization and management complexities, production risks arise from the
uncertain availability of suitable and adequate irrigation water for the
LDC farm sites, and disease control. The proposed consultant studies would
minimize the farm site problems while the comprehensive Animal Health Control
component would reduce disease risks to an acceptable level. On-farm benefi-
ciary risks are minimized by provision for an overall integrated development
package involving irrigation, improved seeds, fertilizer, pest control, super-
vised credit, disease control and product marketing. In addition climate
conditions in the highland areas are well suited to the introduction of im-
proved breeds of both poultry and cattle. Considering the importance of
livestock in the economy, the risks involved in the project are worth taking.
Economic Justification
52.       The project would be YAR's first integrated livestock development
program. It would provide substantial benefits to about 1,000 participating
livestock producer families and to the national economy. It would lead to
substantially decreased animal mortality, improved management practices and
increased rural income, due to the availability of credit for expanded live-
stock production. Substantial incremental production of livestock products
would result from the project: 26,000 tons of milk, 7,000 tons of meat, and
1,000 tons of eggs per year, which would be equivalent to 20 percent of the
projected deficit in animal products by 1985. Considerable foreig.n exchange
savings would be thus realized. It is expected that by project year 5, the
annual average value of milk and meat production attributable to the project



- 19 -
would be about US$15 million. In addition, there would be substantial non-
quantifiable benefits, including improvements to public health through hygenic
livestock slaughtering and meat marketing facilities and training of a substan-
tial number of Yemenis in diverse skills. The project will substantially
strengthen existing institutions and build up new ones which will have a
favorable impact on the economic progress of the country. The overall eco-
nomic rate of return for the project is 27 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
the Resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
54.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 40 to 47 and 55 of this Report.
55.       Section 6.01, of the draft Development Credit Agreement provides
the following additional conditions of effectiveness: (a) the signing of a
loan agreement between the Government and the Kuwait Fund for an amount of
about US$11.6 million; (b) the signing of a loan agreement between the Gov-
ernment and the Netherlands Government for an amount of about US$7.5 million;
(c) the signing of a grant agreement between the Government and the United
Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) for an amount of US$2.4 million;
(d) the Government's approval of LDC's Charter, satisfactory to IDA; (e) the
appointment of the management consulting firm and of the Project Co-manager;
and (f) the execution and delivery of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and the Central Bank.
56.        I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By A. David Knox
Attachments






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
COUNTRY DATA - YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AREA                                 POPULATION                        DENSITY
About 190,000 sq. km                 6.5 million (1975)                About 34 per sq. km
Rate of growth : 2.4%
(1965-75)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                                 HEALTH
Crude birth rate       49 per 1,000 (est.)                 Population per physician
Infant Mortality      160 per 1,000 live births (est.)        (1974)          26,000
Life Expectancy       About 40-45 years (est.)             Population per hospital bed
(1974)           1,600
NUTRITION                                                  Widespread endemic and epidemic
diseases, particularly water-
Widespread malnutrition and protein deficiency,              borne diseases (bilharzia,
especially among children                                  worm diseases)
EDUCATION
Literacy rate                 : About   10 percent
Primary school enrollment     : 228,000 (1974/75)
Secondary school enrollment   :   16,600 (1974/75)
1/
GNP PER CAPITA: $210-
2/
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE (1973 est.)    GDP in US$ Million     GDP Percent   x of Labor Force
Agriculture                                   487                 66              80-85
Industry                                       23                  3           About 1
Services                                      233                 31              14-19
TOTAL               743               100               100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR. Million)                  Actual                    Budget Estimate
70/71   71/72    72/73   73/74   74/75   74/75     75/76
Current revenues                     98     151      199     277     381      341      486
Current expenditures                171     228      272     323     472     437       571
Current balance                     -73     -77      -73     -46     -91     -96       -85
Capital expenditures                 83      56       57     139     239      372      425
(Expenditure financed by
external loans)./             (83)    (56)     (57)   (126)   (170)   (277)     (237)
(Budget capital expenditure)      (--)    (--)    (--)     (13)    (69)    (95)     (188)
Overall balance                     156    -133     -130    -185    -330    -468      -510
Domestic financing                   37     -38       13     -32    -231      n.a      n.a
External financing                  119     171      117     250     603     n.a       n.a
(Commodity and Project loans)      (83)    (56)    (57)    (126)   (170)   (277)     (237)
(Cash loans)                       (36)    (59)     (1)     (15)    (44)   (n.a)     (n.a)
(Cash Grants)                     (n.a)    (56)    (59)    (109)   (389)   (n.a)     (n.a)
Discrepancy                          -       -        -      -32     -42       -
1/ Figure arrived at on basis of desk study and on preliminary assumptions
(1973-75 base period) in the absence of specific national accounts
estimates for 1974 and 1975. More reliable GNP estimates for these
years are expected to be obtained during the next economic mission to
YAR scheduled for Spring, 1977.
2/  1972 Constant Prices
3/ For 1970/71-1973/74 disbursements as recorded by the Central Bank. For 1974/75
and 1975/76 Central Planning Organization estimates have been used.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
MONEY AND CREDIT (YR million, end of period)
1971    1972     1973    1974   June 1973  June 1974   June 1975
Money supply                276.9   402.3   531.8    707.9     471.3       612.0      959.5
(juasi money                 35.7    80.6   105.1    151.0     113.6       117.5      180.7
Credit to private sector     70.0   119.8   169.5    260.5     168.6       230.1      376.5
Net claims on Government    110.1   115.9   135.2    -17.6     116.2        84.2     -147.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
July 1972/   July 1973/  July 1974
1970   1971   1972    1973   1974  June 1973    June 1974   June 1975
ExpULLs                       5.8    6.4    6.8    8.8    11.6       7.4         13.8        12.9
Imports                      88.4   72.3  102.4  155.0   230.9    -118.9      -194.2        258.5
Balance of trade            -82.6  -65.9  -95.6 -146.2 -219.3     -111.5      -180.4       -245.6
Services and workers'
remittances (net)          45.0   47.2   81,0  108.5   158.9      97.8       130.8        220.5
Commodity and cash grants    17.7    5.7   18.8    23.2   60.9      14.0         30.9        93.0
Balance in current account -19.9   -13.0    4.2  -14.5     0.5       0.3        -18.7        67.9
Mon-monetary capital   1/    29.9   29.6   22.5    31.4   63.5      20.4         45.1        47.2
Increase in reserves         10.0   16.6   26.7    16.9   64.0      20.7         26.4       115.1
Of which with Central
Bank of Yemen              (6.2) (14.1) (20.1) (16.9) (69.4)     (17.4)       (33.9)       (98.8)
TOTAL RESERVES (June 30, 1975)   - US $189.5 Million 2/
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (recorded for 1969-74)    3/
Average US$ Million                Percent
Cotton                               2.6                          41.0
Coffee                               1.4                          22.0
Hides and skins                      0.7                          11.0
Qat                                  0.4                           6.0
Others                               1.3                          20.0
TOTAL                              6.4                         100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1975)                    US$ Million
External public debt outstanding                     408.7
Of which:  disbursed                               252.0
Debt service payments - 1974/75                        4.6
Ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and non-factor services 1974/75            35.0
Ratio ot debt service to exports of goods and
services (including Workers' Remittances)
1974/75                                         2.0
1/ Includes SDR allocations and errors and omissions.
2/  Excluding $53.9 million in blocked accounts with Central Bank of Egypt
3/ Only an estimated 50-60 percent of total export is recorded.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
1/
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through February 1973
US$1 = YR 5
YR 1 = US$0.20
Since February 1973
US$1 = YR 4.50
YR 1 = US$0.22
1/    No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IMF.   All
exhhange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has been
pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of July 31, 1976 - US$ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                       (less cancellations)
Number    Year         Borrower        Purpose               IDA       Undisbursed
315      1972   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways               7.7          3.0
376      1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture    21.2 /1      14.1
421      1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Education             11.0         10.3
464      1974   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply           6.3          3.5
465      1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Industrial Estate      2.3          2.1
545      1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development     10.0         10.0
558      1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways               9.0          6.2
559      1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
and Sewerage         8.1          8.0
611      1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Education              8.0          8.0
636      1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Grain Storage and
Processing /2        5.2          5.2
Total                                               88.8         70.4
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                               88.8
Total undisbursed                                                70.4
/1   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
/2   Not yet effetive.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of July 31, 1976)
IFC has made no investments in YAR.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000, equivalent, was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and active
public sector organization in Yemen. The Executive Directors approved on



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
September 11, 1973 a second Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make pos-
sible the continuation of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund
joined with a grant of about US$300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved
a third grant of US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of
a planning team including those of a management/public administration expert.
The Kuwait Fund also joined with a grant of about US$425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution I/
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; US$7.7 Million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effective-
ness Date: January 15, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project aris-
ing from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the Bor-
rower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road
construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfac-
torily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the proj-
ect have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included
in the project has been delivered.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 Million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and US$10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end of
1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed designs
of six contracts, which have been awarded to local contractors. Engineering
designs and contract documents for the first of the two main civil works con-
tracts were recently completed, tendered internationally, and awarded; the bid
for the second is being evaluated and award is expected shortly. The Agricul-
tural Credit Fund (ACF) was legally established towards the end of 1974. The
Credit Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF have been appointed. Measures
to increase ACF's flexibility and its effectiveness have been recently taken.
The overall progress of the project remains about 18 months behind schedule.
The total cost of the Project is now estimated at $40.8 million compared with
$17.5 million at the time of initial appraisal. The Government asked the As-
sociation and the Kuwait Fund for additional financing and a reappraisal mis-
sion visited Yemen in September 1975. The Kuwait Fund approved in December
1975 a supplementary loan of KD 2.8 million and the Association approved on
March 30, 1976 a US$10.3 million supplementary credit for the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project encountered some initial delays due to difficulties
in recruiting qualified staff for the Project Unit and the UNDP/UNESCO Task
Force. All the principal posts in the Project Unit have, however, now been
filled and of the 24 positions envisaged for the Task Force, nine have now
been filled, and the arrival on post of a further seven experts, is expected
shortly. The delay of about eight months in project implementation is ex-
pected to be reduced significantly as a result of measures being taken to ex-
pedite completion of designs and educational programs. The design work for
practically all project institutions and the preparation of furniture and
equipment lists are well advanced. A proposed new structure for the Ministry
of Education has been prepared by the Task Force for consideration by the
Government. The new structure would include a directorate for primary educa-
tion and a directorate for technical and vocational training as required under
the current Credit Agreement. These arrangements are expected to be imple-
mented shortly by the Government. The Task Force is further working on the
preparation of programs and curricula to be adopted for the project institu-
tions. In the further development of the project, the Government and the
Association are placing increased emphasis on ensuring the availability of
a sufficient number of qualified instructors for all project institutions.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Water Supply Project; US$6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: June 10, 1978.
Contracts for all works under the project except for the drilling
of wells have been awarded and construction work has already begun. Good pro-
gress has been made in recruiting staff for the newly-established NWSA and
for operating the existing Sana'a water facilities. To meet the cost overruns
of about $3.5 million for this project the Government has already deposited
the equivalent amount with NWSA. Civil works are behind schedule and ap-
propriate measures are being taken by the Government to correct the causes
for delay and to increase the efficiency of the local contractor.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; US$2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October
as scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal estimate
which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to the unex-
pected increase in building costs that has taken place since project appraisal.
In the light of this cost increase the Industrial Estate Development Authority
has agreed to proceed at this stage with the development of the site and the
construction of three factory buildings instead of seven as originally envis-
aged. Construction works started in February 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; US$10.0 million
Credit of May 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The Development Credit was approved on May 6, 1975 and signed on
May 13, 1975. The Project Unit has been established and the Project Manager
has also been appointed. Bids for the project buildings have been received.
Thirty-nine extension agents have been placed in 14 field locations. Delays
in project implementation have arisen due to problems of weak management.
Corrective measures are being taken by the Government to improve and enforce
the performance of the Project Unit.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; US$9.0 million of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Development Credit was approved on June 17, 1975 and signed on
June 20, 1975. The contract for the construction of Taiz-Km 64 was signed on
July 1975. Construction works started in October 1975, for completion in
October/November 1976. The project is progressing satisfatorily.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$8.1 million
of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was approved on June 17, 1975 and signed on
June 20, 1975. Consultants began work on final design on September 15, 1975.
Bids for the supply of materials are being evaluated and the award of con-
tracts is expected by the end of October 1976. A contract for well drilling
was awarded and tenders for the transmission line from the wellfield to the
city are expected to be received in October 1976. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; US$8.0 million of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was approved on February 10, signed on
February 13, 1976 and declared effective on May 10, 1976. Physical imple-
mentation is proceeding saisfactorily; design development is expected to be
completed on schedule and construction of the Taiz Vocational Center has
been advanced by about one year. However, recruitment of project experts
is progressing relatively slowly. Efforts are being made by the Government
assisted by IDA to adequately staff the Project Unit in the shortest time
possible.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; US$5.2 million of
June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Not yet declared effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:         US$5.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Standard
Beneficiaries: Livestock Development Corporation (LDC), Village Development
Associations (VDA), farmers and butchers
Credit         The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) would be the lending channel
Arrangements: for all the subloans extended under the project (US$9.0 million).
ACF's onlending rate to all sub-borrowers would be 9 percent
per annum. Maturities for the subloans would range between two
and twelve years, including one to six years' grace. The
Government interest rate to ACF would be 4 percent per annum,
giving ACF a spread of 5 percent per annum to cover its cost,
to make provisions for bad debts and to earn some profit which
would be retained to build up its equity and reserves. The
Government loan to ACF would be for 20 years including a
seven-year grace period. The Government would assume the
foreign exchange risk for all the subloans.
Project         The project would form a first major step in YAR's efforts to
Description:   expand livestock development and production, introduce modern
production and marketing techniques and build up institutions
concerned with livestock resources and range improvement.
The project would include:
(a) the formation of a national Livestock Development
Corporation (LDC) as a semi-autonomous, Government-
owned commercial enterprise. LDC would establish
about eight 50-cow dairy farms, a livestock fatten-
colonies, a poultry unit and a feed mill;
(b) the construction and development of three urban slaugh-
terhouses and about 154 municipal retail market stalls
to be operated by the Ministry of Municipalities. Hides
and skins improvement (to increase foreign exchange
earnings) would be included, as well as meat inspection
services;
(c) the support of animal health services of the Direc-
torate of Animal Health of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture through disease control and diagnostic services,
veterinary field stations, and quarantine facilities
at Hodeida;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
(d)  the provision of supervised credit through ACF to
about 900 traditional sector landowners, small holder
livestock and poultry owners, and irrigated fodder crop
producers. In addition, about 84 retail butchers would
receive credit for an urban retail meat market improve-
ment program; and
(e)  the establishment of a livestock and range improvement
center in the Intermontane plain area, with a village
range development program under which 1,250 hectares
of suitable land would be improved for grazing.
All components of the project would be supported by technical
assistance and training, technical studies and the expatriate
technical staff to implement the project.
Project Cost and
Financing       -------------------------US$ Millions-------------------------
Arrangement:        Estimated Cost/l                 Source of Finance
Nether-            Kuwait         Sub-
Local Foreign   Total  lands   U.K. IDA   Fund   Govt. borrowers
Dairy Farms        1.11   2.14    3.25     -       -    -    3.25    -      -
Milk Colonies      0.36   0.15    0.51     -       -    -    0.21   0.30    -
Livestock
Finishing Farm   1.26    0.87    2.13     -      -     -    1.90   0.23    -
Poultry Feed
Mill             0.32    0.69    1.01    1.01     -    -     -      -      -
Slaughterhouses
and Markets
(MSMD)           1.13    1.63    2.76    2.76    -     -     -      -      -
Animal Health      3.98   3.27    7.25     -      2.36  -    1.08   3.81    -
Range Improvement
and Village
Development
Ass. (VDA)        0.82   0.37    1.19    1.19     -    -     -      -      -
Supervised Credit 2.66    2.69    5.35    2.54     -   1.14  0.60    -     1.07
Site Selection
Studies          0.26    0.36    0.62      -       -    -   0.62    -      -
Medium-term
Credit           0.44     -      0.44     -       -    -    0.44    -      -
ACF (Organi-
zational Costs)  0.22    0.74    0.96     -       -    -    0.74   0.22    -
Project Unit
(Infrastructure) 0.79    0.24    1.03     -      -     -    1.03    -      -
Project Expa-
triate Staff     1.77    3.86    5.63     -      -    3.86  1.77    -      -
Total       15.12   17.01   32.13    7.50  2.36   5.00 11.64   4.56   1.07
/1   Including physical and price contingencies.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign     Total
IDA                                      0.44       4.56      5.00
Kuwait Fund                              5.64       6.00     11.64
Netherlands                               3.25      4.25      7.50
United Kingdom (ODM)                     0.16       2.20      2.36
Government of YAR                         4.56       -        4.56
Sub-borrowers' Contribution              1.07        -        1.07
Total                              15.12      17.01     32.13
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 US$ Million
FY1977  1978   1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   Total
Annual                   0.2  0.65  1.00   1.40  1.13  0.54  0.08   5.00
Cumulative               0.2  0.85  1.85   3.25  4.38  4.92  5.00   5.00
Procurement     Vehicles, equipment, facilities and services to be financed by
Arrangements: the Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom would
be procured in accordance with their respective guidelines.
The Government selected in August 1976 and in concurrence with
IDA and the Kuwait Fund a firm (Hendrikson Associates, F.R.
Germany) to provide management and technical services. Pur-
chases of goods and materials under the supervised credit
component by the traditional sector subborrowers would be
numerous, small off-the-shelf type items (which could not be
bulked for bidding purposes) procured over the six-year imple-
mentation period of the project. These items would be purchased
locally by the investors under the ACF's supervision directly
from commercial channels.
Consultants:    A consultant team of five agricultural production and market-
ing specialists and irrigation and groundwater experts would
be recruited to:
(a) recommend the most suitable site for the livestock finish-
ing farms and upon selection of the site prepare the de-
tailed designs, tender documents and assist in bid eval-
uation;
(b) review the past activities of the Wadi Surdud Farm and
prepare a study including recommendations as to improve
its performance;



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
(c) recommend suitable sites for the dairy farms to be
located near Sana'a, Taiz and Ibb and to prepare at
least for two sites the detailed designs, tender
documents and assist in bid evaluation. In addition,
the consultant team would prepare detailed farm devel-
opment plans; and
(d) review the characteristics and the tenure status of
selected sites and the possible effects of relocation
of farmers.
(Total consultancy services would be about 48 man-months.)
Economic Rate
of Return:     27 percent
Appraisal       "Appraisal of a Livestock Credit and Processing Project -
Report:        Yemen Arab Republic"
No: 1091a-YAR
Date: September 27, 1976






BRD -11978
* -t.tA~'    IRAN  'H.                                     YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBlIC       FERRARYI17f
SARAzUOTN9tL'. C.,  f.,t__   \ SAU DI ARAB IA  LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT
CW SX S-UD A, A91A                                       K^rO^t SLAUGHTER HOUSE AtID MARKET I`ACILEITS
-, -  'T                                    ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P POULTRY UNIT
N HTE.AA
OH-A    C1 NIH                                            ALLA FARS
-'\  \.. _  .  F  AA,f    S\_  > 3 N  =I                D  REGIONAL ANIMAL HEALTH CENTER
SUC'N PFAOR HoESrzM.N  7  :\f(       " ~ .  .r        LRESHACA AUAR4NTINE 5T1-   SN
;5.05, _> A&5Z .1 F \    J \                   LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION AND RANGE MPROVEUENT CNTER
ETNIOEA FRRPA'~ A'    0  ! I  \ I  V                        SITES FOR LIVESTOCK FATTENISG FARM
I   S_5AMALIA}  /, _J               (-S\            -   FUS )  PAVED ROAOS
f   | (. /S/     -- I  D, A  H     ___PAVED ROADS RDER CONSTRUC7ION
D A    Hf                 TE RT
JAR,                      -         iI=--- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WADIS
J             JOGR0,<\  >   V  {S=d^   ~ ~   30 CONTOHRS IN METERS
F    \I-j PRCV NCIAL B0JNDARIE5
INTER NATIONA DR  R N\IES
C   20  4A  HO  HA  lEA
A J J                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K LOME ED*H
16'
K             SR~~~~~~~I LES
wJ, ~ ~   ~    s 
,-n  SHEARER ,.M   A   h,.o
c-~ ~ ~ ~~~~          H
M A E I E       A(
0                 C 
Ai                            R.d..                    ( E
-14 ~ ~~  ~~~~~~~ -Q C;                                               ' \I C / g  tL  d
ld*~ ~          Al                  WAAo8D                                *1w=~KX  k o
C)                                I~~~~~~~~~I  A*  Al
\ ~  ~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ Ca            RAMSa -              "-'  J  
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * PEOPLE'S DEMOCRAIIC REPUBLIC Or YEMEN
X~~~~~ F'OI M
<          V       f   ~~~~~       ~   ~   ~       ~~_ DI 2  
X ~     ~   ~~~~~~~~ Mo        AIHEIOR-\\
S  E  E   o~Dabab   ) 
T.  z 0                     G        F    ADEN
IEB T                            H I O  P  A A  .  '
I14/         'b                                                                                  14
Al              44X.A.1,ldlir!a>at                               b  h
IL__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POL'               EORTC EULCO        EE



